DRN-2317001
The complaint
Mr M complains about the way Monzo Bank Ltd (Monzo) dealt with a chargeback claim on 
his behalf.
What happened
Mr M booked and paid for a hotel room using his Monzo card. He requested a room with a 
sea view and this was confirmed on the booking details. But Mr M says that the room he was 
given when he arrived at the hotel didnt have a sea view. He says the sea was seven or 
eight miles away from the hotel, so the room couldnt reasonably be described as having a 
sea view. He says he complained to the hotel staff, but no resolution was reached during his 
stay.
While he was away, Mr M contacted Monzo about this. Monzo suggested that Mr M should 
contact the hotel group by email to try and resolve the issue. They said that, if he didnt hear 
back from the hotel group within 14 days, Mr M should contact Monzo again. They said they 
would be able to look into raising a chargeback at that stage if Mr M provided certain 
evidence to support the dispute.
Around five days later, Mr M contacted Monzo again. He hadnt contacted the hotel group by 
email. But he said he had raised the issue verbally with several members of staff at the hotel 
and it hadnt been resolved to his satisfaction. He asked Monzo to raise a chargeback, which 
they did that day. Monzo told Mr M that it could take up to eight weeks for the chargeback to 
be processed and that there was a chance the hotel would reject the dispute, in which case 
Monzo might contact Mr M again to discuss the next steps or get more evidence. They said 
that most disputes are resolved within three months and that they would contact Mr M when 
they knew the outcome of the claim. 
Just over three months later, Monzo contacted Mr M and told him the claim had been 
rejected by the hotel. Monzo said theyd reviewed the evidence and didnt think there was 
anything else they could do. They offered to share the evidence from the hotel with Mr M if 
he sent them a message.
 
Mr M wasnt happy about the situation. He complained to Monzo about the way they had 
handled the chargeback and the amount of time it had taken. Monzo upheld his complaint 
about the delay in updating him and paid him £30 for the inconvenience. In relation to the 
chargeback itself, they said they had reviewed the evidence and they didnt think there was 
anything else that would change the outcome, so they couldnt take it any further.
Mr M wasnt happy with Monzos response, so he asked this service to look at the complaint. 
Our investigator thought the way that Monzo had dealt with the chargeback claim was fair. 
But Mr M didnt agree and asked for his complaint to be reviewed by an ombudsman.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Some of Mr Ms concerns are about the way Monzo dealt with his complaint (as opposed to 
the chargeback). Complaint handling isnt a regulated activity and its not one of the things 
this service can look at. So I cant make a decision on that aspect of Mr Ms complaint. But I 
can look at the way Monzo dealt with the chargeback claim. Ive set out my findings on that 
below.
I think its helpful to start by outlining what chargeback is and how it works. Its a process for 
resolving disputes between card issuers (here, Monzo) and merchants (here, the hotel). 
Chargeback schemes are voluntary codes which banks can sign up to. Theyre run by the 
card scheme (that is, the business which runs the payment network)  not the bank. 
Chargeback claims are processed and decided on the basis of the card schemes rules.
Customers arent automatically entitled to a chargeback and a bank doesnt have to attempt 
it just because a customer asks it to. But Id expect it to try if theres good reason to do so. In 
cases where the bank attempts a chargeback, theres no guarantee that the money will be 
recovered for the customer. Each case depends on the individual circumstances.
 
Under the chargeback rules, the merchant has an opportunity to respond to the claim. If the 
merchant accepts the claim or doesnt respond, thats the end of the process and the 
customer gets a refund. But, where the merchant defends the claim, there is usually little 
more that the customers bank can do.
What I need to decide here is whether Monzo acted fairly and reasonably in the way it dealt 
with Mr Ms chargeback request.
Monzo attempted a chargeback here. After Mr M contacted them on 3 January 2020, they 
submitted the claim to the card scheme. I think that was reasonable, based on the 
information Mr M had provided. 
But the hotel defended the claim and provided evidence in support. I wouldnt expect Monzo 
to pursue a claim further if they thought it had little prospect of success. Im satisfied that 
they gave all the evidence due consideration here. Based on that evidence, I think it was 
reasonable for Monzo to conclude that there was nothing more they could do to change the 
outcome. So I think their decision not to pursue the chargeback further was fair.
I realise this was disappointing for Mr M. But its worth pointing out that chargebacks are 
decided on the basis of the card schemes rules, not the merits of the dispute between the 
customer and the merchant. So, even if Mr M had good grounds for a claim against the hotel 
(which isnt what Im looking at here), it didnt necessarily follow that his claim for a 
chargeback would be successful.
I know Mr M will be disappointed by my decision. But, in considering this complaint, Im only 
looking at the way Monzo dealt with his request for a chargeback. I think they followed the 
correct process here and that the way they dealt with the claim was fair. So Im not going to 
ask them to do anything.
My final decision
For the reasons above, I dont uphold this complaint.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 28 December 2020.
 
Katy Kidd
Ombudsman