DRN-2819803
The complaint
Miss F complains that she was mis-sold a level term assurance policy she holds with The 
Royal London Mutual Insurance Society Limited as she believed it gave her cover for life. 
Miss F has said that she wasnt told that Royal London would be taking over the ownership 
of her policy and believes the policy type may have been changed when this happened.
What happened
In 2001, Miss F started a policy that provided her with life cover. She believed it would give 
her whole-of-life cover.
 
Royal London took over the ownership of the policy in 2011.
But, in 2017, Miss F complained when she became aware that the term of her policy was 
coming to an end. She found that her policy provided her with level term assurance of 
£75,000 for a premium of £8 a month and had a 16-year term. She recalled that she had 
taken out a whole-of-life policies in 1999 for both herself and her mother. She questioned 
why someone of her age wouldve taken out a policy that had a short term. She said she 
hadnt been told that the ownership of her policy had changed.
Royal London sent Miss F a copy of the proposal form for her policy which had been 
completed in 2001. It said this was two years later than Miss Fs mothers policy had started. 
Royal London said that Miss Fs policy had provided her with life cover for 16 years, which 
appeared to be so she would have life cover until her son reached the age of 21. It said that 
it believed the policy had been suitable for Miss Fs protection needs.
One of our investigators looked into the complaint and didnt think it should be upheld. In 
summary, she said that the information from the sale of the policy in 2001 showed that 
Miss F had agreed to a 16-year term assurance policy that would end in 2017. She also said 
that Royal London hadnt been able to provide a copy of any correspondence Miss F was 
sent about the change of ownership in 2011, but she couldnt fairly say that Miss F wouldve 
done anything differently if she had been made aware of this change, as it didnt affect the 
terms and conditions of her policy.
Miss F didnt accept the investigators findings and asked for her complaint to be reviewed. 
She said she believed the policy had been mis-sold and would have stopped paying the 
premiums if shed been told about the change of ownership. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive been sorry to learn of the health difficulties Miss F has shared with us. I can appreciate 
all that shes told us about how this affects her.
 
I acknowledge that Miss F recalls the circumstances in which she took out the policy she 
believed would cover her for the whole of her life in 1999, and that she also started the same 
type of policy for her mother.
 
Ive reviewed all the information shes provided about her mothers plan. This was taken out 
with a different provider to Miss Fs plan. Miss Fs own plan was started in May 2001, three 
years later, and provided her with level term assurance over a 16-year period rather than 
whole-of-life. The sum assured was £75,000 and her monthly premiums were £8.
The records of Miss Fs meeting with the adviser show that they met at her home and that 
she wanted the level term assurance over a 16-year term until her son reached the age of 
21. Miss F signed her application for this policy on 3 May 2001.
 
So although I can understand Miss Fs recollection that she took out a whole-of-life plan 
along with one for her mother in 1999, this doesnt appear to be the same policy that is the 
subject to this complaint about Royal London.
I can see that Miss F wasnt aware that her policy had been taken over by Royal London, 
and that she doesnt recall being notified of when this happened in 2011. Royal London 
hasnt been able to provide a copy of the notification Miss F wouldve been sent, however I 
think this is understandable considering the passing of time. It isnt required to keep such 
records indefinitely. 
I do appreciate that Miss F has told us that she would have stopped paying the premiums if 
she had been aware of the change of ownership. But I havent seen anything to suggest that 
this meant that her policy type or its terms and conditions changed from when she took out 
the policy in 2001.
 
Overall, I dont think this policy was mis-sold to Miss F.
My final decision
My decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss F to accept or 
reject my decision before 9 July 2021.
 
Cathy Bovan
Ombudsman