DRN-2359683
The complaint
Mr L complains that National Westminster Bank Plc blocked a number of transactions on his 
debit card and failed to let him know straight away. He says its happened twice more since 
then. He says, as a result, hes suffered a loss of over £25,000 and he wants compensation 
for this and for the upset and inconvenience hes had. 
What happened
Mr L has an online account with a share broking company.  When the funds in this account 
fall, hes required to top it up to prevent ongoing individual transactions being closed.
Mr L says he got an email from this company on 18 September asking him to top up his 
account. He tried to make several payments online but they were all declined. Following a 
call the next day between Mr L and Nat West, the restriction was lifted. Mr L says as a result 
of the transactions being blocked the day before, hed suffered losses on his share 
transactions of £24,632.
Mr L says the same problem occurred on the 23 September 2019 but following a call from 
the bank on the same day, the restriction was lifted.  It happened again on 30 September 
and Mr L says his losses this time were £1,174. 
Mr Ls unhappy that his card transactions to this account have been blocked so many times. 
Hes also unhappy that on 18 September Nat West didnt contact him straightaway to let him 
know there was a problem, as it had before. He says, when he did speak to the fraud team 
at Nat West, it couldnt explain what the problem was and why it kept occurring or how to 
avoid it. He feels that Nat West is responsible for the losses on his share broking account 
and hed like to be compensated for this.
 
Nat West says it has provisions in place to protect its customers against possible fraudulent 
activity and that includes restricting the use of the customers card where they believe the 
account may be at risk.  This is what happened in Mr Ls case. Nat West its actions were in 
line with the terms and conditions of Mr Ls account so it cant agree it made a mistake.
With regard to the specific payments queried by Mr L, Nat West said a restriction had been 
put on his card on 18 September following a fraud alert. Because of the nature of the 
concerns, it hadnt sent the usual message but had transferred the matter to its fraud 
department. The fraud department has 24 hours to make contact with the consumer but in 
this case Mr L had contacted it first. 
It noted Mr L had had a similar problem on 23 September at 16.47 but following a call to 
verify the transactions, the restriction had been lifted at 17.32 the same day. When it 
happened again on 30 September, the bank wasnt able to contact Mr L by phone so it had 
written to him instead. After talking to Mr L, the restriction had been lifted again.
Nat West didnt agree it had made a mistake in putting restrictions on Mr Ls card and said it 
had done so to protect him from any unauthorised activity. It couldnt agree it was 
responsible for his losses. However, it agreed Mr L hadnt received the service he could 
have expected when hed contacted the fraud department because of the confusing 
information hed been given. It offered Mr L £100 compensation for this and also agreed to 
pay him £5.40 to cover the cost of the calls hed had to make.
Our investigator didnt uphold Mr Ls complaint. She said Nat West was entitled to put 
restrictions in place to protect its customers account, as set out in the terms and conditions 
for Mr Ls account. As she didnt agree Nat West had made a mistake, she couldnt ask it to 
pay for the losses Mr L had incurred.
Mr L disagreed and said although he understood the need to protect the account, this was 
recurring problem that Nat West hadnt been able to resolve. He said the nature of the share 
broking account was that it moved very quickly and he felt it was the delay in Nat West 
informing him of the restrictions on his account that had led to his losses on 18 and 30 
September. For that reason he felt Nat West was responsible for his losses and should 
compensate him for this.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Theres no dispute that Nat West blocked a number of payments made by Mr L to his share 
broking account on 18 September. Its said it did so because they triggered a fraud alert on 
its systems and it acted to protect Mr L and his account.
Ive seen Mr L feels Nat West should have contacted him immediately after the transactions 
were blocked on 18 September and because it didnt, hed incurred significant losses. He 
says Nat West has previously contacted him promptly when theres a problem and feels it 
should have done so on this occasion.
Nat West says it didnt send a message this time because of the nature of the concerns 
flagged up. Instead they were referred to its fraud department who have up to 24 hours to 
make contact. However, it didnt have the opportunity to do so before Mr L called in the next 
morning.
Its clear Mr L feels NatWest didnt handle this as well as it should. However Ive reviewed the 
terms and conditions for his account and note that under paragraph 5.3 of these, Nat West is 
entitled to suspend, restrict or stop access to your account or to certain services (such as 
your debit card or online banking)  where we reasonably suspect that your security details 
or your debit card have been used fraudulently or without your permission and/ or  we 
believe its appropriate in order to protect your account;.  
Ive seen that in Mr Ls case the transactions on 18 September did trigger a fraud alert so Im 
satisfied Nat West was entitled to put the restriction on his card. And when the same thing 
happened again on 23 and 30 September, I think Nat West was reasonable in re-imposing 
restrictions on Mr Ls card while it verified the payments.
I know Mr Ls unhappy that Nat West didnt contact him straight away on the 18 September 
and I can understand why hed have wanted to know as soon as possible. However, 
although the terms and conditions for his account say notice will be given of any restrictions 
before or as soon as possible afterwards, they dont guarantee a specific time for 
contacting the consumer. That will depend on the circumstances of each case and the risk 
involved. I note that on 18 September, the concerns that were flagged up were identified as 
being high risk and it was for that reason that they were referred to the fraud department 
which follows a slightly different process. Thats an internal operational decision for the bank but overall I cant say its unreasonable for the bank to decide that different concerns require 
a different approach.
I can understand why Mr Ls found whats happened so frustrating. As he says, its not the 
first time payments to this company have been blocked and it seems clear that theres 
something about payments to this merchant thats causing a problem. 
However, Nat West, like all banks, is required to have robust anti fraud measures in place to 
to protect both its customers and the bank. It can be inconvenient at times but thats part of 
its business operation and which customers agree to when they open an account. A fraud 
alert can be triggered by a number of factors but the way its applied by each bank is a 
commercial decision, and confidential, so I cant ask Nat West to say precisely what was the 
problem in Mr Ls case. 
Having reviewed the information, however, I havent seen anything to show Nat West has 
made a mistake either in imposing the restrictions or in the time it took to let Mr L know 
about them afterwards.  For that reason, I cant reasonably ask it to compensate Mr L for his 
losses.
Ive seen Nat Wests accepted it could have been more helpful when Mr L contacted the 
fraud department on 19 September. Its offered £100 for this and a further £5.40 for the cost 
of his calls.  Since then its also offered to refer this issue to its Risk Team to look into why 
these transactions are causing alerts on Mr Ls account and to try to avoid it happening 
again. I think thats reasonable although that doesnt mean it wont happen again as the 
banks internal fraud detection systems may still identify a concern that prompts some action 
to be taken. 
For the reasons set out above, I consider that Nat West has dealt with the complaint fairly 
and, for that reason ,I wont be asking it to do anything more.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold Mr Ls complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr L to accept or 
reject my decision before 22 December 2020.
 
Cerys Jones
Ombudsman