DRN-4503008
The complaint
Mr H has complained that Haven Insurance Company Limited unfairly removed a vehicle 
hed re-added to be covered to his Motor Trade Road Risks insurance policy. 
What happened
Mr H has a Motor Trade Road Risks policy with Haven. He has to add vehicles he wants to 
be covered onto it via a system, so they appear as covered on the Motor Insurance 
Database (MID). He added a vehicle to the policy, which Ill refer to as vehicle M. After 90 
days he was told vehicle M was going to be removed from cover. So, he re-added it on 24 
April 2023. He was then sent a text message on 28 April 2023 saying it would be removed 
from cover in six days, i.e. 4 May 2023. He was stopped by the police while driving it on 6 
May 2023 and told it wasnt insured. He has been charged with driving without insurance 
and has to appear in court shortly with regards to this. 
Mr H complained to Haven and said he didnt receive the text. Haven said the terms of       
Mr Hs policy meant it was entitled to remove vehicle M and that it did notify Mr H it was 
going to do so. 
Mr H asked us to consider his complaint. One of our investigators did this. She eventually 
upheld it and said Haven should pay Mr H £500 in compensation for distress and 
inconvenience. This was on the basis that there appeared to be a flaw in Havens system, as 
other vehicles that according to Haven should have also been removed after 90 days had 
not been. So, she thought it was understandable that Mr H didnt appreciate vehicle M would 
be removed. 
Haven didnt agree with the investigators view and asked for an ombudsmans decision. It 
said Mr H was made aware vehicle M would be removed from the policy on 4 May 2023 and 
he was therefore not insured to drive it. 
I reviewed Mr Hs complaint and emailed Haven. I explained that I intended to uphold Mr Hs 
complaint and make it provide him with a letter of indemnity and pay £500 in compensation 
for distress and inconvenience. I said the reason for this was that it seemed that there was a 
flaw in its system and other vehicles that Mr H had added on in the same way as he did for 
vehicle M had not been removed after 90 days; so it didnt seem fair for him to be penalised 
for not realising this had happened with vehicle M. As Mr H is due in court on the charge of 
driving without insurance on 15 December 2023, I only gave Haven a short period to provide 
further comments and evidence. 
Haven have provided an email from Mr Hs broker which shows what I already knew, i.e. that 
Mr H was sent a text on 28 April 2023 saying vehicle M would be removed from cover in six 
days-time. It also provided evidence to show that other vehicles which were listed on Mr Hs 
policy, as what the broker describes as in trade, that had been on it for more than 90 days, 
were removed at the same time as vehicle M. I think from what the broker has said that on 
the database vehicles that were in trade would be noted as Customer vehicles or possibly 
as Customer vehicles or None.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided to uphold it and Ive explained why below. 
It seems from what it has said that Haven has a system whereby any vehicle that is added to 
the policy and shown as Type None or Customer should be removed after 90 days and a 
text should be sent to Mr H letting him know this. And if such a vehicle is added back on with 
the Type as None or Customer again it should then be removed and a text sent to Mr H 
informing him of this. 
And the policy schedule Mr H was provided with does say that any insured vehicle he has 
held for 90 days must be registered to him and recorded on the Motor Insurance Database 
he has access to as a Personal Vehicle or as a Customer Vehicle. And that if they are not 
recorded as either of these they will be removed from cover after 90 days. 
However, this is not it seems how the system works in practice. I say this because Mr H has 
provided clear evidence that several vehicles added on with the Type as None have 
remained on the policy well beyond 90 days. But it seems for some reason vehicle M was 
removed as it had been on cover 90 days and was added back on as Type None. And     
Mr H was at least sent a text informing him of this. For me, the problem is that Mr H wasnt 
expecting vehicle M to be removed because this hadnt happened previously with vehicles 
listed as None. This means he wasnt expecting the text or aware that this vehicle was likely 
to be removed. 
Also, I note that previously when vehicle M was removed Mr H received two texts. One 
telling him it was going to be removed in six days-time and one confirming it had been 
removed on the sixth day. But, from the evidence provided, it does not seem this happened 
with vehicle M when it was removed the second time. I think this is significant, as if Mr M had 
got a second text on 4 May 2023 saying vehicle M had been removed he may have queried 
this and either re-added it correctly or not driven it without insurance. 
Im also mindful of the fact that the broker has said it was not able to explain to Mr H about 
how to categorise vehicles he added as it did not have access to the database. This means 
he probably didnt fully appreciate the significance of the category he chose. 
It seems as though there were other vehicles removed at the same time as vehicle M, but 
that these may have been listed as Customer vehicles. If they were listed as None then 
Haven still hasnt explained what these why removed along with vehicle M on that occasion 
when others listed as None had not been removed after 90 days previously. Its also odd 
that the text Mr H received saying that vehicle M would be removed for a second time 
referred to the fact it had been In trade for more than 90 days, when it was listed as None 
as opposed to a Customer vehicle. For me, the whole process seems unclear and 
confusing. 
So, despite the fact I accept Haven sent a text telling Mr H vehicle M would be removed from 
cover after he had re-added it, I can understand why he didnt act on it and thought he was 
still insured to drive vehicle M when he was stopped by the police. In view of this, I do not 
think it would provide a fair and reasonable outcome to Mr Hs complaint if I were to allow 
Haven to stand by its stance that Mr H should have realised vehicle M was uninsured and 
this means it cannot help him with regards to his pending prosecution. I think in the very 
unusual circumstances of this particular complaint, it is fair and reasonable for me to make 
Haven provide Mr H with a letter explaining that he didnt realise vehicle M was uninsured on 6 May 2023 when he was stopped by the police because of a flaw in its system and an 
inadequate notification process. And that it would have indemnified him under the policy if he 
had had an accident.
I also think the apparent flaw in Havens system which led to Mr H not realising he was 
uninsured has caused him a considerable amount of distress and inconvenience. And I need 
to bear in mind the impact on Mr H was particularly significant because of his health issues. 
However, I also need to bear in mind he did miss one text message, which would have 
alerted him to the fact vehicle M was not going to be insured after 4 May 2023. And, while I 
appreciate the reason he missed this, I do think it should have a bearing on the level of 
compensation I award for distress and inconvenience. So, Im satisfied the £500 suggested 
by our investigator is fair. 
Putting things right
For the reasons set out above, I uphold Mr Hs complaint and order Haven Insurance 
Company Limited to do the following:
Provide Mr H with a letter explaining that he didnt realise vehicle M was uninsured on 6 
May 2023 when he was stopped by the police because of a flaw in its system and an 
inadequate notification process. And that it would have indemnified him under the policy 
if he had had an accident.
Pay Mr H £500 in compensation for distress and inconvenience. 
My final decision
I uphold Mr Hs complaint about Haven Insurance Company Limited and order it to do what 
Ive set out above in the Putting things right section above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 13 January 2024.
 
Robert Short
Ombudsman