DRN-4286214
The complaint
Mr C complains that Cumberland Building Society unfairly rejected his application for a 
current account.
What happened
Mr C says that, after the sad loss of his father in April 2020, he attended a Cumberland 
branch to sort out his fathers accounts. 
Mr C explains that he made an application to have a current account with that Cumberland 
branch. However, he was subsequently disappointed to learn that his application was 
refused due to his credit score. Mr C says this was hard to believe due to his earnings and 
good credit score, so he complained and appealed the decision.
Mr C says he was referred to credit reference agencies and, when he did so, he still couldnt 
understand the decision. He explains the ramifications of the decision on his job, that he felt 
it necessary to explain the Cumberland refusal decision to his employer and he feared he 
may have his security clearance revoked or lose his job and income. 
Mr C felt that being wrongly accused of having bad credit is defamatory and damaging to his 
reputation and he wanted the information that informed the refusal decision disclosed to him. 
Mr C complained to our service in March 2023 as he thought he might be a victim of 
incompetence, discrimination and defamation by Cumberland and required compensation.
When our service contacted Cumberland, they didnt have any record of a complaint from Mr 
C and needed to investigate. Upon completion of their investigation, they couldnt find any 
information about an application from Mr C.
Our investigator looked into Mr Cs complaint and, because of a lack of information from both 
parties, said he couldnt say that Cumberland had acted unreasonably or unfairly and 
wouldnt be asking them to do anything further.
As Mr C remains dissatisfied this case has been referred to me to look at.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, while I know this will come as a disappointment to Mr C, Im not upholding 
his complaint and Ill explain why.
I should first explain this service cant instruct a business or business group to alter its 
procedures, processes or systems. I say this because we arent the regulator of the financial 
services industry. Our role is to consider each individual case and, where we think a 
business hasnt acted fairly and / or reasonably in the circumstances, decide what should be 
done to put right any financial, or non-financial losses that a consumer has experienced. 
Also, its not for this service to judge whether Cumberland have breached either the Data 
Protection Act or the Equality Act, as thats an issue for the courts. But I can take into 
account any relevant law and wider industry practice when deciding whether Cumberland 
treated Mr C fairly and reasonably in the circumstances of this complaint. 
Due to the lack of any evidence in this case, inconsistent and contradictory information, I 
made further enquires with both Cumberland and Mr C.
I asked Cumberland to clarify information on their complaint response letter. This was to 
confirm they had checked all address records for Mr C. Also, to understand parts of their 
letter that appeared contradictory. 
The following comments confirmed Cumberland had no application record for Mr C:
no record of the application on our system
we hold no information in relation to you requesting to open a current account with 
us
Yet, the following comments were confusing and suggested otherwise:
You applied via our website, to open a current account with us
You had applied for the Cumberland Plus current account and must have agreed to 
this being your main current account
Cumberland confirmed they had checked their systems for Mr Cs addresses. 
Regarding the first seemingly contradictory comment Cumberland said:  
Where I say in the letter that You applied via our website, to open a current 
account, this was based on the information that Mr C provided us with. He told us, 
that he had visited a branch at first, however during this time as it was the 1st Covid 
lockdown, our smaller branches had closed, and we were not offering any face-to-
face appointments, and these were conducted over the telephone or via online 
applications. Mr C advised me that he had received an email to decline his current 
account, however he could not provide this. If you received a telephone appointment 
the decline outcome would have been notified by telephone or post, whereas 
application conducted online received notifications via emails.
Regarding the second seemingly contradictory comment Cumberland said:  
I quoted the terms and conditions of our 2 types of currents accounts, in the hope 
this would help the reasons behind the decline, and maybe remind him of the 
account types and the terms and conditions, as Mr C had told us, that he had a large 
income high earner, which would focus on the Plus account as this offers more 
benefits. I have no confirmation that this is what he was looking at, it was presumed, 
as it fitted his details more.
I found this information helpful, and hopefully Mr C will too, as there is now no ambiguity 
over Cumberlands comments. 
As Cumberland have no complaint or appeal records, I wanted to check whether Mr C had 
retained any information that would evidence or help trace his application. So, I asked Mr C 
to clarify the following information he submitted on our complaint form:
 I complained and appealed the decision Mr C responded to confirm he received a refusal letter but doesnt have a copy. He 
explained he made phone enquiries and I have a feeling I followed up with a message on 
their online web contact form.
I recognise Mr Cs frustration here. He made an application, was led to believe it was 
rejected because of his credit score and, even though he didnt understand how this was 
possible, he informed his employer and is still worried about a negative consequence. Yet, 
there is no record of an application, credit reference check or the correspondence he recalls 
receiving from Cumberland. Also, due to the passage of time, it is difficult for him to recall 
event details and data has been deleted in line with policies. Furthermore, as it appears 
unlikely the rejection reason was due to a negative credit reference agency check, Mr C 
neednt have made a communication to his employer, and he feels Cumberlands decision to 
decline must be because they have detrimental information on him and have been 
discriminatory.
Our service doesnt have powers to interrogate business systems or records and it is Mr Cs 
prerogative to do a subject access request. We do though have a mandate to resolve 
complaints in an informal way, asking both parties to submit their evidence and arguments to 
enable a decision based on the submissions presented.
Having looked at all the information on file and the above responses to my enquiries, Im 
satisfied that I have considered all available information here. Having done so, neither party 
has any evidence of an application being processed and some information is inconsistent 
and contradictory. So, I must reach my decision on the balance of probabilities  in other 
words, what I consider most likely to have happened in light of the available information.
Although Im persuaded that Mr C did submit an application for a Cumberland bank account, 
and I understand his belief, it isnt possible to confirm that he did make an application or find 
out what happened to it. So, it would be unfair to say that Cumberland made an error here, 
when there is no information to indicate an application was submitted. And, if it was 
submitted, it is more likely than not that the application was automatically rejected and, in 
that event, rather than being wrong or poor, the advice to speak with credit reference 
agencies would have been a routine response to automated rejection enquiries.  
So, whilst I appreciate Mr Cs frustrations here and know he will be disappointed, when 
considering all the above, Im not upholding this complaint.
My final decision
My final decision is that Im not upholding this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 13 November 2023.
 
Paul Douglas
Ombudsman