DRN-3801483
The complaint
This complaint is about Paratus AMC Limited, trading as Foundation Home Loans 
(Foundation Home Loans) increasing Mr and Mrs Os contractual monthly payments 
(CMPs).
What happened
In December 2021, Foundation Home Loans sent Mr and Mrs O a letter confirming there had 
been a change in the Bank of England base rate and their CMPs had been adjusted. Mr O 
called Foundation Home Loans to understand what this meant as their payments had 
increased by around £270 per month. 
Foundation Home Loans explained that the increase also included any fees and charges 
incurred since January 2018  this is why the CMP amount increased more than it otherwise 
would have. But the arrears remained and Mr and Mrs O would need to continue paying the 
agreed amount of £150 per month to clear that in addition to the increased CMPs. 
Mr and Mrs O complained to Foundation Home Loans that the letter they received didnt 
disclose why their CMPs had increased so significantly. They felt the letter was misleading 
and they also think the fees and charges should be treated as interest only like their 
mortgage. 
Foundation Home Loans considered Mr and Mrs Os complaint but confirmed that a letter 
was sent to Mr and Mrs O in November 2015, which explained the mortgage and arrears 
would be interest only, but that any fees or charges would be on a repayment basis. It also 
confirmed any outstanding fees and charges would be added to the mortgage balance when 
the next Bank of England review took place. 
Mr and Mrs O felt this was unfair, so our investigator looked into their concerns. The 
investigator found that Foundation Home Loans was able to adjust their payments as they 
have done and so its response was fair in the circumstances. As Mr and Mrs O didnt agree, 
the complaint was referred to me for a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I dont think Mr and Mrs Os complaint should be upheld and Ill explain 
why.
I know Mr and Mrs O have been going through a very difficult time and Ive thought about 
their reasons for concern carefully. But I dont think the actions Foundation Home Loans took 
were unreasonable. Foundation Home Loans informed Mr and Mrs O that any fees and 
charges would be added to their mortgage whenever the Bank of England base rate 
changed in a letter dated 24 November 2015. And that those fees and charges would be 
payable on a repayment basis even if they held an interest only mortgage. This change was 
made due to a new administration system Foundation Home Loans introduced and it 
affected all customers. 
The terms and conditions Mr and Mrs O have provided confirm that Foundation Home Loans 
could make changes to their CMP based on various factors including the Bank of England 
base rate. It also says that it could make changes based on any other circumstances which it 
reasonably considers to be relevant, and that it would notify them of those circumstances 
before any changes are due. Then, in terms of expenses, including any legal fees or other 
costs Foundation Home Loans incurred in managing the mortgage, it says these must be 
paid when it asks for them. So, I think Foundation Home Loans was entitled to have added 
outstanding fees and charges to the mortgage on a repayment basis as long as it gave 
notice of this.
Mr and Mrs Os representative is concerned they didnt receive the letter dated 
24 November 2015 informing them of this possibility. But the letter was addressed correctly 
and Im not aware of Mr and Mrs O having any problems receiving their post. So, I think its 
more likely than not that Mr and Mrs O would have received the letter  although they may 
not remember this now, some seven years later. 
While I appreciate Mr and Mrs Os mortgage is held on an interest only basis, the fees and 
charges they owe are sums that should have been paid to Foundation Home Loans 
whenever requested, which could have meant they had to pay those sums back immediately 
when asked. Instead those fees and charges have been built into their mortgage, so the 
repayments are spread out over time, which I think is fair. Unfortunately, due to other 
circumstances this may be difficult for Mr and Mrs O, so Foundation Home Loans has 
offered to discuss this with them, and I cant ask it to do more than that  
I think it would have been helpful if Foundation Home Loans had explained the increase in 
CMPs was due to both the Bank of England base rate increase as well as fees and charges 
added for the period between January 2018 and December 2021 in the letter it sent to 
Mr and Mrs O. But this was explained clearly as soon as Mr O contacted Foundation Home 
Loans by phone. And I dont think how the information was presented has much impact on 
Mr and Mrs Os overall concern, which is about the affordability of their CMPs. 
As Ive explained above, Foundation Home Loans was within its rights to make the changes 
it has and I cant ask it to delay Mr and Mrs Os repayment of the fees and charges they owe 
until the end of the mortgage term. While I empathise with Mr and Mrs Os situation, I dont 
think Foundation Home Loans needs to do anything further. My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr and Mrs O to 
accept or reject my decision before 27 December 2022.
 
Hanna Johnson
Ombudsman