DRN-4176119
The complaint
Ms S complains about the service shes received from Santander Consumer (UK) Plc t/a 
Santander Consumer Finance (SCF) in relation to a car finance agreement she took out.
What happened
In December 2019, Miss S entered into a 49 month conditional sale agreement to acquire a 
used car. The total amount payable under the agreement was around £46,200. She was 
required to make monthly repayments around £570 followed by one final payment of over 
£16,500.
In July 2020 and October 2020, the car was involved in an accident. The car was being 
driven by Ms S ex partners brother on both occasions  which caused the car to be written 
off. After some back and forth, the insurer agreed to settle the claim. According to Ms S, the 
insurer provided two options. That is, they would pay out around £17,000 and she could 
keep the salvage of the car or they would pay around £26,000 but she couldnt keep it. Ms S 
chose the first option. 
A payment of around £17,000 was put towards the finance agreement in December 2021. 
As a result, SCF removed their financial interest from the car in January 2022. They told Ms 
S she was still liable for the outstanding balance (over £27,000) and she was now required 
to make revised monthly repayments of around £350. But Ms S said she couldnt afford this.
In August 2022, Ms S contacted SCF to say her ex-partner had sold the car without her 
knowledge nor consent. SCF said there was nothing they could do as their interest in the car 
had been removed. Ms S complained they werent assisting her in recovering the car. As the 
agreement fell further into arrears, the account was defaulted in October 2022.
Ms S complained SCF had unfairly defaulted her and she was unhappy they were holding 
her liable for the outstanding balance. She also complained she was coerced into the 
agreement by her ex-partner. She says its only in recent months shes realised she was 
manipulated by him which is why she didnt raise this complaint point sooner. Ms S 
explained this situation has greatly impacted her personal life, including her mental health 
and financial circumstances.
SCF said following the payment by the insurer their interest in the car was removed so they 
had no control over what happened to it. They said their dedicated financial support team 
had done as much as they could to help Ms S given her financial difficulties but she owes 
the outstanding balance. 
Unhappy with SCFs response, the complaint was referred to our service. Our investigator 
recommended the complaint wasnt upheld. In summary, he said there wasnt enough 
evidence to say SCF were aware Ms S was coerced into taking out this agreement. 
He also didnt think SCF had acted unreasonably by not taking further action when they were 
told the car was taken and sold in August 2022. He said this was because SCF had removed 
their interest from the car and Ms S allowed her ex-partner to take possession of it. He 
concluded Ms S was liable for the outstanding amount owed under the agreement to SCF 
but he said they should work with her to set up an affordable repayment plan to pay it back.
 
Ms S disagreed and maintained her position. She commented because there wasnt a HPI  
financial marker against the car, it was able to be sold without her consent. She reiterated 
shed been manipulated by her ex-partner into taking out the agreement, along with other 
forms of credit. She said it wasnt fair she was left to pay for a car that was no longer in her 
possession. She explained the distress and impact this issue has had on her mental health 
and overall wellbeing.
In response, SCF said they are willing to put in place a suitable repayment arrangement but 
they needed full details of Ms S financial circumstances (income and expenditure) to 
determine a monthly repayment amount. 
As an agreement couldnt be reached, the complaint has been referred to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I dont intend to uphold this complaint. Ill explain why. 
But first, I want to say Im very sorry to hear about whats happened. I empathise with the 
situation Ms S finds herself in and I recognise the impact its having on her. I acknowledge 
the distress and upset this has caused and why shes keen to get matters resolved. 
Im aware Ive summarised this complaint in less detail than has been provided and Ive 
done so using my own words. No discourtesy is intended by this but Ive only centred on the 
issues I consider to be key in reaching a fair outcome. 
Did SCF do anything wrong in supplying Ms S with the conditional sale agreement?
Ms S complains she was coerced into entering into the agreement by her ex-partner. Im 
sorry to hear about this. However I must make it clear its not my role to say whether or not 
she was. Instead, I must consider whether SCF were aware (or ought to have been 
reasonably aware) at the point of supply, Ms S was being coerced into the agreement by or 
for somebody else. In this case, I dont find theres not enough evidence to reasonably say 
they wouldve been aware. By Ms S own admission, its only some time later she felt she 
was being manipulated by her ex-partner, stating he asked her to get the car in her name as 
he didnt have a licence. I understand why Ms S feels she was manipulated but I dont 
consider that amounts to coercion. 
Overall, I dont find SCF nor the broker knew, or ought reasonably to have known Ms S was 
being coerced, therefore I dont find they did anything wrong in supplying her with the 
agreement.
Did SCF act fairly when the car was written off?
Ive read the terms of the agreement. In summary, it says the following about insuring the car 
and if its written off: 
- The car must be insured at all times for its replacement value and any claims against 
loss, damage or injury;
- If the car is considered a total loss (written off), the following sums will become 
immediately payable:
oAny unpaid repayments and any other sums owed before the total loss;
oThe rest of the total amount owed under the agreement (less any rebate); oAny insurance money received will be used to set off the above sums owed.
Ive carefully thought about the SCFs actions when they received the payout from the 
insurance company and Im satisfied they acted in line with the above terms. The payout 
was put to the agreement thereby reducing the balance to over £27,000 (this figure included 
a rebate). Thereafter, based on the above terms, I also find they were entitled to say Ms S 
was liable for any outstanding amount owed under the agreement (the shortfall) and she was 
correctly advised of the same. 
As part of our services investigation, weve asked SCF whether they told Ms S they had 
removed their interest from the car. They confirmed they hadnt. Although I believe it 
wouldve been helpful for them to do so, they werent obliged to. Even if they had, I must 
emphasise the outcome wouldve been the same, that is, Ms S would be liable for the 
outstanding amount owed. Given the circumstances, I can understand why they removed the 
financial marker against the car, their only interest was the payment of the money owed 
under the agreement.
Based on the evidence presented to me, there is also a suggestion Ms S received around a 
£8,000 payout from a claim under a Guaranteed Asset Protection (GAP) insurance policy. 
GAP is an insurance policy which covers the difference (the gap) between the market value 
of a car when its written off or stolen, and what the consumer has left to pay on their car 
finance agreement. If this indeed happened, it means there was a combined payout of 
around  £25,000 when the car was written off. Although it was unlikely to clear the full 
balance owed, it wouldve significantly reduced it.
From my understanding, the GAP insurance was paid directly to Ms S. Based on the call 
notes, Im satisfied she was told should the claim be settled in her favour the money should 
be put towards the agreement and if there was any shortfall, she would be liable to pay it. As 
Ms S chose not to follow this information, I cant hold SCF responsible for this. 
Did SCF act fairly when they were told the car had been sold?
Ms S says the car was sold by her ex-partner without her knowledge nor consent and shes 
unhappy SCF didnt do enough to recover the car. 
For the reasons outlined above, I find at the time the car was sold in August 2022, SCF had 
no interest in it so I cant say they had any obligation to assist in its recovery. However I can 
understand Ms S frustration about this as shes been left without the car and she was 
seeking assistance. 
I must point out even in the event SCF did have interest in the car, the agreement terms say 
it must be insured against claims for loss and remain in the consumers possession. By Ms 
S own admission, the car was uninsured and with her ex-partner which is how he managed 
to sell it. This goes against the terms of the agreement meaning Ms S would remain liable for 
the outstanding balance.
Did SCF act fairly in defaulting the agreement?
The terms say in the event payments falls into two or more months of arrears and the 
agreement holder doesnt satisfy any subsequent default notice, SCF can end the 
agreement. Thats what happened here, the agreement was defaulted in October 2022.
Based on the payment history of the account, its clear Ms S was struggling with meeting the 
contractual payments. To assist her, SCF set up deferrals and other ways to assist her. At the time the car was written off, the agreement was in around £1,500 in arrears. Following 
the payout from the insurer, SCF agreed to revised monthly payments of around £350. I 
understand Ms S was unable to afford this amount and there was some back and forth with 
SCF about what she could afford. Based on the account statement, the last payment 
received by Ms S was July 2022.
This meant the account fell into further arrears. Based on system notes, I can see arrears 
notices were sent. As there was no indication Ms S could bring the account back up to date 
within a reasonable period of time and it was a few months in arrears, I find it was fair for 
SCF to issue a default notice. As there is insufficient evidence the notice was satisfied, I 
cant say SCF did anything wrong in defaulting the account. 
From my understanding, Ms S is still struggling financially. SCF has already agreed to set up 
an affordable payment plan which I consider a fair course of action. However they will need 
to gain a full understanding of Ms S current financial circumstances to determine what she 
can afford. I strongly encourage both parties to work together to achieve this. 
Summary
Taking everything into account, while I empathise with the situation Ms S finds herself in, I 
find SCF acted reasonably by agreeing to set up the finance agreement and they fairly 
applied the terms when the car was written off. The terms permit them to hold Ms S liable for 
the outstanding balance owed and when the account fell into arrears, it was reasonable for 
them to default the account. Lastly, Im satisfied they tried to assist Ms S during times of 
financial difficulty. 
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I dont intend to uphold Ms S complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss S to accept 
or reject my decision before 19 October 2023.
 
Simona Reese
Ombudsman