DRN-3037101
The complaint
Mr L complains that, despite his best efforts, HSBC UK Bank Plc failed to take steps to make 
sure a large debit card transaction by Mr L would clear. 
What happened
Mr L planned to make an extremely expensive purchase on his debit card. He said hed tried 
to make sure that this would be trouble free, starting two days before. Hed contacted HSBC, 
and even gone into the branch. But when he tried to make his purchase, it was repeatedly 
declined. 
Mr L told us about the frustration and embarrassment he felt. He contacted HSBC but he 
said that didnt help. Eventually the transaction was cleared when it was split into smaller 
amounts. Mr L felt that HSBC then dealt with his complaint very poorly. 
Mr L wanted compensation of £5,000, and he said HSBC should also be made to pay a fine. 
HSBC said it was sorry it didnt initially tell Mr L the right process for high value card 
payments. It asks customers to call on the day of purchase, and it can amend the card limits 
to allow a larger payment within the following 30 minutes. HSBC said Mr L was only told 
about this on the date of his planned purchase, after his card had already declined. 
HSBC said that it didnt dispute what Mr L said about a number of transactions for the full 
amount he wanted to pay having been declined. But HSBC said it wasnt responsible for 
those failed transactions. They had simply never reached it. HSBC said this could be a result 
of a limit on the retailers end. 
HSBC said it did place a marker on Mr Ls account which should have allowed the 
transaction to go through, but Mr L was still unable to make one payment for the full amount. 
Mr Ls transaction was only successful when it was split into three smaller amounts. 
HSBC accepted that previous advice it had given to Mr L about how to make this payment 
was wrong, and so it offered him £250. It wouldnt pay the £5,000 he wanted. 
Our investigator didnt think this complaint should be upheld. She said that shed listened to 
a call made in the days before Mr Ls purchase, when he was given wrong information. He 
was reassured that the payment would clear, but the correct process hadnt been followed. 
HSBC accept that it got this wrong, both over the phone to Mr L and in branch. 
Our investigator said that if the transactions Mr L tried to make had been declined by HSBC, 
then they would show as such at the bank. But HSBC said it just has no record of the 
transactions for the full amount, and it has shown us this. So our investigator couldnt agree 
that HSBC declined the transactions. If there had been a block on the account, then the 
three smaller transactions would also have failed. 
Our investigator said that the reason the payment had to be split to three smaller 
transactions could be something to do with HSBC, equally it may be the business Mr L was 
paying, theres no evidence to suggest either way.
Our investigator said she understood the embarrassment and frustration this caused Mr L, 
but she thought that HSBCs offer of £250 compensation was reasonable and in line with the 
sort of payment our service normally recommends. And she explained that it isnt part of our 
role to fine businesses.
Mr L wanted his case to be considered by an ombudsman, so it was passed to me for a final 
decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive reached the same overall conclusion on this complaint as our investigator. 
I can hear that Mr L received repeated reassurances on the phone, prior to his purchase, 
that his high value transaction would be successful. But it was then repeatedly declined. I 
can well understand why Mr L found this both frustrating and embarrassing. 
But Ive also got to bear in mind that the failure of Mr Ls large value transactions, when he 
tried to make the payment in one go, doesnt seem to have been because of anything HSBC 
did. Thats because what HSBC has shown us is that these transactions werent declined by 
HSBC. They didnt ever get that far. 
I dont know why not. Mr L says that this wasnt a floor limit at the seller. Given the nature of 
the business, I wouldnt think that the problem was likely to be because of such a limit. 
But the seller isnt connected directly to HSBC. The transaction passes along a chain, first 
through the sellers payment terminal to the payment processor, and then it goes to the card 
scheme operator (whose symbol is on Mr Ls card) and they in turn pass it to the authorising 
bank. 
In this case, the payments Mr L tried to make for the full amount didnt get to the bank for 
authorisation. So it seems likely that another link in the chain may have failed. Unfortunately, 
our service cant find out for Mr L exactly where things went wrong. But I cant hold HSBC 
responsible for the failure of payments that never reached it. 
Thats not to downplay the fact that HSBCs advice on how to make a large payment was 
wrong. Its just luck that the payment failed for a different reason. So Ive also taken account 
of the fact that Mr L was always going to have to contact HSBC on the day, even though 
hed been repeatedly reassured that his payment would clear. 
However, I wont be asking HSBC to pay Mr L the £5,000 that he would like. It wouldnt be 
consistent with other awards our service makes for me to make an award of that size, for 
difficulties in making a payment which were eventually overcome. I agree with our 
investigator that a payment of £250 is in line with the sort of payment our service normally 
recommends, and in particular, Id like to reassure Mr L that it is no less than I would have 
recommended that HSBC pay, if this offer hadnt already made. 
I know Mr L will be disappointed, but I dont think HSBC has to do more than that.My final decision
My final decision is that HSBC UK Bank Plc must pay Mr L £250 in compensation, if it hasnt 
already done so.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr L to accept or 
reject my decision before 3 November 2021.
 
Esther Absalom-Gough
Ombudsman