DRN-3873508
The complaint
Mr F has complained that Clydesdale Bank Plc trading as Virgin Money mis-sold him an 
Essentials Current Account.
 
Mr F is also unhappy that a payment made to his credit card bounced because Virgin Money 
didnt provide all of the information needed for the payment to go through.
What happened
One of our adjudicators assessed the complaint, and he didnt think that the account had 
been mis-sold. He also thought that what Virgin Money offered to do regarding the failed 
payment was fair and reasonable.
Mr F disagreed with the adjudicators assessment, so the matter was referred for an 
ombudsmans decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive started by considering Mr F complaint that his Essentials Current Account was mis-sold.
I understand that when Mr F agreed to open the account, he was assured that the online 
banking services were likely to be improved to full functionality within about a year. However, 
it was later decided by Virgin Money to keep the account largely as a postal or branch based 
account, which meant the online banking functionality remained limited.
I can understand why Mr F may be frustrated by this. However, when he agreed to the 
account, he did so knowing that it (at the time) didnt have full online banking functionality. 
And whilst he was given assurances that the online banking functionality would improve, of 
course there was no guarantee that this will definitely happen.
I note that the Essential Current Account didnt incur a monthly fee i.e. it was a fee-free 
account. So even if I thought that Virgin Money was wrong to have told Mr F that the online 
banking functionality should improve in the future, Mr F has not suffered a financial loss as a 
result of having the account Therefore, I cant reasonably say that it was mis-sold given that 
Mr F didnt pay anything for it.
I also think its the case that if Mr F was still dissatisfied with the limited online banking 
functionality having held the account for a year or so, then he was free to switch to another 
account that did have full online banking functionality at any time. 
So there was nothing preventing Mr F from changing the type of account he held if he still 
wasnt happy with what it provided. I recognise that having to switch his account to another 
type of Virgin Money account (that does offer full online banking functionality) may cause 
some inconvenience to Mr F. But I dont deem that inconvenience to be of a level that 
warrants any compensation. 
So in summary, Im unable to say that the Essential Current Account was mis-sold.
Turning now to the failed payment to his credit card, Virgin Money has accepted that it was 
at fault for the payment not going through. 
To put matters right Virgin Money said that it would be willing to reimburse any interest or 
charges that Mr F mayve incurred as a result of the payment not going through  although 
Virgin Money said that Mr F did not say that he did incur any such charges or interest. 
Virgin Money paid Mr F £50 compensation for any inconvenience he experienced due to the 
payment not going through. 
In the circumstances I think that what Virgin Money did to put matters right was reasonable. 
This is because it would firstly put Mr F back into the position he wouldve been in, had the 
payment gone through first time. And I also think that the compensation reasonably reflects 
the impact that the failed payment mayve had on Mr F  which was essentially the 
inconvenience in having to contact Virgin Money to get the payment processed again. 
My final decision
Because of the reasons given above, I dont think that Clydesdale Bank Plc trading as Virgin 
Money needs to do anything more than what it has already done, to put matters right in 
relation to this matter.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr F to accept or 
reject my decision before 27 March 2023.
 
Thomas White
Ombudsman