DRN-2820277
The complaint
Mr F says Usay Business Limited mis-sold him a private healthcare policy.
What happened
Mr F spoke with Usay to enquire about a private healthcare policy and following a number of 
phone calls, he took out the recommended cover. Mr F is the main policyholder, but he also 
included cover on this policy for his wife as his dependant. During the sales call, Mr F 
specified that due to where he lived, it was important that a certain hospital was included on 
the list for cover. The adviser checked the hospital listings he had and confirmed this 
hospital was included. 
Shortly after taking out the cover, Mr F contact his insurer as he thought the hospital wasnt 
covered. It responded and said it was. However, it is now apparent there was confusion 
between the private wing of the hospital Mr F wanted to use and the private wing of another 
hospital. When Mr F went to claim on the policy a number of months later, this was realised, 
and it was confirmed his hospital had been removed from the approved list.
Mr F complained to Usay that it had mis-sold him the policy. He specifically wanted cover for 
him and his wife at the discussed hospital, however this in fact wasnt approved by the 
insurer. He explained the insurer had later said it would agree to his requested test there, but 
as it had said this was at his own risk, he didnt want to go ahead with it.
Usay didnt uphold Mr Fs complaint. It said that it had relied on information it held at the time 
when providing the list and that it had told Mr F this was only a guide. 
Mr F brought his complaint to our service. He didnt agree that the policy was correctly sold 
to him as he couldnt use the hospital he wanted. Our investigator didnt uphold Mr Fs 
complaint. He said that ultimately Mr F was able to claim under his policy and use the 
hospital of his choice. And he said that the insurer had simply explained that the treatment at 
that hospital was at Mr Fs own risk as it wasnt a hospital they approved due to its CQC 
rating. So this didnt mean he couldnt use them, just he was doing so knowing the rating. 
Mr F disagreed and asked for an ombudsman to review his case.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive reviewed the documentation Usay held at the time of sale as well as the information 
Mr Fs insurer has provided. I accept that he was incorrectly told his local hospital was on the 
cover list. However I can see that both in the general hospital booklet and personalised 
hospital list Mr F has been provided, it is listed. Its clear at this time that the booklet was last 
updated in 2017 and the hospital Mr F wanted to use was removed in 2018, so this is the 
reason for this error. The top of the personalised list does however specify that the list is only 
provided as a guide and that the insurance provider should be contacted to confirm the 
hospital is covered and this was also confirmed to Mr F in the calls.
As this was an advised sale, I do expect Usay to have checked that Mr Fs requested 
hospital was covered by the policy. But I can see the personalised documentation produced 
in 2019 did list the hospital Mr F wanted to use. And so I do consider Usay did check the 
documentation it had access to at the time, which unfortunately was outdated. Usay does 
use information from the insurer to create the recommendations and quotes, so its not clear 
at this stage why a personalised, but outdated list was able to be created. However, I dont 
think this does need to be determined to reach my outcome.
I say this because Mr F has provided us with letters from his insurer which state it will cover 
his treatment at his chosen hospital. I understand he did have to contact the insurer and 
discuss his case for this to be agreed, but his insurer did approve the treatment. So while 
Usay did have outdated information, ultimately the insurer has still agreed to cover the 
treatment Mr F required within his first policy year. If I was to agree the policy was mis-sold, 
Id look how to put things right for Mr F  and an option would be to see if the insurer could 
cover him at his chosen hospital. And as the insurer had already agreed to do this, I think 
Mr F is in the position as if he was sold a policy that covered his chosen hospital.
I understand Mr F disagrees with this and hes explained to us why it wouldnt be possible for 
the insurer to actually cover him at his chosen hospital. Or for the hospital to treat him in this 
situation. But Ive seen no evidence his theory is true. His insurer has confirmed in its letters 
that it reviews customers requests to use other hospitals on a case by case basis. And its 
approving his request on this occasion. While Mr F doesnt agree his insurer can do this, it 
says it can and I consider the insurers letter holds more weight in this situation.
Mr F has also set out why he wouldnt want to use a hospital that isnt approved and carries 
a degree of personal risk to him. However in his call with Usay, Mr F tells the advisor that the 
hospital he wants to use is currently in special measures, but he then discusses how there 
arent issues with every department and he wants to use the private element of it. And he 
says another insurer has agreed for them to use this hospital as part of his quote, despite 
this. As Ive said above, Mr Fs insurer did also agree for him to use the hospital. I accept his 
insurer has said that:
We have allowed for you to use this hospital with your understanding of their CQC 
status and any treatment that you receive is at your own risk. It must also be eligible 
and in line with your policy terms.
But I dont agree this letter means Mr F couldnt use the hospital and so he was mis-sold the 
policy. Any claims he made would always have to be within the policy terms, regardless of 
which hospital was used. And it seems the insurer is safeguarding itself against any later 
complaints by customers, when using a hospital with a status below what the insurer deems 
acceptable. It hasnt changed the policy terms or put any additional burdens on Mr F, its 
agreed to his claim but just reminded him of the hospitals status. And as he was already 
aware of CQC status prior to taking out the policy, but wanted to use the hospital anyway, I 
cant say this means his policy was mis-sold. 
In conclusion, while I do accept Mr F was given outdated information at the time of sale, I 
dont agree this means his policy was mis-sold. Mr F was able to use his chosen hospital for 
the time he tried to claim on his policy. While I accept that incorrect information was given, I 
havent seen evidence Usay was the source of this information. And in any event, I dont 
consider Mr F has been negatively impacted by it, as he was given the opportunity to use the 
hospital of his choice and claim under his cover. While Mr F chose not to use the hospital 
and cancelled his policy after the first year, I cant agree this means it was mis-sold.
My final decisionFor the reasons set out above, I dont uphold Mr Fs complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr F to accept or 
reject my decision before 4 January 2022.
 
Amy Osborne
Ombudsman