DRN-4110936
The complaint
Mr M and Mr M complain that Advantage Insurance Company Limited (Advantage) unfairly 
cancelled their car insurance policy. 
The policyholder is Mr Ms son but the complaint is brought on his behalf by his father so, for 
ease of reading, Ill refer to Mr M throughout my decision. 
What happened
Mr Ms son, who Ill refer to as C, has a car insurance policy with Advantage which began in 
November 2021. 
Advantage wrote to C in November 2021 to ask for further information in respect of the 
named drivers on the policy. It said if the information was not provided then it may cancel or 
amend the policy. 
In January Advantage wrote to C again, this time asking for a copy of the named drivers 
driving licence. Advantage said if it didnt receive the information requested by 29 January 
2022 it may cancel or amend the policy. Advantage wrote again in February. It said if the 
licence details werent received by 11 February the policy would be amended or cancelled. 
Since Advantage didnt receive the information it requested the policy was cancelled on 11 
February 2022. Advantage wrote to C to confirm the policy had been cancelled. 
Mr M wasnt happy Advantage cancelled the policy and so he complained. He said 
Advantage had written to his son while he was in his final year at university, and so the 
emails had gone unread. But Advantage had Mr Ms contact details and should have 
contacted him when his son didnt respond. Mr M also said the cancellation letter was sent at 
midnight so there was no opportunity to contact Advantage to try and deal with the matter. 
So they were left with an uninsured car which they were unable to drive home. Mr M says its 
unacceptable for the policyholder to be notified of the cancellation after it has been 
cancelled. And objected to the fact no final warning had been issued to say the policy would 
be cancelled. Mr M says as a result of Advantage cancelling the policy his son now has to 
declare that he has had a policy cancelled which will affect his premiums for years to come. 
Advantage said it wrote to C on a number of occasions requesting further information 
regarding his policy. It said it contacted C by letter, email, and SMS to the preferred contact 
details. And when the information wasnt received it cancelled the policy. Advantage said it 
wasnt made aware Mr M could be contacted instead of C and had that been done it would 
have taken steps to contact him instead. Advantage said it followed the correct process in 
line with its policies and so the complaint wasnt upheld.  
Mr M wasnt happy with Advantages response to his complaint. He said the preferred 
method of contact should refer to initial contact only. And when Advantage realised it wasnt 
getting a response it should have made contact with the other drivers named on the policy.
Because Mr M wasnt satisfied with the response from Advantage he referred the complaint 
to this service. 
Our investigator looked into things for him. He said he didnt think Advantage had been 
unreasonable in cancelling the policy. He said the preferred method of communication was 
email and so Advantage hadnt done anything wrong in communicating via this medium.
Mr M disagreed with the investigator. He said the principal cause for complaint was the 
potential for criminal offences caused by cancelling the policy without informing the 
policyholder of the day and time when it would have been cancelled. Mr M also said 
Advantage made no attempt to find out why it hadnt received a response to its 
correspondence. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I think it would be helpful to explain we arent the regulator and cant tell a business what 
processes and procedures it should have in place. My role is to look at whether Advantage 
acted fairly and reasonably, and within the terms of the policy. 
Ive focused my comments on what I think is relevant. If I havent commented on any specific 
point its because I dont believe its affected what I think is the right outcome. 
Insurers are entitled to validate its policies and this often requires obtaining further 
information or clarification of information provided when the policy was taken out. And this is 
what Advantage did here.
The terms and conditions allow Advantage to cancel the policy in certain situations. One of 
the examples is where, you dont send us or your insurer information that your insurer 
reasonably requires to process your policy. The terms go on to say the policy can be 
cancelled by sending seven days written notice, to the last postal or email address on our 
system.  
On 16 November 2021 Advantage wrote to C to ask for the claims histories of the named 
drivers on the policy. 
On 2 December 2021 Advantage wrote to C to ask for the named drivers claims histories. 
The email provided an email address to contact it. The email said, if we dont hear back 
from you before 3rd December 2021we may change your policy or cancel it which could 
leave you uninsured. 
On 3 December 2021 Mr M wrote to Advantage and provided it with the claims history 
details it requested. He also provided his email address and telephone number in case 
Advantage had any further queries. Mr M wasnt happy Advantage didnt use his details to 
make contact about the policy. But the policy says only the policyholder can amend the 
contact information and I havent seen any evidence this was done. 
On 19 January 2022 Advantage wrote to C to ask for further information regarding one of the 
named drivers on the policy. In that letter Advantage explained if it didnt hear back by 29 
January the policy may be amended or cancelled. 
On 4 February 2022 Advantage wrote to C to ask for his driving licence details. It said if Mr 
M didnt provide this information by 11 February 2022 it would amend or cancel the policy. Given Advantage had previously communicated with C by email, and his preferred method 
of contact was by email, I think its reasonable for Advantage to send the correspondence by 
email and to assume it had been delivered. Advantage hasnt said it received a delivery 
failure notification. 
On 12 February 2022 Advantage wrote to C to confirm the policy had been cancelled from 
11 February 2022. Advantage said the policy was cancelled because it asked for some 
information but C didnt provide everything it had asked for in the timeframe given. It 
refunded the cost of the premium less the policy arrangement fee, policy amendment fee, 
and a cancellation fee. 
I have considered whether C was given reasonable opportunity to respond to the requests 
for further information. And I think he was. Advantage sent at least six letters chasing 
outstanding information, each of them providing a new deadline by which it needed a 
response. I accept C was busy with his final year of university but I dont think this accounts 
for not responding to all of the letters. 
Mr M has said a final warning letter should have been sent detailing the date and time of the 
policy cancellation. But given previous letters had largely gone unanswered I dont think, on 
balance, a further letter would have changed the outcome here. The correspondence 
explained the policy could be cancelled on 11 February and I would expect that to be 
enough for the relevant action to be taken. 
I have seen a copy of the letters Advantage sent. And so Advantage did what it was 
supposed to under the terms of the policy to let him know and I dont think it did anything 
wrong. 
Advantage sent six letters by email, and some by SMS and post, telling C there was an 
issue and that he needed to take action. The last letter set out the consequences of doing 
nothing. I think C was given opportunity to provide the information requested, or get in touch 
with the insurer, to query the request or ask it to liaise with someone else. On that basis I 
think Advantage has acted reasonably by cancelling the policy, given the lack of 
communication from C. 
The letter dated 4 February is headed You need to urgently confirm some details. It says, 
well amend or cancel your policy if you dont provide these details by 11 February 2022. 
The letter goes on to say, if you policys cancelled, youll be charged a cancellation fee of 
£45 to cover any admin costs and youll need to insure your vehicle elsewhere. 
In their letter dated 12 February 2022 it says the policy was cancelled on 11 February 2022. 
So I can understand Mr Ms concerns that he was unknowingly left without insurance for a 
period of time. But Im satisfied Advantage gave fair warning of a potential problem and gave 
sufficient notice of the cancellation. 
I think the crux of the issue here is that the policy was cancelled due to a failure to provide 
information requested. It is for C, as a policyholder, to ensure he has provided his insurer 
with accurate details and responds to its requests for further information. I know Mr M thinks 
Advantage should have looked into why his son wasnt responding to correspondence or 
contacted him to obtain the information. But I dont think this is reasonable or something I 
would expect an insurer to do. It is the policyholders responsibility to ensure the details on 
the policy are correct. 
Mr M says the principal cause for complaint is the potential for criminal offences caused by 
cancelling the policy without informing the policyholder of the day and time it would be cancelled. But as explained above Im satisfied sufficient notice was given and I think any 
additional correspondence sent would not have changed the outcome here. 
Mr M has accepted his son didnt read the emails and act on them. And I appreciate the 
cancellation of the policy has had a significant impact on him. But I have seen evidence that 
Advantage sent the letters by email and SMS, including the letters warning the policy could 
be cancelled. So I cant say Advantage did anything wrong or treated Mr M unfairly in 
cancelling the policy. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained Im not upholding this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M and Mr M to 
accept or reject my decision before 28 June 2023.
 
Kiran Clair
Ombudsman