DRN-4239085
The complaint
Mr C complains that Revolut Ltd wont refund the money he lost when he fell victim to a 
cryptocurrency scam.
Mr C is bringing this complaint using representatives. To make my decision easier to read, 
I will refer only to Mr C. I do this even where it was his solicitors rather than Mr C who said or 
did something. I mean no discourtesy in taking this approach.
What happened
The circumstances that led to this complaint are now well known to both parties, so I wont 
repeat them in detail here. In summary, Mr C fell victim to a cryptocurrency investment scam 
after seeing an advert for a trading platform on social media.
Mr C made four payments from his Revolut account between 8 June 2022 and 4 July 2022 
totalling £9,440. Initially, Mr C was pleased with how things were going as the investments 
looked to be making money on top of what hed put in. But then the financial advisor was 
pressuring Mr C to make more and more trades in bitcoin, leaving him short on money to live 
on.
The scam was uncovered when the financial advisor kept making excuses as to why Mr C 
couldnt withdraw any money. Eventually they stopped responding to him. Mr C reported the 
scam to Revolut and asked it to refund the money hed lost.
Revolut said it was unable to reimburse Mr Cs loss. In its final response, Revolut said it had 
displayed warning messages and Mr C had confirmed he trusted the beneficiary at the time 
the payments were made. It tried to recover the funds hed sent but none remained. 
Unhappy with Revoluts position, Mr C complained to us.
I issued a provisional decision on 22 June 2023 explaining why I was minded to partially 
uphold the complaint. My findings are copied below:
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In deciding whats fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of a complaint, Im required to
take into account relevant: law and regulations; regulators rules, guidance and standards;
codes of practice; and, where appropriate, what I consider to be good industry practice at the
time.
The starting position at law is that Revolut is expected to process payments and withdrawals
that its customer authorises it to make. Ive thought carefully about whether Mr C authorised
the disputed payments, especially as hes explained that the fraudster sometimes had
control of his phone by using remote access software. But Revolut has recently provided
evidence to show that the version of Revoluts app that was running on Mr Cs phone at the
time the disputed payments were made prevented remote access altogether. As such, I am
persuaded that whilst the fraudster was supporting Mr C to make the payments, it seems
more likely than not that these payments were authorised by Mr C, even though he did not
intend for this money to go to fraudsters.
But this is not the end of the matter. Revolut should be on the lookout for unusual and out of
character situations which can indicate that a transaction could involve fraud or be the result
of a scam. So, Ive also considered whether it should have identified that Mr C was
potentially at risk of falling victim to fraud as a result of the payments, or otherwise done
more to protect him. When considering what payments should be considered significantly
out of character, its often a finely balanced matter  and firms have a difficult balance to
strike between identifying transactions where there are indications of higher fraud risks, and
allowing customers to utilise their accounts as they want to with minimal unnecessary
disruptions.
As Mr C opened the account specifically to make these payments, there wasnt any previous
account history for Revolut to compare the payments to when trying to see whether they
were unusual or out of character.
I dont think it should have been immediately obvious to Revolut that Mr C was at risk of
financial harm from fraud. The payment of £790 made on 8 June would not have appeared
unusual to Revolut in and of itself. It was not for such a large amount that Id necessarily
expect Revolut to intervene and question it.
But I do think the situation evolved and the way that Mr C went on to use the account ought
to have caused Revolut concern. When Mr C opened the Revolut account, he selected the
account opening purpose of spend or save daily for day-to-day spending. But it became
apparent that this is not how the account was actually being run. The next payment made
was on 13 June. It was a transaction of £4,950 to the same cryptocurrency exchange. In the
intervening five days, there had been no other activity on the account. This payment was
over six times larger than the first one Mr C made. Whilst I accept that Revolut did not have
much information to go on, what it could see was concerning as it contradicted the
information it had been given. I consider that the way the account was running was different
enough to what Revolut had been led to expect and I think there was enough going on that it
ought reasonably have suspected Mr C might have been at risk of harm from a
cryptocurrency investment scam.
As such, I think it would have been fair and reasonable for Revolut to have displayed an on-
screen warning message that was specifically tailored to the risks presented by
cryptocurrency investment scams. From what I have seen, Revolut gave a standard warning
prompting its customer to reflect on whether they know or trust the payee. Revolut says it
shows this message to customers before any transfer to a new beneficiary. It didnt
specifically pick up that Mr C was sending money to a cryptocurrency exchange, and I have
not seen any evidence to suggest that Mr C was prompted to select a specific payment
purpose at the time each payment was made.
In all the circumstances here, I think Revolut ought to have been alive to the risk that the
payments were being made in connection to a cryptocurrency investment scam. This means
the general information it gave did not go far enough. It is generally considered good
industry practice now for all firms to provide tailored written scam warnings during a payment
journey where a scam risk is identified. I think Revolut ought to have identified the specific
cryptocurrency scam risk and provided a tailored warning alongside the second payment
which covered off the key features of a cryptocurrency investment scam, in a clear and
understandable way.
Ive thought about the interactions Mr C was having with the fraudster at the time the
payments were being made and whether they would have impeded Mr Cs ability to digest atailored warning. But as Revoluts technical evidence has shown that remote access would
not have been possible at the key points in the payment journey, I am not persuaded that
Mr C would have gone ahead regardless or that the fraudster had the opportunity to conceal
information so he would not have seen it. Ive looked carefully at the messages Mr C
exchanged with the fraudster and Ive not seen anything to suggest that he was given a
cover story or told that he should mislead if challenged, so it seems more likely than not that
Mr C would have picked a payment purpose for cryptocurrency investing if hed been
presented with the opportunity to give Revolut more details about what the payment was for.
On balance, I am persuaded that information bringing to life what a cryptocurrency scam
looks and feels like would have resonated with Mr C and unsettled him to such an extent that
he would not have gone any further with the payments. This was a lot of money for Mr C to
lose and I dont think he would have continued if hed been made aware there was a
possibility this was not legitimate.
Ive thought about whether Mr C ought to take some responsibility for the loss too. But I think
he has been the unwitting victim of a clever fraudster. I am not persuaded that Mr Cs
actions or inactions have contributed to the loss that he went on to suffer to such an extent
that he should be held partially liable for it. I think a reasonable person could similarly have
been persuaded to invest in what, on the face of it, appeared to be a legitimate investment
opportunity.
This means I am currently proposing to find that Revolut should refund the payments Mr C
made to the cryptocurrency exchange between 13 June and 4 July, totalling £8,650. I also
think it would be fair and reasonable for Revolut to pay 8% simple interest from the date
each payment was made to the date of settlement.
In reaching this position, I can confirm that I have seen the statements for Mr Cs other bank
account where the money originated from before it was transferred into Revolut. Some of
this money came from a loan, so I think overall 8% simple interest is the fairest way to
recognise that we dont know for sure what Mr C would have otherwise done with the money
and to acknowledge that hes incurred costs connected to borrowing for a proportion of the
funds. The actions of other parties in this payment chain would not remove or extinguish any
responsibilities of Revolut, but for completeness my understanding is that Mr C has not been
reimbursed any funds by either his other bank or the loan provider.
Mr C accepted my provisional decision. 
Revolut disagreed. It said, in summary, that: 
Mr Cs account activity contradicting what hed set as the accounts purpose wasnt 
enough to say that Revolut should have known there was something suspicious. 
Mr C didnt use the account for much so there was not much information to go off.
The second transaction of £4,950 was not suspicious enough that Revolut ought to 
have intervened in any way and the fact the money was going to a known 
cryptocurrency exchange isnt suspicious in and of itself. It pointed out that not all 
cryptocurrency activity is fraudulent, and it cant stop a customer from making a 
transfer just because they are buying cryptocurrency. 
Mr C would have disregarded any warnings Revolut may have shown him because in 
his mind at the time the situation wasnt fraudulent, and carried no risk because he 
was sending the money to himself. It pointed out that Mr C was in contact with the 
fraudsters throughout the time so its very likely he would have been distracted. 
As both parties have now considered and responded to my provisional decision, I will 
consider the matter afresh. What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Revoluts response to my provisional decision has not persuaded me to 
reach a different conclusion. I still think it ought to have identified a cryptocurrency scam risk 
and that an appropriate intervention would have prevented some of the loss Mr C went on to 
suffer.
For clarity, I am not suggesting that Revolut should challenge every transaction that displays 
some connection to cryptocurrency. Its not reasonable to expect a firm to be involved in 
every transaction and I recognise there is a balance to be struck. But Revolut has an 
obligation to protect its customers from the possibility of financial harm from fraud and I dont 
think it did enough here to disrupt or uncover a potential fraud or scam based on the risk 
factors that were presenting. The fact that Mr C had only recently opened the Revolut 
account, that he was using it differently to what hed said the account was for and that he 
was making increasingly large payments to a cryptocurrency exchange layers to build a 
concerning picture. 
Revolut is already aware that the FCA and Action Fraud published warnings about 
cryptocurrency scams in mid-2018. By the time of Mr Cs payments in summer 2022, 
cryptocurrency scams had risen greatly in frequency and its reasonable to conclude that 
firms like Revolut had time to digest these warnings and put mechanisms in place to detect 
and prevent this type of fraud. So I think Revolut ought to have been well aware that even if 
the payments appeared to be going to Mr Cs own cryptocurrency account, there was a 
material risk it was destined to be moved on from there to fraudsters  meaning he was at 
significant risk of financial harm due to a fraud or scam. I still consider that Revolut ought to 
have at least provided a written warning to cover this specific scam risk. By this time, 
Revolut had a good understanding of how the key features of a scam like the one Mr C fell 
victim to work and it was well placed to give him a meaningful warning to bring these risks to 
life.
Revolut has argued that Mr C would have disregarded a warning in any case so it still could 
not have prevented his losses. But Ive not seen anything that makes me think he wouldnt 
have taken a warning seriously. If Mr C had been given meaningful information explaining 
that what he was doing bore all of the hallmarks of a cryptocurrency investment scam, I think 
this would have resonated with him and he would have recognised his own circumstances. 
Nothing Revolut has said has changed my position. So, for the reasons given both in my 
provisional decision (which is included above and forms part of this final decision) and the 
further analysis I have provided here, I still think Revolut ought to have identified the specific 
cryptocurrency scam risk and provided a tailored warning alongside the second payment to 
cover off the key features of a cryptocurrency investment scam, in a clear and 
understandable way. 
I think provision of this information would have, on balance, unsettled Mr C to such an extent 
that he would not have continued to make the payments and I dont think Mr Cs actions or 
inactions are such that he should bear some responsibility by way of contributory 
negligence. As such, I consider it to be fair and reasonable for Revolut to compensate Mr C 
for failing to prevent some of his loss.Putting things right
Revolut should now refund the payments Mr C made to the cryptocurrency exchange 
between 13 June 2022 and 4 July 2022, totalling £8,650. 
As Mr C has been deprived of those funds, I also think it would be fair and 
reasonable for Revolut to pay 8% simple interest* on the sum from the date each 
payment was made to the date of settlement.
*If Revolut considers it is required by HM Revenue & Customs to take off income tax 
from the interest, it should tell Mr C how much its taken off. It should also give him a 
certificate showing this, if he asks for one, so that he can reclaim the tax from HMRC 
if appropriate.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint in part and Revolut Ltd should now settle the 
matter in the way Ive outlined above. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 9 August 2023.
 
Claire Marsh
Ombudsman