DRN-3775886
The complaint
Ms D has complained about the poor service and the way U K Insurance Limited has been 
dealing with two claims under her car insurance policy. 
What happened
Ms D was involved in two incidents in September 2021. To avoid confusion, Ill refer to the 
incidents and claims in the order they occurred, rather than the order they occurred. So the 
incident first reported to UKI is claim two - and the incident reported later was in fact claim 
one.
In September 2021 Ms D reported the second incident and made a claim to UKI. She 
wanted the third party to admit liability. From UKIs notes, it seems its approved repairer was 
unable to carry out the repairs to her car because of the type of car Ms D owned - and so 
UKI asked Ms D to provide details of a suitable garage and to provide an estimate for repair 
costs. 
Ms D was involved in the first incident - also in September 2021 - but didnt tell UKI about it. 
A third party contacted UKI in February 2022 to report it.  
In July 2022 Ms D complained to UKI about delays she said it had caused under both claims 
and she was unhappy that her car hadnt yet been repaired.
UKI upheld Ms Ds complaint in part. It accepted that it had caused significant delays in 
progressing the (second) claim which Ms D reported to it in September 2021. It intended to 
chase the third party insurer with a view to agreeing liability. UKI said Ms D didnt want to 
proceed with this claim until liability had been admitted by the third party. 
UKI wasnt made aware of the (first) claim until the third party contacted it in February 2022. 
It didnt uphold the complaint that it had caused delays here. Ms D accepted fault for the first 
claim. UKI said it was waiting for an estimate for repairs and had requested this information 
from Ms Ds preferred garage and Ms D a number of times. But it hadnt received a reply. 
UKI paid Ms D £350 compensation for the distress and inconvenience it had caused by its 
poor service and delays in its handling of the first claim Ms D reported to it. 
Ms D remained unhappy and asked us to look at her complaint. 
Our Investigator thought UKI had caused significant delays but that some of the delays were 
outside of its control. She thought UKIs compensation payment of £350 for the distress and 
inconvenience caused was enough to put things right. 
Ms D didnt agree. She asked for an ombudsmans decision. She said there were 
inaccuracies and voids in the Investigators view. 
Our Investigator asked Ms D to clarify what the inaccuracies were. Ms D hasnt provided 
further details. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In the Investigators view she said that Ms D had asked to use her preferred garage to carry 
out repairs. Im unable to see that from the claim notes provided by UKI in relation to the 
claim Ms D reported in September 2021. I can see that the approved repairer told UKI it 
wouldnt be able to repair Ms Ds car due to the type of car it was. So UKI asked Ms D to 
provide details of a garage and an estimate for repairs. 
This is the only difference Ive been able to find when looking at the information provided by 
both parties. Im not able to consider any concerns Ms D has about inaccuracies as Ms D 
hasnt provided details of what they are.  
Theres no dispute that UKI caused a significant delay as it failed to provide any substantive 
update or progress on the first reported claim until Ms D complained in July 2022 - ten 
months later. I think this is unreasonable of UKI and I can understand Ms Ds frustration. 
For the distress and inconvenience caused, UKI apologised and paid Ms D £350 
compensation. I think this is a reasonable sum and in line with awards which we give for 
similar cases. 
I havent seen evidence of a delay caused by UKI in relation to the claim reported to it in 
February 2022. 
This service can only look at what happened up until UKI issued its response to Ms Ds 
complaint in July 2022. This is what Ive done with the available information. If Ms D is 
unhappy with the way UKI has dealt with the claim(s) after this date, she will need to raise a 
new complaint with UKI. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms D to accept or 
reject my decision before 21 December 2022.
 
Geraldine Newbold
Ombudsman