DRN-3728611
The complaint
Ms C and Mr B complain that Capital Professional Limited, trading as Ascot Lloyd, charged 
them ongoing adviser fees when they received little service from it in relation to their 
self-investment personal pension (SIPP) and investments. 
As Ms C has been corresponding with us about this matter, I will largely refer to her 
throughout for ease of reference.
What happened
As the dates and events are well known to both parties, I only intend to set out those I think 
are key to reaching my decision. 
In April 2020, Ascot Lloyd acquired the firm that Ms C and Mr B received ongoing advice 
from and paid an ongoing adviser fee of 0.5% to from their pension and investment 
portfolios. As part of this acquisition their portfolios were transferred to Ascot Lloyd. It went 
on to send them a welcome letter and then started to receive the ongoing adviser fees in 
June 2020. 
On 4 September 2020, Ascot Lloyd first spoke to Ms C. The notes say she was keen to 
catch up properly and that she may have further money to invest in her pension.  
On or around 9 September 2020, Ms C and Mr B completed risk profile reports at Ascot 
Lloyds request and had a meeting with it to discuss how they wanted it to look after matters 
for them going forwards. The notes say that they discussed that Ms C had cash in her SIPP 
that needed investing, she wanted to make a new further investment into this and that she 
was disappointed the value of their portfolio was 20% less than anticipated. Ascot Lloyd 
explained the ongoing adviser fee would remain the same and that it would charge 1% for 
new money invested. And the notes say they agreed to meet again in October 2020 for a 
review once Ascot Lloyd had obtained more information.  
In the meantime, on 22 September 2020, Ms C emailed Ascot Lloyd with questions that she 
said it would be useful to pose in advance of their next meeting, including about their 
pension and further funds they might have to invest, asking for its recommendations on this. 
On 8 October 2020, after Ascot Lloyd obtained further information, it met with Ms C as 
planned. It then followed this up by email later that day with a breakdown of their SIPP and 
investments. And it confirmed theyd arrange a follow up, but that the adviser would be on 
annual leave for a week.  
Ascot Lloyd went on to carry out research internally, concluded at the end of October 2020. 
And, in 27 November 2020, Ms C and Ascot Lloyd exchanged emails to organise a meeting. 
On 18 December 2020 though, Ms C emailed Ascot Lloyd confirming theyd decided to move 
with immediate effect to a new adviser, who it should expect to hear from shortly. 
A few weeks later, Ascot Lloyd had a follow up call with Ms C, where the notes say theyd 
made their minds up but confirmed when asked that they were happy for Ascot Lloyd to 
remain as their adviser until everything moved over to their new one, after it explained some 
transactions may need to be done as their provider is an adviser only platform. 
At the end of March 2021, Ms C and Mr Bs platform provider contacted Ascot Lloyd asking it 
to encash investments for them, which it went on to do and was in correspondence with the 
provider about across April 2021. The provider also confirmed to Ascot Lloyd when transfers 
were complete. And, in or around August 2021, it seemingly confirmed to Ascot Lloyd that 
Ms C and Mr Bs accounts with it were settled.
In January 2022, Ms C and Mr B complained to Ascot Lloyd that they hadnt received any 
service from it since taking over their previous adviser. They said it hadnt carried out any 
financial reviews or given them advice and that they have a new financial adviser, so theyd 
like a refund of its ongoing adviser fees.
Ascot Lloyd sent Ms C and Mr B its final response letter. It didnt agree it hadnt provided a 
service. It also said it didnt receive any contact from Ms Cs new adviser, who was 
responsible for contacting the platform provider to become the servicing agent. And that it 
continued to receive encashment requests, which it completed on their behalf. 
Unhappy with this response, Ms C and Mr B brought their complaint to our Service adding, in 
summary, that while they were given notice Ascot Lloyd was taking over they didnt agree to 
this as they didnt sign an agreement with it. And that they hadnt received any contact from 
it five months later, so Ms C had to contact it. Ms C said Ascot Lloyd then couldnt provide a 
list of assets and the suggested a valuation much lower than expected, which it took another 
month to get information on. Ms C said Ascot Lloyd didnt give them advice on the additional 
funds she wanted to invest or in response to her questions. And that this caused her stress, 
as shes only a few years from retirement. 
Ascot Lloyd added that it did full pre-meeting research and discussed this with Ms C with a 
view to recommending changes. And that it did everything it could to help Ms C and Mr B 
move away from their platform provider, as it remained the servicing adviser. 
One of our Investigators looked into it and said Ascot Lloyd provided Ms C and Mr B with a 
service, speaking with Ms C several times and carrying out research. She said it took a bit 
longer to confirm their investments because of the SIPP provider, which was outside its 
control and it tried to set their expectations about. And that Ascot Lloyd continued to act as 
their adviser in relation to encashment requests from their platform provider. So she said the 
ongoing adviser fees charged were a fair reflection of the service it had provided. 
Ms C and Mr B didnt agree adding, in summary, that they didnt agree to pay Ascot Lloyd an 
ongoing adviser fee from their portfolios. And that they asked Ascot Lloyd at the initial 
meeting to research and confirm what their assets were, rather than asking it to carry out a 
full financial review. Ms C also said they started paying their new adviser as soon as she told 
Ascot Lloyd they didnt want to continue with it, which means theyve paid double the adviser 
charges merely to try to return to the point they were at before Ascot Lloyd took over. 
So the complaints been passed to me for a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im not upholding Ms C and Mr Bs complaint, for largely the same reasons 
as our Investigator. Ill explain why. Ms C doesnt dispute that she received notice from Ascot Lloyd that it had taken over and, 
while I havent got a copy of this, Ive seen a sample which I think likely contains similar, if 
not the same, information. This clearly confirms Ascot Lloyd was acquiring Ms Cs previous 
adviser and that there will be no change to the existing ongoing adviser fees, which I can 
see it went on to remind her of during meetings. So, while I appreciate Ms C and Mr B didnt 
sign an agreement directly with Ascot Lloyd, it was open to her to end the relationship when 
she was made aware it had taken over the servicing of her pension if she wasnt happy with 
this. But evidence shows she instead went on to ask for Ascot Lloyds recommendations.  
I recognise Ms C also feels Ascot Lloyd ought to refund its fees, as she says it then didnt try 
to contact her or do anything for several months. But system evidence, which I think its fair 
to place weight on, shows that Ascot Lloyd made what I think were reasonable attempts to 
contact Ms C and Mr B by phone on 30 June 2020 and 7 July 2020, before she then got in 
touch with it on 4 September 2020. And Ms C could have tried to contact it sooner if she was 
eager to move things forward. 
From the notes made at the time of Ms Cs meeting with Ascot Lloyd on 9 September 2020, 
I can see it provided her with information about Ms C and Mr Bs pension and investments 
and discussed their wants and needs. And that Ms C confirmed she wanted it to carry out a 
full financial review. I appreciate Ms Cs unhappy as she says Ascot Lloyd gave her a lower 
valuation than anticipated, and with the time it then took to gather up to date information she 
feels it should have obtained in advance. But I think it was reasonable for Ascot Lloyd to 
want to speak with Ms C and Mr B first to discuss how they wanted to proceed with it and to 
help direct what information it needed to obtain and why. For example, whether they wanted 
a full review or had more specific queries. 
In advance of the meeting on 8 October 2020, I can see that Ascot Lloyd reviewed the 
performance of Ms C and Mr Bs investments and then discussed this with Ms C, as well as 
the pros and cons of investing their additional funds in either property or their pension. 
Ascot Lloyd also reasonably explained it was struggling to get up to date valuations for a few 
of their investments due to the uncertain status of these, and because the SIPP provider 
only valued these annually in December. It discussed with Ms C what she might be able to 
do as it seemed some of her investments were valued at £1 or in liquidation, which I think is 
the likely explanation as to why the value it told her about during their first meeting might be 
lower than shed anticipated. And Ascot Lloyd still provided the most recent valuations, as 
well as up to date information about Mr C and Mr Bs other investments. So I think its fair to 
say Ascot Lloyd provided them with a service.
I can see that Ascot Lloyd carried out further work during October 2020, including further 
research into their investments and the projected return in light of the risk level, as well as 
raising further queries with their platform provider. And I think Ms C was aware this is what it 
was doing during this time, given I can see it had detailed discussions with her about next 
steps on 8 October 2020 where the meeting notes say she gave it the ok to proceed and 
agreed it would contact her once the research was done. 
While the next correspondence Ive been provided with between Ascot Lloyd and Ms C 
wasnt until 27 November 2020, the emails suggest there had been other contact in between 
as Ms C mentions already being aware of the advisers upcoming time off. And, in any case, 
I havent seen anything to suggest Ms C otherwise attempted to move matters along, in the 
way Id have reasonably expected if she was concerned about retirement. 
Turning to whether or not it was fair for Ascot Lloyd to continue to charge ongoing adviser 
fees after Ms C emailed it on 18 December 2020 explaining they were moving to a new 
adviser, the system notes from a follow up call it had with her dated 5 January 2022  which I think is likely to be an error and took place in 2021 given the timeline of events  show she 
confirmed she wanted it to continue as their adviser until theyd moved over to their new one, 
after it explained some platforms are adviser only. I havent seen anything to suggest Ascot 
Lloyd heard from Ms C again to say otherwise or that it received any contact in the way it 
was led to expect it would when the new adviser had taken over. And Ascot Lloyd did go on 
to receive requests to sell down assets from Ms C and Mr Bs platform provider, which it did 
on their behalf in April 2021, as well as confirmation of other completed transfers. So I think 
Ascot Lloyd continued to do work for Ms C and Mr B, and only stopped charging its ongoing 
adviser fee soon after theyd moved away from the adviser only platform. 
I recognise Ms C and Mr B will be disappointed, particularly as there was a crossover during 
which they paid fees to two advisers. But, for the reasons given above, I think Ascot Lloyd 
acted fairly and reasonably in the circumstances overall. So Im not asking it to do anything 
to put things right. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given, my final decision is Im not upholding Ms C and Mr Bs complaint 
against Capital Professional Limited, trading as Ascot Lloyd.  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B and Ms C to 
accept or reject my decision before 14 July 2023.
 
Holly Jackson
Ombudsman