DRN-1138081
 
The complaint
Mr O is unhappy with his insurers QIC Europe Limited (QIC), who have declined his claim for 
storm damage to his roof under his building insurance.  Mr O would like QIC to settle his 
claim.  
What happened
In March 2019, Mr O made a claim for storm damage to his roof, following a named storm 
called Gareth close to where he lives.  Mr O noted that there were missing roof tiles and 
damage to the roofing felt and reported the matter to QIC a few weeks after the event.  QIC 
sent out a surveyor to inspect the damage.  The surveyor wrote a report which stated that 
the damage caused to the roof was as a result of wear and tear and not a storm.  The 
surveyor stated that the mortar had deteriorated and as a result, caused the roof tiles to fail.  
The high winds that happened around the event, only caused to highlight the problem.  
Further, the weather at the time could not be classed as a storm.  The surveyor 
recommended that the claim was declined as Mr Os policy did not cover it. QIC followed the 
surveyors recommendations and declined the claim.  
 
Mr O was not happy that the claim was declined and instructed his own surveyor to inspect 
the roof.  His surveyor also wrote a report.  In the report he mentioned the mortar had 
deteriorated and the tiles and felt were damaged.  He did not mention whether the damage 
was caused by a storm.  Mr O also informed QIC that he had carried out repairs to the roof 
about 6 years earlier.  QIC did not change their decision and Mr O brought the complaint to 
the service.  One of our investigators looked into the complaint and concluded that QIC had 
not acted unfairly as the damage to the roof was caused on the basis of wear and tear.  So 
QIC could reasonably decline the claim.  Mr O was not happy and the complaint came to 
me.   
 
 
 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
 
 I have considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of the complaint.  Having done so, I will be not upholding 
this complaint.  I will now give my reasons why.
 
I have to consider the evidence QIC relied upon as well as the evidence of Mr O before 
arriving at what is fair and reasonable in the circumstances.   In order for me to assess what 
amounts to a fair determination, I will apply the services criteria when considering what 
amounts to a storm.  I will also look at Mr Os accidental damage cover and whether QIC 
could have applied this to his claim.  As well as identifying the damage caused.  
 
Mr O describes having seen damage to his roof by some tiles that had become dislodged 
and missing.  As well as damage to the felt, following a named storm,  which had passed 
through the area.  Mr O contacted his insurers QIC and made a claim.  That claim was 
declined on the basis of wear and tear and that QIC stated that there was no storm event.  
There are 3 tests we take into consideration when determining whether an event can be 
classed as a storm.  These are: 
 
1. Do we agree that storm conditions occurred on or around the date the damage is 
said to have happened.
2. Is the damage claimed for consistent with damage a storm typically causes?
3. Were the storm conditions the main cause of damage?
 
If all answers to the above tests are yes, then a claim should succeed.  If any of the answers 
are no then a claim can be declined.  
 
I have looked at the weather reports for the date of the storm event.  Those reports have 
indicated that the wind speed on the day of the event reached 42 MPH and the rain fall over 
the 24 hour period was 16.6mm.  Although Mr O has suggested that the measurements 
were taken at points too far from his home to fairly reflect the weather conditions that he 
experienced, overall my view is that it is reasonablel to place weight on the values provided 
by these weather reports. 
 
 In order for a weather event to be classed as a storm this service generally considers that 
there will have been violent winds, often accompanied by rain.  In fairness to both Mr O and 
QIC, I have also examined the 4 months prior to the event and during that period there were 
no significant winds or rainfall that in my view could amount to a storm. As this first test fails, 
there is little merit in assessing the two other tests.  I can not find that QIC acted unfairly and 
they can decline the claim on the basis that there was no storm event present.   
 
Despite there not being a storm, I have to assess whether QIC acted unfairly towards Mr O 
under the accidental damage element of his policy. The policy defines accidental damage 
as:  
Sudden, unexpected and physical damage which
(I) happens at a specific time, and
(II) was not deliberate, and
(III) was caused by something external
 
It can be argued that this event was sudden, unexpected and caused damage.  But, there 
are additional exclusions to this on the basis of wear and tear.  In that gradual damage to 
property on the basis of wear, tear and age is excluded.   Mr O stated that he had carried out 
repairs to the roof around 6 years earlier and so the roof was not in a poor condition before 
the event. 
 
I have seen two reports one from QICs surveyor and the other from a surveyor instructed by 
Mr O.  What is of note is that both reports document that there was gradual damage to the 
mortar  which led to some of the roof tiles becoming loose and damage to the roofing felt.  
 The surveyor instructed by Mr O went further in giving reasons why the roof tiles slipped.  
He concluded that the slippage on the tiles appeared to have been caused by poor fixing 
which had been dislodged by high winds. 
 
Given that both reports identify a number of reasons to satisfy wear and tear, I can see why 
QIC came to the conclusion that wear and tear applied and I am satisfied that they acted 
fairly in declining Mr Os claim.  In the circumstances as both reports indicate that wear and 
tear were the reason for the damage caused, I can not see how QIC acted unfairly or 
unreasonably towards Mr O, by declining his claim.   I am afraid that overall my view is that I 
cannot ask QIC to do anymore.   
 
 
 
My final decision
 
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr O to accept or 
reject my decision before 25 April 2020.
Ayisha Savage
Ombudsman