DRN-4070641
The complaint
Miss J is unhappy with how Skyfire Insurance Company Limited handled a claim she made 
on her car insurance policy.
What happened
Miss J had an accident and her car sustained some damage. In summary, shes unhappy 
that the repairs took so long and with the service she received. She complained to Skyfire 
who apologised for the delays. Unhappy, Miss J complained to the Financial Ombudsman 
Service. 
Before our investigator issued his opinion Skyfire offered Miss J £250 compensation and 
£130 for the time she was without a car. Miss J didnt accept this. Our investigator looked 
into what had happened and thought the offer was fair in the circumstances. 
Miss J asked an ombudsman to review her complaint. She accepted £130 for the loss of use 
was fair for the days she didnt have a car. But she explained that she didnt know the 
named driver could drive the hire car, which caused her inconvenience. She said she was 
concerned with the length of time she had to have a hire care, no urgency was given to the 
repairs and she wasnt given updates. Finally, Miss J is unhappy that she had to pay for a 
new car battery. So, I need to make a decision.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The relevant rules and industry guidelines say that Skyfire has a responsibility to handle 
claims promptly and fairly. 
Theres no dispute that the claim wasnt handled as it should have been. Its clear Miss J 
received poor service and that she experienced distress and inconvenience as a result. Ill 
focus on the key remaining disputes in dispute and whether the compensation offered is fair. 
Im upholding Miss Js complaint. But I think the £130 for loss of use and £250 compensation 
offered is fair and reasonable because: 
Miss J had access to a hire car for the majority of the time she was without her own 
car. The £130 acknowledges the period of time that she didnt have one.
Unfortunately, the documentation from the car hire company didnt make it clear the 
named driver wasnt covered because his name wasnt passed on by the insurer. 
Miss J explained that with a small baby this caused inconvenience. She confirmed 
she didnt query this with Skyfire and so they werent able to do anything to help. But 
I think that inconvenience is fairly reflected in Skyfires offer. 
I appreciate that Miss J was without her own car for a long time. I accept what shes 
said about there being a lack of urgency and compassion. She had to repeatedly 
chase for updates and there were errors when logging, and dealing with, the claim. 
However, as Ive outlined above, she did have access to a car. And, I think the £250 
offered is fair for the poor service she received. 
I appreciate that Miss J had to replace the battery, at significant cost to herself. This 
was on the instruction of the garage. As Miss J acknowledged this wasnt something 
she discussed with Skyfire at the time before going ahead with the purchase and 
replacement. And theres no compelling evidence which explains why the battery had 
to be replaced. So, based on the evidence thats available, I dont think its fair and 
reasonable for me to direct Skyfire to cover the cost of the battery. However, if Miss J 
is able to obtain more information from the garage about this issue, Id expect Skyfire 
to consider it in line with the policy terms. 
My final decision
Im upholding Miss Js complaint and direct Skyfire Insurance Company Limited to put things 
right by paying her £130 for the loss of use of her car and £250 compensation for the 
distress and inconvenience caused by delays and poor service.  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss J to accept or 
reject my decision before 10 August 2023.
 
Anna Wilshaw
Ombudsman