DRN-2843267
The complaint
Mr L is unhappy that PayPal Europe Sarl & Cie, SCA, forced him to accept an item back 
from a buyer on the basis that the item was significantly not as described when Mr L 
contends that the item was exactly as described.  
What happened
Mr L sold a laptop online and received payment via PayPal. When Mr L sold the laptop, he 
explained in the online sales advert that there was an intermittent fault with the laptop in that 
the screen flickered, and Mr L offered to provide a video to potential buyers to demonstrate 
this.
Following the sale, the buyer of the laptop raised a dispute with PayPal on the basis that the 
item sold was significantly not as described. PayPal found in the buyers favour and 
reimbursed the buyer from Mr Ls account. Mr L wasnt happy about this, especially given 
that when the laptop was received back it wasnt in the same condition that it had been sent, 
including that the screws in the back of the laptop had been tampered with. So, he made a 
complaint.
PayPal looked at Mr Ls complaint, but they felt that they had processed the buyers dispute 
correctly, so they didnt uphold the complaint. Mr L wasnt satisfied with PayPals response, 
so he referred his complaint to this service. 
One of our investigators looked at this complaint. They felt that Mr L had been clear and 
transparent in his description of the laptop in the sales listing such that it wasnt the case that 
the laptop was significantly not as described. Our investigator felt that Mr L shouldnt have 
been compelled to reimburse the buyer and receive the laptop back, especially given that 
the laptop wasnt returned to him in the same condition as it had been sent. 
So, our investigator recommended that the complaint be upheld in Mr Ls favour and that 
PayPal should make a payment of £100 to Mr L to compensate him for the upset and 
inconvenience hed incurred.
PayPal didnt agree with the recommendation put forward by our investigator, so the matter 
was escalated to an ombudsman for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The buyer of the laptop supplied the following information when claiming a refund for the 
laptop from PayPal on the basis that the laptop was significantly not as described:
 we have noticed that there is a display fault that causes the screen to flicker when 
its been on for over 1hr (approx.). This item is faulty, and this was not described in 
the listing where it was sold as fully working.
Ive also reviewed the online advert posted by Mr L when the laptop was sold, which states 
as follows:
PLEASE READ CAREFULLY TO AVOID MISUNDERSTANDING!

There is an issue where the screen is flickering occasionally, but only on some apps 
on full screen mode. Noticed on MS Word and Internet Browsers, YouTube etc.

Happy to send video so you can see the flickering as I dont want any 
misunderstanding  
Based on the above, it seems clear that Mr L did describe the screen flickering in the online 
sales advert that the buyer refers to when asking PayPal to recover the money that they paid 
for the laptop.
PayPals own website explains that PayPal consider an item significantly not as described 
if:
The item is materially different from the sellers description of it
A completely different item is received
The condition of the item was misrepresented. For example, the item was described 
as new, but the item was used. 
But its clear that none of the criteria listed above apply in this instance. Indeed, given that 
Mr L clearly explained in the sales advert that the screen flickered in certain circumstances, 
its difficult not to draw any conclusion other than that the laptop was sold exactly as 
described.
So, it doesnt feel fair to me that PayPal would have compelled Mr L to accept the return of 
the item on the basis that it was significantly not as described when the item was in fact 
sold exactly as described. 
And this sense of unfairness is compounded by the fact that when Mr L received the laptop 
back from the buyer the charging cable was different and the screws on the back of the 
laptop had been tampered with, suggesting that the buyer had gained, or attempted to gain, 
access to the laptops inner components.
It follows then that Ill be upholding this complaint in Mr Ls favour and instructing PayPal to 
make a payment of £100 to Mr L to compensate him for trouble and inconvenience hes 
incurred here.
Putting things right
PayPal must make a payment of £100 to compensate him for the trouble and upset he has 
incurred.  
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint against PayPal Europe Sarl & Cie, SCA, on the basis explained above.  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr L to accept or 
reject my decision before 30 June 2021.
 
Paul Cooper
Ombudsman