DRN-3544272
The complaint
Mr M is unhappy as to how Liverpool Victoria Insurance Company Limited (LV) has settled a 
third-party claim under his car insurance policy. 
What happened
Mr M has a car insurance policy with LV. 
In November 2021 Mr M was in a car accident with a third-party. Mr W was reversing out of 
a parking space whilst a third-party was also manoeuvring, and there was an impact 
between the two vehicles.
LV settled the third-party claim. They said, based on their experience of these types of 
accident, they would be unlikely to be able to defend the claim if it went to court, so they 
settled it. 
Mr M disagreed with LVs decision and approached this service. He said he wanted this 
service to decide who was responsible for the accident.
Our investigator said it wasnt the role of this service to decide who was responsible for an 
accident. Instead, she said wed consider how the insurer reached their decision, and if that 
was reasonable. She asked LV to obtain a legal opinion on the accident. 
Following this, LV agreed to record the claim internally and externally as split liability, rather 
than solely Mr Ms fault. 
Mr M didnt agree. He maintained the third party was responsible for the accident, and he 
asked for a final decision from an ombudsman.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As explained to Mr M by our investigator, the role of this service isnt to decide who is 
responsible for an accident. That is the role of the courts. Instead we consider whether the 
insurer has conducted a reasonable investigation and reached a reasonable conclusion 
based on the information they had.
The policy terms allow LV to decide whether to defend or settle claims more generally. And 
wed expect them to take into account all the evidence before doing so, and whether the 
evidence supported that position.
LV said that based on their experience, theyd be unlikely to be able to defend a claim for 
this type of accident in court. So, they settled it with the third party. And LV settled it on a 
without prejudice basis, which means Mr M may be able to pursue the claim, at his own cost, 
if he chooses to do so. 
When our investigator looked into things, she asked LV to obtain a legal opinion on the claim 
and the likely outcome. LV did this. The conclusion was that at best it would be split liability. 
Following this, LV agreed to update records internally and externally that it was split liability.
But LV also said the effect of this on Mr Ms policy would be the same, as they have been 
unable to recover all costs from the third party.
As outlined, its not my role to decide who was responsible for the accident. LV has updated 
internal and external records to record the outcome of the claim as split liability, based on 
legal advice. And I think the conclusions they have reached, based on this advice, are fair 
and reasonable. So, whilst I recognise itll disappoint Mr M, Im not going to ask them to do 
any more.
My final decision
Its my final decision that Im not directing Liverpool Victoria Insurance Company Limited to 
do anything further.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 15 August 2022.
 
Callum Milne
Ombudsman