DRN-4028202
The complaint
Mr M has complained about Towergate Financial (West) Limited, trading as and referred to 
from hereon as Towergate. His complaint is about their role in his Elysian investments in 
2013 and again in 2014, and related transactions.
What happened
I issued my provisional decision in February 2023. I explained I did not intend to uphold the 
complaint. 
In summary, in early 2013 Towergate advised and facilitated Mr M to make a pension 
investment in an unregulated scheme, Elysian (promoted by Future Capital Partners). This 
investment appears to have been arranged through a purchase of shares, funded mainly 
through a loan facility, along with a capital contribution of £10,500 to gain a partnership 
interest in the associated Elysian LLP. 
The shares were then sold to Mr Ms self-invested personal pension (SIPP), a transaction 
which was funded through a transfer of benefits from his four occupational pensions to his 
SIPP. Mr M then received the value of the shares. There was no requirement for Mr M to 
repay the loan, as returns from the partnership were intended to repay the loan facility.
In 2014, Towergate facilitated a further set of similar transactions for Mr M in relation to the 
latest iteration of Elysian, (again, promoted by Future Capital Partners). On this occasion, Mr 
M was treated as an elective professional client.
On 16 July 2019, Mr Ms representative attempted to raise a complaint on Mr Ms behalf. 
Towergate did not recognise this communication as a formal complaint and responded 
saying Mr Ms investments had already been considered under Skilled Person Review in 
2016, and invited Mr Ms representative to highlight any specific complaint points they may 
wish to raise. Following a break in communication, in July 2020 Mr Ms representative wrote 
to Towergate again.
Towergate recognised the July 2020 communication as a complaint, but responded saying it 
had been brought too late. The complaint was then brought to this Service. Following several 
discussion points back and forth, our Investigator found that the element of the complaint 
relating to the 2013 advice was out of time. In relation to the events of 2014, our Investigator 
said that Mr M was categorised as a professional client by that point and, therefore, was an 
ineligible complainant. As such, our Investigator found Mr Ms complaint did not fall within 
our jurisdiction.
As the parties couldnt reach an agreement, the matter was referred to me. I issued a 
provisional decision saying that the element of Mr Ms complaint relating to Towergates 
advice in 2013 was out of time and this Service could not consider it. However, I found that 
part of the complaint relating to the events of 2014 had been brought in time, and that Mr M 
was an eligible complainant  so I said that this element of Mr Ms complaint did fall within 
our jurisdiction.
This being the case, I went on to consider the merits of Mr Ms complaint in relation to the 
events of 2014 only. I provisionally found that, although in my view Mr M was wrongly 
categorised as an elective professional client at the time, even if he had been treated as a 
retail client and had also been advised against proceeding with the investment and 
associated transactions in 2014, Mr M most likely wouldve gone ahead anyway. As such, I 
was minded to conclude that Mr M had suffered no detriment and that, therefore, there was 
nothing for the business to do to put things right.
Towergate has not made any further comments or submissions regarding my provisional 
decision. Mr Ms representative has accepted my provisional findings that the element of the 
complaint relating to the advice in 2013 has been brought too late for this Service to consider 
it. However, Mr Ms representative has not accepted my provisional findings in relation to the 
events of 2014, and has made a number of further comments, as discussed below.
Mr Ms representative has argued that the correspondence of April 2013 that I have referred 
to in my provisional decision, should be viewed as merely blanket correspondence that 
Towergate were required to send out, and that its content was superseded by reassurances 
from the advisor. 
I disagree. The correspondence in question is an email from Towergate in respect of Mr Ms 
first Elysian investment and associated transactions, an extract of which read Whilst this 
does not constitute Pension Unlocking, if HMRC were to challenge this, you could face an 
Unauthorised Payment Tax Charge, although this is highly unlikely Despite the highly 
unlikely qualification, and even with additional reassurances from his financial adviser, this 
email shouldve been sufficient to alert Mr M (were he not already aware) that what he was 
doing did not come with any guarantees with regard to HMRC attention or future charges. As 
I have said in my provisional decision, even if a lay person mightve missed the significance 
of such a warning, in my view a sophisticated investor such as Mr M would not.
To sum up, I am not persuaded that Mr M was unaware of, or underinformed about, any 
aspect of the transactions that took place in 2014. In my view, he knew about the risks  
including the possibility (however unlikely he may have hoped and believed it was) of 
incurring a future charge from HMRC - and was not dissuaded by them. I dont think that 
there is anything that a full analysis and advice process by Towergate couldve revealed to 
Mr M that he didnt already know when he decided to proceed with the transfer. 
Mr Ms representative has also said that, although Mr M is not disputing that he was an 
experienced investor at the time the events took place, his primary concern was to avoid at 
all costs investing in anything that was not operating within the constraints of the law and 
specifically HMRC regulations, and that this was made clear at the time to his financial 
adviser.  
Mr Ms representative has gone on to point out that the adviser was a close personal friend 
of Mr Ms, and has said that Mr M trusted him entirely to steer him on the right path and 
comply with his strict requirements to not allow him to invest in any product that could 
possibly result in HMRC liabilities. Furthermore, Mr Ms representative has said they have 
spoken directly to the adviser, and that he himself has stated that at the time of making the 
recommendation he did not believe that there would be any issues from a tax perspective 
with the investment.
I do not find it difficult to believe that at the time events took place in 2014 Mr M and his 
financial adviser both shared the same hope, and even the same misplaced belief, that there 
would be no interest from HMRC regarding the investment at that time or in future. But I am 
not persuaded that Mr M was naively led by his friend down a path that  for the want of 
financial advice to the contrary  he would never have taken.This is the crux of the matter. In my view, Mr Ms skills and experience as an investor  and 
his confidence in his own skills and experience as an investor  mean he most likely 
wouldve gone ahead anyway, regardless of any financial advice or warnings he mightve or 
shouldve been given the time. 
I do not make this finding lightly, but instead based on what I consider to be a weight of 
evidence. Mr M had a known history of making high-risk speculative investments (I note his 
representatives clarification about the earlier golf course investment, but this point still 
stands), and of disregarding warnings and financial advice to the contrary. The more so 
when motivated by pressing short-term financial needs, which appear to have still been a 
factor in the lead up to the 2014 investment. 
Furthermore, whether or not he shouldve been accepted as such, Mr M applied to be 
considered as an elective professional client and opted to operate on this basis at the time 
the 2014 investment and surrounding transactions took place. This clearly demonstrates that 
he believed himself to be fully capable of proceeding without financial advice, and  in fact  
preferred to do so. (I have dealt with the matter of Mr Ms elective client status in my 
provisional decision in some detail and do not intend to revisit the arguments here, but 
suffice it to say that in my view Mr M was wrongly deemed to qualify as an elective 
professional client, albeit on a technical point rather than because of any deficit in his 
investment expertise).
In summary, I think that whatever Mr M had been told by the financial adviser  whether in 
the capacity of adviser or friend  he wouldve still gone ahead. 
Furthermore, as I explained in my provisional decision, had Towergate not incorrectly re-
categorised Mr M as an elective professional client in 2013, I think Mr M wouldve most likely 
successfully reapplied for re-categorisation once the 2013 transactions were complete. This 
re-categorisation wouldve therefore been in time to cover the only elements of this 
complaint - the 2014 Elysian investment and associated transactions - that fall under this 
Services jurisdiction to consider. As such, Towergates treatment of Mr M as an elective 
professional client in respect of the 2014 investment cannot be said to have caused him any 
detriment. 
However, even had Mr M been refused categorisation as an elective professional client in 
2013 and not subsequently reapplied, and even had Towergate clearly and formally advised 
him as a retail client not to proceed with the Elysian 2014 investment and associated 
transactions, in my view Mr M wouldve likely gone ahead anyway. 
In either case, ultimately Mr M would be in no different situation now.
Neither party has made any further comments or submissions, and the deadline for 
responses has now passed.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The deadline for further submissions has now passed. Having reconsidered the complaint 
again in its entirety, along with the additional comments that have been provided by Mr Ms 
representative, I have reached the same decision as before, and for the same reasons.My final decision
Im not upholding this complaint or making any award against the Towergate Financial 
(West) Limited.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 13 April 2023.
 
Ellie Clare
Ombudsman
