DRN-2693599
The complaint
Mr R complains that BMW Financial Services(GB) Limited trading as Alphera Financial 
Services have unfairly terminated a hire purchase agreement.
  
What happened
In March 2018, Mr R acquired a used car using a hire purchase agreement from Alphera. 
The cash price of the car was £59,995. A deposit of £6,000 was paid and the rest was 
financed by the hire purchase agreement. The total repayable, excluding the deposit, was 
around £66,000. Mr R was required to make 47 monthly repayments of around £870 
followed by a final optional payment of around £25,000.
In around June 2019, Alphera says it was told by a third party that Mr R was hiring the car to 
someone else, which was a breach of the terms of the hire purchase agreement. It contacted 
Mr R for some further information, including copies of Mr Rs bank statements. Alphera said 
this showed a third party was paying Mr R for the agreement and that he had admitted he 
had taken out the finance for his friend. In July 2019, Alphera told Mr R it would be 
terminating the hire purchase agreement due to him breaching the terms of the agreement. It 
told Mr R that he needed to pay the outstanding balance or it would register a default with 
credit reference agencies.
Mr R said that the agreement was taken out in his name but his friend (who Ill call Mr I) was 
the one that would be driving the car and paying for the finance. He said that the dealership 
that arranged the finance was aware of this because Mr I had originally applied for finance in 
his name but had been declined. Mr R said it was the dealership that suggested somebody 
else takes out the finance instead.
Alphera said there was no evidence to suggest the dealership was aware of this 
arrangement. It said it had spoken to the dealership who said it wasnt aware that Mr R was 
taking out the agreement for Mr I. As Mr R didnt repay the outstanding balance, Alphera 
recorded a default on his credit file. 
I sent Mr R and Alphera my provisional decision on 15 February 2021. I explained why 
I thought the complaint should be upheld. I said:
It isnt in dispute that Mr R took out the hire purchase agreement for someone else and that 
this is a breach of the terms of the agreement. However, Im persuaded he wasnt aware of 
the implications of him doing so, and that he only entered into the agreement on the basis 
that he genuinely thought it was ok for him to do so.
I say this because Im satisfied, on balance, that its more likely than not the dealership was 
aware of the arrangement. It therefore ought to have either indicated to Mr R that this was a 
breach of the agreement terms or notified the broker or Alphera of the arrangement. 
Alphera says theres no evidence that the dealership or broker knew about the arrangement, 
but I disagree. Ill explain why.
Mr Rs explanation of what happened has been both consistent and plausible. And the wider 
circumstances and available evidence support what he says happened. He says that Mr I 
had attempted to take out finance himself initially and it was only when he was declined did 
the dealership suggest that Mr I gets a friend or relative to take it out for him. Ive seen a 
sales invoice the dealership put together for the exact same car but in Mr Is name. Mr I has 
also provided us evidence to demonstrate a credit check was carried out on him on the day.
So, Im satisfied Mr I did attempt to acquire the same car initially and was declined. This 
doesnt of course demonstrate the dealership suggested Mr I gets someone else to take out 
the agreement or that it knew about the arrangement. However, the invoice in Mr Is name 
was dated the same day as when the first part of the deposit for Mr Rs agreement was paid. 
Further, when Alphera asked the dealership about its recollection of the sale it said that the 
deposit was paid in several different transactions. It said some of it was paid over the phone 
and the rest was paid in person three days later at the time Mr R signed for the agreement. It 
said the same card was used for these payments.
Ive seen evidence to show the card that was used to make these payments belonged to 
Mr I. Clearly, Mr I must have therefore been present with Mr R when he signed for the 
finance and during the initial sales negotiations, which happened the same day Mr I 
attempted to acquire the car for himself. Given the dealership was aware Mr I had attempted 
to acquire the exact car Mr R was now entering into an agreement for and that Mr I was the 
one paying the deposit, it ought to have realised it was likely the agreement wasnt being 
taken out for Mr Rs benefit. The dealership doesnt appear to have told Mr R that this would 
be a breach of the credit agreement and I think it ought to have told him so. I therefore dont 
think Mr R knowingly or deliberately intended to breach the terms of the credit agreement.
I therefore have to consider whether I think Alphera knew, or ought to have known about the 
arrangement between Mr R and Mr I. Alphera says the dealership is a different legal entity to 
the credit broker that arranged the finance agreement. Alphera has said the credit broker, 
which was its agent, didnt know about the arrangement between Mr R and Mr I. Im inclined 
to agree that is likely to be the case. I havent seen anything to indicate the broker knew 
about it, even though Im persuaded the dealership likely did.
Ive considered the steps Alphera took as part of the application for the finance to 
understand whether it ought to have realised Mr R was taking out the agreement for Mr Is 
benefit.
The credit agreement was a significant financial commitment. The total repayable, excluding 
the deposit was around £66,000 with monthly repayments of around £870. Before lending, 
Alphera were required to carry out a reasonable and proportionate check on whether Mr R 
could sustainably afford to repay this credit.
Its not clear exactly what checks it completed, however, it doesnt appear it took steps to try 
and verify what Mr Rs income was or ask him anything about his committed expenditure. 
Given the size of the commitment I think it ought to have taken these steps. For this reason, 
I dont think it carried out adequate checks to ensure the agreement was affordable to Mr R. 
Ive therefore thought about what it would likely have discovered had it carried out adequate 
checks.
As part of Alpheras internal investigation into whether Mr R had taken out the agreement for 
someone else, it asked Mr R to supply a copy of a payslip and his bank statement. The 
payslip and bank statements show Mr R was earning a salary of around £1,800 - £2,000 per 
month. It shows his mortgage commitment was £1,000 per month. As the hire purchase agreement required payments of £870 per month, Mr R clearly couldnt afford the 
agreement. Alphera has accepted the same in some of the internal emails Ive seen.
I think Mr Rs mortgage commitment would likely have shown in any credit check Alphera 
may have carried out during the application process. It appears Mr R had at least one other 
existing credit commitment on top of this which would likely have been visible to Alphera too. 
So had Alphera attempted to verify Mr Rs income at the point of application  which I think it 
should have  then it would have discovered the agreement was unaffordable to him.
This means had Alphera completed reasonable and proportionate affordability checks as 
part of the credit application it would have likely reached one of two possible conclusions:
1. The agreement was unaffordable to Mr R and therefore it shouldnt lend to
him.
2. It would have asked Mr R how he could afford the repayments given his
 financial circumstances. This line of questioning would likely have revealed
 someone else would be paying for the car and its ongoing costs and
 maintenance (such as the insurance) and that the car would be used by
 someone other than Mr R.
It follows that had Alphera conducted adequate checks before lending it would most likely 
have declined the finance either because it would have realised Mr R couldnt afford it, or 
that it would have realised it was being taken out for someone elses benefit.
As I dont think Alphera ought to have approved the agreement for Mr R, it now needs to put 
things right.
It should therefore arrange to end the finance agreement with nothing further to pay and 
collect the car at no cost to Mr R. Ordinarily Id recommend that Mr R receives a refund of 
everything hes paid, minus a deduction for any fair use hes had of the car. However, its 
clear Mr R has made no payments towards this agreement, Mr I made all the payments, 
including the deposit. As Mr R hasnt suffered any financial loss, I dont propose to award 
any refund of the payments that have been made.
Lastly, Mr R has been affected by the adverse information Alphera has recorded on his 
credit file when it terminated the agreement. Given I dont think Alphera should have granted 
the finance, it isnt fair that Mr R is disadvantaged as a result of that mistake. Alphera should 
therefore arrange to remove any adverse information from his credit file. 
Both Alphera and Mr R accepted my provisional decision and had no further comments to 
make. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As both parties have accepted the provisional decision and had no further comments to 
make, Ive seen no reason to reach a different conclusion to what I reached in my provisional 
decision.   
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I uphold this complaint and direct BMW Financial 
Services(GB) Limited, trading as Alphera Financial Services to:End the finance agreement with nothing further to pay.
Collect the car at no cost to Mr R.
Remove any adverse information from Mr Rs credit file in relation to this agreement. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision before 15 April 2021.
 
Tero Hiltunen
Ombudsman