DRN-3673410
The complaint
Mr B complains about the advice given by Inspirational Financial Management Ltd (IFM) to 
transfer the benefits from his defined-benefit (DB) occupational pension scheme with British 
Steel (BSPS) to a personal pension arrangement. He says the advice was unsuitable for 
him and believes this has caused a financial loss.
What happened
In March 2016, Mr Bs employer announced that it would be examining options to restructure 
its business, including decoupling the BSPS (the employers DB scheme) from the company. 
The consultation with members referred to possible outcomes regarding their preserved 
benefits, which included transferring the scheme to the Pension Protection Fund (PPF), or a 
new defined-benefit scheme (BSPS2). The PPF acts as a lifeboat for insolvent DB pension 
schemes, paying compensation to members of eligible schemes for their lifetime. The 
compensation levels are, generally, around 90% of the level of the original schemes benefits 
for deferred pensions. But the PPFs rules and benefits may differ from the original scheme. 
Alternatively, members of the BSPS were informed they could transfer their benefits to a 
private pension arrangement.
In May 2017, the PPF made the announcement that the terms of a Regulated Apportionment 
Arrangement (RAA) had been agreed. That announcement included that, if risk-related 
qualifying conditions relating to funding and size could be satisfied, a new pension scheme 
sponsored by Mr Bs employer would be set up  the BSPS2. The RAA was signed and 
confirmed in August 2017 and the agreed steps were carried out shortly after.
In October 2017, members of the BSPS were sent a time to choose letter which gave them 
the options to either stay in the BSPS and move with it to the PPF, move to the BSPS2 or 
transfer their BSPS benefits elsewhere.
Mr B was concerned about what the recent announcements by his employer meant for the 
security of his pension, so he sought advice. IFM says Mr B was referred to them by another 
adviser  something Mr B disputes. But in any event, Mr B met with IFM and it completed a 
financial planning questionnaire with him to gather information about his circumstances and 
objectives. This document is undated, so Ive assumed the meeting took place around 
October 2017. Amongst other things the fact-find recorded that Mr B was aged 46; he was 
working full-time; he was living with his unmarried partner and had two young dependent 
children; he owned his own home with an outstanding mortgage; he was contributing to his 
workplace pension scheme; and ideally he wanted to retire at 55. IFM also carried out an 
assessment of Mr Bs attitude to risk, which it deemed to be low.
On 1 November 2017, IFM advised Mr B to transfer his BSPS benefits into a personal 
pension and invest the proceeds within two investment funds (70/30 split) which IFM 
deemed matched Mr Bs attitude to risk. In summary, the suitability report said the reasons 
for this recommendation were because Mr B imagined hed require flexibility to control and 
tailor his income as opposed to having a pre-set level of income; he wanted to ensure he 
could retire when he wanted to and not take the risk of having restrictions in place when the 
scheme either entered the PPF or it became the new BSPS; and because Mr B was 
prepared to accept more risk to achieve flexibility in retirement.
Mr B accepted the recommendation and sometime in February 2018, just under £360,000 
was received into his new personal pension plan. 
Mr B complained to IFM in 2022 about the suitability of the transfer advice. Mr B raised a 
number of complaint points including that his recollection was that moving to the BSPS2 or 
the PPF wasnt discussed as an option and that it was taken as a given hed transfer his 
pension.
IFM didnt uphold Mr Bs complaint. In summary it said the transfer advice was suitable. It 
said this was because:
Sufficient information was gathered about Mr Bs general attitudes, beliefs, opinions 
and feelings in respect of his circumstances - Mr Bs goals were clear.
Mr Bs objectives pointed towards a transfer.
Mr B wished to retire at 55 on an assumed income of £15,000 once his mortgage 
was repaid and because he wanted to draw monies at a higher level before his 
received his state pension this wasnt possible without a transfer.
Mr B wanted flexibility and control rather than being limited by scheme rules or those 
of the PPF. 
Death benefits were important to Mr B  the advice improved the position taking 
account of his unmarried status.
A robust approach was taken to assessing Mr Bs attitude to risk and capacity for 
loss to transfer, which it believed was appropriate to justify the transfer and make the 
investments at the required level.
Dissatisfied with its response, Mr B referred his complaint to us. An investigator upheld the 
complaint and required IFM to pay compensation. In summary they said the advice wasnt 
suitable. They said that it didnt appear IFM had carried out a transfer analysis for Mr B - but 
based on what it said in the suitability report about the likely growth rates required to match 
the benefits under the existing BSPS at age 65, there was no reasonable prospect of Mr B 
improving on his benefits at retirement by transferring. And they said there were no other 
compelling reasons to justify the transfer to outweigh this  for example Mr B had no 
retirement plans so there was no urgent reason to transfer out of the BSPS at this stage, 
better death benefits wasnt a reason to transfer, his concerns about the scheme shouldnt 
have led to the transfer and there was no reason for him to take any risk with his pension at 
this time. They said if suitable advice been given, Mr B ought to have been advised to move 
his benefits to the BSPS2.
IFM didnt respond to the investigators findings, so it was assumed it disagreed.
Because the complaint couldnt be resolved informally, the complaint was passed to me for a 
final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive taken into account relevant law and regulations, regulators rules, guidance and 
standards and codes of practice, and what I consider to have been good industry practice at 
the time. This includes the Principles for Businesses (PRIN) and the Conduct of Business 
Sourcebook (COBS). And where the evidence is incomplete, inconclusive or contradictory, 
I reach my conclusions on the balance of probabilities  that is, what I think is more likely 
than not to have happened based on the available evidence and the wider surrounding 
circumstances.
The applicable rules, regulations and requirements
The below is not a comprehensive list of the rules and regulations which applied at the time 
of the advice, but provides useful context for my assessment of IFM's actions here.
PRIN 6: A firm must pay due regard to the interests of its customers and treat them fairly.
PRIN 7: A firm must pay due regard to the information needs of its clients, and communicate 
information to them in a way which is clear, fair and not misleading.
COBS 2.1.1R: A firm must act honestly, fairly and professionally in accordance with the best 
interests of its client (the client's best interests rule).
The provisions in COBS 9 which deal with the obligations when giving a personal 
recommendation and assessing suitability. And the provisions in COBS 19 which specifically 
relate to a DB pension transfer.
The regulator, the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA), states in COBS 19.1.6G that the 
starting assumption for a transfer from a DB scheme is that it is unsuitable. So, IFM should 
have only considered a transfer if it could clearly demonstrate that the transfer was in Mr Bs 
best interests.
Having considered all of this and the evidence in this case, Ive decided to uphold the 
complaint for largely the same reasons given by the investigator. My reasons are set out 
below.
Im not persuaded that IFM carried out a transfer value analysis (TVAS) specific to 
Mr Bs DB benefits and his transfer value as IFM was required to do by the regulator. 
Reference to critical yields or the required investment returns to match the BSPS 
benefits was based solely on past analysis and typical rates it said it had seen to 
date. It said investment returns were typically around 6-8% a year to match the 
existing scheme at age 65 and around 4% to match the benefits available through 
the PPF.
Not only were these rates based on a later retirement age than it was recorded Mr B 
intended to retire at and so what the analysis and advice ought to have based on, it 
was known at this point that continuing in the BSPS in its existing form wasnt an 
option for Mr B  so the generic reference to these critical yields was somewhat 
redundant. IFM didnt undertake any analysis of the benefits Mr B wouldve been due 
under the BSPS2, even though details were available. I think it shouldve done. In any event, given what we know about the BSPS2, I think the critical yields to 
match the benefits the BSPS2 wouldve provided from age 65 were likely to be 
between those of the BSPS and the PPF.
Given Mr Bs recorded low attitude to risk, the discount rate of 3.5% for eight years 
to retirement (age 55) and the regulators low projection rate, I think Mr B was always 
likely to receive pension benefits, from age 55, of a significantly lower value that 
those hed have been entitled to under the BSPS2 or the PPF by transferring and 
investing in line with that attitude to risk. I think the critical yields, had IFM produced 
them, based on the benefits available to Mr B at age 55 through both the BSPS2 and 
the PPF wouldve likely been far higher than the generic figures it referred to in the 
suitability report analysis for age 65 given the shorter term to retirement.
For this reason alone I dont think a transfer to a personal pension arrangement was 
in Mr Bs best interests.
IFM said Mr B thought he would like to retire at age 55 and that he was attracted to 
the flexibility a personal pension could provide in terms of how and when he could 
access his benefits. But Mr B was only 46 at the time of the advice and theres 
nothing to indicate he had any retirement plan let alone a firm one. Indeed IFM noted 
that, given Mr Bs age, it wasnt possible to know what type of retirement income was 
the most appropriate for him, so it was too early to know whether the flexibility a 
personal pension would provide or the availability of a cash lump sum would satisfy 
his needs better than remaining in the DB scheme. Yet IFM continued to recommend 
the transfer regardless. I dont think it shouldve done  I dont think this was acting in 
Mr Bs best interests.
Mr B didnt have to transfer his pension to retire early - he already had this option 
available to him. While he couldnt take his DB scheme benefits flexibly, he was 
contributing to his workplace pension, which did offer flexibility. I think this along with 
Mr Bs DB scheme wouldve likely given him the flexibility to retire early - if thats 
what he ultimately decided.
I think it was too early for Mr B to give up the guaranteed income his DB scheme 
would provide when he didnt know what his needs in retirement would be or when. 
IFM says Mr B indicated he needed £15,000 a year from age 55, which wasnt 
achievable by remaining in the scheme. But firstly a need for £15,000 a year isnt 
recorded anywhere in the advice paperwork. And secondly, I dont think Mr B 
reasonably knew at this time was his expenditure would be when he retired and so 
what his income requirement was. Regardless, I think Mr B stood a better chance of 
meeting his needs by remaining in his DB scheme. It provided a guaranteed and 
escalating income for life, which wasnt going to be bettered by transferring. I think 
this was a more appropriate way to meet Mr Bs future income needs.
Overall, IFMs reference to flexibility was not in my view a genuine objective of Mr B, 
but was instead simply a feature or a consequence of transferring to a personal 
pension arrangement. 
Nothing indicates Mr B had a need for variable income throughout retirement or a 
need for a future lump sum and defer taking an income. So, I dont think transferring 
to obtain flexibility was therefore in his best interests.IFM said death benefits were important to Mr B and that the transfer improved the 
death benefit position taking account of his unmarried status. But the priority here 
was to advise Mr B about what was best for his retirement. 
While the transfer figure would no doubt have appeared attractive to Mr B as a 
potential lump sum, the sum remaining on death following a transfer was always 
likely to be different. As well as being dependent on investment performance, it 
wouldve also been reduced by the income Mr B drew in his lifetime. So it may not 
have provided the legacy that Mr B might have thought it would. 
I accept the existing scheme didnt provide death benefits to unmarried partners  but 
its possible that Mr B might get married in the future, in which case the spouses 
pension couldve been valuable to his family in the event of his death.
But if Mr B had genuinely wanted to leave a legacy for his family, IFM couldve 
explored life insurance as an alternative. It was recorded that Mr Bs partners income 
was soon to increase, so it appears there was likely to be capacity to meet the 
associated premiums. And this couldve been considered on a whole of life or term 
assurance basis  which was likely to be cheaper. But Ive not seen evidence IFM did 
so.  
Overall, I dont think different death benefits available through a transfer justified the 
likely decrease of retirement benefits for Mr B. I dont think that insurance was 
properly explored as an alternative. And ultimately IFM should not have encouraged 
Mr B to prioritise the potential for alternative death benefits through a personal 
pension over his security in retirement.
Mr B may have legitimately held concerns about how his employer had handled his 
pension and he was likely worried about ending up in the PPF. But it was IFMs role 
to objectively address those concerns. At the time of the advice, all signs pointed 
toward the BSPS2 being established. But even if not, the PPF still provided Mr B with 
guaranteed income, the option of accessing tax-free cash and despite what IFM 
recorded at the time, he could still take early retirement. Mr B was unlikely to improve 
on these benefits by transferring. So, entering the PPF was not as concerning as he 
mightve thought, and I dont think any concerns he held about this meant that 
transferring was in his best interest.
Overall, I cant see persuasive reasons why it was clearly in Mr Bs best interest to give up 
his DB benefits and transfer them to a personal pension at this time when he had the option 
of opting into the BSPS2. And I also havent seen anything to persuade me that Mr B 
wouldve insisted on transferring, against advice to remain in the DB scheme  he had little 
or no investment knowledge or experience and nothing suggests to me that he had the 
confidence or requisite skill to do so. So, Im upholding the complaint as I think the advice 
Mr B received from IFM was unsuitable for him.
I can see the investigator also recommended an award of £300 for the distress and
inconvenience the matter has caused Mr B. So Ive also thought about whether its fair to 
award compensation for distress and inconvenience - this isnt intended to fine or punish IFM 
 which is the job of the regulator. But I think its fair to recognise the emotional and practical 
impact this had on IFM. 
Taking everything into account, including that I consider Mr B is now at the age when his 
retirement provision is of greater importance, I think the unsuitable advice has caused him 
distress. So I think an award of £300 is fair in all the circumstances.Putting things right
A fair and reasonable outcome would be for the business to put Mr B, as far as possible, into 
the position he would now be in but for the unsuitable advice. I consider Mr B would most 
likely have remained in the occupational pension scheme and opted to join the BSPS2 if 
suitable advice had been given. 
IFM must therefore undertake a redress calculation in line with the rules for calculating 
redress for non-compliant pension transfer advice, as detailed in policy statement PS22/13 
and set out in the regulators handbook in DISP App 4: 
https://www.handbook.fca.org.uk/handbook/DISP/App/4/?view=chapter. 
IFM should use the FCAs BSPS-specific redress calculator to calculate the redress. A copy 
of the BSPS calculator output should be sent to Mr B and our Service upon completion of the 
calculation together with supporting evidence of what IFM based the inputs into the 
calculator on.
For clarity, Mr B has not yet retired, and he has no plans to do so at present. So, 
compensation should be based on the schemes normal retirement age, as per the usual 
assumptions in the FCA's guidance.
This calculation should be carried out using the most recent financial assumptions in line 
with DISP App 4. In accordance with the regulators expectations, this should be undertaken 
or submitted to an appropriate provider promptly following receipt of notification of Mr Bs 
acceptance of my final decision.
If the redress calculation demonstrates a loss, as explained in policy statement PS22/13 and 
set out in DISP App 4, IFM should:
calculate and offer Mr B redress as a cash lump sum payment,
explain to Mr B before starting the redress calculation that:
- their redress will be calculated on the basis that it will be invested prudently 
(in line with the cautious investment return assumption used in the 
calculation), and
- a straightforward way to invest their redress prudently is to use it to augment 
their DC pension
offer to calculate how much of any redress Mr B receives could be augmented rather 
than receiving it all as a cash lump sum,
if Mr B accepts IFMs offer to calculate how much of their redress could be 
augmented, request the necessary information and not charge Mr B for the 
calculation, even if he ultimately decides not to have any of their redress augmented, 
and
take a prudent approach when calculating how much redress could be augmented, 
given the inherent uncertainty around Mr Bs end of year tax position.
Redress paid to Mr B as a cash lump sum will be treated as income for tax purposes. So, in 
line with DISP App 4, IFM may make a notional deduction to cash lump sum payments to 
take account of tax that consumers would otherwise pay on income from their pension. 
Typically, 25% of the loss could have been taken as tax-free cash and 75% would have 
been taxed according to Mr Bs likely income tax rate in retirement  presumed to be 20%. 
So making a notional deduction of 15% overall from the loss adequately reflects this. Where I uphold a complaint, I can award fair compensation of up to £170,000, plus any
interest and/or costs that I consider are appropriate. Where I consider that fair compensation
requires payment of an amount that might exceed £170,000, I may recommend that the
business pays the balance.
My final decision
Determination and money award: I uphold this complaint and require Inspirational Financial 
Management Ltd to pay Mr B the compensation amount as set out in the steps above, up to 
a maximum of £170,000.
Recommendation: If the compensation amount exceeds £170,000, I also recommend that 
Inspirational Financial Management Ltd pays Mr B the balance.
Inspirational Financial Management Ltd should also pay Mr B £300 for the distress and 
inconvenience this matter has caused.
If Mr B accepts this decision, the money award becomes binding on Inspirational Financial 
Management Ltd.
My recommendation would not be binding. Further, its unlikely that Mr B can accept my 
decision and go to court to ask for the balance. Mr B may want to consider getting 
independent legal advice before deciding whether to accept any final decision.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 7 November 2023. 
Paul Featherstone
Ombudsman