DRN-3555629
The complaint
Ms A complains that Scottish Widows Limited (Scottish Widows) failed to recommend she 
cancel her term assurance policy and gave her misleading information in a call made in 
March 2019.
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again 
here. Scottish Widows has accepted our Investigators opinion, but Ms A has disagreed. She 
emphasises that she rarely makes complaints but did so in this instance because the issue 
truly upset her. The facts are not in dispute, so Ill focus on giving the reasons for my 
decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the conclusions reached by the Investigator for these reasons:
On the evidence, Im satisfied Scottish Widows provided the relevant information 
about Ms As policy in both calls, and acted reasonably when referring her to a 
financial advisor and explaining it couldnt provide Ms A with advice about its 
suitability
Listening to the call in March 2019, Im satisfied the employee acted professionally 
and politely throughout, explained the benefits of the policy, its current value and how 
it would continue to reduce. The advisor was also clear about how the policy could be 
cancelled at any time. The call ended with Ms A stating shed be in touch once shed 
decided whether to keep the policy.
In the next call that took place in February 2021, Im satisfied Ms A was provided 
materially the same information about the policy, at which point Ms A decided to 
cancel.
I acknowledge how these events have truly upset Ms A, but Scottish Widows acted 
fairly in both conversations  it provided clear information to Ms A about the policy so 
she could make an informed decision herself. So, I dont think Scottish Widows is 
responsible for the premiums Ms A continued to pay when she decided to keep the 
policy in March 2019.
For the reasons explained, Im not upholding Ms As complaint.
My final decision
My final decision is that this complaint should not be upheld.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms A to accept or 
reject my decision before 21 July 2022.
 
Paul Clarke
Ombudsman