DRN-3665185
The complaint
Mrs M has complained that HSBC UK Bank Plc trading as first direct (and referred to here as 
HSBC) unfairly declined her request to port (transfer) her mortgage interest rate product onto 
a mortgage on a new property.
What happened
I will summarise the complaint in less detail than its been presented. There are several 
reasons for this. First of all, the history of the matter is set out in detail in correspondence, so 
there is no need for me to repeat the details here. I will instead concentrate on giving the 
reasons for my decision. In addition, our decisions are published, so its important I dont 
include any information that might lead to Mrs M being identified. So for these reasons, I will 
keep my summary of what happened quite brief.
Briefly, Mrs M had a mortgage with HSBC taken out in August 2016 when she borrowed just 
under £321,000 on a capital repayment basis. In 2018 the mortgage balance of around 
£305,000 was transferred onto a five-year fixed rate interest product. If the mortgage was 
repaid during that period, an early repayment charge (ERC) would apply. 
The mortgage offer states:
What happens if you move house?
Early Repayment Charges payable during the Fixed Rate Period will still be 
applicable. 
If you move, you will have to repay your Mortgage Loan. We will of course be happy 
to discuss the finance for your new home. 
If you want to transfer this Mortgage Loan to another property you should contact us 
to talk about it. We will consider your request subject to:
any replacement mortgage being taken up simultaneously with the repayment of 
your existing mortgage and;
our satisfaction as to your financial status at the relevant time and;
our normal assessment criteria.
If you wish to increase your borrowing when you move home, any additional funds 
may not be at the same rate as this Mortgage Loan.
In March 2021 Mrs M contacted HSBC about moving house. She wanted to port her existing 
interest rate product onto the mortgage for the new property, and increase her borrowing to 
£563,000. However, after considering the request, HSBC was only able to consider a 
mortgage of £551,000. The application didnt proceed.
Mrs M obtained a mortgage with another lender, paying the ERC to HSBC. She complained 
and said that if HSBC agreed to refund the ERC of £6,104.20 she would not take her 
complaint to our service. Mrs M said that HSBC had discriminated against her because, out 
of the three years of income HSBC had looked at, she had been on maternity leave for one 
of those years, as a result of which her income had been lower that year. Mrs M said that the 
bank should have considered her future earning potential, rather than actual income.
HSBC didnt uphold the complaint so it was brought to our service. An investigator looked at 
what had happened. Having done so, he didnt think the complaint should be upheld. He was 
satisfied HSBC was entitled to apply its lending criteria to the application. Although he noted 
Mrs M had provided a letter which estimated what her future profit share would be, he didnt 
think HSBC had acted unreasonably in looking at actual, rather than projected, income.
Mrs M didnt agree with the investigators findings and asked for an ombudsman to review 
the matter. She said that if she had been a man, HSBC would not have treated her this way. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I will begin by explaining that the Financial Ombudsman Service isnt a court, and so I have 
no power to enforce the Equality Act 2010; that is the role of the Equality and Human Rights 
Commission, or the courts.
HSBC has explained that the application wasnt declined on the basis of affordability, as the 
application didnt progress to that stage. HSBC assessed on the information provided to it 
that it could have lent Mrs M £551,000 and says that, if shed wished, Mrs M could have 
gone ahead with a mortgage of that amount, or lower. Because Mrs M requested a higher 
amount, the bank wasnt obliged to agree to this.
However, the crux of this complaint is that Mrs M says HSBC has discriminated against her 
and treated her unfairly because the bank rejected her application based on reduced income 
whilst on maternity leave. Mrs M says that HSBCs lending criteria is discriminatory against 
women and that the year she was on maternity leave is not reflective of her earning capacity.
HSBC is entitled to set its own lending criteria. Decisions that HSBC makes in respect of 
what those criteria are, its attitude to risk involved in this particular lending assessment, and 
whether it should lend and if so, on what terms are clearly discretionary matters for HSBCs 
own commercial judgement that I would not interfere with. I dont have any power to tell 
HSBC what lending criteria it should put in place, or to order the bank to change these to suit 
a particular customer where that customer does not meet its criteria.
HSBC has provided information about its lending criteria and about what was taken into 
account in its consideration of the application. Im entitled to treat this as confidential, 
because it is commercially sensitive. But after considering this information, Im satisfied that 
HSBC reached its decision fairly, after taking into account all relevant factors. 
Given this, Im satisfied that HSBC gave fair consideration to this application and would have 
been able to offer Mrs M a mortgage of £551,000 if shed wanted to go ahead with it. 
However, the full amount of £563,000 wasnt within the banks lending criteria.
Im not persuaded HSBC was under any obligation to take future projected earnings into 
consideration, as these could be affected by external, governmental, business or personal 
circumstances and so are not guaranteed. Im satisfied HSBC would have reached the same 
decision if a male applicant had asked the bank to consider projected future income rather 
than actual earned income as the basis for a mortgage application. HSBC also looked at income during the period when Mrs M wasnt on maternity leave when considering her 
application, so Im satisfied the reason HSBC wasnt able to lend wasnt solely on the basis 
of her reduced income whilst she was on maternity leave. Im therefore not persuaded HSBC 
discriminated against Mrs M, either as she claims, or at all.
If Mrs M decides not to accept my decision, she will be free to pursue her grievances against 
HSBC in court, should she wish to do so, or through the Equality and Human Rights 
Commission.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
This final decision concludes the Financial Ombudsman Services review of this complaint. 
This means that we are unable to consider the complaint any further, nor enter into any 
correspondence about the merits of it.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs M to accept or 
reject my decision before 26 October 2022.
 
Jan O'Leary
Ombudsman