The complaint
Miss S complains that Gain Credit LLC (then trading as Lending Stream) lent to her in an 
irresponsible manner.
What happened
Miss S took out four loans with Lending Stream. Each loan was repayable in six monthly 
instalments, although Miss S repaid the first three loans early. Miss S took out the first loan 
in August 2017, which she repaid in October 2017. She took out two loans, in September 
and November 2018, which she repaid at the end of November 2018. And she took out the 
fourth loan in April 2019. Miss S says Lending Stream should have known from her credit 
file that she was taking out many loans and realised the loans were unaffordable.
Our investigator looked into the complaint. He said given what Lending Stream knew about 
Miss S's circumstances at the time, it wasn't wrong for it to give the loans to her. Miss S 
didn't agree, and so the complaint has been passed to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Weve set out our general approach to 
complaints about short-term lending - including all of the relevant rules, guidance and good 
industry practice - on our website.
Lending Stream needed to take reasonable steps to ensure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. 
In practice this means that it should have carried out proportionate checks to make sure that 
Miss S could repay the loans in a sustainable manner. These checks could take into account 
a number of different things, such as how much was being lent, the repayment amounts and 
the consumers income and expenditure. With this in mind, in the early stages of a lending 
relationship, I think less thorough checks might be reasonable and proportionate. 
But certain factors might point to the fact that Lending Stream should fairly and reasonably 
have done more to establish that any lending was sustainable for a consumer. These factors 
include: 
the lower a customers income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make any
loan repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income);
the higher the amount due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to
meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income);
the greater the number and frequency of loans, and the longer the period of time
during which a customer has been given loans (reflecting the risk that repeated
DRN-1642160refinancing may signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, 
unsustainable). 
 
There may even come a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly 
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable. 
I've carefully considered all of the arguments, evidence and information provided in this 
context and what this all means for Miss Ss complaint. 
Lending Stream did some checks before it lent to Miss S. It asked her about her income and 
normal expenditure. And it checked her credit file. I've seen a summary of the results of 
these checks, and I don't think they'd have raised concerns with Lending Stream.
Miss S says Lending Stream should have known she had other loans from its credit check. I 
should say here that what a lender might see could be very different from what Miss S would 
see if she asked for a full copy of her report. The lender might see much less information, 
some data might be missing or not up to date, and some might be anonymised. 
Here, Lending Stream would have known from the checks it carried out before the first two 
loans that Miss S had existing credit commitments, and that she'd defaults and delinquent 
accounts. But this isn't enough in itself to say that it shouldn't lend to Miss S. The results say 
the most recent default was more than five years before and most recent delinquent account 
more than three years before. I think it's reasonable for Lending Stream to assume Miss S 
had overcome any difficulties she'd had at that time. 
Miss S says her circumstances were difficult, and she struggled with the loans and her other 
outgoings. But she didn't share this with Lending Stream when she asked for the loans, and I 
don't think Lending Stream should have been alerted to it from its credit check. 
The amounts that Miss S needed to repay were small compared with the disposable income 
shed declared. The repayments looked affordable, based on the information Miss S gave 
Lending Stream about her outgoings. There was a break of nearly a year between Miss S 
repaying loan 1 and taking out loan 2. And about four months between loan 3 and loan 4. 
This pattern of borrowing wouldn't have suggested to Lending Stream that Miss S had 
become reliant on its loans, or that the borrowing was unsustainable. 
Given the repayment amounts, what was apparent about Miss Ss circumstances at the time, 
and her borrowing history with Lending Stream, I dont think it would have been 
proportionate for Lending Stream to ask her for the amount of information that would be 
needed to show the lending was unsustainable before agreeing these loans. 
Miss S has an unpaid loan outstanding and says she's in financial difficulty. I'd encourage 
her to get in contact with Lending Stream (or the business that currently owns or manages 
the debt), with the aim of agreeing an affordable plan to repay the debt. I'd remind 
Lending Stream of its responsibility to treat Miss S fairly.
My final decision
For the reasons above, I don't uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss S to accept 
or reject my decision before 20 July 2020.Ruth Stevenson
Ombudsman