DRN-3370196
The complaint
Mr O is unhappy with how Volkswagen Financial Services (UK) Limited trading as Audi 
Financial Services (VWFS) dealt with the collection of his car following the end of his hire 
purchase agreement.
What happened
On 2 December 2017, Mr O was supplied with a new car through a hire purchase agreement 
with VWFS. He paid an advance payment of £16,000, and the agreement was for £28,085 
over 36 months; with 35 monthly payments of £182.24 and an optional final payment of 
£26,486 if he wanted to keep the car. 
On 13 November 2020, around three weeks before the agreement was due to end, Mr O 
contacted VWFS to arrange for collection. But VWFS delayed processing this, and the car 
wasnt collected until 4 January 2021. Because Mr O lived in a property with only one 
allocated parking space, because he had nowhere else to safely park the car, and because 
he was having a replacement vehicle in December 2021, Mr O put the car into storage until 
collection took place.
Mr O said VWFS agreed to cover all the costs resulting from the delayed collection. VWFS 
said they only agreed to cover the road tax and MOT, not the storage charges. But they 
offered Mr O £100 for the inconvenience caused by the delay. Mr O wasnt happy with this 
and he brought his complaint to us for investigation.
Our investigator said Mr O had given VWFS reasonable notice to arrange a collection, and 
hed made a number of calls to try and sort this out. But VWFS delayed in processing the 
collection, and this caused Mr O some frustration and inconvenience. Because of this, she 
thought the £100 VWFS had offered was reasonable in the circumstances.
But, because of Mr Os situation, and not having anywhere safe to leave the car while 
waiting for the delayed collection, she also thought that VWFS should cover any reasonable 
storage costs.
Mr O provided a copy on invoice for 32-days storage at a total cost of £3,000. This was from 
a specialist moulding company, and not from a specialist car storage company. The 
investigator thought this was expensive and had seen that specialist car storage companies 
in Mr Os area were charging between £100 and £137.80 a month. Because of this, the 
investigator thought it was reasonable for VWFS to pay storage costs based on the £137.80 
a month figure.
Mr O disagreed with the investigator. He said that a traditional car storage company would 
store the car outside, which would result in the car being damaged. And he wouldve been 
charged by VWFS for this damage. So, he thinks hed been reasonable by storing the car 
where he did. And feels VWFS should cover the cost for this.
Mr O also said that the cheapest local storage he could find was £45 a week, which worked 
out more than the investigator had quoted. In response to this, Ive seen that the investigator 
provided Mr O with the details of the storage facilities shed considered. Ive also reviewed 
these costs. They are:
Storage company K - £100.00 per month for indoor storage
Storage company M - £31.80 per week (equivalent to £137.80 a month)
Storage company A - £25.00 a week (equivalent to £108.33 a month)
Because Mr O didnt agree with the investigator, this matter has been passed to me to make 
a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I have reached the same overall conclusions as the investigator, and for 
broadly the same reasons. If I havent commented on any specific point, its because I dont 
believe its affected what I think is the right outcome.
In considering this complaint Ive had regard to the relevant law and regulations; any 
regulators rules, guidance and standards, codes of practice, and what I consider was good 
industry practice at the time. Mr O was supplied with a car under a hire purchase agreement. 
This is a regulated consumer credit agreement which means were able to look into 
complaints about it. 
It's not disputed that, on 13 November 2020, Mr O asked VWFS to arrange collection of the 
car. But, because VWFS delayed in processing the request, the car wasnt collected until 32-
days after the date Mr O asked for it to be collected. And VWFS have offered Mr O £100 for 
the trouble and inconvenience this delay caused.
Because Mr O had nowhere safe to store the car, and because he couldnt store it at home 
as he didnt have sufficient space for both this car and his replacement vehicle, Im satisfied 
that arranging to store the car until collection was reasonable in the circumstances.
However, I wouldve expected Mr O to arrange to store the car with a specialist car storage 
company. And its also reasonable to expect him to mitigate the costs of any storage. 
However, Mr O stored the car with a company who didnt deal with car storage and, after a 
seven-day free storage period, he was charged £100 plus VAT a day  a total of £3,000. He 
says he chose this company because there would be no cost if the car was collected within 
the first seven-days, and because the company were prepared to delay invoicing.
I dont consider these to be valid reasons for using the company Mr O did. Firstly, VWFS had 
told him that collection would take four weeks, so a free seven-day period has no bearing on 
the matter, as charges would always be incurred. And the length of time before an invoice is 
issued doesnt alter the fact that Mr O was being charged per day what other local specialist 
car storage companies were charging per month. So, he chose to pay substantially more 
than he otherwise couldve done.
Whats more, while Mr O has provided an invoice for the car storage, I havent seen any 
contract to show me he was charged correctly.I think its reasonable that, had Mr O chosen a specialist car storage company, then he 
wouldve chosen the most local option. Which was £31.80 a week and nearer to his home 
than the option hed chosen. Because of this, I think its fair that VWFS cover this charge, 
and not the substantially more expensive non-specialist storage Mr O chose. So, while I 
appreciate this will come as a disappointment to Mr O, this means he will be responsible for 
any shortfall in the storage costs he actually chose.
Mr O has commented that the car wouldve been damaged if hed left it with a traditional car 
storage company, and VWFS wouldve charged him for this damage. But I disagree that the 
car would definitely have been damaged at a traditional car storage facility, and I consider 
this is just speculation. And it was always possible the car couldve suffered some accidental 
damage where Mr O stored it, as this wasnt somewhere set up for storing cars.
Whats more, while VWFS wouldve charged for any damage that fell outside of normal fair 
wear and tear guidelines, the car wasnt damaged while it was stored, and Mr O wasnt 
charged. My decision is concerned with what happened, rather than what mightve 
happened under different circumstances. And I wont be asking VWFS to compensate Mr O 
for what mightve been.
Putting things right
Mr O stored the car for 32 days, but the first seven days of this were free. So, he only 
actually paid for 25-days storage. Because of this, the investigator recommended that VWFS 
pay 25 days storage. But the specialist car storage companies in Mr Os area didnt offer a 
free period. So, I think its only fair that VWFS pay for the full 32-days the car was stored. 
Because of this I think the investigators recommendation needs to be changed.
Ive told both Mr O and VWFS that I intend to ask VWFS to pay for the full 32-days storage 
and asked them for their comments on this specific point. VWFS agreed with this change 
and Mr O didnt make any further comment. So, this doesnt change my view that asking 
VWFS to pay for 32-days storage is fair.
So, VWFS should:
pay Mr O for 32-days storage of the car, based on a rate of £31.80 a week, and
(if this hasnt already been paid) pay Mr O an additional £100 for the trouble and 
inconvenience he was caused as a result of the delayed collection.
My final decision
For the reasons explained, I uphold Mr Os complaint. And Volkswagen Financial Services 
(UK) Limited trading as Audi Financial Services must follow my directions above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr O to accept or 
reject my decision before 22 April 2022.
 
Andrew Burford
Ombudsman