DRN-3165412
The complaint
Mr S complains that Admiral Insurance Company Limited increased the premium for his car 
insurance policy unfairly.
What happened
Mr S says he bought a car to replace his van, but when looking for insurance had difficulty 
carrying across his no claims discount. He says Admiral offered a good deal combining 
home and car insurance, which he decided to take. The agreement required a black box 
device to be installed to monitor his mileage, speed, and time of driving.
Mr S says he told Admiral he couldnt initially book a date to install the device because he 
was going abroad over the Christmas period. But he would arrange this on his return. The 
company called him a few days later and mentioned a possible issue with the no claims 
discount. Mr S says he was boarding a plane and couldnt talk, so the company agreed to 
call back. He says this didnt happen.
Due to Covid-19 restrictions Mr S says he couldnt return to the UK until the end of January 
2021. He says he didnt receive contact from Admiral on his return and thought the issue 
had resolved itself due to Covid. He then received a letter in April 2021 to say an extra 
premium was due because the black box hadnt been fitted. Mr S says he cant afford to pay 
this extra amount. 
Admiral says it told Mr S during the sales call that he had to arrange an appointment to fit the 
black box within 30 days. If not, the discount associated with this device would be lost. It 
says policy documents reiterating this information were uploaded to Mr Ss portal the day 
after policy was agreed. It accepts it didnt provide a return call when Mr S was unable to 
talk. It paid £25 compensation to acknowledge this failure. 
The company says it sent a welcome email when the policy was agreed, with a link to the 
online portal and little black box dashboard. It says further emails and text messages were 
sent on two occasions a few days later. No contact was received back. Four attempts to 
contact were made by telephone in December 2020 and January 2021, without success. 
Because of this it says the black box couldnt be installed, which is why the discount was 
lost.
Mr S didnt think this was fair and referred his complaint to our service. Our investigator 
decided not to uphold his complaint. She said the terms were clear that the black box had to 
be installed within 30 days. She noted the company had tried using different contact 
methods on multiple different occasions. Because of this she thought it had behaved fairly in 
removing the black box discount. 
Mr S disagreed with this outcome and asked for an ombudsman to review his complaint. 
It has been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so I have decided not to uphold Mr Ss complaint. Let me explain.
The Insurance Policy Information Document under, What are my obligations? says:
You must have your telematics device fitted to your vehicle within the time limit set out in 
your policy terms.
The Little Box Hard Install Guide, says:
You must get your LittleBox professionally installed within 30 days of the policy start date.
If your LittleBox does not get installed, your telematics discount will be removed.
I have listened to the call recording from the time Mr S agreed the policy. Early in the call 
Admirals representative confirms this is a telematics policy. An explanation is provided as 
to what the black box device does. Toward the end of the call its representative explains the 
device must be installed within 30 days of the policy start date. Mr S says he is going away 
for a few weeks over Christmas. The representative then asks if it will be an issue to have 
the device fitted. Mr S says it might be if its not installed before he goes away. The agent 
comments that it might take some time to arrange and this cant be guaranteed. 
Later in the call Admirals agent reiterates that the black box must be installed within 30 days 
of the policy start date. If it isnt the discount will be lost. Mr S asks if he can leave the car 
key with someone else. The agent says, as long as the installation can be arranged thats 
completely up to you. 
Admiral has supplied its contact log. From this I can see multiple emails and text messages 
were sent to Mr S in December 2020. This supports the companys account that contact was 
made to prompt Mr S to agree an appointment for the black box to be installed. A call was 
also logged in December and there are three further calls logged in January 2021. The notes 
from all these calls say, line dialling abroad, no vm option. 
Mr S says he received no calls or voicemails. Its not clear why a voicemail option wasnt 
available when Admiral called. But I think its reasonable to accept calls were attempted. 
This is based on the records and that calls were reported to be connecting to a number 
abroad, which ties in with Mr Ss account of his whereabouts.
Mr S says Admiral took over three months to inform him of the additional charge for £309.39. 
He received this in April 2021 confirming the telematics discount had been lost. He says this 
delay prevented him from deciding the most cost-effective way of dealing with the problem. 
I can sympathise with Mr Ss position and the need for him to find this extra money. But the 
terms of the policy were made clear to him over the phone on several occasions, as well as 
in the policy documentation he was sent and given access to via his portal. Admiral followed 
this up with around eight further contacts via text message, email, and phone to prompt Mr S 
to arrange for the black box to be installed. 
From the information provided Mr S didnt contact Admiral until it wrote to him in April 2021 
to tell him about the loss of the discount. I acknowledge his comments that he thought the 
matter had resolved itself due to covid when he returned to the UK. But this was an 
incorrect assumption on his part. All contact from Admiral confirmed the device needed to be 
installed. Admiral has paid £25 compensation for its failure to call Mr S back when he was unable to 
talk. I think this was fair, but I dont think this has an impact on the failure to arrange 
installation of the black box device. 
In considering all of this, I think Admiral behaved reasonably when attempting contact with 
Mr S. And was clear when communicating the policy terms over the phone and in his policy 
documentation. Because of this I think it acted fairly in relying on the terms of the policy and 
removing the discount. So, I cant reasonably ask it to do more to resolve this complaint.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 14 January 2022.
 
Mike Waldron
Ombudsman