DRN-1943141
 
The complaint
Mr A complains HSBC Bank UK Plc mis-sold him a life and critical illness policy, as it didnt 
explain that the sum assured would decrease over time. Mr A is represented in this 
complaint by his son, but to avoid confusion Ill refer only to Mr A.
What happened
In 2001 Mr A bought a life and critical illness policy. He bought it on the advice of an HSBC 
adviser, as he was taking out an HSBC mortgage which he wanted to protect. The original 
sum assured was £25,296, but it was a decreasing term policy so this sum would decrease 
over time as Mr A repaid his HSBC mortgage.
In 2010 Mr A moved his mortgage to another lender, which repaid his HSBC mortgage. 
In 2019 Mr A unfortunately needed to make a claim under the critical illness part of his 
policy. The insurer paid him just over £11,000 in settlement of his claim. Mr A complained to 
HSBC, saying it hadnt told him the sum assured would decrease.
In HSBCs final response, it said the recommendation letter, product literature and 
cancellation rights it gave Mr A when he bought the policy explained how it worked and that 
the sum assured would decrease each year in line with a typical capital repayment 
mortgage. HSBC said Mr A would have paid higher premiums if hed taken out a level term 
policy. It said the policy was suitable for Mr A, and confirmed the sum assured had 
decreased each year from the start of the policy, not just from 2010 as Mr A had thought.
Mr A remained unhappy so he brought his complaint to our service. He said HSBC should 
have told him the sum assured would decrease - including when he moved his mortgage in 
2010 - but it hadnt. He pointed out hed paid the same monthly premiums throughout the 
policy. And he said that if hed known the sum assured would decrease, he wouldve got 
cover elsewhere or cancelled the policy.
After looking into Mr As complaint, our investigator said that based on the documents from 
the time of the sale - the fact find, recommendation letter and key features document  he 
thought HSBC had recommended a suitable policy for Mr A and told him it was a decreasing 
sum assured.
Mr A disagreed. He said HSBC could have better communicated what he thought were 
changes to the policy, and that hed thought he was paying the same premiums each month 
for the original sum assured. He said that if hed known it was for a much lower amount, hed 
have cancelled the policy and looked elsewhere.
As Mr A disagreed, his complaint has come to me for a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im not upholding it. Im sorry to hear of Mr As health difficulties, and I 
realise this isnt the answer hed hoped for. But Ill explain my reasons.
To make a decision about Mr As complaint, Ive looked at what happened around the time 
the policy was sold to him in 2001. HSBC hasnt been able to provide a copy of the policy 
schedule. But its provided copies of the documents it has from this time, including the fact 
find, the recommendation letter, the key features document and the product brochure.
The fact find shows Mr A met with HSBC to fully review his wants and needs at that time. It 
shows his priorities at that time were to move his mortgage to HSBC, and that while he 
wanted to have critical illness protection, he wanted to keep his costs to a minimum. In the 
your declaration section of the fact find, various statements have been answered Y for 
yes including:
I have had the opportunity to read the information gathered during this Financial 
Planning Review and agree that it is complete and accurate
I have received Key Features Documents for each product to be purchased. These 
have been explained to me 
The recommendation letter HSBC sent Mr A soon after that fact find meeting advised him to 
take out a mortgage protection plan with critical illness, saying This will repay your 
mortgage/loan in the event of your death during the term. It provides the reducing amount of 
life cover you require for this borrowing. You would receive early payment of the sum 
assured in the event of you suffering a critical illness. 
Im satisfied this policy was suitable for Mr A as it met his wants and needs as identified in 
the fact find, which were to protect the mortgage he was about to take out whilst also 
keeping his costs down. Had Mr A taken out a level term policy, where the sum assured 
stays the same and doesnt reduce in line with what Mr A owed on his mortgage, then his 
monthly premiums would have been higher. Mr A has pointed out his monthly premium 
stayed the same over the life of the policy, but that doesnt necessarily mean the sum 
assured will remain the same too.
By itself, I dont think the recommendation letter is clear enough that the policy offers a 
decreasing sum assured for critical illness cover, and not just for life cover. But I think Mr A 
was also provided with a key features document, because the letter also says Detailed 
information about the products you have purchased is included within the appropriate Key 
Features Documents and brochures I have given you. And because, as Ive said, the fact 
find suggests the key features document was provided to Mr A. Ive not seen that Mr A has 
told our service he didnt receive the fact find, recommendation letter or key features 
document.
The first page of the key features document says This plan provides a level of cover which 
decreases throughout its [sic] term. And in the Questions & Answers section, it says How 
much does the policy pay out? You decide how much cover you would like. This cover will 
decrease each year in line with a typical capital repayment mortgage The more cover and 
the longer the period of cover you choose, the higher your premium will be.
I think this is enough for me to fairly say HSBC took reasonable steps at the start of the 
policy to tell Mr A that the cover it provided would decrease over time, in line with his HSBC 
mortgage. HSBC wasnt obliged to tell Mr A this again at a later date. But if at any time Mr A 
was unsure about what cover was provided by the policy, Id have expected him to contact 
HSBC about that. But Ive not seen anything to suggest he did.My final decision
For the reasons set out above, Im not upholding this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision before 21 August 2020.
 
Ailsa Wiltshire
Ombudsman