DRN-2740351
The complaint
Mrs V is seeking to recover £1,000 from Wirecard Card Solutions Limited, a payment she 
made from her U Account as a result of a third-party scam November 2018.
Mrs V is represented by her son, but I have referred to Mrs V throughout this decision, even 
though during our investigation it was sometimes Mrs Vs son giving testimony on her behalf.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so Ive reached the same outcome as the investigator broadly for the same 
reasons.
It is not in dispute that Mrs V authorised the payment of £1,000. She was duped by a 
scammer into transferring her funds into their bank account. They deceived her by placing a 
fake advert for a car on a social media site and asked her to pay a £1,000 deposit for the 
car. 
I therefore accept that this was an authorised payment even through Mrs V was the victim 
of a sophisticated scam. She sent the money via her bank account using her security 
credentials to request the payment. So, although she did not intend the money to go to the 
fraudsters, under the Payment Services Regulations 2017, Mrs V is presumed liable for the 
loss in the first instance.
However, in accordance with the law, regulations and good industry practice, a bank has a 
duty to protect its customers against the risk of fraud and scams so far as is reasonably 
possible. Amongst other things, this might involve a bank looking to identify and help prevent 
transactions  particularly unusual or out of character transactions  that could involve fraud 
or be the result of a scam. If, in breach of that duty, a bank fails to act on information which 
ought reasonably to alert a prudent banker to potential fraud or financial crime, it might be 
liable for losses incurred by its customer as a result. 
Accordingly, I first need to determine whether Wirecard breached that duty when executing 
Mrs Vs payment request for the £1,000 transaction. 
Most of the previous activity on Mrs Vs pre-paid pay as you go current account in the 6-
month period before the scam related to direct debits, debits and some faster payments into 
her account. From what I can see, Mrs V hadnt made any faster payments out to a new 
payee or paid out sums for £1,000 in recent times.
I appreciate this transfer was not in line with Mr Vs everyday activity. But Ive also thought 
carefully about whether the payment was particularly suspicious such that Wirecard should 
have been alerted to the possibility Mrs V might have been at risk of financial harm and so 
therefore questioned her further.
However, I'm not persuaded that it's reasonable to expect Wirecard to have intervened in 
this case. The balance in Mrs Vs account wasnt cleared and I'm not persuaded that based 
on the size of the payment that there was enough suspicion about it that I wouldve 
expected Wirecard to call Mrs V.
I appreciate another bank may have made contact with Mrs Vs son regarding a much 
smaller payment than this. Whilst I do not know the full context around this example, it would 
be impractical for banks to stop all payments of £15 for further scrutiny.  There is a balance 
to be struck between identifying payments that could potentially be fraudulent and 
minimising disruption to legitimate payments. Of course, those arrangements do need to 
accommodate that spending habits alter, unusual needs arise (such as a deposit for car 
purchase as was the case here) and it will be impossible to prevent all fraud without a 
significant number of genuine payments being delayed considerably and inconveniently. It 
remains that the payment wasnt fraud on the account itself. To the bank, it was a genuinely 
authorised payment. On the face of it, it seems to me that that there was no reason why the 
payment wouldnt have seemed genuine. 
The business has recently told us it took the appropriate action by contacting the beneficiary 
bank to try and recover the funds  although it hasnt provided evidence in support of that. 
However, it seems, from what both Mrs V says and the payee bank has told us, Wirecard did 
not take reasonable steps to try to recover the funds from the payee bank when Mrs V 
reported the fraud to it on 1 December 2018. 
Even if I found Wirecard didnt take reasonable steps to recover the funds, I dont think this 
automatically means Wirecard should refund Mrs V the £1,000. The reason I say this is 
where a business makes a mistake, I need to think about whether that mistake would have 
made a difference and I dont think it would have made a difference here. Ill explain why.
If Wirecard had taken reasonable steps to recover the finds from the payee bank, it still 
would have been too late. It is common knowledge that scammers do normally remove 
stolen funds as quickly as possible in order to avoid detection and recovery. According to the 
payee bank, the funds were credited by Mrs V at 11.17 on 27 November 2018 and 
withdrawn the same day at 15.57. So even if Wirecard had acted immediately when Mrs V 
first notified it on 1 December 2018, there was no reasonable prospect of recovering the 
funds.
Mrs V originally mentioned a potential section 75 claim but section 75 is a section in the 
Consumer Credit Act 1974 (CCA), which says in certain circumstances, the borrower under 
a credit agreement has an equal right to claim against the credit provider if theres a breach
of contract or misrepresentation by the supplier of goods or services. But as the investigator 
pointed out there is no credit agreement in place for Mrs Vs account and therefore the CCA 
doesnt apply in her case.
I also note Mrs V refers to the APP code of practice introduced in 2019 - known as the 
Contingent Reimbursement Model. This is a voluntary industry code which set new 
standards for the prevention of APP scams - but not all banks, including Wirecard, are 
signed up for it. In any event, as our investigator has already explained, the scheme wasnt 
introduced until May 2019 - after Mrs V made the payment in question. So I cant fairly 
require Wirecard to cover Mrs Vs payment. 
Im very sorry, as I know this will be disappointing news for Mrs V. Despite my natural 
sympathy for Mrs V, who has been an innocent victim of a sophisticated scam, it would be 
unfair and unreasonable to hold Wirecard liable for payments which, under the Regulations, 
Mrs V must be regarded as having authorised. 
Overall, I dont consider Wirecard has treated Mrs V unfairly. Ultimately, Mrs Vs loss is the 
result of a third parties actions and I dont think it would be fair to ask Wirecard to make 
good the loss when theres no evidence its done anything wrong in terms of identifying Mrs Vs payment as suspicious. And any failings, in terms of recovery of funds, wouldnt have 
made a difference in this particular case.
My final decision
My final decision is I do not uphold the complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs V to accept or 
reject my decision before 25 August 2021.
 
Kathryn Milne
Ombudsman