DRN-2316657
The complaint
Mrs E complains that Great Lakes Insurance SE hasnt refunded the premiums she paid for 
a travel insurance policy.
What happened
On 11 November 2019, Mrs E bought a single trip travel insurance policy through a broker, 
which was underwritten by Great Lakes. Mrs Es policy covered a trip shed planned to take 
abroad between 27 May and 10 June 2020. The policy cost Mrs E £267.14 for the basic 
level of single trip insurance cover. 
As a result of the Covid-19 pandemic, Mrs E got in touch with Great Lakes on 21 May 2020 
and asked to cancel her policy. She wanted a cash refund of her premiums. Subsequently, 
her tour operator sent her a cancellation invoice on 6 June 2020 and refunded the cost of 
her trip.
Great Lakes didnt offer Mrs E a cash refund. It initially offered her a pro-rata credit voucher 
for the portion of unused cover, which could be put towards another policy and which would 
be valid for 36 months. However, as the refund amount was less than £10, Great Lakes 
instead offered Mrs E a 20% discount towards the base price of a future policy.
Mrs E wasnt happy with Great Lakes offer and she asked us to look into her complaint. 
Our investigator thought Great Lakes offer was fair and reasonable. He thought that neither 
industry guidelines nor the policy contract entitled Mrs E to a refund of premiums. So he 
considered Great Lakes offer went further than it needed to do. He said that Great Lakes 
had been covering the risk of Mrs E making a cancellation claim since 11 November 2019. 
And so he thought it was fair that Mrs E paid the premiums to reflect that. He was satisfied 
that Great Lakes had calculated the refund amount correctly, but that its offer of a 20% 
discount was better value for Mrs E. 
Mrs E disagreed. She said her travel provider had cancelled her holiday, so the cancellation 
was out of her hands. She didnt plan to travel in the future. She told our investigator that she 
had received a letter telling her to shield in March 2020, so she wouldnt have been able to 
travel at that point. Mrs E later told our investigator though that she didnt consider cancelling 
her trip after she received the shielding letter because she thought it was only a temporary 
issue and that life would be back to normal by the time she planned to travel.
The complaints been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I think Great Lakes offer of settlement is fair and reasonable in
these circumstances. Ill explain why.
Industry rules and guidance
The insurance industry regulator, the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA), has set out rules
and guidance about a consumers right to cancel an insurance contract. These are contained
in the Insurance: Conduct of Business Sourcebook (ICOBS).
ICOBS says insurance contracts like the one Mrs E took out have a cooling off period
of 14 days for a consumer to cancel without penalty and without giving any reason. This is
called the right to cancel.
Under ICOBS, a firm may provide longer or additional cancellation rights voluntarily, as long
as these are on terms which are at least as favourable to the consumer, unless the
differences are clearly explained.
ICOBS 7.2.2 sets out payment for the service provided before cancellation in the event that
a consumer has the right to cancel. This rule says, if a consumer exercises the right to
cancel, they may only be required to pay for the service actually provided in accordance
with the contract. This may include an amount for cover provided (i.e. a proportion of the
policys exposure that relates to the time on risk).
Guidance set out under ICOBS 7.2.4 says:
In most cases, the FCA would expect the proportion of a policys exposure that
relates to the time on risk to be a pro rata apportionment. However, where there is
material unevenness in the incidence of risk, an insurer could use a more accurate
method. The sum should be reasonable and should not exceed an amount
commensurate to the risk incurred.
Mrs E didnt cancel her travel insurance policy within 14 days. She cancelled her
policy around six months after itd been taken out. And, under the industry rules
Ive set out above, even if Mrs E had cancelled the policy within 14 days, she still
wouldnt have been entitled to a full refund of the premium she paid. I say this because
Great Lakes covered the risk of her needing to cancel her trip for reasons that were
covered under the policy during that time, such as ill health.
The policy terms and conditions
The terms and conditions of Mrs Es insurance policy with Great Lakes set out her
contractual cancellation rights. These say:
If you ask us to cancel your policy in writing or by telephone, such cancellation shall take
effect on the date the notice is received, or on the date specified in the notice, whichever is
later.
You have the right to cancel your policy within 14 days of the date of issue or receipt of your
documents, whichever is later. We will only refund to you any premium you have paid, less
any fees and charges if you have not travelled, or have made, or intend to make a claim.
If the notice of cancellation is received outside the 14 day cooling off period no premium
will be refunded, however discretion may be exercised in exceptional circumstances such as
bereavement or a change to the policy resulting in us declining to cover your medical
conditions.
Mrs Es cancellation rights under the policy are more favourable to her than is
required by industry rules. But as Ive set out above, Mrs Es policy was cancelledmore than 14 days after she took out the policy. Thats because she took out the policy on
11 November 2019 and it wasnt cancelled until 21 May 2020.
The policy terms and conditions give Great Lakes discretion to refund the premium to a
policyholder if a policy is cancelled outside of the 14-day cooling off period in exceptional
circumstances. The examples of exceptional circumstances Great Lakes has set out are
policyholder-specific  such as bereavement or a change in her medical conditions. I dont
consider it would be fair or reasonable to ask Great Lakes to use its discretion and consider
the Covid-19 global pandemic to be exceptional circumstances. I dont think this type of
situation, which affected many of Great Lakes policyholders, is one which the policy term
relating to discretion is intended to cover.
This means that on a strict interpretation of the contract with Great Lakes, I dont think Mrs E 
is entitled to any refund of premiums.
What is fair and reasonable in all the circumstances
But Ive also considered what I think is fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of the
complaint.
I understand that as a result of the Covid-19 pandemic, which was unforeseen and outside
of her control, Mrs Es holiday plans changed. This meant she no longer had a
need for her single trip policy to cover her specific trip dates. So Ive thought about
whether it would be fair and reasonable to ask Great Lakes to depart from industry rules and
the terms and conditions of the policy because of the exceptional and extraordinary
circumstances surrounding Covid-19. The pandemic wasnt foreseen or anticipated by either
party to the contract.
However, Covid-19 didnt make it impossible for Mrs Es contract with Great Lakes to
be performed  cancellation cover began on the day she took out the policy. So the price
Great Lakes charged Mrs E also covered her for cancellation cover from 11
November 2019. This means the premium Mrs E paid covered the risk of her
having to cancel her holiday for one of the reasons the policy covered.
Great Lakes was covering the risk of Mrs E making a successful claim on the policy
from 11 November 2019 until her policy was cancelled on 21 May 2020.  Its a fundamental 
principle of insurance law that, if the insurer had started bearing the risk of a claim  for 
however short a time  the premium a policyholders paid is not returnable. So regardless of 
what Mrs Es cancellation rights were, it isnt unfair for Great Lakes to retain any premiums 
relating to the risk it covered during that time.
However, after the policy was cancelled due to Covid-19, Great Lakes didnt bear any risk
under Mrs Es insurance policy. Although Mrs Es cancellation invoice wasnt sent until 6 
June 2020, it seems most likely that the holiday was cancelled around the time of her call to 
the broker. I say that because the cancellation invoice post-dates her planned date of 
departure. It doesnt appear that Great Lakes has paid a claim in relation to this. Great Lakes 
was therefore no longer carrying the risk of the holiday being cancelled for any other insured 
reason.
In the specific circumstances of this complaint, I think its fair and reasonable for
Great Lakes to calculate the pro-rata refund from the date the policy was cancelled on
21 May 2020. I say that because it seems most likely, given the cancellation invoice is dated 
6 June 2020, that the holiday and policy were cancelled at about the same time. We asked 
Mrs E when the holiday was cancelled and she provided us with the date of the cancellation 
invoice. So she hasnt suggested that the holiday was cancelled any earlier than 21 May 2020. If she does have any evidence from her travel provider though that the trip was 
cancelled earlier than 21 May 2020, its open to her to send this to Great Lakes to consider.
 
How the refund should be paid
In considering whether I think Great Lakes should make a pro-rata refund of Mrs Es
premiums by way of a voucher or by way of a monetary refund, Ive thought about what
would be fair and reasonable to both parties.
While I appreciate Mrs Es reasons for cancelling her policy, it was her choice to do
so. She entered into a contract with Great Lakes, paying a premium in return for
Great Lakes acceptance of the risk of a valid claim occurring under the policy. Paying a
refund by way of a voucher means the risk Great Lakes agreed to accept is moved to a
future date.
Overall, I dont think it would be fair for me to conclude that Great Lakes should pay a pro-
rata monetary refund to Mrs E. I think a voucher, for a discount of 20% off the price of a 
future policy, subject to the restrictions and limitations attached to that voucher being 
reasonable, is a fair alternative to a monetary refund in the circumstances.
The discount voucher which Great Lakes has offered is valid for 36 months. Great Lakes has 
now said that Mrs E may gift her voucher to a family member or a friend, if she doesnt want 
to use it. The voucher can be put towards a future travel insurance policy to cover a future 
holiday.
I understand that Mrs E feels that the voucher isnt suitable for her, because she
say she wont use it. But I do think the voucher gives her some flexibility as to how its
used and I think three years is a reasonable timeframe.
Ive also borne in mind what Mrs Es told us about receiving a shielding letter in March 2020, 
which meant that she wouldnt have been able to travel at that point and Ive carefully 
considered this. But Mrs E told our investigator that she hadnt considered cancelling her 
holiday at that point, because shed thought the situation was temporary and that life would 
be back to normal by the date of her holiday. So it seems to me that even though Mrs E may 
have been advised to shield, she still intended to travel as planned in May 2020. So it seems 
to me that shed have wanted to keep the policy to cover the holiday she intended to take.
This means I dont think the terms of Great Lakes voucher are unreasonably restrictive. So it 
follows that I think the voucher is a fair offer in the circumstances.
The calculation of the voucher
Great Lakes doesnt break the premium for this policy down into pre-travel cancellation and
post-departure cover. Instead, the premium charged is split equally across the whole period
of cover.
An insurer is entitled to decide the way in which it calculates the premiums it charges taking
into account factors such as its previous claims experience, its assessment of the likelihood
of claims arising and its own commercial interests  as long as it treats its customers fairly.
Based on the explanations that Great Lakes has provided about its reasons for calculating
the premiums in the way it does, Im satisfied there isnt a material unevenness in the
incidence of risk across the life of its single trip travel insurance policies. And Im satisfied
that Great Lakes hasnt treated Mrs E unfairly or singled her out in any way. The initial 
refund voucher value has been calculated based on Mrs Es unused period of standard 
travel insurance cover.The premium Mrs E paid for this policy was for a period of approximately 213 days
from 11 November 2019 to 21 May 2020. The value of the refund which Great Lakes has
calculated is due to Mrs E is equal to 21 unused days of cover from 21 May 2020 until the 
planned end date of the trip on 10 June 2020. Ive checked the calculation Great Lakes has 
provided and it seems it calculated the offer fairly. However, as the refund Great Lakes 
calculated Mrs E was due is less than £10 (a total of £7.96), its instead offered her a 
discount voucher of 20% towards a future policy. This appears to represent better value to 
Mrs E than the calculated refund she was due.
Overall, based on all Ive seen, I think Great Lakes offer of settlement is fair and reasonable. 
So Im not telling Great Lakes to do anything more.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs E to accept or 
reject my decision before 20 May 2021.
 
Lisa Barham
Ombudsman