DRN-3746339
The complaint
Mrs S is unhappy with the settlement offered by Tesco Underwriting Limited (Tesco) 
following a claim on her home insurance policy. 
What happened
In April 2021 Mrs S lost an earring and made a claim on her home contents insurance. The 
cost of replacing the pair of earrings was £3,175. 
Tesco dealt with the earrings as a matching set and offered to cover the one missing earring 
for £1,587.50 plus 50% of the value of the remaining earring which was £793.75. It said the 
remaining earring was to be surrendered as salvage. This totalled £2,381.25 for the two 
earrings less the £150 excess. 
Mrs S complained to Tesco. She wanted to keep the remaining earring and wasnt happy 
with the service shed received. Tesco accepted that their service had fallen below standard 
and that Mrs S had been given conflicting information about the personal possessions limit 
of £2,000. As a result, it agreed to honour the settlement of £2,381.25 despite this being 
above the policy limit. However, the remaining earring would need to be surrendered as the 
settlement covered the set. Alternatively, Tesco said that Mrs S could accept £1,587.50 for 
the one lost earring and keep the remaining earring. In July 2021 Tesco paid Mrs S a 
settlement of £2,231.25 after deduction of the £150 excess, and requested the remaining 
earring be surrendered.
Mrs S brought her complaint to this service as she wanted to keep the remaining earring. 
Our investigator thought that the two alternative settlements offered by Tesco were fair, and 
that it was reasonable for the settlement of £2,381.25 to include surrender of the earring. 
Mrs S asked for an ombudsmans decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive looked at Mrs Ss policy and can see that the earrings were not listed as specified items 
but were covered under the personal possessions section. This section is subject to a total 
value of £3,000, with a maximum for any one personal possession of £2,000.  There is also 
an excess of £150.
A pair of earrings would be considered one item as one earring would not usually be bought 
or worn on its own. So, in general if one earring is lost, I think it fair for a settlement to 
include the full value of replacing the two earrings. However, any settlement is subject to the 
policy limit  which in this case is £2,000.
Tesco calculated the settlement on a slightly different basis  the full value of the lost earring 
plus half of the value of the remaining earring. Whilst I dont necessarily think that this was 
the correct way to calculate the value  it makes no practical difference as the claim was 
subject to the £2,000 policy limit in any event. 
During early discussions with Mrs S, Tesco offered her a settlement of £2,381.25 which was 
more than the policy limit. It later agreed to honour this offer due to poor service and the 
conflicting information Mrs S had received about the policy limit. I think this was fair. 
The issue, therefore, is what should happen to the remaining earring. I dont think it 
unreasonable for insurers to request an undamaged item be surrendered if they are paying 
out for a complete new set. It would be unfair for an insurer to pay for a new set whilst the 
policyholder still has the benefit of the undamaged parts of the old set. This would put the 
policyholder in a better position than before the damage. I think the principal is the same for 
an item such as a pair of earrings. If Tesco paid for a new pair of earrings, then I dont think 
it would be unreasonable for the remaining earring to be surrendered  particularly as it is 
likely to have a salvage value which will allow Tesco to recoup some of its loss.
However, Tesco hasnt paid the full cost of replacing the earrings, so I have to consider 
whether its fair for Tesco to keep the earring in these circumstances  and I think it is. The 
only reason Im not expecting Tesco to pay the full value of the earrings is because the claim 
is subject to the policy limit of £2,000. This was a limit agreed by Mrs S when she took out 
the policy and its clearly set out in the policy schedule and the terms and conditions. 
Mrs S says that she thinks she is being doubly penalised as she believed that the settlement 
was reduced to reflect the fact that she still had one earring  and now she is being asked to 
surrender it. Whilst I have sympathy with Mrs Ss position, the settlement is reduced by the 
£2,000 policy limit, not by the fact that she wants to keep one earring. Tescos letter in June 
2021 clearly advises Mrs S that she would need to surrender the remaining earring if she 
accepted the £2,381.25 settlement figure  which she did in July 2021. 
I understand why Mrs S wishes to keep the earring and losing something of sentimental 
value can be very upsetting. However, for the reasons stated above I dont think Tesco has 
been unreasonable in seeking surrender of the earring and I dont uphold this complaint. 
Whilst Im not upholding this complaint, it is of course open to Mrs S to speak to Tesco about 
the possibility of buying back the earring at salvage value. Whilst I cant say that Tesco 
should agree to this, its something I would expect them to consider if requested by Mrs S.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs S to accept or 
reject my decision before 8 February 2023.
 
Elizabeth Middleton
Ombudsman