DRN-4245510
The complaint
Mrs R complains that when she took out her pet insurance policy with Great Lakes 
Insurance SE she was told the numbers of claims she made would not affect the premium, 
but Great Lakes is now taking claims into account when calculating the premium and this led 
to an increase for her.
What happened
Mrs R took out a lifetime pet insurance policy in 2018 to provide cover for her two dogs. The 
policy has renewed each year since. The policy was underwritten by Great Lakes, which set 
the amount of premium to be charged.
When Mrs R bought the policy she was told individual claims did not affect the renewal 
pricing. But in 2022 the decision was made to take into account claims history from the last 
12 months when setting the premium at renewal. This meant if Mrs R made any claims it 
might affect the premium she had to pay the following year. 
This change came into effect when Mrs R renewed her policy in February 2023. Her monthly 
premium increased from 105 to £188.
When Mrs R complained about the increase the response she received explained that:
a decision had been made to include personal claims history following feedback from 
customers;
as she had made claims in the last 12 months, there had been a small impact on the 
premium;
but this was not the main reason for the increase - other factors were relevant too, 
including the pet's breed, age, geographical area and general vet costs;
the biggest single factor was the increase in age of one of the pets, who was now 
eight years old.
Mrs R was offered £100 as a goodwill gesture to acknowledge that the new premium had 
come as a shock to her.
When Mrs R then referred her complaint to this service our investigator said its for the 
insurer to decide how much to charge for a policy based on its assessment of the risk. But 
she agreed that Mrs R should have been given clear information about the potential long 
term costs implications, and it hadnt been made clear to Mrs R at the point of sale that there 
could be steep increases in the premium at renewal or a clear explanation of how the policy 
actually operated. 
The investigator said Mrs R was left in a very difficult position and the large increase in 
premium would have been very upsetting. She recommended that Great Lakes increase the 
compensation to £500.
Mrs R remains unhappy. She says it isnt fair that the way the premiums are calculated can 
be changed in this way and £500 doesnt cover the extra she now has to pay.
Great Lakes considers the compensation recommended by the investigator is too high and 
says at most it would agree to £350.
As no agreement has been reached the complaint has been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mrs R took out a lifetime insurance policy for her two pets. Lifetime policies are usually more 
expensive as they provide a greater level of cover than standard policies, which only provide 
cover for a limited time  each condition is covered for 12 months. But there are different 
considerations around the long-term cost and cover with lifetime policies, as the cost doesnt 
stay the same throughout and will generally increase each year at renewal. And theres no 
limit to how high the cost could be.
Mrs R is unhappy with the premium charged for the renewal of her lifetime policy. In 
particular shes concerned that claims history is now taken into account, which is different 
from what she was told when she took the policy out.
Insurers are entitled to decide how much to charge for the insurance cover they provide. Its 
up to them how much they increase their premiums by and its common for increases to vary 
from year to year. I dont have the power to tell an insurer how much it should charge. I 
would in effect be telling a business how it should operate  and thats not my role. So I cant 
say the cost of Mrs Rs policy is too high, she should have been charged less for the policy 
or that she should be charged less in the future. And the policy terms do allow Great Lakes 
to change the premium at renewal.
We have previously taken the view that in some circumstances it might not be fair for a 
business to make changes to a policy like this if they fundamentally change the nature of the 
cover on offer. But I dont think that is whats happened here.
Great Lakes has evidenced that claims were in fact taken into account when these policies 
first started, but they were spread across all consumers. That has changed. The difference is 
that previously they were pooled across customers with similar characteristics, whereas now 
customers who have more claims are charged more, if claims in the last 12 months indicate 
an increased risk of future claims. Great Lakes has also explained that this change wasnt 
the main reason for the increase in Mrs Rs premium, which was due to the age of one of the 
pets.
However, Great Lakes had a responsibility to provide clear, fair and not misleading 
information to Mrs R when she bought the policy. The relevant rules say it needs to take 
reasonable steps to provide a customer with appropriate information about a policy in good 
time and in a comprehensible form so that the customer can make an informed decision 
about the arrangements proposed.
Great Lakes didnt made it clear at the point of sale that there can be steep increases to the 
premium at renewal or explain clearly how the policy actually operated. So the information 
wasnt clear and, by saying claims would not affect the premium, it was misleading. 
Customers might expect their premium to increase over time but Mrs R wasnt aware claims 
would be taken into account when setting premiums. So she didnt understand how the 
policy would work. For lifetime cover, information about the long-term costs of the policy 
and how premiums would be calculated would have been important to Mrs R and should 
have been clear.But I think its clear Mrs R wanted lifetime cover for her dogs. Even if Great Lakes had 
explained things more clearly, its unlikely she would have been able to find another policy 
which didnt taken claims into account. While some other providers might not apply claims 
loading in the same way, claims are almost always a factor in setting premiums. So if she 
had been given clearer information its likely she would have gone ahead. And if she had 
gone elsewhere, its likely she would have found herself in a similar position eventually. 
But the price at renewal has caused Mrs R distress. If she chose the policy thinking claims 
wouldnt affect the premium, it would be upsetting to find that isnt the case and the premium 
has increased partly as a result of claims she made. She might reasonably have thought 
there would be some increase, for example as her dogs got older, but the extent of that 
increase would have been unexpected and would have been a shock. And while Mrs R can 
move to another provider if she wishes, that may be difficult with her pet now experiencing 
an ongoing condition. 
Ive thought about the impact on Mrs R and Im satisfied the £500 our investigator 
recommended is reasonable. I appreciate this may be more than has been awarded in other 
complaints but every case is considered on its own circumstances. Mrs R has explained the 
impact this had on her and that shes reduced the level of cover she has in order to make the 
policy more affordable. Taking into account her particular circumstances I think the amount 
is fair.
Mrs R says the compensation doesnt cover the extra amount she now has to pay, but it isnt 
intended to cover that; its to acknowledge the distress and inconvenience she has been 
caused.
My final decision
I uphold the complaint and direct Great Lakes Insurance SE to pay compensation of £500 to 
Mrs R for the distress and inconvenience caused to her.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs R to accept or 
reject my decision before 18 October 2023.
 
Peter Whiteley
Ombudsman