DRN-2583709
The complaint
Mr P complains that The Royal Bank of Scotland Plc (RBS) blocked a payment, were slow to 
send him a closing statement and respond to his SAR request.
What happened
Mr P had an account with RBS. In July 2020, he tried to make a payment for £2900. This 
was blocked. He asked to close his account. This wasnt done immediately. The account 
was closed on 25 August 2020. The closing statement was sent in October 2020. Mr P made 
a SAR request. This was sent to him in December 2020.
Mr P complained that the payment shouldnt have been blocked. The closure of the account 
was delayed. He said he hadnt received a closing statement. And the time he had to wait for 
RBS to respond to his SAR request was too long. 
RBS said that the closure of Mr Ps account was delayed because theyd asked him for 
details of where to send his money  and needed to contact him to find this out. Having got 
the information, the account was closed on 25 August 2020. The account was frozen in the 
meantime as part of their process  to protect against fraud. The decision to block the 
payment on 19 July 2020 was part of their normal processes  they check some payments 
to protect customers against possible fraud. Mr P had contacted them but had hung up when 
he was to be taken through security checks. They apologised for the delay in sending Mr Ps 
closing statement -this was then sent in October 2020. The SAR request was received by 
RBS on 19 September 2020 and was being dealt with.
Mr P brought his complaint to this service. Our investigator said that the closure of Mr Ps 
account was because RBS needed to contact him about where to send the funds. The 
closing statement had been delayed due to a systems error. RBSs decision to block Mr Ps 
payment was fair  this was to guard customers against fraud. Hed confirmed with Mr P in 
December 2020 that the closing statement and SAR request had been received by him.  He 
agreed that RBS had been slow to resolve the various issues and theyd agreed to offer Mr 
P compensation of £100.
Mr P asked that his complaint be reviewed by an ombudsman.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr P has told us hes unhappy about several things. Firstly, the delay in closing his account 
and receiving his closing statement. And his payment request was blocked. And, his request 
for a SAR was also delayed. Ive looked at all the correspondence on the file, including all 
the points that Mr P has made to us.
RBS have told us that the closure of Mr Ps account was delayed as they needed to contact 
him to ask where to send the money. After theyd got this information, the account was 
closed on 25 August 2020. They apologised for the fact that a closing statement wasnt sent 
to Mr P  and they sent this to him in October 2020. The decision to block the payment of 
£2900 was within RBSs standard processes  these are in place to protect customers from 
fraud. These checks are in place for all customers  not just Mr P. If a payment meets 
certain risk criteria, they hold the payment until they can get in touch with customers to 
validate the payment. Thats what happened here. Ive seen the notes on Mr Ps account, 
and he hung up when he called about the payment - when he was about to be taken though 
security checks. The SAR request was received by RBS on 19 September 2020  and was 
sent to Mr P in December 2020.
Mr P has told us that hes received the closing statement and the SAR information.
RBS have acknowledged that there were delays in dealing with Mr Ps requests. Theyve 
offered Mr P £100 compensation. Given what happened here, I think thats reasonable.
So  and Im sure that Mr P will be disappointed by this  I do not uphold his complaint. The 
offer of compensation still stands  and if Mr P wants to accept it he should contact RBS 
who will arrange payment.
My final decision
I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision before 24 March 2021.
 
Martin Lord
Ombudsman