DRN-3414468
The complaint
Mrs J complains about the settlement that Red Sands Insurance Company (Europe) Limited 
paid her following a claim made on her Guaranteed Asset Protection (GAP) motor insurance 
policy. 
What happened
Mrs Js car was declared a total loss after an incident. Her motor insurer offered her a 
settlement that was less than what shed bought the car for. Red Sands paid Mrs J a 
settlement of £750 to cover the shortfall and her policy excess. But Mrs J didnt think this 
was correct. She said she was still left with a £750 shortfall compared to her purchase price 
for the car. 
Our Investigator didnt recommend that the complaint should be upheld. He thought Red 
Sands had paid Mrs J the difference between the purchase price of her car and the current 
loss value, and also her policy excess. He thought this was in keeping with the policys terms 
and conditions. 
Mrs J asked for her complaint to be reviewed by an Ombudsman, so its come to me for a 
final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Our approach in cases like this is to consider whether the insurers acted in line with the 
terms and conditions of the policy and fairly and reasonably.
I can see the policy booklet explains the cover provided on page three and defines the 
various terms:
Cover provided - If within the period of cover the vehicle is classed as a total loss we will 
pay the difference, up to the claim limit, between the purchase value and loss value.
Purchase value - The lesser of the cost of the Vehicle or the Glass's Guide retail value at 
the time of purchase of the vehicle.
Loss value - The motor insurers settlement or, if greater, the Glasss Guide retail value for 
purchasing or replacing the vehicle with one of the same make, model, trim level, book 
mileage, service history and overall condition.
Ive looked to see what should have happened to settle Mrs Js claim in keeping with these 
terms and conditions. Mrs J paid £22,000 for her car. But Red Sands said the retail value of 
the car at the time of purchase was £21,520. And this was the purchase value it should have 
used.
Our Investigator checked how this valuation had been arrived at. And I can see that it was 
made looking at cars of the same make, model, age, mileage and condition as Mrs Js car at 
the date of its purchase. So I cant say it was incorrect. 
Mrs Js motor insurer paid her £20,750 in settlement of her claim. The valuation provided in 
the motor trade guide was higher at £21,000. And so this was the one Red Sands should 
have used in settling the claim. Again I can see that our Investigator checked how this 
valuation was reached and Im satisfied that it was correct. 
I think it was in keeping with the policys terms and conditions for Red Sands to calculate the 
settlement as the cars purchase value as shown in the motor trade guide less the valuation 
shown at its date of loss. This showed a gap of £520. And it then added a refund of the 
policy excess, £200. Red Sands final settlement was higher than this at £750. So I think that 
was fair and reasonable and I dont require it to increase its offer.
Mrs J was unhappy as she said she was told at point of sale that the policy would cover the 
full purchase invoice for her car. I think Mrs J implied that the policy had been mis-sold to 
her. But I cant consider that here as Red Sands didnt sell the policy to Mrs J. I can see that 
Mrs J has raised a separate complaint against the business that sold her the policy. 
My final decision
For the reasons given above, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs J to accept or 
reject my decision before 18 July 2022.
 
Phillip Berechree
Ombudsman