DRN-4325114
The complaint
Miss R complains about how Startline Motor Finance Limited (Startline) handled her 
attempt to reject a car under a hire purchase agreement.
What happened
Miss R acquired a used car using a hire purchase agreement with Startline in November 
2022. The car was acquired from a third-party dealership. The cash price of the car was 
£6,800 and a deposit of £99 was paid. At the point of sale, the car was around eight years 
old and had travelled around 84,000 miles.
A few days later, Miss R said there were issues with the car. Miss R said she got in touch 
with the supplying dealership to request rejection of the car under the Consumer Rights Act 
2015 (CRA).
Mrs R said she agreed to allow the car to be repaired. But, she said she was pressured to do 
this by the dealer, and found out this meant she couldnt then reject the car.
Job sheets for the repair showed that some of the faults reported were white smoke coming 
out of the cars exhaust and abnormal noises coming from underneath the car when driving, 
as well as it shaking excessively when starting up. The job sheet showed the car was taken 
on a road test after some nuts and bolts were tightened  and no noise was found 
afterwards. It also said the shaking when starting the car was normal and that they couldnt 
see white smoke coming from the exhaust.
The car was returned to Miss R and a few days later, in December 2022, Miss R said a fault 
with the clutch occurred. Miss R said she expressed that she wanted to reject the car again.  
At this point, the car had travelled around 800 miles further since the point of sale.
Miss R said it was offered to exchange the car, but she said it wasnt clearly explained to her 
that this would have meant a new agreement would have needed to be signed. The car was 
left at the supplying dealership. 
Miss R complained to Startline. Miss R wanted to be reimbursed for expenses she had 
incurred as well as compensated for the distress and inconvenience caused. 
Startline gave their final response to Miss R in February 2022. They said that they partially 
upheld her complaint. In summary, they said that they accepted rejection of the car, 
however, Miss R would need to visit the supplying dealership branch to return the car and 
sign required paperwork. Startline also said that the terms of agreement stated they have no 
liability for any indirect loss or damage Miss R suffered because the car couldnt be used for 
any reason. And so, they didnt feel they needed to pay any compensation to Miss R.
Startline then said they contacted Miss R later in February 2023 to explain that in order to 
reject the car and unwind the agreement, she would need to visit the dealership to return 
some documents and sign some paperwork. They said they explained to Miss R that she 
may incur some fees if she didnt do this. And if Miss R didnt want to go ahead and reject 
the car, then she should arrange to collect it.
Miss R then referred her complaint to our service.
As Miss R hadnt returned to the dealership, Startline said they recovered the car in March 
2023 as they considered it abandoned and later sold the car at auction for £2,600.
In May 2023, Startline sent Miss R a Notice Of Sums In Arrears (NOSIA) letter which said 
there was a payment shortfall of £9,257.07 on her account. Miss R then said that Startline 
had reported a default in relation to the outstanding balance, which was later revised to 
£6,647.07.
Our service asked Miss R why she hadnt returned the necessary documents to process the 
unwind of the agreement. Among other things, Miss R explained that she didnt want to sign 
any further documents as she believed the dealer had been dishonest previously when 
arranging to exchange the car.
Our investigator issued her opinion and upheld the complaint. In summary, she said she was 
satisfied there was a fault with the clutch in December 2022 and believed this meant that the 
car wasnt of satisfactory quality at the point it was supplied.. Our investigator said that 
Startline needed to accept rejection of the car. So, she directed Startline to:
End the agreement with nothing further to pay.
Refund the deposit contribution paid.
Refund all rentals from 15 December 2022 to the date of settlement.
Pay a further £200 for distress and inconvenience
Remove any adverse information from Miss Rs credit file in relation to this 
agreement.
Pay 8% simple yearly interest on all refunded amounts from the date payments were 
made until the date of settlement.
Startline didnt agree with the investigators findings. In summary, they said they do not 
dispute the investigators view that the car should be rejected. But they didnt agree that Miss 
R should receive £200 for distress and inconvenience. They believed, had Miss R provided 
the necessary documents, this matter could have been resolved amicably in a timely 
manner.  
As Startline disagreed with the investigators findings, the complaint has been passed to me 
to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im upholding this complaint and Ill explain why below.
Miss R complains about a car, and the subsequent offer made in relation to it, supplied to 
her under a hire purchase agreement. Entering into consumer credit contracts such as this is 
a regulated activity, so Im satisfied I can consider Miss Rs complaint about Startline.
When considering whats fair and reasonable, I take into account relevant law and 
regulations. The CRA is relevant to this complaint. The CRA explains under a contract to supply goods, the supplier  Startline here  has a responsibility to make sure goods are of 
satisfactory quality. Satisfactory quality is what a reasonable person would expect  taking 
into account any relevant factors.
I would consider relevant factors here, amongst others, to include the cars age, price, 
mileage and description. So, its important to note here that the car Miss R acquired was 
used. I can see this car was over seven years old, cost £6,800.00 and had around 84,000 
miles on the odometer when Miss R got it. So, I think a reasonable person would accept that 
it would not be in the same condition as a newer car and was likely to have some parts that 
are worn. But a reasonable person would still expect the car to be free from anything other 
than minor faults and wouldve expected trouble free motoring for a reasonable time.
Ive noted Startline have agreed to the rejection of the car. But for completeness, I think it is 
still worth me commenting on whether the car was of satisfactory quality when it was 
supplied.
Job sheets have been provided which shows repairs were carried out to the car shortly after 
it was acquired to the underside of the car as well as to the rear wiper. There were also other 
aspects which were reported but the dealership who carried out the repairs didnt find any 
faults.
Shortly after the repairs were carried out, another issue arose with the car. Both Miss R and 
Startlines notes they have provided suggest the clutch failed on the car and it needed 
replacing. From what I have seen, Im satisfied there was a fault with the clutch in December 
2022.
Ive gone on to think about whether this fault with the clutch was present at the point of sale.
The fault with the clutch occurred on 15 December 2022  within one month of the car being 
acquired, and within around 800 miles of it being used.
Im satisfied the fault with the clutch was more than likely present or developing at the point 
of sale. It follows that I dont think the car was of satisfactory quality at the point of supply.
So, what I now need to consider here is whether the offer Startline made to Miss R of 
accepting rejection of the car was fair and reasonable to put things right, or if it needs to do 
anything further.
Ive firstly considered Miss Rs rights under the CRA. The CRA explains a consumer has the 
short term right to reject if goods are of unsatisfactory quality and the consumer exercises 
this right within 30 days of the goods being transferred to their possession.
As above, Im satisfied the goods were not of satisfactory quality. And Miss R has said she 
had attempted to reject the car on two occasions  both within 30 days. Im satisfied Miss R 
had a short term right to reject the car, and likely exercised this right within the time limits set 
out in the CRA. It follows Im satisfied Startline should have allowed her to reject the car, and 
I think it is fair and reasonable that Miss R should still be able to do this. And in any event, 
Startline has also accepted rejection of the car.
Startline said Miss R needed to visit the supplying dealership to complete required 
paperwork and to hand in some documentation. But at this point, Im satisfied it was clear 
the relationship between both parties had broken down. 
Miss R told our service she didnt trust the supplying dealership. Startline also suggested in 
their final response to Miss R that her behaviour had been inappropriate when she visited the supplying dealership in person. So, I can see why Miss R might not have wanted to visit 
the dealership in person again, as it might have exacerbated the health condition she says 
she has. 
I also note Miss R has said the car was left, with its keys, at the supplying dealership. So, I 
think it would have been reasonable for Startline to arrange for an alternative method of 
sorting the paperwork without visiting the dealer. For instance, I think it couldve offered to 
send the documents needed to be signed in the post, and for Miss R to have returned the 
items needed in the post. But I cant see this option, or an alternative option was offered.
Instead, Startline relied on a term in the agreement to consider the car abandoned and 
started its process to recover it and terminate the agreement. In turn, arrears notices were 
communicated to Miss R and a default eventually applied to her credit file.
Considering everything here, I dont think the actions Startline to have taken were fair. I say 
this because, Miss R had left the keys with the supplying dealership. Both Startline and the 
supplying dealership also knew where the car was. And they both knew Miss R was in 
discussion with our service. So, I dont think the car should have been treated as 
abandoned. Furthermore, relevant regulations say repossession of goods, in summary, is a 
last resort. And as Ive already said, I dont think all the options had been considered in 
receiving the paperwork needed to process the rejection.
The car hasnt been used by Miss R since December 2022 due to its fault as it was 
undriveable. So, I think it is fair Miss Rs monthly repayments paid from this point onwards 
are reimbursed up to the date of settlement.
Miss R has provided screenshots of taxi journeys and costs shes incurred to travel to 
destinations as a result of not having use of the car. Miss R has asked for these costs to be 
reimbursed but Im satisfied the reimbursements of monthly repayments made when the car 
wasnt used is enough in this instance.
I have taken on board Startlines comments as to why they dont think a payment for distress 
and inconvenience is warranted in this instance. But I also think it must have been frustrating 
for Miss R to deal with the issues the car had, and for it to occur so early into acquiring the 
car. And she has explained to our service the impact this has had in relying on taxis to travel 
with her family. I think it would be fair for Startline to compensate Miss R for the distress and 
inconvenience this issue has caused her. I agree with our investigator that £200 is 
reasonable here.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, I uphold this complaint and instruct Startline Motor Finance 
Limited to put things right by doing the following:
End the agreement with nothing further to pay.
Reimburse Miss R the deposit paid of £99. *
Reimburse all monthly repayments made towards the agreement from 15 December 
2022 to the date of settlement. *
Pay Miss R £200 to reflect the distress and inconvenience caused.
Remove any negative information about this agreement from Miss Rs credit file in 
relation to this complaint, if any.
* These amounts should have 8% simple yearly interest added from the time of payment to 
the time of reimbursement. If Startline considers that its required by HM Revenue & Customs to withhold income tax from the interest, it should tell Miss R how much its taken 
off. It should also give Miss R a tax deduction certificate if they ask for one, so they can 
reclaim the tax from HM Revenue and Customs if appropriate.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss R to accept 
or reject my decision before 23 October 2023.
 
Ronesh Amin
Ombudsman