DRN-3747358
The complaint
Mrs D complains that Red Sands Insurance Company (Europe) Limited declined a claim she 
made under her travel insurance policy.
What happened
Mrs D took out a single trip travel insurance policy in February 2022 to cover a trip between 
1 June and 26 June 2022. The insurer was Red Sands. Any reference to Red Sands also 
includes the actions of its agents.
Mrs D first travelled to a country which Ill call F on 1 June 2022, and she was due to 
continue her journey to a country which Ill call S on 5 June 2022. But she couldnt board 
the flight from F to S as she didnt have the relevant travel documents  a visa or a negative 
PCR test. So, Mrs D moved her flight to S for 8 June 2022. But around 6 June 2022, Mrs D 
tested positive for Covid-19 with a lateral flow test she took in F. Mrs D says she was too 
unwell to continue her trip, and there were no flights available to S, so she flew back home to 
the UK on 11 June 2022. 
Mrs D made a claim to Red Sands for the unused flight costs to S, as well as the new return 
flight back to the UK. Red Sands first declined the claim because Mrs D hadnt phoned the 
24/7 assistance team before curtailing her trip, as required in the curtailment section in the 
policy. But it later also declined the claim because Mrs D hadnt visited a doctor or obtained 
a PCR test to confirm she had Covid-19. Red Sands said a photo of the positive lateral flow 
test wasnt enough, as it was unable to confirm when the test was done, who did the test, 
and what advice was given based on this by the airline and/or a medical professional. 
Unhappy with Red Sands response, Mrs D brought a complaint to our service. She doesnt 
think the policy documents made it clear she had to phone the assistance team for her claim 
to be valid. She says the front page of the documents gave an option to download a claim 
form in non-emergencies  which is what she did. Mrs D also doesnt think it wouldve been 
reasonable for her to see a medical professional, considering she had Covid-19.
One of our investigators looked into what had happened. Overall, she didnt think Red Sands 
had acted unfairly or unreasonably in declining the claim, for the reasons it did. She also 
said that it was for Mrs D to provide evidence to show she couldnt continue her trip and had 
to return home earlier than planned due to her illness. Our investigator wasnt satisfied 
Mrs D had done that.
Mrs D didnt agree with out investigators findings. As no agreement was reached, the 
complaint has been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Industry rules set out by the regulator (the Financial Conduct Authority) say insurers must 
handle claims fairly and shouldnt unreasonably reject a claim. Ive taken these rules, 
relevant law and other industry guidance, into account when deciding what I think is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of Mrs Ds complaint.
The curtailment section of Mrs Ds policy provides cover if you or anyone insured on this 
policy, became ill with an infectious disease during your trip (including contracting Covid-
19). Mrs D says this is the reason for curtailing her trip, and shes sent a photo of a lateral 
flow test which suggests a positive result for Covid-19.
But the terms go on to say this is provided you have contacted the 24/7 assistance team 
before making any arrangements, and if you need to make a claim the claims handlers will 
need to see Evidence to support the reason for your curtailment, including the medical 
certificate in your claim form completed and stamped by the General Practitioner of the 
person(s) whose illness, injury or death has led to the curtailment, if applicable. This doesnt 
apply if the medical reason relates to you and you have contacted our assistance team at 
the time, and they have confirmed you need to return home early.
Firstly, Mrs D says she didnt call the assistance team as she doesnt think it was clear from 
the policy documents that she needed to. But I can see that in addition to the terms above, 
the first page of the policy documents says under Important Information that For 
emergency medical assistance abroad or to cut short your trip: contact our 24-hour 
emergency advice line on (my emphasis). This is a common feature of most, if not all, 
travel insurance policies. And I dont think its unreasonable or onerous to expect a 
policyholder to contact their insurer before making arrangements to amend their trip. 
While I dont think its fair for Red Sands to insist on a medical certificate in circumstances 
such as this, I also dont think it would be fair or reasonable to require Red Sands to accept 
Mrs Ds claim based on photographs of a positive lateral flow test alone, without some other 
evidence in support of Mrs Ds version of events.
Fundamentally, its for a policyholder to show that they have a valid claim, and to provide 
reasonable evidence in support of that claim. Red Sands says Mrs D hasnt done that here, 
and I agree. I also dont think Red Sands acted unfairly by saying it wouldve been 
reasonable for Mrs D to call the insurer before cutting short her trip, based on her situation 
and the terms of the policy.
Im sorry to disappoint Mrs D, but I dont think Red Sands has acted unfairly here. I think it 
acted fairly and reasonably, and in line with the terms and conditions of the policy, when it 
declined her claim. I dont think Mrs D has shown she has a valid claim  either by phoning 
the insurer before curtailing her trip, or by sending further evidence in support of the reason 
for curtailment. Overall, I dont think theres anything Red Sands needs to do, to put things 
right.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold Mrs Ds complaint about Red Sands Insurance 
Company (Europe) Limited.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs D to accept or 
reject my decision before 16 November 2022.
 
Renja Anderson
Ombudsman