DRN-1654576
 
The complaint
Miss B says Barclays Bank plc (trading as Barclaycard) mis-sold her a payment protection 
insurance (PPI) policy.
background
This complaint is about a credit card PPI policy taken out in 2001. The policy provided cover 
to Miss B against accidents, sickness and unemployment. The policy was cancelled in 2006 
and the card ended in 2010.
Miss B says she does not recall any mention of PPI. She also adds that she applied for the 
card through the post and did not meet or speak to anyone about the policy.
Our adjudicator did not uphold Miss Bs complaint. Miss B disagreed with the adjudicators 
opinion so the complaint has been passed to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding Miss Bs case.
Barclaycard says the PPI policy and card were sold to Miss B in a branch during a meeting. 
Miss B on the other hand says she applied for the card through the post. Barclaycard points 
to the application form and also a code that is written at the top of it, that it says relates to 
one of its branches. I have looked at the form and can see that it is one that was used in 
branches. So because of this, i think it is more likely that the card and PPI were sold to Miss 
B in a meeting and will proceed that this was the case.
Ive decided not to uphold Miss Bs complaint because:
 
I think Barclaycard made Miss B aware that the PPI was optional and she chose to 
take it. I say this because although I cant be sure what was said in the meeting, I am 
persuaded she made it clear on the application form she signed that she wanted to 
take the policy out. There was a box that needed to be ticked if Miss B wanted 
PPI and on her form it was.
 
I think Barclaycard recommended the PPI to Miss B, but it doesnt look as if it was 
unsuitable for her based on what Ive seen of her circumstances at the time. She 
says she had around £1000 savings but I think she would have still found the benefit 
offered by the policy useful in an extended period of sickness or unemployment. 
Its possible the information Barclaycard gave Miss B about the PPI wasnt as clear 
as it should have been. But Miss B chose to take out the policy and so appears to 
have wanted this type of cover. She was not affected by any of the exclusions or 
limitations and the policy was competitively priced and affordable. So I think it 
unlikely Miss B would have made a different decision if better information had been 
provided.
 
In conclusion, I dont think the policy was mis-sold to Miss B when she obtained a credit card 
in one of Barclays branches.
Which means Barclaycard doesnt have to pay back all of the cost of the PPI to Miss B.
But Barclaycard has paid back some of the cost of the PPI to Miss B because: 
 
When the policy was sold, Barclaycard expected to get a high level of commission 
and profit share (more than 50% of the PPI premium) - so it should have told Miss B 
about that. Because Barclaycard didnt tell Miss B, that was unfair. 
 
To put that right, Barclaycard has paid back the amount of commission and profit 
share that was above 50% of the PPI premium - and I think that is fair in this case.
 
my final decision
The PPI policy wasnt mis-sold  so Barclays Bank UK PLC does not have to pay back all of 
the cost of the PPI to Miss B.
But Barclays Bank UK PLC does have to pay back to Miss B any commission and profit 
share it got that was more than 50% of the PPI premium. I understand it has already done 
this, so I dont award any further compensation.  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss B to accept 
or reject my decision before 13 April 2020.
Mark Richardson
Ombudsman