DRN-1734185
 
The complaint
Mrs D has complained that NRAM Limited has failed to explain how an historic refund on her 
mortgage account which was recently paid to her has been calculated. 
Mrs D is also unhappy about NRAMs complaint-handling procedures because NRAM 
refused to accept a complaint made by email or telephone.
To settle the complaint, Mrs D wants NRAM to provide details of how the refund was 
calculated. Mrs D also wants NRAM to make a goodwill payment to her to reflect the 
inconvenience and distress caused to her because NRAM does not accept complaints by 
telephone or email.
Mrs D has been represented in the complaint by a relative, but for the sake of clarity, I will 
refer to Mrs D throughout. 
What happened
Mrs D had a mortgage account with NRAM which was redeemed some years ago. In June 
2019, at the behest of the regulator, NRAM carried out a remediation exercise in relation to 
historic fees and charges that had been applied to customers accounts.
As a result of this remediation exercise, NRAM wrote to Mrs D to explain she was due a 
refund of £2.73, and in addition would pay interest of £3.58, making a total of £6.31.
Mrs D was unhappy that the letter didnt provide an explanation or a calculation of the 
amount of the refund, and tried to raise a complaint. Mrs D was told shed need to put this in 
writing.
Mrs D complained both about the lack of explanation about the refund and about NRAMs 
complaint-handling procedures. She was also unhappy that NRAM had traced her through 
credit reference agencies.
In its final response letter, NRAM explained that, after reviewing customers accounts, it had 
identified some issues where refunds were due and had taken steps to correct this. NRAM 
provided further clarification of the interest that had been refunded - £0.40 of interest on a 
£25 administration fee from April 2004, and £2.32 on a £175 fee for change of parties from 
February 2005. NRAM should not have charged interest on those fees, and so refunded it.
NRAM clarified that in order to pay the redress amount and to put right its error it needed to 
trace Mrs D and so used credit reference information. 
Unhappy with NRAMs response, Mrs D complained to the Financial Ombudsman Service. 
An investigator looked at the complaint, but didnt think NRAM had done anything wrong.
Mrs D didnt agree with the investigators findings. She is unhappy at the way NRAM has 
dealt with the complaint, and says that NRAMs complaint-handling breaches DISP 1.2.3. 
Mrs D also says that the explanation of how the redress was calculated in the final response 
letter gives a different figure from the amount that was actually paid. 
Mrs D also says that the investigator failed to investigate the unlawful credit file search 
which she says NRAM carried out.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Refund calculation: I will begin by explaining that the Financial Ombudsman Service does 
not audit mortgage accounts, and so I have not carried out my own calculations in relation to 
the refund made by NRAM. Instead I have reviewed the correspondence sent to Mrs D to 
see if NRAM has adequately explained what the refund is for and how it has been 
calculated.
Ive looked at what NRAM said in its letter sent in June 2019 and in its final response letter 
send in August 2019. Reading the two letters, Im satisfied that NRAM has clearly explained 
in the June 2019 letter that the refund of £6.31 is made up of a refund of interest together 
with interest at 8% on those interest refunds. And the final response letter sent in August 
2019 gives further clarification of how the refunds have been calculated.
In the circumstances, Im satisfied that NRAM has provided an explanation of how the refund 
has been calculated. I think NRAM could have been clearer in its June 2019 letter that the 
refund related to interest charged on two separate items, but Im satisfied that an explanation 
has been given to Mrs D and that NRAM isnt required to provide any additional clarification.
Credit search: I understand that NRAM traced Mrs D via credit reference agencies. Ive not 
seen any evidence that NRAM carried out a credit search against Mrs Ds name. I think it 
was reasonable and legitimate for NRAM to trace Mrs D via the information held by credit 
reference agencies. Ultimately, if Mrs D considers NRAM has accessed her data unlawfully, 
Mrs D will need to refer this to the Information Commissioner. I have no power to determine 
whether or not NRAM has acted unlawfully in relation to data protection issues.
Complaint-handling Mrs D says that NRAMs complaint-handling procedures are in breach 
of the rules laid down by the regulator which cover the way both NRAM and the Financial 
Ombudsman Service handle complaints. The rules are known as DISP and Mrs D says that 
NRA has breached DISP 1.3.2. Specifically, Mrs D is unhappy that the complaint had to be 
put in writing and that NRAM wouldnt use email, which it doesnt consider a secure method 
of correspondence. 
I must explain here that the Financial Ombudsman Service has no regulatory powers and so 
we are unable to determine whether or not NRAM is committed any regulatory breaches. In 
addition, we can only consider a complaint against NRAM in relation to regulated activities, 
or activities ancillary to regulated activities  which in this case is the regulated activity of 
lending money secured on land and the ancillary activity of administering the mortgage 
account.
Complaint-handling is not a regulated activity, and is not ancillary to a regulated activity. This 
means that I cant consider Mrs Ds complaint about the way in which NRAM dealt with this 
complaint.
Conclusion
Im satisfied NRAM has provided sufficient explanation of how the refund was calculated and 
I dont require it to do anything more than that. Im also satisfied that it was reasonable for 
NRAM to trace Mrs D using credit reference agencies.I dont have any power to decide of NRAM acted unlawfully in relation to a breach of Mrs Ds 
data, or to consider a complaint about the unregulated activity of complaint-handling.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs D to accept or 
reject my decision before 2 September 2020.
Jan O'Leary
Ombudsman