DRN-4075678
The complaint
Mr C complains that WPS Financial Group Limited (WPS) failed to tell him promptly that the
firm WPS had introduced him to for advice about transferring benefits he held in a defined
benefits occupational pension scheme (OPS) had declined to advise. Mr C says he missed
the deadline for accepting the CETV (cash equivalent transfer value) offered by the OPS and
the new CETV was lower.
What happened
I issued a provisional decision on 27 January 2023. Ive recapped here what I said about 
how Mr Cs complaint had come about and my provisional findings:
Mr C was introduced to WPS by a colleague and met with WPSs adviser in August 2019 to
discuss early retirement. It was agreed to leave things until January 2021 when Mr C would
request a CETV and look at his options again. On 27 January 2021 Mr C received his CETV
valued at £1,293,225.07, guaranteed for three months from 20 January 2021. He contacted
WPSs adviser the same day and a meeting was arranged for 1 February 2021. WPSs
adviser didnt have the necessary regulatory permissions to advise on defined benefit
transfers. WPS would introduce Mr C to another firm, who Ill call Firm B, which was
authorised to advise. WPS confirmed to Mr C on 5 February 2021 that information had been
submitted to Firm B.
On 12 February 2021 Firm B contacted WPS to say it had declined to take the case on and
wouldnt be providing advice to Mr C as whether he should transfer or remain in the OPS. It
seems it had been mutually decided to end an introducer agreement with another firm in the
WPS group and this affected WPS. WPS tried to persuade Firm B to reconsider. On 15
March 2021 Firm B told WPS that it couldnt offer a separate introducer agreement to WPS.
On 17 March 2021 Firm B said it had declined the case on 12 February 2021 and queried
whether Mr C had been informed and given the option to seek advice elsewhere. On 12 April
2021 Firm B said it wasnt willing to reconsider and it had declined to provide advice with
more than two months remaining on the CETV guarantee period, so WPS and Mr C had
adequate time to seek advice elsewhere. At about the same time WPSs adviser was
exploring other options with other firms but these were unsuccessful.
During a telephone call with Mr C on 17 March 2021 WPSs adviser told him that Firm B was
reviewing if it could continue to advise on defined benefit transfers. Mr C asked for an update
on 1 April 2021. The adviser responded, saying he was still waiting to hear Firm Bs final
position and was chasing urgently.
On 9 April 2021 Mr C complained to WPS. He said it wasnt until 17 March 2021 that WPSs
adviser had told him there was a delay as Firm B was reviewing if it was going to continue to
advise about defined benefit transfers. Mr C was concerned as he was six weeks into the
process and there were deadlines. But WPSs adviser told him not to worry and that hed
made contact with another firm and hed also contact the OPS trustees to see if the CETV
deadline could be extended. He said hed give Firm B until 23 March 2021. Mr C said he was
worried but trusted the adviser.
As he hadnt heard further by 25 March 2021, Mr C contacted the adviser again who said a
decision about Firm B had been escalated to senior management and would be made
shortly and that the other firm was still an option. Mr C called again on 1 April 2021 and
texted too. He did get a text from the adviser saying he was still awaiting a final decision
from Firm B and was chasing urgently. The adviser also called to say he hadnt received any
update. But it was by then the Easter break. Mr C then called the OPS trustees and realised
he wasnt going to be able to meet the deadline. He also called Firm B and found out it had
declined to provide advice in February 2021. Mr C didnt think WPSs adviser had been
truthful. Mr C said hed lost £91,000 on the new CETV.
WPS didnt uphold the complaint. It said it had decided in 2019 to withdraw from the defined
benefits pension market. It had entered into third party agreements with several pension
transfer specialists, including Firm B. As the introducing adviser, WPSs adviser gathered
information and discussed the clients options generically and then introduced them to the
pension transfer specialist firm. But that firm could decline to advise without giving any
reason.
WPS also said that three months wasnt always long enough to complete the advice
process. The calculations involved are complex. Firm B did write to the OPS trustees before
declining to give advice. WPSs adviser asked for clarification and that Firm B review its
decision. He also started to explore alternative adviser options. Firm B didnt change its
position and other firms offering advice on a cheaper fixed fee basis were too busy. Even if
the process had continued as planned, Firm B or Mr C couldve pulled out at any time. And
there was no guarantee Firm B wouldve advised in favour of a transfer or that the transfer
advice wouldve been completed before 20 April 2021.
I understand that Mr C got a new CETV dated 29 April 2021. It was lower - £1,211,720.43.
He instructed a new adviser. The guarantee deadline was July 2021. But that was extended
as the trustees of the OPS changed and didnt have all the information from the old trustees,
so there was a delay in providing information to Mr Cs new adviser. The transfer forms were
signed on 20 August 2021 and the transfer completed on 4 November 2021.
Mr C referred his complaint to us. Our investigator upheld it. He said WPS shouldve told Mr
C on 12 February 2021 that Firm B wouldnt be providing advice and that WPS was looking
at alternatives and trying to get Firm B to change its mind. Instead it wasnt until 17 March
2021 that Mr C was told there might be a problem and, even as late as 1 April 2021, he
reasonably believed things might progress.
WPS had said there was no guarantee the advice process couldve been completed within
the three month period and 50% of cases needed a new CETV. But the investigators view
was that at least eight weeks was needed which Mr C still had when Firm B declined to
advise. So, if Mr C had been told on 12 February 2021, the transfer wouldve been
processed by the old trustees and the original, higher, CETV paid.
The investigator set out what WPS needed to do to put things right for Mr C and on the basis
the transfer wouldve completed on 5 July 2021  it had taken 76 days for the transfer to
complete after the discharge forms had been signed  so the investigator applied that time
frame.
WPS didnt accept the investigators view and raised a number of comments. The
investigator considered what WPS had said but he didnt change his view. WPS had said the
introducer should step away when the advice process starts and that it was Firm Bs
responsibility to tell Mr C that it had declined to provide advice. And the introducer
agreement didnt specify whod tell the client if Firm B declined to provide advice. But the
investigator wasnt convinced it was up to Firm B when it had told WPS whod thencontinued to liaise with Mr C. WPSs client proposition and agreement said WPS would
communicate clearly, promptly and without jargon. The investigator didnt think WPS had
done that. He maintained WPS shouldve told Mr C about Firm Bs decision and given him
the option to continue with WPS or look elsewhere for advice.
In response to further comments by WPS the investigator said he hadnt decided if the
decision to transfer was the right one as that wasnt Mr Cs complaint. The investigators
view was, with eight weeks left before the CETV guarantee deadline, it was reasonable to
say another firm couldve given advice. WPS shouldve informed Mr C immediately of Firm
Bs decision so he decide what he wanted to do next. But WPS had taken that choice away
and led Mr C to believe that Firm B was still working on his transfer after theyd declined to
give advice.
WPS was also unhappy that documents provided by Mr C hadnt been shared. WPS referred
to our inquisitorial remit. Although Mr C hadnt complained about the advice to transfer WPS
didnt understand why an award would be made in respect of something that may or may not
have been right for the consumer. WPS didnt agree that eight weeks was enough time,
especially given Covid restrictions. WPS said a new CETV wouldve been required. And it
had been assumed Firm B wouldve advised Mr C to transfer whereas Firm B might have
advised against. Firm Bs role in the matter hadnt been considered. Mr C was a client of
Firm B and it had a duty of care towards him. WPS has also referred to another case which it
said showed the separation of WPS and Firm B and that Mr C was a client of Firm B.
What Ive provisionally decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive considered the other case WPS had referred to. But I dont think its directly relevant.
The scenario was similar: WPS introduced the other consumer to another regulated firm for
advice about a transfer out of a defined benefit OPS. But that complaint was about whether
WPS was responsible for the advice that was given. Mr Cs complaint is different. In his
case, no advice was given (by WPS or Firm B). His complaint is about whether, when Firm B
told WPS on 12 February 2021 that it wasnt prepared to advice, WPS shouldve informed
Mr C promptly as to Firm Bs position.
On the central issue of what WPS shouldve done when Firm B told WPS on 12 February
2021 that it wasnt going to be able to advise Mr C, I agree with what the investigator said.
Although, like the investigator, I can understand why WPS tried to persuade Firm B to
reconsider, what Firm B said appeared conclusive and it was unlikely that Firm Bs position
would change. And, when WPS pressed Firm B to reconsider, Firm B reiterated its position
and said that Mr C shouldve been informed. I dont agree that it was up to Firm B to
communicate direct with Mr C. I think it was sufficient for Firm B to tell WPS with the
expectation WPS would pass that on to Mr C.
I dont think WPS made Firm Bs position clear to Mr C. I think WPS shouldve told Mr C
promptly on 12 February 2021 that it was unlikely that Firm B would be able to advise. So
Im upholding the complaint on that basis.
I next need to consider if Firm Bs failure to disclose the position promptly and fully to Mr C
led to him suffering financial loss. Where we consider a firm has done something (or not
done something) it shouldve, we aim to put the consumer in the position theyd be in, had
things gone as they shouldve done.
Mr Cs position is that hed have sought and obtained advice elsewhere and hed have beenable to have accepted the original CETV of £1,293,225.07 before the deadline (20 April
2021. And that, because the transfer value later paid (£1,211,720.43) was lower, hes lost
out on the difference (some £81,504 although Mr C has mentioned a figure of £91,000), plus
investment growth on that sum from the earlier date the transfer wouldve gone ahead.
Ive considered very carefully what Mr C wouldve done and what his position wouldve been
had WPS told him on 12 February 2021 that Firm B wasnt prepared to advise. I recognise
the fact that the original CETV wasnt accepted appears to have cost Mr C considerable
financial losses. But I can only award Mr C compensation for those losses if Im satisfied
WPMs failure to tell Mr C that Firm B wasnt able to assist has caused Mr Cs losses.
To accept the CETV Mr C needed to have received financial advice from an appropriately
qualified financial adviser and then sign and return the discharge forms to the OPS trustees
before the CETV expiry date. By 12 February 2021 just over two weeks of the three month
guarantee period had expired. While that left just over two months, I cant say for sure that
wouldve been enough time for Mr C to find another firm that was prepared to advise and for
that firms advice to have been given and the necessary formalities completed.
Where a CETV has been obtained time is of the essence. But the firm needs to undertake a
considerable amount of work in order to advise. It will need to obtain information from the
client plus details from the OPS (which may take some time) and then assess the
information before making a detailed recommendation (which may be subject to a firms
internal compliance checks) and which will involve complex calculations as to the value of
the benefits in the OPS being given up and whether the CETV offered represents good
value. That will need to be shared with the client, discussed and any queries dealt with. The
client will need time to reflect on a decision whether to proceed with a transfer or not. And if
a transfer is to proceed the paperwork will need to be completed.
In some cases an extension to the CETV or a new CETV will need to be sought. It isnt
uncommon for a firm to manage a clients expectations by agreeing to provide advice but on
the basis that the firm doesnt guarantee to be able to complete the advice process before
the CETV guarantee expiry date. I think thats particularly the case where the firm is
approached when some of the three month guarantee period has already expired.
Nor can I be sure that any other firm that Mr C approached wouldve advised him to transfer.
I know he did go on to transfer so Id assume he got a positive recommendation to do so. If
another firm had advised against, then, although that wouldnt necessarily have precluded
Mr C from transferring, its likely to have added more time to the process and the firm may
not have been prepared to facilitate a transfer against advice not to transfer.
I also bear in mind what WPS has said about what Mr C wouldve done had WPS told him
earlier that it appeared unlikely that Firm B would provide advice but that WPS was seeking
to persuade Firm B to change its stance and looking at other alternatives. I dont see any
real reason why Mr C wouldnt have accepted that and allowed WPS a window to try to sort
things out. That would have meant another week or two of the guarantee period at least 
wouldve gone by and which wouldve made it more difficult and less likely for a new adviser
to be able to meet the guarantee period.
I can see that Mr C acted promptly once the CETV expired on 20 April 2021  by 29 April
2021 a new CETV had been issued. The transfer then took just over six months to complete.
That was due in part at least to delay on the new OPS trustees part, hence they agreed to
extend the time for acceptance of the (new) CETV. But I think the point remains that, even if
WPS had told Mr C immediately  that is on 12 February 2021  that Firm B werent going to
be able to advice, I cant say, on the balance of probabilities, that hed have been able to
meet the 20 April 2021 deadline in any event.Although I cant say WPSs failures caused Mr C financial loss, he did suffer distress and
inconvenience. Hes said he was worried by the expiry of the CETV guarantee date
approaching and he had to chase the adviser. And that not knowing by the time of the Easter
break in 2021 meant his stress levels were going through the roof. I think Mr Cs anxiety
wouldve been lessened had WPS been more open and transparent about exactly what was
going on. Mr C wouldve known, as Firm B couldnt assist, there was a risk the CETV
deadline might not be met. But I think that wouldve been preferable to the uncertainty he
experienced. And, as things stood, it came as a considerable shock to him when, as a result
of making his own enquiries, he realised he wasnt going to be able to meet the CETV
guarantee expiry date. I think WPS should pay Mr C £500 for the distress and inconvenience
WPSs failing have caused.
Responses to my provisional decision
WPS accepted my provisional decision. Mr C didnt. Ive summarised his comments. 
He was concerned he hadnt explained properly his thought and decision making 
process in considering transferring his final salary pension. Hes a very detailed 
person who doesnt take decisions lightly, particularly in financial matters. He 
researches all options thoroughly and discusses with his wife (especially where, as 
here, the decision would impact both of them for the rest of their lives). Given the 
preparations undertaken, once a decision has been made, it doesnt tend to change.
He and his wife had started to consider their position with regard to Mr Cs pension 
some 18 months before a CETV was obtained. During that period a good relationship 
was built up with options thoroughly discussed and advice given. The adviser fully 
understood their position. He prepared calculations and made it clear that Mr Cs and 
his wifes planned retirement lifestyle could be met by transferring. 
 So transferring Mr Cs final salary pension wasnt a new concept  he and his wife 
had been considering it for 18 months, guided by WPSs adviser. Theyd discussed it 
with friends and family. The adviser had explained the process and Mr C and his wife 
had a good grasp of the risks versus the returns and that the guarantees that came 
with his final salary pension would be lost. Theyd decided to proceed with the 
transfer as it would allow them to achieve all they wanted. As such, the steps to 
actually process the transfer were a formality as their minds were made up. They 
knew what to expect with the transfer report and unless it raised something which 
made it impossible to transfer, theyd agree to the transfer immediately, as Mr C 
subsequently did. 
WPS raised concerns that changes to the OPS trustees could lead to delays in 
obtaining information necessary to complete a transfer and a lower CETV might be 
offered by the new trustees. Again WPS appeared knowledgeable and on top of the 
situation. WPS also knew that Mr C had been with his employer for 38 years and 
could telephone the pension administrators and get answers normally on the call or 
within a day. The potential timeframes could be kept to a minimum as Mr C and his 
wife had already made the decision to proceed. Hed also spoken with the trustees 
whod confirmed all he needed to do to secure the CETV was to sign and return the 
request to transfer, even if the changeover in trustees delayed the actual 
administrative process. 
What the adviser had said about what hed told Mr C 17 March 2021 wasnt entirely 
accurate. The adviser was then fully aware that Firm B wasnt going to take Mr C on 
as a client. Mr C found that out on 7 April 2021 when he contacted Firm B direct who 
referred to the letter theyd sent earlier. Mr C says WPSs adviser then admitted what 
had happened and said he was sorry and that hed get it done in time and promised 
various dates. When Mr C started chasing on 1 April 2021 he was ignored. And the adviser continued to lie  the business the adviser says he approached doesnt do 
final salary pension transfers. 
Throughout WPS stressed the importance of the 20 April 2021 deadline, given the 
concerns about the impact of a change in trustees. WPS said the transfer would be 
prioritised and all documentation submitted to the existing trustees prior to the 
deadline to secure the CETV. At no point did WPS express concerns about 
completing the transfer within three months. 
WPS deliberately decided not to tell him about the issues that had arisen. Mr C 
suggested that information was withheld from him because WPS feared hed 
approach another firm and WPS would lose out on fees. But it was him whod lost out 
on over £81,000 plus investment growth. 
By 12 February 2021 WPS was aware that Firm B wouldnt accept his case. At that 
point Mr C had ten weeks to submit the necessary paperwork  only two weeks less 
than the normal timeframe. The preparation he and his wife had gone through meant 
that was ample time. 
 Mr C set out what had happened from early April 2021 onwards. In summary, after 
chasing WPSs adviser between 1 and 8 April, Mr C spoke to a previous financial 
adviser who told him to contact Firm B direct. Mr C did and found out that Firm B had 
written to WPSs adviser on 12 February 2021 declining to deal with the matter. On 9 
April 2021 Mr C asked his previous adviser (who couldnt deal with defined benefit 
transfers) if he could recommend another firm. Mr C also made a formal complaint to 
WPS. He contacted the OPS trustees on 12 April 2021 who said a second CETV 
would be processed free of charge. Mr C got the new CETV on 27 April 2021 and 
emailed it to his previous adviser who forwarded it to the recommended adviser. 
The new adviser was on holiday, due back until on 10 May 2021. The previous 
adviser got in touch on that date on Mr Cs behalf. By 12 May 2021 the new firm had 
sent introductory information. By 18 May 2021 a full fact find and risk profiling had 
been undertaken and a recommendation issued on 19 May 2021. Mr C immediately 
agreed to the transfer and the new firm promptly sent the documentation to the new 
OPS trustees who granted an extension until 6 August 2021. From start to finish the 
process took less than two weeks. 
Some issues then arose which meant the transfer wasnt actually completed until 4 
November 2021  as WPS predicted, there were teething problems with the new 
trustees. But the new firm kept Mr C updated and on occasion asked him to contact 
the trustees to see if he was able to speed up the process. The CETV guarantee 
date was extended again. Despite the transfer not completing until 4 November 2021 
the CETV was honoured. 
Mr C appreciated I had concerns about whether a suitable adviser would recommend 
a transfer but the new firm had done just that supported by a detailed report as to 
why their advice was suitable. If WPS had been honest he wouldnt be in this 
position. WPS had failed in their regulatory obligations to treat him fairly, implement 
and adhere to management controls and processes and follow good business 
practices. WPS were to blame for Mr C losing the original CETV resulting in a loss of 
over £81,500. 
We asked Mr C for copies of the new advisers recommendation and copies of all 
correspondence with the new adviser, which Mr C supplied. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.I can understand Mr Cs disappointment with my provisional decision, especially as the 
investigator had previously upheld the complaint. But ours is a two stage process and, if the 
complaint isnt settled following the investigators view, an ombudsman will review the 
complaint afresh and may come to a different decision. 
I also acknowledge what Mr Cs said about complaining being something new for him and 
that hes found the process somewhat challenging. I hope weve made things as stress free 
for Mr C as possible. I note his comments to the investigator about the support hes given in 
extending the time for Mr C to submit his comments following my provisional decision. 
Ive considered very carefully Mr Cs comments. I understand that he feels very strongly 
about whats happened and how WPS treated him. And the sum at stake is sizeable  a 
reduction to Mr Cs CETV of some £81,500. 
I accept all Mr C has said about what led up to him requesting a CETV with a view to 
transferring out of his final salary OPS. I note what he says about being careful in reaching 
decisions, especially about financial matters. And that because he and his wife had given so 
much thought to the matter, with the support of WPSs adviser, they were unlikely to change 
their minds and decide against transferring. Essentially Mr Cs position is that the potential 
timeframes could be kept to a minimum as he and his wife had already decided to transfer. I 
also bear in mind that the forthcoming change to the OPS trustees added impetus. Mr C was 
ready to complete the necessary paperwork quickly so he could submit his request to 
transfer to the OPS trustees to secure the original CETV offered. 
But the timing wasnt all down to Mr C. Because he had a defined benefit OPS and the 
transfer value was more than £30,000, he was required to take advice from a firm that was 
authorised by the regulator to provide advice on defined benefit pension transfers. Under 
section 48 of the Pension Schemes Act 2015 the OPS trustees had to ensure Mr C had 
taken financial advice in connection with any transfer. It didnt matter, for the trustees, 
whether the advice was to transfer or not to transfer. They just needed to know Mr C had 
taken advice.  
Not all financial advisers hold the necessary permissions to advise on defined benefit 
transfers. WPSs adviser didnt, hence Mr C was referred to Firm B with whom, at the time, 
WPS had an arrangement. I dont dispute that, in the 18 month period Mr C has referred to, 
transferring out of his OPS was discussed with WPSs adviser. And although that adviser 
couldnt give formal transfer advice, the discussions may have led Mr C to think that 
transferring was the likely option to enable him to meet his retirement goals. But Mr C says 
the process was explained to him and so he was aware that formal advice was required.
I know Mr C feels hes been very badly treated by WPS and that WPS shouldve been more 
open and transparent with him. Although he says WPS deliberately didnt tell him about Firm 
Bs decision. Im not convinced that WPSs motives were as Mr C suggests. From what Ive 
seen, WPS were trying to persuade Firm B to reconsider. I still think, if WPSs adviser had 
told Mr C about Firm Bs decision, Mr C wouldve been prepared to wait to see if WPS could 
persuade Firm B to change their stance. The original CETV was guaranteed for three 
months from 20 January 2021 so until 20 April 2021. If WPS had told Mr C on 12 February 
2021 about Firm Bs decision, and if Mr C had allowed WPS, say, a week to try to get Firm B 
to reconsider, that wouldve left just under nine weeks remaining.  
Ive considered carefully the further information that Mr C has provided as to how long things 
actually took, once hed got a new CETV and a new adviser. If the new adviser was able to 
make his recommendation within nine or ten weeks that would support what Mr C says  
that thered have been enough time left if WPS had informed Mr C promptly that Firm B 
werent prepared to advise.  The (old) OPS trustees had issued a new CETV to Mr C on 27 April 2021. Mr C has said 
that, although the new adviser was initially away, Mr C had met with him (via Zoom) by 13 
May 2021 and a recommendation report was issued on 19 May 2021. I dont think that was 
the case. I think that was in fact a client profile report (a summary of Mr Cs attitude to risk 
and proposed asset allocation). The full recommendation report wasnt issued until 20 
August 2020. Until that was to hand, Mr C didnt know if he was going to transfer  Im not 
sure, if the advice was that he shouldnt transfer, hed have gone ahead anyway. But, in any 
event, the trustees of the OPS needed to know hed had financial advice. That advice wasnt 
to hand until 20 August 2021.  
So, as things actually happened, that was almost four months since the new CETV had been 
issued. And over three months since Mr C had met with the new adviser. That would tend to 
suggest that, even if WPS had told Mr C very promptly that Firm B wasnt able to advise, 
thered have been insufficient time to get advice from another firm within the nine or ten 
weeks so remaining. 
Mr C has said delay was caused by the change in trustees. Mr C says that was from 11 June 
2021 until 21 July 2021  a delay of five weeks and three working days. I think there was 
some delay, but Im not sure it spanned that period. Ive seen that Mr Cs new adviser 
emailed the (old) trustees on 21 June 2021 asking for information and enclosing a letter of 
authority (LOA). That request was reissued to the (new) trustees on 1 July 2021. It wasnt 
until 21 July 2021 that the new trustees replied. So, instead of taking, say, a week (from 21 
June 2021) to get the information from the trustees, it took a month. That would mean a 
delay of some three weeks. 
The new advisers recommendation wasnt issued until 20 August 2021. Even if three weeks 
is discounted and so the report couldve been issued at the end of July 2021, thats still more 
than the three months from the date the new CETV was issued and/or Mr Cs meeting with 
the new adviser. Again that suggests, and taking into account how things actually 
progressed, there wouldnt have been enough time. And Im looking at things from the basis 
that there was only nine or ten or so weeks left anyway, rather than the full three months. So 
even if Mr C is right when he says the delay was closer to five weeks, that still doesnt tend 
to show that advice couldve been given in time and had WPS told Mr C promptly that Firm B 
couldnt assist. 
The new advisers recommendation report with attachments runs to several hundred pages. 
I think thats indicative of the work thats required and the extensive information thats 
required from a number of different sources. For example, theres an illustration dated 19 
August 2021 from the new SIPP provider. The new adviser would be dependent on that sort 
of information in preparing his report. If it wasnt to hand until August then the report couldnt 
have been issued earlier. Information also had to be obtained from the DFM (Discretionary 
Fund Manager) and the investment manager. I further note that the recommendation report 
also deals with another pension. It wasnt a defined benefit arrangement but that wouldve 
entailed further work for the adviser which couldve added to the time taken. 
Overall and despite what Mr C has said I remain unconvinced that what time wouldve 
remained wouldve been enough secure the original CETV. I think in fact what actually 
happened supports what I said in my provisional decision about time often being tight when 
advising on a final salary transfer.
I can understand Mr C wont be happy with my views. Getting a lower CETV will have been 
disappointing and may have meant revising some of Mr Cs and his wifes plans and 
expenditure. But I maintain £500 is appropriate compensation for that. And it was Mr Cs 
decision to go ahead with the lower CETV. I think, in terms of financial loss, it comes down to causation. That is whether what WPS did or didnt do led to Mr Cs losses  losing out on 
the higher CETV. For the reasons Ive explained I cant say, on the balance of probabilities, 
that it did.
My final decision
I uphold the complaint but only in part. WPS Financial Group Limited must pay Mr C £500 for 
distress and inconvenience. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 10 May 2023.
 
Lesley Stead
Ombudsman