DRN-3731905
The complaint
Ms S complains about the service she received from Advantage Insurance Company 
(Advantage) following her claim for a road traffic accident. Ms S doesnt think the 
compensation offered reflects the inconvenience caused to her.
Reference to Advantage includes its agents.
What happened
Ms S was involved in a road traffic accident in early March 2022. Ms S says she was still 
able to drive her car until a few days later when it broke down. Ms S says she contacted 
Advantage to arrange for her vehicle to be collected. She also arranged for a courtesy car. 
Ms S collected the courtesy car the following day. She was expecting her own vehicle to be 
picked up on the same day but it wasnt. Ms S says she made numerous calls to Advantage 
and her car was eventually collected towards the end of March. 
Ms S didnt receive updates as to when the car might be returned and had to contact 
Advantage in order to find out what was happening. Ms S says she was already anxious 
following the accident and Advantage didnt help with the service she received. The car was 
finally returned to her on 24 June 2022. Ms S wasnt happy with the service she received 
and so she complained to Advantage. 
Advantage accepted Ms Ss car should have been collected sooner; it said there had been 
some back-and-forth about whether the vehicle was driveable. It said Ms S chased up the 
collection of her car more than she should have. It also accepted there had been a lack of 
contact and updates to Ms S throughout the claim. Advantage apologised that Ms S didnt 
receive the service she should have. And so it paid Ms S £150 for the distress and 
inconvenience the matter caused. 
Ms S wasnt happy with the response from Advantage and so brought the claim to the 
Financial Ombudsman. The investigator looked into things for Ms S. He said he didnt think 
Advantage had handled the claim the way it should have but thought the compensation was 
fair and reasonable. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
And having done so Ive decided not to uphold this complaint. I know this will come as a 
disappointment to Ms S. Ive explained my reasoning below. 
I can see this matter has had a significant impact on Ms S. Ive no doubt Ms S has done all 
she can to try and move the repairs along and obtain updates from Advantage. I can 
understand why she thought Advantage would take over the claim and deal with everything 
on her behalf.
It is important to explain that my role here is to look at whether Advantage acted in a fair and 
reasonable manner, and within the terms and conditions of the policy in its handling of the 
claim. 
I can see Ms S had to contact Advantage on numerous occasions in order to find out what 
was happening with the collection of her car, and to chase up the repairs to her own vehicle. 
The service provided to Ms S by Advantage has fallen short of what I would have expected. 
Advantage didnt provide Ms S with updates regarding her vehicle repairs, and there was 
some confusion in the communication regarding when the car was collected. Advantage paid 
Ms S £150 to reflect the distress and inconvenience caused by the shortcoming in its 
service. Im satisfied this is a fair and reasonable offer. I say this because I think it fairly 
recognises the upset caused to Ms S in relation to the above. 
I know my answer will be disappointing for Ms S and I agree the service she received fell 
short of what I would have expected. But overall I think Advantage have acted fairly and 
reasonably in respect of the compensation paid to date, and so I wont be asking it to take 
any further action. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms S to accept or 
reject my decision before 9 January 2023.
 
Kiran Clair
Ombudsman