DRN-3572633
The complaint
Mr K complained about the advice he received from Wesleyan Assurance Society
(Wesleyan) to take out a free-standing additional voluntary contribution (FSAVC) plan. He
says if hed been given adequate information during the sale about his options, he would
have bought added years in his employers occupational pension scheme (OPS).
Mr K is being assisted with his complaint by a claims management company (CMC). And 
both Wesleyan and the CMC have actuaries working with them to resolve this matter.
What happened
In June 1997, Mr K was advised by Wesleyan to start contributing to an FSAVC plan.
At the time, Mr K was a member of his employers OPS. The FSAVC plan commenced with 
him making a monthly contribution of £200 (gross). Contributions to the plan continued at the 
same level until 2017. 
In June 2007, while still making contributions to the FSAVC plan, Mr K contracted to buy 
added years through his employers OPS. He paid a total of 9% of his pensionable salary to 
buy 272 days to age 60.
In 2018, Mr K complained to Wesleyan about the sale of the FSAVC plan. In summary, he 
complained that the FSAVC plan was not suitable for his needs and he shouldve been
advised to purchase added years through his employers scheme.
Wesleyan reviewed the complaint. In its final response it explained that, having considered
the sales paperwork and the information Mr K had provided in his FSAVC questionnaire, it 
wasnt satisfied that hed been given adequate information during the sale. So it was 
upholding the complaint. And it said that it would be forwarding Mr Ks file to its actuaries for 
a loss assessment to be completed on an added years basis.
A further letter was issued after the loss assessment had been completed. The letter
confirmed that overall Mr K had made a gain of £38,139.33 as a result of taking out his 
FSVAC plan. So no redress was due. This gain was in part due to the value that the 
guaranteed annuity rate (GAR) on Mr Ks plan added to the fund value. 
Mr K didnt agree with the methodology Wesleyan had used in its loss assessment, so he 
referred the complaint to our service for review.
One of our investigators reviewed the complaint. He didnt think Wesleyan had treated Mr K 
unfairly so he didnt uphold the complaint. In summary the investigator thought that: 
The FSAVC review guidance supports Wesleyans view that the GAR value can and 
should be included in the loss assessment. The GAR is also of considerable benefit 
to Mr K and will continue to step up in value until he reaches 75.
Likely triggered by information that the in-house added years arrangement was going 
to close, Mr K started to make maximum contributions to the in-house added years 
scheme from July 2007 until the Schemes normal retirement age of 60 in July 2009.
The FSAVC Review Model Guidance states that the end date for the period of loss 
assessment is the earliest:
The date at which the investor did or could reasonably have been expected to have
started to receive the employers matched contribution or other subsidised benefit by
starting to contribute to the in-house AVC arrangement.
This would suggest that the end date in this case should be July 2007. But Wesleyan 
has decided to also look at the period July 2007 to July 2009. The business has
offset the notional cost of his maximum purchase of 281 days vs the cost of 
purchasing these days had he been in the added years scheme from 1997 and 
calculated a net loss of 9 days.
Mr Ks representative didnt agree with the investigators findings. It maintained that the 
value of the GAR should not be included in a calculation for an added years loss 
assessment. And it didnt agree that it was appropriate for Wesleyan to use the value of 
Mr Ks own purchase of added years, outside the liability period, to offset the loss hes 
suffered. It also thought there was an error in the calculation as the annual management 
charge had been input as 1.5% rather than 2.9%, which was the default amount in the 
FSAVC guidance. 
Ombudsmans provisional findings
Having now reviewed matters, I think Wesleyan needs to do more to put things right. So Ive 
set my thoughts out below.
The investigator didnt uphold the complaint as he thought it wasnt unreasonable for the 
value of the GAR to be included in the calculation. I agree with this for reasons that both 
parties will be aware of from my previous correspondence. I also dont think its 
unreasonable for Wesleyan to have included the value of the added years Mr K has 
purchased. I do appreciate that a different actuary may take a different approach here. But I 
dont think that means that what Wesleyan has done is unreasonable.
However, the GAR Wesleyan has based its calculation on is a single life, level annuity thats
guaranteed for 5 years. It has used this form of annuity because consumers that opt to take 
a guaranteed income generally take this option. But I think a fairer comparison would be to 
base the value on a GAR that more closely matches the lost benefits, so an annuity 
providing a 50% spouses pension, increasing in line with RPI and guaranteed for 5 years. 
Its not clear at present what difference this will make to a loss calculation because the GAR 
is determined on the same actuarial basis as the one Wesleyan has already used in its 
calculations. But I think Wesleyan should rerun the calculation on this basis in order to 
determine whether Mr K has suffered a loss.
Mr K also continued to contribute to his FSAVC plan until 2017. Im satisfied that, had the
FSAVC plan not been mis-sold, its likely that the contributions paid after April 2006 would 
have been directed to the cheaper in-house AVC scheme.
Just because Mr K would have paid less in charges to the in-house AVC after 2006, it
doesnt necessarily mean that he has suffered a loss as a result of taking the FSAVC. I think
Wesleyan should carry out a comparison between the FSAVC and the in-house AVC (for
excess contributions after April 2006 only). If it can demonstrate that the FSAVCs 
performance has exceeded the in-house AVC by more than the higher charges Mr K has 
paid, then it may conclude that he has not suffered a loss as a result of these excess contributions being paid to the FSAVC rather than the in-house AVC. I have previously set 
out the benchmark that Wesleyan should use to make this comparison. I dont intend to 
repeat that in full here but Im happy to confirm this if either party requires clarification.
If the above calculation produces a loss, Wesleyan should complete a standard charges only 
calculation on the excess contributions paid after April 2006.
What if Mr K uses the GAR when he takes his benefits?
As I understand it, Mr K is yet to take the benefits of his FSAVC plan. So I do accept that
when he does, he may opt to take an annuity with Wesleyan and utilise the GAR. If Mr K has 
also received a payment to reflect the higher charges he has paid to the FSAVC 
arrangement in respect of the excess contributions paid to the plan after April 2006, this 
could leave him in a better position than he would have been in, had he joined his in-house 
AVC. He will effectively have received a refund of the higher charges and hell also be 
benefitting from the increased value the GAR adds to his FSAVC fund. In these 
circumstances, I dont think it would be unreasonable for Wesleyan to take account of any 
payment it makes now as a result of the higher charges when the benefits are taken, should 
Mr K use the GAR.
Mr Ks final submissions 
Mr Ks representative has said that it is in agreement with the main conclusion, with the 
exception of the following points. 
These historical Medical Sickness Society policies, that Wesleyan is using in its loss 
assessments were with profit policies up to approximately 1998. The pre-1998 
schemes did not specify the charges associated with the policies. Bulletin No. 4 
published after the FSAVC Review Guidance was issued, was intended to be specific 
to highlight how such policies should be dealt with when charges were not detailed in 
the policy documents. Wesleyan however use 1.5% in their loss calculations which 
undercalculates the loss. 
It has also questioned why on a previous case Ive said that the GAR shouldnt be 
included yet, Im saying its not unfair for Wesleyan to include it in this case. 
With regards to the advice requirement, it is common practice for all Pension Firms to 
automatically advise clients to take advice when looking at their pension options at or 
nearing retirement; accordingly we believe it would be a more balanced approach in 
terms of treating their customers fairly, if Wesleyan gave the client a choice based on 
informed information, whereby they perform a loss calculation without the use of the 
prospective potential value of the GA, and let the consumer decide whether they 
want to accept the compensation and forego their guaranteed annuity options, 
always after first seeking professional advice.
Wesleyans final submissions
Wesleyan has said that it agrees with my findings. Its happy to recalculate the value of the 
GAR benefit attaching to the FSAVC Plan using an annuity rate on an equivalent but it 
expects this approach to significantly increase the value of the GAR benefit and hence the 
Plan value used within the loss assessment. Its also queried whether it is still required to 
recalculate using the RPI linked GAR terms if this is likely to increase any gain Mr K may 
have suffered. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
When a consumer has lost out financially as a result of something the business has done 
wrong, Id generally expect the consumer to be put back into the position they would have 
been in now, had the business not made the error. So this is what Ive thought about when 
considering Mr Ks complaint.
Mr K believes that Wesleyan is using the value of the added years he has purchased to 
offset the loss he has suffered as a result of delaying the purchase of added years. He says 
its calculation takes into account of the added years he has actually purchased since 
contracting to do so in 2007. Instead he believes these years should be discounted because 
they fall outside the period of liability as the guidance states that the period of liability ends at 
the point the investor joins the in-house arrangement. 
However, Im tasked with reaching a decision on what I consider to be fair and reasonable. 
And while the guidance is useful and relevant in some cases, Im not obliged to follow it. And 
in this case, I think departing from a strict interpretation of the guidance is necessary in order 
to provide Mr K with fair compensation. 
If Wesleyan didnt take account of the added years that Mr K actually contracted to buy hed 
effectively have a benefit equivalent of over the maximum service he would have been 
entitled to. So I wont be asking Wesleyan to provide redress on this basis. I dont think the 
methodology Wesleyan has used is unfair. And I dont think its approach not to strictly apply 
the FSAVC review guidance in the circumstances of this complaint is unreasonable. 
Charges on FSAVC plans
Mr Ks representative remains of the view that the 1.5% annual management charge, or 
reduction in yield, that Wesleyan uses in it charges only calculation for the type of FSAVC 
plan that Mr K has, is unfair.  It thinks that this is not in line with the FSVAC review guidance, 
in particular Bulletin No 4, which Ive set out below.
Model Guidance, Section 6 - Loss assessment) This section of the guidance states, 
among other things, that:
Firms should establish the charges that the investor would have incurred in the in-
house AVC arrangement and those incurred on the FSAVC (Paragraph 6.17, 
emphasis added) As noted in paragraph 6.17.7 the FSAVC charges borne by the 
investor will normally be apparent.
Where details of charges are available firms should use them. However, there may 
be exceptions to this  for example in respect of certain with profits policies. Where 
details of charges are not available, firms may reasonably use Reduction in Yield 
(RIY) information calculated for product disclosure purposes as a proxy for the 
average charges. This RIY information is likely to be available within:
 essential product information (Key Features), for sales from 1 January 1995; and
 product particulars and With Profits Guides, for sales from 1 March 1990.
Firms should use product specific RIY information where this information is readily 
available, or where the firm could reasonably be expected to obtain it. ()
Firms may reasonably use a default assumption, but only where they lack details of 
the charges or RIY information ()Where commission has been taken and annual management charge or RIY 
information is not available, it is reasonable for firms to assume that the charges 
borne by the investor for the purposes of loss assessment are 2.9% a year. This is 
based on the RIY for an FSAVC policy with contributions of £100 per month over a 
ten year term as reported in the Watson Wyatt AVC survey published in May 1999, 
see Consultation Paper 27 for details. Firms may use an alternative assumption if 
there is demonstrable evidence that the 2.9% a year assumption is inappropriate.
Wesleyan has confirmed that its actuaries have recently completed a piece work where they 
looked at the RIY for Medical Sickness Society Fund AVC plans with a range of entry dates, 
where the plans are shortly coming up to retirement. Its actuaries have found that the 
maximum RIY was 1.2% and the average was 1%. So, being prudent, Wesleyan considers 
1.5% reasonable at this point in time.
Ive thought carefully about what Wesleyan has said and whether its in line with the above 
guidance.  
The guidance states that if the RIY is unknown, or the firm lacks details of the RIY or this 
information is not available, then the default assumptions should be used. But thats not the 
case here. Wesleyan does know what the RIY is, or, it knows the range that its within. The 
guidance also allows a firm to make an alternative assumption if there is demonstratable 
evidence that the 2.9% a year assumptions is inappropriate. So overall, while accept that the 
default assumption would work in favour of the consumer, Im not persuaded that Wesleyan 
is being unreasonable by using 1.5%, when its actuaries have determined that the RIY for 
plans, such as Mr Ks is actually between 1% and 1.2%. 
Inclusion of GAR value
On a previous case I acknowledged that, since the introduction of the pension freedoms 
legislation, there has been a reduction in the number of consumers that opt to take a 
guaranteed income at retirement. That complaint had been upheld on the basis that the 
consumer would have joined the in-house AVC scheme if they hadnt been mis-sold the 
FSAVC. So I said that I didnt think it was fair to include the value of the GAR when 
determining whether a loss has been suffered. This was because, if the consumer been in 
the in-house AVC, their options at retirement wouldnt havent been limited to securing a 
guaranteed income. They would have had more flexibility in how they took their benefits. 
And crucially, when making a comparison between the FSVAC and the in-house AVC, that 
made on either the basis of the fund value, or the difference between the charges. And so I 
didnt think it fair for the value of the GAR to be included. Thats not to say that the GAR on 
these plans isnt valuable, it is. Thats why I also said that Wesleyan can take any payment it 
makes now for higher charges into account, should the consumer go on to use the GAR on 
their plan. 
In the case of Mr K, both parties have agreed that he would have bought added years in his 
employers OPS had the FSAVC plan not been mis-sold. The added years arrangement 
would only have provided a guaranteed income, there would not have been any flexibility in 
the way the benefits could be taken. And so, I dont think its unreasonable for Wesleyan to 
base the value of Mr Ks plan on the guaranteed income Mr Ks plan can provide. The 
comparison here is being made with the guaranteed income that the added years 
arrangement would have provided and so Im satisfied that this is a fair way to make the 
comparison. 
The advice requirement for safeguarded benefitsI agree with what Mr Ks representative has said about it being common practice for firm to 
recommend a plan holder takes advice when looking at their pension options or when 
nearing retirement. But the rules around taking advice when the plan has safeguarded 
benefits valued at over £30,000, are set out under Section 48 of the Pension Schemes Act 
2015. These regulations require pension scheme members who have subsisting rights in 
respect of safeguarded benefits worth more than £30,000 under the scheme to take 
appropriate independent advice from an FCA authorised adviser before:
converting safeguarded benefits into flexible benefits 
using a transfer payment in respect of safeguarded benefits to acquire flexible 
benefits under another scheme
being paid an uncrystallised funds pension lump sum (UFPLS) in respect of their 
safeguarded benefits
If a consumer was to take this advice before taking their benefits, in order to obtain a larger 
compensation payment, I dont necessarily think this would remove the requirement at the 
point the benefits are taken, when the consumer may well have already waived their rights to 
those benefits. But in any event, even if there wasnt an advice requirement, I still wouldnt 
think it was fair to allow Mr K to waive his right to the GAR and for the value not to be 
included in the loss calculation. As Ive said above, Mr K complained to Wesleyan that he 
would have bought added years. The comparison of the added years arrangement is based 
on the value of the benefits it can provide. So Im satisfied that the value of the FSAVC plan 
should also be based on the value of the equivalent benefits that it can provide. I dont think 
this means that Mr K is being treated unfairly. 
I appreciate that Wesleyan believes its likely the value of providing the GAR will increase 
significantly, due mainly to the increasing in line with RPI factor being included. But Im 
conscious that it has only run this calculation on one other case so far. And so I think it 
should still rerun the calculation on Mr Ks case, in order to see if it does make a difference 
overall to his loss.  However, I do agree that, once there is a larger sample of cases, it might 
not be necessary to always rerun the calculation if the data does suggest that recalculating 
on this basis will always increase the value the GAR adds to the plan. But other factors, such 
as whether the consumer has retired since the initial calculation was completed, may mean 
a recalculation on those cases will always be necessary. 
Putting things right
Added years
As at the date of my final decision:
Wesleyan should rerun its calculation using the most recent financial assumptions. And the 
fund value should be based on the GAR for an annuity that provides a 50% spouses benefit 
and increases in line with RPI. 
FSAVC contributions paid after April 2006
If Wesleyan wishes to consider whether no loss has been suffered, it should calculate a 
notional value for the in-house AVC scheme as if it had performed in line with the FTSE UK 
Private Investors Income Total Return Index for half of the investment, and for the other half, 
the average rate from fixed rate bonds index. I've chosen this benchmark because this 
would have achieved capital growth with a small risk to the capital. The average rate for the 
fixed rate bonds would be a fair measure for someone who wanted to achieve a reasonable 
return without risk to the capital. The FTSE UK Private Investors Income total return index 
(prior to 1 March 2017, the FTSE WMA Stock Market Income total return index) is made up 
of a range of indices with different asset classes, mainly UK equities and government bonds. Its a fair measure for someone who was prepared to take a small degree of risk to get a 
higher return.
So, the 50/50 combination would reasonably put Mr K into that position. It does not mean 
that Mr K would have invested 50% of his money in a fixed rate bond and 50% in some kind 
of index tracker investment. Rather, I consider this a reasonable compromise that broadly 
reflects the sort of return Mr K could have obtained from investments suited to his objective 
and risk attitude.
Wesleyan should then compare the actual value of the FSAVC (in respect of the excess
contributions) with this notional value. If the actual value exceeds the notional value no
financial loss has been suffered and it need not take any further action.
The Financial Ombudsman Service uses benchmarks like this as a proxy for the typical 
growth that would have been achieved in investments that performed similarly to the 
benchmark. The aim of any benchmark used in this way is for the investment provider to 
achieve returns broadly in line with the benchmark, despite the charges that would ordinarily 
be incurred. For that reason, Wesleyan should not deduct charges when taking this 
particular step to calculate a notional value. This is consistent with the approach the 
Financial Ombudsman Service takes with such benchmarks.
If Wesleyan doesn't carry out the above comparison, or the comparison produces a loss, it 
must run a charges only calculation to establish the difference in charges between the 
FSAVC and in-house AVC. This should be run in accordance with the regulators FSAVC 
review guidance, incorporating the amendment below to take into account that data for the 
CAPS mixed with property index isnt available for periods after 1 January 2005.
The FSAVC review guidance wasnt intended to compensate consumers for losses arising
solely from poor investment returns in the FSAVC funds, which is why a benchmark index is
used to calculate the difference in charges and (if applicable) any loss of employer matching
contributions or subsidised benefits.
In our view the FTSE UK Private Investor Growth Total Return Index provides the closest
correlation to the CAPS mixed with property index. So where the calculation requires 
ongoing charges in an investment-based FSAVC and AVC to be compared after 1 January 
2005, Wesleyan should use the CAPS mixed with property index up to 1 January 2005 and 
the FTSE UK Private Investor Growth Total Return Index thereafter.
If a loss is identified Wesleyan should pay Mr K the value of the excess charges as a lump 
sum after making a notional deduction to allow for income tax that would otherwise have 
been paid in retirement. 25% of the loss would be tax-free and 75% would have been taxed 
according to his likely income tax rate in retirement  presumed to be 40%. So making a 
notional deduction of 30% overall from the loss adequately reflects this.
As explained in my provisional findings, I dont think it would be unreasonable for Wesleyan 
to take account of any payment it makes now as a result to the higher charges when the 
benefits are taken, should Mr K use the GAR. 
My final decision
For the reasons explained, I partially uphold this complaint and I require Wesleyan to 
complete calculations as set out above. Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr K to accept or 
reject my decision before 28 July 2022.
 
Lorna Goulding
Ombudsman