DRN-3254206
The complaint
Mrs S has complained about National House-Building Councils (NHBCs) decision to decline 
a claim she made under her NHBC Buildmark warranty.
What happened
The subject of this complaint is a building comprising six separate properties. In 2016 Mrs S, 
and the other leaseholders, made a claim through NHBC about a defect with their zinc roof. 
In 2018, repairs were carried out to the roof, communal hallway and the interior of Mrs S flat. 
In February 2020 Mrs S, via her representative who is the factor for the building, reported a 
further ingress of water to her flat  which they believed to be the result of defects to the 
roof. NHBC investigated the issues and declined to cover this claim. It said the damage has 
not been caused by a construction related defect, or its previous repairs, but rather by a 
puncture to the roof at the site of previous repairs carried out by the residents own 
contractor. 
Mrs S and the factor dispute this. They say the only repairs carried out to the roof have been 
completed by the original builder or NHBCs remedial works contractors. So, they say NHBC 
are responsible for any damage caused by faulty or inadequate repairs. They also say 
NHBC ought to have replaced the roof in its entirety in 2018, rather than completing 
localised repairs. To resolve the complaint, they want NHBC to cover Mrs S claim for the 
damage to her flat, and to repair or replace the roof.
One of our investigators considered Mrs S complaint, but she didnt think it should be 
upheld. She explained that the investigations completed by NHBC had shown this instance 
of water ingress was being caused by a nail which had punctured the roof  in an area which 
NHBC had not previously repaired. She said this meant there was no valid claim under 
Mrs S Buildmark warranty and no poor workmanship had been demonstrated as a result of 
the previous repairs by NHBC.
Mrs S didnt accept our investigators opinion. So, because no agreement has been reached, 
the complaint has been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided not to uphold it. Ill explain why.
What the policy covers
NHBCs Buildmark policy provides cover for major problems with newly built or converted 
properties where there has been a breach of its technical requirements. The policy is bought 
by the builder and passed on to the consumer when they purchase the property. The cover 
provided by the policy is split into five sections. 
Section 3 of the policy is the relevant section in this complaint. This section states that 
NHBC will pay for:
The full Cost, if it is more than £1000 Indexed, of putting right any actual physical 
Damage caused by a Defect in any of the following parts of the house, bungalow, 
maisonette or flat and its garage or other permanent outbuilding, or its Common 
Parts:
It then goes on to list the various specified parts which are covered, one of which is roof 
coverings.
Within the policy booklet there is also specific emphasis on the words Damage and 
Defect and individual definitions for each:
Damage
Physical damage to the Home caused by a Defect
Defect
A breach of any mandatory NHBC Requirement by the Builder or anyone employed 
by him or acting for the Builder. Failure to follow the guidance supporting the NHBC 
Requirements does not in itself amount to a Defect, as there may be other ways that 
the required performance can be achieved.
So, the warranty doesnt guarantee a property will be free from defects. Rather, it covers 
repairing any damage which has been caused by a defect (as defined) to one, or more, of 
the specified parts of the home or common parts. And its also worth noting that while not 
specifically stated in the terms of the warranty, our service would expect any repairs carried 
out by NHBC to be lasting and effective.
In this case, there is damage in the form of water ingress to Mrs S home. This damage is 
due to an issue with the roof covering, which is a specified part of the home or common 
parts covered under section 3. So, under the terms of the policy, this claim would be covered 
if it could be established that the damage was as a result of a defect (as defined). Or, 
alternatively, NHBC could reasonably be held responsible for the damage if it could be 
shown to be as a result of poor or failed repairs which the builder, NHBC, or its agents 
carried out.
The previous claim
Mrs S thinks the whole roof shouldve been replaced during the repairs carried out in 2018. 
But, as explained, the policy only covers damage caused by a defect. A defect on its own 
isnt sufficient under Section 3 for a valid claim. So, a roof replacement would not be covered 
unless it was necessary to deliver a lasting and effective repair to the damage. Ive seen comments, from the previous factor, suggesting that NHBC previously repaired the 
wrong portion of the roof, and that this instance of water ingress is linked to the same defect 
from 2016. However, from the other available evidence, I can see that the damage caused to 
the building in 2016 was in the communal hallway, along with the bathroom, hallway and 
bedroom of Mrs S flat. In 2018, NHBC carried out a repair to the portion of the roof which 
was causing this damage, by replacing some of the zinc sheeting in that specific area. It also 
opened up and resealed the raised rolled joints across the roof. The damage reported in this 
claim, several years after NHBCs repairs were completed, is to a separate area of Mrs S 
flat  the lounge  and has been shown not be due to water entering through the joints. So, 
the repairs completed by NHBC in 2018 appear to have been lasting and effective given no 
further instances of water ingress have occurred in the areas it repaired.
This claim 
NHBCs position is that the damage in this claim has not been caused by a defect, or as a 
result of previous repairs it was involved in. This is based on water testing and a 
thermographic survey it conducted, which concluded that the damage to Mrs S flat was 
being caused by a nail which had punctured the roof and been repaired using gaffer tape.
NHBC has provided comments from the original builder taken during the previous claim. 
These state that the builder inspected the roof and noted several patch repairs which he 
says werent completed by his firm. He stated that he, or his firm, hadnt carried out any 
repairs or alterations to the roof. NHBC has also provided photos of the repair works its 
remedial works contractor carried out to resolve the claim in 2018. These show that the area 
of roof which was replaced is separate to where the nail and patch repair are.
Mrs S, via the current factor, has stated that no repairs have been carried out to the roof, 
except by NHBC or its agents. But Ive seen emails from 2017, from the previous factor, 
confirming that he instructed repairs to the roof on multiple occasions prior to NHBCs initial 
claims investigation report. NHBCs initial site report confirms the same and shows that one 
of the previous repairs, completed before NHBC accessed the roof, appears to have 
included the use of tape covered by sealant  which is consistent with the repair technique 
used over the nail.
In cases like this, where the evidence is incomplete or contradictory, Ill reach a finding on 
the balance of probabilities. That is, what do I consider to be more likely, based on the 
evidence available.
Based on the evidence provided, Im satisfied, on balance, that the cause of this instance of 
water ingress is the nail, rather than a breach of NHBCs technical requirements by the 
builder during construction. This means that there is no defect, as defined, and thus no valid 
claim under section 3 of the warranty. 
Ive also considered Mrs S, and the factors, suggestions that the nail was part of the original 
construction of the roof  which they maintain was poor and defective from the outset. But 
given the roof was completed in 2010, and this particular instance of water ingress only 
materialised in early 2020, I find that unlikely. I think its more likely that the nail was 
introduced later, such as during repairs which took place between 2016 and 2018. 
NHBC only carried out repairs to specific sections of the roof  which are separate to where 
the nail is. And the residents contractor carried out multiple separate repairs, over at least 
three occasions, one of which appears consistent with the technique used over the nail. So, 
taking all of this into account, I find it more likely than not that the damage reported in this 
case was caused by the residents repairs, rather than NHBCs. To summarise, the damage to Mrs S flat has been caused by a nail which has pierced the 
roof. This means there is no cover under section 3 because the damage hasnt been caused 
by a defect. And based on the available evidence, on balance, I dont consider it likely that 
NHBC or its agents are responsible for the nail piercing the roof. So, while I appreciate my 
decision will come as a disappointment for Mrs S, it follows that I dont think NHBC is 
responsible for putting right the issues with her property.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, Ive decided not to uphold Mrs S complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs S to accept or 
reject my decision before 2 March 2022.
 
Adam Golding
Ombudsman