DRN-3958814
The complaint
Mr G complains he couldnt successfully apply for a credit card via Santander UK Plcs 
online platform; and that its chat facility isnt fit for purpose. Mr G has also said he failed to 
receive a final response to his complaint.
What happened
Mr G looked to apply for a credit card with Santander in July 2022. Mr G says he 
experienced issues with the application platform and was unhappy that some of the required 
fields didnt have his pre-populated information. Mr G says he attempted to discuss the 
application via Santanders online chat facility and had issues with connectivity and the 
service he received.
Mr G says he made a complaint via the chat facility in July 2022 about these issues; and 
when he didnt receive Santanders response he referred his complaint to our service. 
Our investigator considered Mr Gs complaint and didnt uphold it. He said Santanders 
processes, like how it sets out its applications and how it manages its online chat facility, 
werent something our service would usually look to interfere in. He went on to consider the 
evidence Santander presented in relation to it dealing with Mr Gs complaint, and he said he 
was satisfied it was logged and responded to appropriately. 
Mr G didnt accept our investigators findings. In summary, he said: 
The platform for the application was laggy and he received a bad level of customer 
service when raising his concerns via Santanders online chat facility; 
He hadnt received or been made aware that Santanders final response had been 
issued to his online portal; and that it has an obligation to ensure he had read it. Mr G 
provided evidence which suggested the final response letter wasnt available to him 
through his online banking; and 
He ended up opening a credit card with another provider and is looking for compensation 
for the distress and inconvenience this situation has caused. 
Mr G asked for an ombudsmans review, so the complaint has been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so Ive reached the same conclusion as our investigator; and for broadly the 
same reasons. 
Mr G makes reference to the credit card application not being partially pre-populated; and 
that Santanders platform was laggy. Hes also said he had issues with the online chat 
facility and has provided evidence of connection issues, as well as saying he received a bad 
level of service. Mr G said Santander has told our service previously that these issues would 
be fixed. 
I cant be satisfied if the connectivity issues and laggy platform were as a result of issues 
from Mr Gs side or Santanders side; so, I cant safely conclude Santander was at fault here. 
But in any event, I dont think that matters in the individual circumstances. I say this because 
while I understand it would be frustrating for Mr G if the platform and chat facility wasnt 
working as he would expect, Santander does have other communication channels available 
if he wanted to contact it and look to open the credit card; or discuss any questions or 
concerns he had. And Ive not been presented with any evidence to suggest Mr G cant use 
alternative communication methods. 
The screen shots Mr G has provided appear to show there were connectivity issues when he 
was looking to discuss the concerns via Santanders online chat facility. But as Ive found 
above, I cant safely conclude these were as a result of errors on Santanders part; and in 
any event it doesnt appear Mr G was stopped from completing what he intended to do, 
which was making Santander aware of his concerns and raising a complaint. In fact, from 
the screen shots Mr G has provided I can see the Santander representative confirmed a 
complaint would be logged and responded to; and Ive not seen any evidence to suggest 
Santanders representatives were unhelpful when looking to address Mr Gs concerns. 
Ultimately Mr G chose to open a credit card account with another provider, which he is 
entirely entitled to do. So, I cant see how Mr G was put to any detriment or inconvenience 
above the normal nuisances we may encounter in everyday life when experiencing the 
issues with the application process and chat facility; which as Ive already found above, I 
cant be satisfied were solely as a result of any errors on Santanders part. 
While I appreciate Mr G has said hed raised previous concerns about Santanders online 
platform, as Ive found above it does have other communication channels and should Mr G 
continue to experience similar issues, he can use these other channels, or use other 
providers services as he ultimately chose to do in this instance. 
Mr G raised concerns about the credit card application he was looking to complete and that 
he felt some details should be pre-populated. A business is entitled to use its commercial 
judgement when deciding its processes and procedures. I consider its application processes 
for products would fall under its commercial judgement; and therefore, its not this services 
role to interfere in that judgement. Santander provided Mr G with an explanation as to why 
the application wasnt pre-populated within it final response which I consider is reasonable. 
Turning to the final response, Mr G says he didnt receive it; and has provided us with a 
screen shot of his online banking document list covering dates either side of when the final 
response was sent. He said because of this Santander didnt tell him his complaint was one 
that could be referred to our service for review. 
I asked Santander to explain the discrepancy between the screen shot it has provided this 
service, which it says shows the final response being generated and uploaded to Mr Gs 
online document portal on 9 July 2022, and Mr Gs screen shot which suggests it hasnt 
been received. Santander has said it cant explain why the final response doesnt appear to 
show in the document list Mr G has provided; but it says it can confirm it had been uploaded. 
As the evidence is disputed, Ive reached my decision based on what I consider, on balance, 
was more likely to have happened in the individual circumstances of this complaint. 
Having done so, I think its more likely Santander did upload the final response. I say this 
because it has provided us with a copy of the final response dated 9 July 2022 which closely 
correlates with the date Mr G initially raised his concerns; and the content of the final response covers the issues Mr G had raised. In addition to this Santanders internal screen 
shot does appear to show the final response being uploaded to Mr Gs online message 
portal  and is labelled as unread, suggesting it has been uploaded but unread by Mr G. 
So, while I dont doubt Mr Gs testimony, and the screen shot he has provided as evidence, 
as Ive found above, Im satisfied, on balance, that Santander uploaded the final response 
and therefore by doing so it met its regulatory obligations. I would add that Santanders 
obligation isnt to ensure Mr G received or read the final response, but to ensure it was sent. 
Mr G has said that by not receiving the final response Santander failed to inform him that he 
could refer his complaint to our service. However, I note that Mr G referred his complaint to 
our service within two weeks of initially raising his concerns with Santander. So, it appears 
he was aware of his rights in referring a complaint to our service; and wasnt unreasonably 
delayed in doing so by not receiving the final response, as he has suggested. 
Taking all the above into account, I dont find Santander has made any errors in its handling 
of Mr Gs complaint; and therefore, it doesnt need to take any further action in resolution of 
this complaint. 
I appreciate my decision will be disappointing to Mr G, but I hope it assures him Ive carefully 
listened to and considered all of the details of his complaint.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above my final decision is that Im not upholding Mr Gs complaint 
about Santander UK Plc.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision before 10 March 2023.
 
Richard Turner
Ombudsman