The complaint
Miss I complains about Advantage Insurance Company Limiteds decision to accept liability 
for a claim following an incident where she'd collided with another car. She also complains 
about its handling of the claim, and the customer service she received.
What happened
Miss I had motor insurance with Advantage and made a claim when she was involved in a 
car accident. During the claim call, she explained shed been stationary at a junction, waiting 
to turn right, with the third-party car parked on the side of the road in a loading bay. As she 
started to turn right out of the junction, the third-party pulled out quickly without looking, and 
the two cars collided. She told the call handler where the accident had happened and that 
she thought there might be CCTV. She later produced a police incident report.
The third-party said they were driving down the road when Miss I turned right and across 
their path, resulting in the collision. Their drivers side front lower bumper was scratched and 
dented, and the trim was pulled back a bit.
Advantage agreed to pay for the damage caused to the third-party car and closed the claim. 
It explained to Miss I the claim had been settled as a fault claim, and that this might affect 
her no claims discount. 
Miss I wasnt satisfied, but Advantage maintained its position. It admitted it had failed to note 
the exact location of the incident meaning Miss I had to provide the information again. It also 
accepted the location of the incident had been covered by CCTV, but that it had left it too 
late to ask for it (because recordings are only held for a period of 30 days). But it 
explained the available evidence supported the version of events given by the third-party 
and the decision to pay for the third-party car to be repaired and record it as a fault claim 
was a business decision. 
It also accepted it had provided conflicting information about whether or not Miss I had to 
pay an excess, that it had contacted her on her birthday and that it could have sent out the 
accident report form and instructed the solicitors sooner. For the unsatisfactory customer 
service shed received, it offered Miss I £200 compensation and said she could keep her no 
claims discount.
Miss I remained dissatisfied, and so she complained to this service. She maintains the 
accident happened as a result of the third-partys lack of attention, explaining Advantage 
was wrongly advised not to defend the claim. She believes the lack of CCTV footage meant 
the evidence was inconclusive and she wants Advantage to settle her claim for damages, 
whiplash and emotional damage, none of which were paid because it was recorded as a 
fault claim. 
DRN-1111573Advantage accepted it had failed to chase the CCTV, but said it didnt feel this would have 
changed the liability status of the claim. It explained it considers how a case will be judged in 
court based on the available evidence, and it makes an informed decision about the likely 
outcome. It has a responsibility to mitigate claim costs, and the policy allows it to conduct the 
defence or settlement of any claim made on the policy on the insured's behalf. 
Our investigator acknowledged Advantage had failed to record the precise location of the 
accident and to get CCTV, but she said it wasnt clear whether this would have made a 
difference to the outcome of the claim. She was satisfied the evidence showed Miss Is car 
was making the more risky manoeuvre, and she considered it would be difficult for 
Advantage to defend the claim in court. Based on the available evidence, she didnt think 
Advantage had acted unfairly or unreasonably in settling it as a fault claim, and she was 
satisfied the claim had been handled in line with the terms and conditions of the policy. 
Finally, she noted Miss Is no claims discount hadn't been affected, and she felt £200 
compensation was fair.
Miss I has asked for her complaint to be reviewed by an ombudsman. She argues she gave 
information to Advantage that wasnt passed to the ombudsman service, and maintains its 
failure to act promptly has resulted in unfairness. Further, she doesnt feel £200 
compensation is fair as Advantages mistake means she now has a fault claim recorded 
against her.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Miss I believes Advantage wasnt proactive in gathering evidence to investigate what 
happened and that its decision to accept liability on her behalf was unfair.
Miss I recalls the third party having pulled out of a loading bay just before the collision, but 
the third party said theyd been driving down the road when Miss I pulled out in front of them. 
I accept the accident was probably caught on CCTV and this might have shown which of the 
two accounts most closely reflects what happened. I also accept that in failing to request the 
CCTV sooner, Advantage lost the opportunity to obtain this evidence. However, its not clear 
whether confirmation that the third party had been parked in a loading bay prior to the 
collision would have changed the outcome of the claim and, because of this, Im not satisfied 
Miss I has shown Advantages failure to obtain CCTV has resulted in a fault claim being 
unfairly recorded against her.
Ive considered the available evidence and I think the conclusion that there wasnt a realistic 
prospect of success was reasonable. Advantage considered Miss Is account, and 
concluded the distance between the loading bay and the entrance of the car park was such 
that the third party would be established on the road. I think this is a fair assessment, and 
the fact the collision occurred as Miss I was turning right onto a carriageway from a position 
that required her to give way, means it would be unlikely for liability to lie with the third party, 
whether or not they had been parked in the loading bay prior to the collision. 
Advantage had a duty to mitigate its claim costs, and the policy permitted it to accept liability 
on Miss Is behalf. I understand Miss I feels this was the wrong decision, and that CCTV 
evidence might have changed the outcome, but I'm not persuaded that it would have 
done. In the circumstances, Im satisfied the decision to accept liability and record the claim 
as a fault claim was reasonable. Advantage has accepted Miss I received poor service as it had provided conflicting 
information about whether or not she had to pay an excess, she was sent incorrect 
correspondence, and she was called on her birthday. Its also accepted there were avoidable 
delays because it could have sent out the accident report form and instructed solicitors 
sooner. It offered to pay her £200 for these failings and having considered the impact those 
failings had on her, Im satisfied thats fair and in line with the type of award this service 
normally offers. It's also confirmed her no claims discount wont be affected and I think thats 
fair.
I understand Miss I will be disappointed but, for the reasons outlined above, I dont uphold 
this complaint.
My final decision
For the reasons outlined above, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss I to accept or 
reject my decision before 3 February 2020.
Carolyn Bonnell
Ombudsman