DRN-1632241
 
The complaint
Mrs G says Canada Square Operations Limited (trading at the time of sale as Egg) mis-
sold her a payment protection insurance (PPI) policy.
background
This complaint is about a credit card PPI policy taken out in June 2003 by Mrs G online.
Our adjudicator didnt uphold Mrs Gs complaint. Mrs G disagreed so the complaint has been 
passed to me to make a decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Weve set out our general approach to 
complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding 
this case.
I dont think Egg gave advice, so I dont need to consider whether the policy was suitable. It 
did need to provide clear information so that Mrs G could make an informed decision.
Ive decided to not uphold Mrs Gs complaint because:
I am satisfied that Mrs G chose to protect her credit card repayments, knowing there 
would be a cost to do so. Egg has provided a screen shot of what Mrs G would have 
seen when she applied for the card. The screen shot shows PPI being presented. It 
broadly describes the purpose of the cover and sets out its cost, right next to where it 
appears Mrs G would have clicked a box saying Yes to the cover. There was the 
option to say No so I think Mrs G would have known about the PPI policy and also 
that she had a choice to have it.
 
The information Egg gave Mrs G about the PPI wasnt as clear as it should have 
been. But it doesnt look as if better information would have put Mrs G off anyway 
based on what Ive seen of her circumstances at the time. 
 
I am persuaded based on what I have seen, that Mrs G would have found the 
benefits provided by the policy useful in a difficult time over an extended period to 
cover her in addition to her 3 months worth of sick pay. The cost of the PPI policy 
was relatively low (compared to others in the market). And the policy provided Mrs G 
with a safety net, at a good level of benefit, which with her circumstances at the time 
of sale, she would have considered useful if she needed it.
 I couldnt find anything else within the policys terms and conditions that would have 
put Mrs G off buying it like a restrictive or significant term, at the time of sale.
 
 In conclusion, I have not been able to find any grounds to uphold this complaint about the 
mis-sale of the PPI policy. This means Egg dont have to pay back all of the cost of the PPI 
to Mrs G. But Egg has paid back some of the cost of the PPI to Mrs G because: 
 
Egg got a high level of commission and profit share (more than 50% of the PPI 
premium) - so it should have told Mrs G about that. Because Egg didnt tell Mrs G, 
that was unfair. 
 
To put that right, Egg has paid back the amount of commission and profit share that 
was above 50% of the PPI premium - and I think that is fair in this case.
 
my final decision
The PPI policy wasnt mis-sold  so Canada Square Operations Limited does not have to 
pay back all of the cost of the PPI to Mrs G.
But Canada Square Operations Limited does have to pay back to Mrs G any commission 
and profit share it got that was more than 50% of the PPI premium. I understand it has 
already done this, so I dont award any further compensation.  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs G to accept or 
reject my decision before 22 April 2020.
Mark Richardson
Ombudsman