DRN-3394736
The complaint
L, a charity, complains that CF Corporate Finance Limited (CF) wont release it from a 5-year 
finance agreement. L says the person who signed the contract didnt have authority to bind 
the charity.
L is represented by one of its trustees, Miss F.
What happened
L entered into a finance agreement with CF dated 25 September 2019. The agreement 
financed the purchase of various items of IT equipment for L, from a third-party supplier, and 
was for a term of 5 years. Miss F says the supplier visited Ls premises to discuss the order 
before the finance agreement with CF was signed.
Once the order had been placed, the finance agreement was signed and incepted, and the 
items were delivered to L, followed by a copy of the signed agreement. The order was 
placed by Ls manager, who Ill refer to as Ms C, who also signed the agreement.
At first, L used the equipment and made payments in line with the agreement. 
Sometime around August 2020, Ms C left L and the trustees met to discuss, among other 
things, Ls finances. 
At that meeting, the trustees discovered L had been signed up to a five-year contract. The 
monthly payments had appeared on Ls bank statements, but Miss F says the trustees were 
unaware of the length of the contract. The trustees are volunteers and dont work at Ls 
premises day to day. Ms C was on site day to day and it was her who had made the 
arrangements. Miss F says she tried to contact Ms C to discuss matters, but Ms C wasnt 
forthcoming.
Miss F complained to CF, saying Ms C wasnt a trustee of L and didnt have authority to bind 
L. CF issued its final response on 9 February 2021, rejecting Ls complaint. It said the 
agreement had been activated on representations made by Ms C who identified herself as a 
manager, and that the agreement couldnt be terminated as it had been running for over a 
year.
Miss F remained unhappy, so she brought her complaint to our service. Our investigator 
though didnt uphold the complaint. She felt CF was entitled to believe Ms C had authority to 
bind L to a contractual agreement and thought it would be unfair to release L from the 
contract given it had gone unchallenged for over a year with both parties ostensibly happy 
with the agreement.
Miss F didnt accept what our investigator said. She said CF should have engaged the 
trustees, not the manager for a legally binding contract and she queried how Ms C was able 
to authorise the direct debit mandate given she wasnt a signatory on the account. 
She agreed L had had some of the benefit of the contract, but said she had endeavoured to 
return the equipment when she discovered the contract. And that she wanted to come to 
some kind of agreement to terminate the deal. Our investigator maintained her position, so 
the case came to me to issue a final determination.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Miss F says CF could have checked open source information to discover the identity of Ls 
trustees, and approach them to agree the contract. She says if it had done so, the 
agreement wouldnt have been signed. So, Ive looked to see what due diligence CF did 
carry out, and Ive thought about whether it should have done more, and what might have 
happened had it done so.
Firstly, its worth noting that CF is the finance company, not the equipment supplier, so its 
one step removed from the deal. The supplier met with Ms C at Ls premises before 
agreeing to provide the equipment requested, so while CF didnt meet the customer, a third 
party did, which will have provided some comfort that L intended to enter into the agreement 
freely. While the agreement wasnt signed by a trustee, it was signed by a manager who also 
signed the direct debit mandate, i.e. the instruction to Ls bank to pay money to CF.
After the agreement was signed, it was confirmed in writing, addressed to L, not Ms C. The 
equipment was delivered to L and the direct debit payments began and continued 
uninterrupted. CF didnt hear from L further between around September 2019 and February 
2021.
Looking at the above, Im satisfied CF carried out sufficient due diligence in the 
circumstances of this complaint and that it acted reasonably in concluding that L intended to 
enter into the agreement freely. Ms C held herself out as having authorisation to enter into 
the agreement, and I dont think it was necessary for CF to insist on a signature from a 
trustee.
And, while I find Miss F to be a credible witness, the evidence doesnt necessarily support 
her argument that L didnt wish to enter into the agreement. Payments of £189.60 left Ls 
account monthly, and the trustees did see the statements, so they were aware L was 
incurring costs. I accept that L disputed the agreement after Ms C had left, but I cant say 
that means Ls trustees wouldnt have signed the agreement, had it been presented to them. 
The fact that the agreement ran so long suggests L was happy with the agreement, based 
on the evidence Ive seen, its equally possible that circumstances had changed by February 
2021, and that that is why L then objected to the agreement. The agreement was signed 
before the coronavirus pandemic hit, and so L will have got less use out of the equipment 
after March 2020, when national lockdowns began.
I should make it clear that Im not suggesting that is the true position. Im simply stating that 
the evidence available to me doesnt conclusively show L wouldnt have entered into the 
contract, had the trustees been asked to sign the agreement in the first place. Miss F has 
said that the trustees are personally liable for the contract, if L defaults on payments. So, I 
accept that that risk would have factored into any decision to sign a contract. But I cant 
reasonably apply the benefit of hindsight to these circumstances, given the unprecedented 
shift in behaviours after March 2020.
I should also make clear that Im not seeking to blame the trustees for this situation. Its 
unhelpful that Ms C didnt respond to Miss F when she tried to contact her, and the trustees 
are volunteers, not professionals, so they dont attend Ls premises regularly, and are one step removed from Ls day to day business. Which makes it difficult for them to completely 
understand the true position on the ground. And Miss F tells me Ms C was not an authorised 
signatory on Ls bank account.
That doesnt help Ls position in this case though, because the trustees still knew about the 
payments and didnt take steps to query how they were setup. Which suggests they didnt 
object to Ls bank authorising the payments. Indeed, thats a point Miss F accepts, and her 
grievance relates to the length of the contract, rather than the very existence of the contract.
And I cant hold CF liable for any failings by Ls bank to allow payments to proceed that it 
shouldnt have authorised. Although at this point, I need to make clear that I havent seen the 
details of Ls bank mandate, and Im simply relying on what Miss F has told me. So, for the 
avoidance of doubt, Im not suggesting Ls bank is at fault here: to do so would be beyond 
the remit of a complaint against CF. Im simply explaining why this point doesnt mean Ls 
complaint should be upheld against CF.
I recognise this isnt the outcome Miss F was hoping for. But for the reasons Ive outlined 
above, I cant reasonably say CF should agree to an early termination of the agreement.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask L to accept or 
reject my decision before 1 December 2022.
 
Alex Brooke-Smith
Ombudsman