DRN-4145630
The complaint
O, a solicitors firm, complains on behalf of the estate of the late Mr M about Mr Ms 
mortgage. O says that Santander UK Plc didnt properly notify Mr M about changes to the 
interest rate on his mortgage, which means the changes are invalid and that Mr M and later 
his estate were overcharged interest as a result.
What happened
In 2007 Mr M took out an interest only mortgage over a term of 15 years. The mortgage was 
on a rate which tracked the Bank of England base rate for the first two years. In 2008 Mr M 
took out a fixed rate for three years on the expiry of the tracker rate. The fixed rate came to 
an end in 2011, and the mortgage was on the standard variable rate (SVR) thereafter.
Sadly Mr M passed away in 2013. For the next few years, his executors continued to make 
mortgage payments while trying to resolve underlying issues with the property. But when the 
mortgage balance wasnt repaid, Santander repossessed and sold the property in 2019.
On behalf of Mr Ms estate, O complained to Santander. It said that Mr Ms mortgage had 
included a term which limited the amount the SVR could exceed the Bank of England base 
rate (a cap margin term  capping the margin over base rate). O said that Santander had 
increased the SVR above the cap margin but had not notified Mr M or his estate that it had 
done so. O said that in the absence of a notification, the increase was invalid and the SVR 
had been overcharged as a result. And it said that had Mr M received a notification, he 
would have re-financed the mortgage. 
Santander said that Mr Ms mortgage was not subject to the cap, so in not notifying him of a 
change to the cap it applied to other customers mortgages, it hadnt done anything wrong. It 
said Mr Ms mortgage was subject to its 2007 mortgage conditions (which did not include a 
cap on the SVR), not the 2004 mortgage conditions (which did).
Santander said that it had first corresponded with Mr Ms estate about this issue in 2014, so 
in any case the complaint was out of time, because the cap was varied in 2008 and 2012, 
and Mr Ms estate knew about that in 2014  and it had also told Mr Ms executor at that time 
that the cap did not apply to Mr Ms specific mortgage.
Ive previously issued a jurisdiction decision, in which I found:
This is a complaint that each time Santander charged Mr M (or his estate) interest 
on the mortgage, it did so in breach of contract: 
Santander wrongly thought that the 2007 conditions not the 2004 conditions 
applied to Mr Ms mortgage;
As a result, Santander wrongly thought that Mr Ms mortgage did not contain a 
cap provision at all;
Whereas in fact, Mr Ms mortgage  being on the 2004 conditions  did contain a 
cap provision; 
Because Mr M was never notified of any change to the cap margin, Santander 
had no power to charge him interest at an SVR of more than 2.5% above base 
rate;
And therefore Mr M (and his estate) was overcharged interest on an ongoing 
basis between 2011 and 2019.
This is therefore a complaint that Santander was in ongoing breach of contract. And 
that each month it charged interest and added it to Mr Ms mortgage, it had no 
contractual basis for applying the rate that it did.
I said that because it was clear that Mr M had not paid interest at the SVR until 2011  
before then, he was on a tracker and then a fixed rate. 
I went on to note that Mr Ms estate, represented by his executor, considered there were 
problems with Mr Ms mortgage around the time of the 2014 correspondence. This ought 
reasonably to have given the executor (and so Mr Ms estate) knowledge of cause for 
complaint by then at the latest. Under our rules, a complaint must be made by the later of six 
years from the date of the event, or three years from when the complainant knew or ought 
reasonably to have known of cause for complaint. 
This meant that we could only consider the fairness of interest charged to the late Mr Ms 
mortgage from 4 September 2014 onwards  which is six years before O first made this 
complaint on the estates behalf. I did not consider the 2014 correspondence amounted to 
an earlier complaint. But in considering the fairness of interest charged since 2014, it would 
be necessary to take account of all the circumstances of the complaint, including where 
appropriate decisions Santander made before then but which impacted the rate charged 
during the period I can consider. 
Our investigator went on to consider the merits of the complaint. He didnt uphold the 
complaint. He thought the mortgage was subject to the 2004 conditions, and therefore 
included a cap on the SVR. He said that when Santander increased the cap margin, it didnt 
notify Mr M (or his estate)  even though it was required to do so under the terms and 
conditions. But he didnt think that resulted in any detriment to Mr Ms estate in the rate paid 
after September 2014, since by the time the revised SVR applied to the mortgage in 2011 
Mr M was not subject to an early repayment charge and was free to move his mortgage 
elsewhere or take a fixed rate with Santander. But there was no evidence hed tried to do so. 
O didnt accept that. It said that had Santander notified Mr M of changes to the cap margin, 
he would have acted differently. It said he might have tried to sell the property  knowing he 
was seriously ill. He did try to do so in 2013, not long before he passed away, but without 
success. By not notifying him of a change to the cap margin, Santander deprived Mr M of the 
chance to try and sell his property sooner  causing loss to his estate.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
There is a dispute about what terms and conditions apply to this mortgage, and so before I 
can consider whether Santander has acted fairly and reasonably taking into account the 
mortgage conditions, I need first to establish what the terms and conditions are. In particular, 
the dispute is over which edition of Santanders standard mortgage conditions applies.The original 2006 mortgage offer says the mortgage offer, together with the mortgage 
conditions booklet and the mortgage deed all form part of the terms and conditions of the 
mortgage. It says:
Further details of how interest is charged (and other conditions applying to your 
mortgage) are set out in our enclosed Standard Mortgage Conditions booklet
However, the offer does not specify which edition of the mortgage conditions was enclosed 
and was applied to the mortgage.
Santander says that when Mr M took a new interest rate in December 2008, his mortgage 
became subject to the 2007 edition of the mortgage conditions. That edition does not contain 
a cap on Mr Ms SVR, and so Mr Ms mortgage was not subject to a cap on the SVR from 
then on. And therefore when Santander varied the cap margin in 2008 and 2012, there was 
no need to notify Mr M, since the cap  and therefore the variation  did not apply to him. 
Thats because he was not on the SVR in 2008 and his mortgage did not include a cap in 
2012. 
The 2008 rate switch offer says
Further details of how interest is charged (and other conditions applying to your 
mortgage) are set out in our Standard Mortgage Conditions booklet 2004 edition.
The 2008 rate switch offer also says that a copy of the standard mortgage conditions was 
enclosed with the offer, though it doesnt say which edition was enclosed.
Santander says the reference to the 2004 edition is a mistake. The 2004 edition had been 
superseded by the 2007 edition which should be the edition applying to this mortgage. It 
says that as a result, we should consider the 2007 edition as being applicable to the 
mortgage.
Im not persuaded by this. The 2006 mortgage offer is silent as to which edition applies  
though clearly it could not have been the 2007 edition, which had yet to be produced. So its 
likely the 2006 mortgage offer was subject to the 2004 standard conditions.
And it is clear in the 2008 rate switch offer that the applicable conditions are the 2004 
edition. This might be a mistake; it might not be what Santander intended. But theres no 
way Mr M would have known that, and I think whats important is what the mortgage offer 
actually says, not what Santander intended it to say.
I also think its relevant to note that in 2014 Santander itself was confused about whether the 
cap margin applied  agreeing in one letter that it did, and then saying in another letter that it 
didnt.
Im therefore satisfied that the 2004 edition of the mortgage conditions applies to this 
mortgage. That edition does contain the cap margin term, and the relevant terms say:
2.6 cap means the rate of interest found by adding the margin to the reference 
rate
[then in a footnote  the cap is relevant where you pay interest at a variable rate, 
ie a rate which is based on our standard variable rate. Briefly, the effect of the cap 
is that our standard variable rate must not exceed the reference rate (initially the 
Bank of Englands repo rate) by more than the margin (initially 2.50%): see 
conditions 10.5 and 10.6]2.17 margin means 2.50% or any other percentage which we substitute as the 
margin under condition 10.7
[then in a footnote  we use the margin to work out the cap]
2.28 reference rate means (a) the Bank of Englands repo rate from time to time; or 
(b) any replacement rate which we specify under condition 11.1
[then in a footnote - where we are charging interest at a variable rate (ie a rate 
based on our standard variable rate) we add together the reference rate and the 
margin to work out the cap which applies to our standard variable rate.]
2.32 standard variable rate or SVR means the rate of interest which we publish 
as our standard variable rate. We use our standard variable rate as the basis for 
setting the rate we change in all cases where:
(a) the mortgage is a personal mortgage loan; and
(b) the terms which for the time being apply to the loan provide that the 
interest rate will only change if and when we decide to change it.
We can change the standard variable rate under condition 10.2 or 10.4
10.5 If we change the standard variable rate, we will ensure that the changed 
standard variable rate does not exceed the cap in force at the time when we take the 
final decision to make the change.
[there is a footnote  suppose that the base rate (initially the Bank of Englands repo 
rate) is 4.00% and the margin remains at 2.50%. The cap (the base rate plus the 
margin) would therefore be 6.50%. This paragraph would mean that we could not 
increase our standard variable rate to more than 6.50%.]
10.6 This paragraph applies where the standard variable rate comes to exceed the 
cap as a result of:
(a) a reduction in the base rate;
(b) a reduction in the base rate combined with a change in the standard 
variable rate of which we have previously given notice; or
(c) a reduction in the margin.
Where this paragraph applies, we will change the standard variable rate within 60 
days from the date (the start date) on which it comes to exceed the cap. We will 
ensure that the changed standard variable rate does not exceed the cap in force on 
the start date. 
10.7 We may increase or reduce the margin at any time. The following terms will 
apply to any increase or reduction which we make under this paragraph:
(a) we will give you not less than 30 days notice of an increase in the margin 
and not less than seven days notice of a reduction;
(b) if we are increasing the margin, then:If the increase applies to the whole of the capital, you will be entitled to 
repay all the money you owe us within three months from the date on 
which the increase takes effect, without paying any early repayment 
charge that would otherwise apply;
If the increase applies only to part of the capital (the affected part), 
you will be entitled to repay the money you owe us, or (if you choose) 
the affected part, within three months from the date on which the 
increase takes effect, without paying any early repayment charge that 
would otherwise apply to the affected part.
Ive reviewed the terms and conditions. They make clear that where the mortgage is on the 
SVR, the SVR will be subject to the cap  being the base rate plus a margin of 2.5%. But the 
terms also say that Santander may increase the cap at any time. 
There are separate provisions allowing Santander to change the SVR itself, but O has not 
complained about any changes Santander made to the SVR  only that it failed to notify 
Mr M of a change to the cap margin, that the change to the margin was therefore invalid, and 
any interest charged above the initial margin of 2.5% was therefore overcharged and should 
be refunded to Mr Ms estate. Nor has it complained about the fairness of the terms and 
conditions  it has expressly limited the complaint to the failure to give notice invalidating the 
cap margin increase. So thats what Ive focussed on in this decision. 
Condition 10.7 says that Santander may increase or reduce the margin at any time. It goes 
on to say that where it does so, it should give Mr M notice of the change (30 days notice for 
an increase; 7 days for a reduction). 
Its not in dispute that Santander didnt give Mr M notice on either occasion it increased the 
cap. The question for this complaint is whether that failure invalidated the increases.
The requirement to give notice is to give notice of a decision already made. The ability to 
change the cap is not conditional on the giving of notice, and failure to give notice does not 
invalidate the change. The purpose of giving notice is not to bring the change into force; it is 
to give the borrower the opportunity to exit the mortgage without charge to avoid the impact 
of the change. 
I dont therefore think that the failure to give notice means that Santander was not entitled to 
change the cap. But it does mean that Santander was potentially in breach of the term of the 
contract requiring it to give Mr M notice of the change to the cap, once it had made the 
decision to make those changes. 
Ive therefore gone on to think about what the effect of that was. The purpose of giving notice 
was to enable Mr M to move his mortgage elsewhere without being subject to an early 
repayment charge if he wasnt happy with the change to the cap.
There were two changes to the cap  the first, in 2008, when Mr M was not subject to the 
SVR, and again in 2012 when he was. 
I cannot consider the fairness of those increases, since they are out of time as complaints in 
their own right. But I can consider whether those increases led to Mr Ms estate being 
charged an unfair rate of interest from September 2014, which is the period I can consider.
Mr M reverted to the SVR in 2011. By then, the 2008 increase had taken effect and the SVR 
had also been changed  though the SVR was by this time lower than it was when Mr M had 
taken the mortgage out. This was because Santander had reduced the SVR when base rate reduced, but it had increased the cap margin so that the SVR fell by less than base rate fell.
From reversion in 2011 onwards, Mr Ms mortgage was not subject to any early repayment 
charge. In 2011, Mr M could have taken another fixed or tracker rate with Santander, or 
moved his mortgage to another lender, if he was unhappy with the SVR. Since hed taken a 
new rate in 2008, Im satisfied he was aware he could do so.
Ive said that I dont think Santanders failure to give notice of the change to the cap margin 
means that, contractually, the change is of no effect. But I do think failing to give notice, 
having increased the cap margin, meant that it was likely Santander was in breach of the 
contractual obligation to give notice.
The purpose of giving notice is to allow Mr M to mitigate the impact of the change by 
ensuring he is no longer subject to it  such as by taking a new interest rate product instead 
of the SVR, or re-mortgaging  without being subject to an ERC.
At the time of the first increase, Mr M was not subject to the SVR. And he wouldnt have 
known about the change to the cap margin, or been impacted by it, at the time. But he would 
have known what the level of the SVR was when he reverted to it in 2011  and (having 
done so before) knew he had the option of taking a new rate rather than remain on the SVR. 
He was not subject to an ERC at that time.
At the time of the second increase in the cap margin, Mr M was on the SVR and therefore 
directly impacted by it. He wasnt told about the cap margin change directly, but he was told 
about an increase in the SVR that happened at the same time. Again, he wasnt subject to 
an ERC and had the opportunity to take a new rate, re-mortgage or sell the property.
Ive taken into account that O says Mr M was unwell at this time, and that he passed away in 
2013. But Ive not seen any evidence that he was unable to make decisions about his 
mortgage  indeed, he tried to sell the property in 2013. 
Ive taken all that into account in thinking about whether Santander applied a fair and 
reasonable interest rate to the mortgage by then paid by Mr Ms estate after September 
2014. The failure to give notice did not, for the reasons Ive given, invalidate the change to 
the cap margin and therefore I cant say that Santander wasnt contractually entitled to 
charge more than 2.5% above base rate after September 2014. 
And while Santander didnt explicitly draw Mr Ms attention to the cap margin increases, it did 
make him aware of the amount of interest it was charging more generally. Mr M chose not to 
move off the SVR after 2011  knowing what he was being charged (including that the rate 
increased in 2012), knowing there were other options open to him, and knowing he wasnt 
subject to an ERC if he decided to take one of those options. The purpose of giving notice 
was to make Mr M aware of that; but he would have been aware of that already and didnt 
take steps to move off the SVR. If Santander had given Mr M notice as it should have done, I 
dont think that would have made any difference to the decisions he took (or didnt take) in 
2011 and 2012. 
As a result, I dont think the interest rate charged to Mr Ms estate from September 2014 was 
one that was not fair and reasonable in all the circumstances. And so I dont uphold this 
complaint.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask the estate of Mr M 
to accept or reject my decision before 28 July 2023.
 
Simon Pugh
Ombudsman