DRN-4154031
The complaint
Miss S complains about the service she received from Skipton Building Society when 
transferring a cash ISA. 
What happened
Miss S wanted to transfer £10 of her cash ISA to another business (P). The transfer had to 
be done manually and P sent a transfer authority form to Skipton in early January 2023. P 
didnt hear anything so a week or so later it asked Skipton for an update. Miss S then called 
Skipton to ask what was happening, but she wasnt happy with the way the telephone call 
was handled. The call handler mistakenly referred to a transfer of £10,000 rather than £10. 
They also said Skipton had tried to call her and had then texted her, but Miss S said she 
hadnt had any contact. She was also unhappy with the length of the call and being put on 
hold on several occasions. So, she complained.
In response, Skipton said an administration error had meant the transfer authority form from 
P had been missed. When P chased it up, Skipton had asked for a second form to be sent. 
On receipt, Skipton needed Miss P to confirm she was happy with the transfer. It said it had 
texted Miss S but not phoned, as stated by the call handler. It apologised for that misleading 
information. It offered Miss S £75 for the loss of interest caused by its delays and the 
inconvenience caused by the long call and the wrong information given about the amount of 
the transfer. It later increased its offer to £100 due to problems contacting the complaints 
team. Miss S wasnt happy with this offer as she thought £200 would be more reasonable. 
So, she brought her complaint to this service. 
Our investigator didnt uphold the complaint. They thought the £100 offered by Skipton was 
fair for the delays transferring the ISA and for the inconvenience caused by the poor service 
it had provided. 
Miss S didnt agree with the investigators view and asked for her complaint to be referred to 
an Ombudsman for a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Skipton acknowledged it made a mistake when it received the transfer authority form from P. 
That led to a delay in processing the transfer. It also meant that Miss S had to contact 
Skipton to find out what was going on. Skipton initially said it had called and texted Miss S to 
ask her to confirm she was happy with the transfer but then accepted it hadnt called her and 
had only texted her. Miss S said she didnt receive any contact from Skipton but Ive seen 
evidence that a text was sent to her mobile phone number. Miss S was also unhappy that 
the call handler she spoke to gave conflicting information about the amount of the transfer, 
saying the transfer hadnt been processed because it was for £10,000 and she didnt have 
enough funds in that account. 
Having listened to the call, I agree with Skipton that the call handler didnt provide the best 
service. Miss S was on the phone for a long time while the call handler tried to find out what 
was happening with the transfer. And they initially gave the wrong information. But I think it 
was fair for Skipton to say that the call handler helped to rectify matters by acknowledging 
theyd got the amount of the transfer wrong and apologising for giving the incorrect 
information.
Miss S subsequently had problems contacting Skipton to discuss her complaint. It 
apologised again and increased its offer of compensation to £100. Miss S thinks £200 would 
be a more reasonable way of putting things right. But, on balance, I dont think it would be 
fair to ask Skipton to do anything more. It was right Skipton apologised for the mistakes and 
poor service it provided but having reviewed the circumstances I think £100 was a fair and 
reasonable amount to pay. Miss S was inconvenienced by Skiptons poor service and I can 
understand her frustration with the time she had to spend on this matter. There was also a 
delay in transferring the cash ISA, which would have led to a small loss of interest. But 
Skipton acknowledged the mistakes it made and apologised for them, explaining what had 
happened and why. I dont think it needs to do anything more.
My final decision
Skipton Building Society has offered to pay Miss S £100 to settle the complaint and I think 
that amount is fair in all the circumstances. It should pay that amount to Miss S if it hasnt 
done so already. I dont think it needs to do anything more.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss S to accept 
or reject my decision before 18 July 2023.
 
Richard Walker
Ombudsman