DRN-3163486
The complaint
Mrs R complains that All Sorted Financial Planning Limited (All Sorted) unfairly charged a 
fee when she cancelled a level term assurance policy. Mrs R adds that All Sorted didnt take 
into account shed told them she didnt want the policy to start immediately. And, the 
application process had been rushed because she hadnt been given time to discuss the 
matter with her husband or check the family medical history shed disclosed.
What happened
After a family member suffered a terminal illness diagnosis, Mrs R reviewed her life cover on 
the telephone with All Sorted. After discussing several options Mrs R applied for a new life 
and terminal illness policy. Mrs R provided some family medical history, and initially told All 
Sorted she didnt want the policy to start immediately so that she could check the information 
and speak with her husband about the policy. All Sorted explained Mrs R would have 30 
days in which to cancel the policy. Mrs R was concerned she would forget about this and All 
Sorted explained they would send full details to her within the next 48 hours, and that they 
would call her within seven days to discuss any issues she may have.
The policy was accepted on the terms provided to Mrs R and commenced in late April 2020. 
In January 2021, Mrs R missed a premium and the policy was lapsed shortly after. All Sorted 
told Mrs R that a cancellation fee of £250 was payable as detailed in the terms and 
conditions and welcome pack theyd issued when she applied for the policy. 
Mrs R complained to All Sorted theyd treated her unfairly and she wanted the cancellation 
fee waived. All Sorted didnt uphold Mrs Rs complaint, so Mrs R brought her complaint to 
the Financial Ombudsman Service. One of our Investigators looked into things for Mrs R and 
thought that All Sorted hadnt treated Mrs R unfairly. Mrs R didnt agree and asked for an 
Ombudsman to decide the complaint. The case has now been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The crux of Mrs Rs complaint is that All Sorted treated her unfairly when the policy was sold 
as they hadnt given her time to check the family medical history she provided, speak with 
her husband, and that they had started the policy straight away. Im sure that Mrs R will be 
disappointed, but Ive decided that All Sorted didnt treat her unfairly. I will now explain why.
Mrs R says that All Sorted didnt take into account shed recently found out a family member 
had been diagnosed with a terminal illness and that this had upset her. Nor did they take into 
account she was working at home whilst looking after her young children. I understand this 
must have been a difficult time for Mrs R, but having listened to the calls Mrs R had with All 
Sorted, I consider they did take these issues into account. 
Ive listened to the two calls Mrs R had with All Sorted about the policy. Its clear Mrs R had 
her children with her during the calls and it could have caused difficulties for her. However, 
Im satisfied All Sorted took reasonable steps to check Mrs R was able to continue the calls 
on occasions. And, when Mrs R received a work call during the initial call, All Sorted 
immediately offered to call her back so she could take it. When All Sorted called Mrs R back, 
they were, in my opinion, again mindful she had her children with her.
In respect of the family member being diagnosed with a terminal illness Im satisfied that All 
Sorted empathised with Mrs R and explained the benefits of terminal illness on a life cover 
policy. All Sorted also thoroughly explained the difference between critical illness cover and 
terminal illness cover when Mrs R asked what the difference was. And regarding the family 
medical history and discussions with her husband, I dont consider it was unreasonable for 
All Sorted to tell Mrs R she could address these and advise them of the outcome in their 
follow-up call.
Im satisfied All Sorted clearly explained Mrs R could apply for the policy and obtain the 
acceptance terms. They told Mrs R she would have 30 days in which to cancel the policy 
and that they and the Insurer would confirm this in writing. Mrs R agreed to proceed on this 
basis, but she was concerned she may forget to cancel the policy if she changed her mind. 
All Sorted explained they would contact Mrs R within the next 7 days to see if she was still 
happy with the policy. 
Mrs R says she was asked for her bank details for a direct debit in the middle of the second 
call and thought this was unreasonable. I dont consider asking for this information at this 
stage was unfair as by this stage Mrs R had agreed to proceed. Mrs R has also commented 
she felt the application process was rushed, but I dont consider the two calls Ive listened to 
supports this. Im satisfied the policy was thoroughly explained, and the cancellation rights 
made clear to Mrs R. 
All Sorted sent Mrs R a welcome letter within 48 hours. It included details of the policy shed 
agreed to take out along and a copy their terms and conditions. These explained All Sorted 
charge a broker fee of £250 that would be waived if the policy wasnt cancelled within 48 
months. The letter said, If the policy is cancelled during this period, we hold the right to 
request the £250.00 to be paid to ourselves post your 30-day cooling off period.
Ive listened to the follow-up telephone call made by All Sorted. They left Mrs R a message 
asking her to call them if she was unhappy with the policy put in place for her. I understand 
Mrs R says she doesnt recall receiving this call but having listened to the call and the 
message I consider its more likely than not All Sorted did call Mrs R as they said they would. 
And I consider its reasonable All Sorted believed Mrs R was happy with the policy and there 
were no changes required when she didnt call back.
Ive seen that Mrs R was unhappy All Sorted didnt tell her early in the telephone calls who 
the provider of the life cover was. Mrs R says she was concerned about the claims records 
of some companies and wanted to be sure the provider recommended would pay out. In 
response, All Sorted explained the provider would have a five-star rating, and that this rating 
took into account the claims history of the provider. All Sorted did provide details of who the 
provider was later in the call. In this regard, I dont consider All Sorted treated Mrs R unfairly.
It's unfortunate the policy lapsed after eight-months, but I dont consider All Sorted treated 
Mrs R unfairly during the application process. For the reasons Ive explained above Im 
persuaded All Sorted were empathetic towards Mrs R and the challenging circumstances 
she was experiencing at the time. All Sorted provided Mrs R with the full details of the policy, 
including details of their £250 broker fee within 48 hours of the application being made. They 
also attempted to contact Mrs R to ascertain if she was happy with the policy and left a 
contact number for her to call if she wasnt. My final decision
Taking into account all the circumstances my final decision is that All Sorted Financial 
Planning Limited didnt treat Mrs R unfairly. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs R to accept or 
reject my decision before 22 July 2022.
 
Paul Lawton1
Ombudsman