DRN-1733741
The complaint
Miss S believes that had The Enterprise Fund Limited acted irresponsibly by agreeing a loan 
that she had applied for to help her set up her new business 
What happened
Miss S applied for a loan from Enterprise in July 2016 and entered into the agreement in 
August of that year. 
Miss S has complained that Enterprise didnt act responsibly when approving the loan 
because at the time of the application she had a County Court Judgment (CCJ) against her 
and was in arrears with her mortgage and Council Tax. Miss S has also complained that 
Enterprise sent default notices to her address in London and didnt assist her when she fell 
into further financial difficulties. 
Our investigator thought that Enterprise had acted responsibly. He said that Enterprise had 
agreed the loan based on the business plan that Miss S completed as part of the application 
which showed that the projected income from the business would have been enough to meet 
the monthly payments. So he thought that Enterprise had carried out reasonable and 
proportionate checks when approving the finance. 
The investigator also said that it was reasonable for Enterprise to send the default notice to 
her last known address and that when she told them that she was having financial difficulties 
they agreed that she could make payments when she was able to. He thought that 
Enterprise had tried to assist Miss S and that they should not do anything more. 
Miss S didnt agree with the investigator. She doesnt think that Enterprise carried out 
proportionate checks because if they had done they would have seen her credit history and 
the CCJ. Miss S also says that it was unreasonable for them to apply the defaults when they 
were aware of her situation at the time. Miss S has asked for an ombudsman to make a final 
decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so I am not upholding this complaint. I am aware that this will come as a 
disappointment to Miss S but I hope that my reasoning below goes some way to explain.
I understand that all of this happened at a difficult time in Miss Ss life at a time where she 
changed jobs and had to move home a number of times at short notice. I am sympathetic to 
what has clearly been a difficult time. 
When someone complains about irresponsible or unaffordable lending I need to consider 
whether the lender completed reasonable and proportionate checks to satisfy itself that the 
lending was affordable and that the affordability was sustainable. Where reasonable and 
proportionate checks were carried out I need to consider whether the lending decision was 
fair. If reasonable and proportionate checks havent been carried out then I need to look at 
whether the loan would have been approved if the checks had taken place. 
There is no set list for what reasonable and proportionate checks are but the relevant 
regulations suggest lenders should consider, amongst other things, the amount, duration 
and payments of the loan being applied for. The purpose of the loan was to help Miss S set 
up her business. Enterprise looked at her business plan and cashflow projections, together 
with a credit check and survival budget to assess her ability to pay back the loan.  The 
nature of the loan scheme is to assist those people who would be unlikely to gain funding 
through traditional lenders therefore it looks at other criteria such as the business plan and 
cashflow projections. The application form completed by Miss S states that you will not be 
credit scored and the loan will be granted upon your ability to repay the full amount. Based 
upon these criteria the loan was approved and I dont think that they did anything wrong by 
approving the finance since the checks were proportionate for the intended use of the loan.
I understand that Miss Ss circumstances changed and she had to sell her home which 
meant that she was unable to continue her business. 
Miss S told Enterprise that she would be unable to meet her payments due to the change in 
circumstances. Miss S was due to sell her home after which she would be able to settle the 
account. In response Enterprise placed the account on hold for 30 days and provided Miss S 
with a list of free debt advice companies. The advisor recommended that Miss S moved onto 
a payment plan due to the length of time it might take to sell her property and to prevent any 
collections activity. They also emailed an income and expenditure for Miss S to complete but 
this was not returned. Based on this I am satisfied that Enterprise did try to assist Miss S 
when she explained her circumstances to them. 
Miss S advised Enterprise that she would clear the loan in November 2017. I have seen the 
statement of account and can see that Miss S regularly missed payments in 2017. The last 
payment made was in October 2017. Enterprise therefore sent a default notice to her last 
known address in February 2018. The default notice was sent four months after the last 
payment was received and was registered two months after that when Enterprise hadnt 
heard from Miss S. 
Due to personal circumstances Miss S had changed address a number of times and was 
unlikely to have received the default notice from Enterprise. I cant reasonably hold 
Enterprise responsible for this since they contacted Miss S at her last known address and no 
forwarding address had been provided to them. Miss S was aware that the loan repayments 
were due and had made no contact with Enterprise over a number of months.  
I have considered what the Consumer Credit Act 1974 and the Information Commissioners 
Office guidance on defaults. I dont think its unreasonable for a financial business to default 
an account once the arrears have reached a certain level, and after they have issued the 
required default notice (which Enterprise did) So I dont agree that defaulting the account 
means that Miss S was treated unfairly. I wont be asking Enterprise to do anything more. 
My final decision
For the reasons explained above I dont uphold Miss Ss complaint about The Enterprise 
Fund Limited. Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss D to accept 
or reject my decision before 15 October 2020.
 
Kiran Clair
Ombudsman