DRN-2764263
The complaint
Mrs J complains that Lloyds Bank PLC (Lloyds) shouldnt have advised her to invest in a 
Free Standing Additional Voluntary Contribution (FSAVC) plan when there were more 
suitable alternatives. 
  
What happened
 Mrs Js FSAVC plan started in June 1996. She completed the application forms for this plan 
in January 1996. She was given advice about the plan at that time.
Mrs J complained to Lloyds about the advice shed been given in March 2020. In their first 
response in April 2020, Lloyds initially upheld her complaint. They said theyd look to see if 
shed incurred a loss as a result of the advice shed received to pay into her FSAVC plan, 
rather than the in-house AVC arrangement available to her through her employment. They 
said theyd compensate her for any such loss. But then they said that new information had 
come to light. So they investigated the complaint again. 
Lloyds didnt uphold Mrs Js complaint in their revised May 2020 final response letter. They 
said they were happy shed been provided with the information required to make an informed 
choice to start her FSAVC plan. And they said shed been provided with an illustration and 
paperwork detailing the charges, fees and costs which explained how the FSAVC plan would 
help her purchase a suitable annuity. They said that their adviser had assessed her 
preferred attitude to investment risk prior to recommending her FSAVC plan. And that the 
chosen investment fund matched her attitude to investment risk.
Mrs J didnt agree. So she brought her complaint to this service. Our investigator felt that her 
complaint should be upheld. She felt that if Lloyds had given Mrs J clear comparative 
information about her options, she would have chosen the in-house AVC options, instead of 
taking out the FSAVC plan, or the alternative in-house option of buying added years. So she 
recommended that Lloyds put Mrs J back to the position she wouldve been in if shed 
chosen that option.
Lloyds accepted our investigators view and her redress methodology. Mrs J disagreed. She 
said that if shed had all the information about her options she wouldve chosen added years. 
As agreement couldnt be reached, Mrs Js complaint has been referred to me for review. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im going to uphold this complaint. But Mrs J may still be disappointed. I 
agree with our investigators view that she would  on balance of probabilities  have chosen 
to invest in the in-house AVC arrangement if shed had all relevant information about her 
options. Ill explain why.
Lloyds adviser was a tied agent. As such he was only authorised to provide advice on 
Lloyds own products. But he wouldve been required to mention the generic benefits of the 
options available in Mrs Js occupational scheme. 
After meeting with Lloyds adviser, Mrs J decided to contribute £40 a month into Lloyds 
FSAVC plan. At the time, this was just over 3% of her salary.
Having looked at all the available evidence, our investigator felt that Lloyds advice had been 
unsuitable. She felt that there was no evidence to show that Mrs J had been provided with 
fair and clear information about her options. She felt that if Mrs J had been provided with 
suitable advice, she wouldve started contributions to the in-house AVC arrangement. 
Following our investigators view, Lloyds accepted that their advice that Mrs J should start an 
FSAVC plan was unsuitable. So I havent needed to look at this point any further. 
But I do need to consider whether Mrs J wouldve opted to purchase added years through 
her occupational scheme if shed known about them at the time. Based on everything Ive 
seen I think Mrs J is more likely to have taken up the in-house AVC option over added years 
if shed been suitably advised.
In making this decision, Ive considered the likely benefit of buying added years - and the 
cost involved - and the projected benefits Mrs J wouldve reasonably expected to receive 
from the AVC option. 
Part of the difficulty when looking at what someone was likely to have done some years ago 
is that our knowledge and the performance of the market and expectations have changed 
since Mrs J was given her advice. And we now also know how Mrs Js circumstances 
developed over the years. For example that she didnt change her profession. 
Unfortunately only limited information from the time is available. But Mrs J was 25 years old 
when she met with the adviser. She said she was certain that teaching was going to be her 
profession for life, having had other work experience with children that shed enjoyed. She 
said shed been selected for a promotion programme. And that she became a deputy head 
six years later. And had been confident that her salary would increase over time. 
She said this is why she also chose to buy a health insurance policy that had increasing 
payments every year at the time she invested in the FSAVC. She suggested that this shows 
that she wouldve been happy to have contributed increasing amounts over time to pay for 
added years. Mrs J also said that theres comprehensive training to be a teacher. And as it 
isnt transferable to another career that also showed that she intended to stay in teaching. 
All the points Mrs J has made highlight the difficulty when assessing what someone wouldve 
done, when circumstances have changed. They need to be considered against the fact that 
the growth assumptions for money purchase schemes (such as the FSAVC plan or the AVC 
option) were far higher in 1996 than they are today. So these AVC forecasts set against the 
higher cost of buying added years often made an AVC a more attractive option at that time.
Unfortunately we dont have a copy of Mrs Js suitability letter, containing the reasons the 
recommendation was made to her. Nor do we have a copy of the fact find. In the absence of 
these, the monthly contribution is a reasonable indicator of what was affordable  its unlikely 
that an adviser would establish what was affordable and then recommend a lower amount. 
So I think we can reasonably infer that £40 a month was what Mrs J could afford. 
Mrs J was 24 when she started teaching. So couldve potentially bought 4 to 5 added years. 
While Ive not seen any sort of costing for added years, I dont consider that the £40 a month she was paying wouldve been enough to buy more than around 2 added years. 
Ill now look at whats been said about Mrs Js other circumstances at the time of the advice. 
Mrs J said she had a low/medium attitude to risk, which Lloyds appear to have accepted. 
This would lend itself more to the guarantees associated with added years rather than 
market-related investment returns. The additional health insurance policy she bought at the 
same time as starting the FSAVC plan might also be consistent with a cautious risk attitude. 
So this could point towards the guarantees of added years being an appealing option.
But there are further considerations such as her marital status and her plans to start a family. 
These suggest she wouldve expected increased outgoings, which might mean that the 
flexibility of stopping and starting FSAVCs mightve been more appealing. Mrs J has put 
forward a persuasive case for her being the main earner and that her income would continue 
when she had children. Therefore she says that such flexibility wouldnt have been required. 
A key consideration I need to make is the likelihood of Mrs J having committed to the 
teaching profession at the time she met with Lloyds. She told us shed been a teacher for 16 
months at that point. I have considered that Mrs J was already on a fast track to promotion 
within teaching. And that her prior work experience had been geared towards a career 
working with children. However, taking everything into account, Im persuaded that it 
wouldve been unusual to have been confident after such a short time in the profession that 
this was always going to be her career. 
I cant know for certain what Mrs J wouldve done if shed been given all of the relevant 
information about her pension choices. But, taking everything Ive seen into account, I dont 
think that buying an in-house AVC wouldve been inconsistent or unsuitable given Mrs Js 
circumstances at the time. And I think if shed been suitably advised, thats what she 
wouldve chosen. 
I do acknowledge that Mrs J has said that she was committed to her career and that she 
wouldnt have been put off by the possible downsides of taking the added years option. But 
Im not persuaded that she wouldve chosen it. It wouldve cost considerably more than the 
amount she was contributing to her FSAVC plan. Even if shed been able to afford the cost 
of 4 to 5 added years, I dont think she wouldve seen them as good value for money. 
Particularly when compared to the projected gains from paying into the AVC scheme. 
I acknowledge that Mrs J gave the example of her health insurance policy as a reason she 
wouldve been happy to pay for the increasing cost of added years. But Im not persuaded by 
this argument. The health insurance policy had very different benefits from the added years. 
The added years wouldve simply topped up an already defined benefit. Whereas the 
health insurance policy wouldve provided benefits which werent otherwise available. 
Overall, I consider that the level of contributions she made to her FSAVC plan wouldve 
fallen short of buying the added years shed have needed. And Ive seen no evidence that 
Mrs J wouldve been prepared to commit to the considerably greater financial burden of 
added years at that point in her professional life. 
I acknowledge that Mrs J said her FSAVC contributions had always been modest because 
Lloyds didnt contact her about increasing them. But I dont see that as proof that she 
wouldve agreed to pay the considerably higher amount added years wouldve required from 
the outset. And I can also see that Mrs J has confirmed she never found out how much the 
added years option wouldve cost. While I accept that Mrs J said she didnt do this research 
as she didnt know it was an option, Im not persuaded that it was more likely than not that 
she would have chosen an option at the age of 25 that she still doesnt know the cost of now.I acknowledge that Mrs J may well be correct that shell stay in teaching/education for her 
entire career. But I dont consider she couldve known that when shed just started teaching. 
I dont think shed had enough time in her job. Or taken on enough of the future 
responsibilities she was expecting to embrace over time, to know that shed already found a 
career for life when she met with Lloyds adviser. So at the point she was at in her career, I 
dont think she wouldve reasonably felt that added years was the more suitable option for 
her. 
I acknowledge that Mrs J said she felt our investigator had made certain assumptions about 
what she wouldve done back in 1996 because shes a woman. I confirm Ive based my 
decision on all of the circumstances of this complaint. Ive not made any different 
assumptions than I wouldve made had the person bringing this complaint been a man. 
All in all, the main reason Ive decided that it wouldve been more likely than not that Mrs J 
wouldve chosen the in-house AVC option over added years is the short period of time shed 
been a teacher for at the time the advice was given. This was only 16 months. Had the 
advice been given later on in her career, I mightve found that it was more likely that shed 
have chosen added years.
In summary, Im persuaded that on balance of probabilities, Mrs J wouldve taken the in-
house AVC option if shed been appropriately advised. So I require Lloyds to put things right.
Putting things right
I require Lloyds to carry out a redress calculation in accordance with the regulators FSAVC 
review guidance. They should incorporate the amendment below to take into account that 
data for the CAPS mixed with property index isnt available for periods after 1 January 
2005.
The FSAVC review guidance wasnt intended to compensate consumers for losses arising 
solely from poor investment returns in the FSAVC funds, which is why a benchmark index is 
used to calculate the difference in charges and (if applicable) any loss of employer matching 
contributions or subsidised benefits.
In our view the FTSE UK Private Investor Growth Total Return Index provides the closest 
correlation to the CAPS mixed with property index. So where the calculation requires 
ongoing charges in an investment-based FSAVC and AVC to be compared after 1 January 
2005, Lloyds should use the CAPS mixed with property index up to 1 January 2005 and the 
FTSE UK Private Investor Growth Total Return Index thereafter.
If the calculation demonstrates a loss, the compensation amount should if possible be paid 
into Mrs Js pension plan. The payment should allow for the effect of charges and any 
available tax relief. The compensation shouldnt be paid into the pension plan if it would 
conflict with any existing protection or allowance.
If a payment into the pension isnt possible or has protection or allowance implications, it 
should be paid directly to Mrs J as a lump sum after making a notional deduction to allow for 
income tax that would otherwise have been paid in retirement. 25% of the loss would be tax-
free and 75% would have been taxed according to her likely income tax rate in retirement  
presumed to be 20%. So making a notional deduction of 15% overall from the loss 
adequately reflects this.  
My final decisionFor the reasons shown above, I uphold this complaint. I require Lloyds Bank PLC to take the 
actions detailed in the Putting things right section above. 
  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs J to accept or 
reject my decision before 30 August 2021.
 
Jo Occleshaw
Ombudsman