DRN-4414439
The complaint
Mr C complains about a used car he acquired from Toyota Financial Services (UK) PLC 
trading as Redline Finance. Mr C has reported faults with the car and is unhappy that 
despite work being completed, an issue still remains with the cars engine. 
What happened
In April 2022 Mr C acquired a used car using a hire purchase agreement with Redline 
Finance. Shortly after taking possession of the car Mr C says he reported problems with the 
car, in particular with the engine management system. The engine management light was 
illuminated on the dashboard and Mr C returned the car for inspection. I also understand 
there was an issue with brake noise, but no fault was found when the car was inspected. 
Work was also done to the suspension. 
An issue was identified with the cars engine and a NOx sensor was shown to need 
replacing. Due to delays with parts, the sensor was not replaced until some months later. Mr 
C says that within an hour of collecting the car, after the NOx sensor was replaced, the 
engine management light came on again. 
Mr C says he contacted the supplying garage to discuss further but did not hear anything 
from them. He then raised a complaint with Redline Finance, who set out why it did not 
uphold his complaint. Mr C remained unhappy and as he was entitled to do, referred his 
complaint to our service. 
One of our investigators set out why they considered the complaint should be upheld. In 
summary, they found the car was not of satisfactory quality and as the repairs had not been 
successful, Mr C should now be permitted to reject the car and, amongst other things, end 
his agreement with Redline Finance. 
Redline Finance did not accept the investigators view but did offer £300 to Mr C for any 
distress and inconvenience he had been caused. Mr C did not accept the £300 as a 
reasonable resolution and as the complaint could not be resolved informally, it has now been 
referred to me for consideration. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
First, Im very aware that Ive summarised this complaint in far less detail than the parties 
and Ive done so using my own words. Im not going to respond to every single point made 
by all the parties involved. No discourtesy is intended by this. Instead, Ive focussed on what 
I think are the key issues here. Our rules allow me to do this. This simply reflects the 
informal nature of our service as a free alternative to the courts. 
If theres something Ive not mentioned, it isnt because Ive ignored it. I havent. Im satisfied 
I dont need to comment on every individual argument to be able to reach what I think is the 
right outcome. Where the evidence is incomplete, inconclusive or contradictory (as some of 
it is here), I reach my decision on the balance of probabilities  in other words, what I 
consider is most likely to have happened in light of the available evidence and the wider 
circumstances.
Redline Finance supplied the car to Mr C under a regulated hire purchase agreement. 
Because of that, our service is able to consider complaints about the hire purchase 
agreement and the goods, i.e. the car, supplied under the hire purchase agreement. 
As the supplier of the car, Redline Finance has an obligation to ensure the car supplied was 
of satisfactory quality  as set out in the Consumer Rights Act 2015. Exactly what 
satisfactory quality is will depend on the specific circumstances of any given case, but in this 
instance I need to decide if the car Redline Finance supplied to Mr C was of satisfactory 
quality. When considering this, it is reasonable in my view to note the car was not new and it 
had in the region of 60,000 miles at the time of supply. So it would be unreasonable to 
expect a used car with this amount of mileage to be in the same as new showroom 
condition which it would have been when first supplied. 
But just because the car was used with some mileage, doesnt mean that Redline Finance 
has no requirements in relation to satisfactory quality. Mr C says that the engine 
management light came on within a month of taking possession of the car and even allowing 
for the cars age and mileage when supplied, I think it more likely than not the car had an 
underlying issue at the point of supply to Mr C. It is because of this underlying issue that the 
problem was apparent to Mr C so quickly after taking possession of the car. 
The engine management light on a cars dashboard is usually a more general warning that 
alerts the driver to a potential problem with the cars engine management. Exactly what is 
causing the warning will require further investigation, but Im satisfied as this identifies a 
problem with the engine, this is a significant problem and not something that would be 
considered more general wear and tear. The subsequent investigation identified an issue 
with the NOx sensor and on balance, considering all of the circumstances here Im satisfied 
the car was not of satisfactory quality when it was supplied to Mr C. 
There was a delay in obtaining a replacement NOx sensor, but this was however replaced 
some time later when the replacement part became available. Mr C says that within an hour 
of taking possession of the car after the new sensor was apparently fitted, the engine 
management light came on again. This in my view suggests the NOx sensor was wrongly 
identified as the cause of the issue, or there was a secondary issue that needed attention. It 
is not clear which of these is the case, but regardless of that it is clear that the problem with 
the cars engine was not resolved. 
Mr C says that he contacted the garage about this but he did not hear again from the 
garage. The garage has said that it has no record of Mr C contacting them to refer to the 
repair not having worked. I cannot be certain whether or not Mr C did actually contact the 
garage, but he has been clear and consistent throughout in his testimony. And contacting 
the garage would be the likely cause of action most people would take having just collected 
a car and realising the repairs had not been successful. I note the garage says it has no 
record of Mr C contacting them, but this does not however persuade me that Mr C did not 
actually contact them about the failed repair. Whether Mr C did or didnt contact the garage 
does not impact on what I consider is now required to put things right and I shall explain why 
next.
Putting things right
The Consumer Rights Act 2015 sets out a number of possible remedies where goods were found to have been not of satisfactory quality. One of those remedies is to allow one 
opportunity for the goods to be repaired. Where that does not resolve the issue, the 
consumer can then seek the right to reject the goods. I have had regard for the Consumer 
Rights Act 2015 when considering what is a fair and reasonable remedy in this instance for 
Mr C.
I have set out above why I consider the car was not of satisfactory quality when it was 
supplied to Mr C. Repairs were attempted and Mr C has provided photographs to support 
the fact that the engine management light was again lit after those repairs were completed. 
Im satisfied that the initial repairs, through replacing the NOx sensor, were unsuccessful and 
the despite this attempt at repair, the car remains defective. 
As Redline Finance has had one opportunity to repair the car and this has been 
unsuccessful, Im satisfied it would be reasonable for Redline Finance to now accept Mr Cs 
request to reject the car and end his hire purchase agreement with Redline Finance. 
Redline Finance should therefore now arrange to take back the car from Mr C and end the 
agreement with nothing further owed. Mr C has had use of the car while in his possession, 
but this has not been the trouble free use he was expecting to have. Redline Finance should 
compensate Mr C for the impaired use hes had of the car and the 15% of the monthly hire 
purchase repayments the investigator recommended seems a reasonable sum considering 
the circumstances here. Mr Cs statement of account shows a deposit payment of £415 was 
paid at outset, so this should also be refunded, with interest, to him. 
Mr C has also suffered some trouble and upset as a result of being supplied the car that was 
not of satisfactory quality and Redline Finance should make an additional payment of £300 
in recognition of this. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold Mr Cs complaint against Toyota Financial Services (UK) 
PLC  trading as Redline Finance and direct it settle the complaint by:
Taking back the car and ending the hire purchase agreement with nothing further 
owed
Ensuring any costs associated with taking back the car are not passed on to Mr C.
Refunding the £415 deposit payment Mr C paid and applying interest at 8% simple 
per year from the date of payment until the date of settlement.
Refunding 15% of each monthly rental Mr C paid and applying interest at 8% simple 
per year from the date of each payment until the date of settlement.
Ensuring no adverse information is recorded on Mr Cs credit file once the agreement 
has ended. 
Paying Mr C an additional £300 for the distress and inconvenience he has been 
caused. 
If Redline Finance does not make the settlement within 28 days of Mr C accepting this 
decision, interest at the same rate above should be added to the £300.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 17 January 2024.
 
Mark Hollands
Ombudsman