DRN-1757825
 
The complaint
Mr C complains that The Royal Bank of Scotland Plc wouldnt try to make a chargeback for 
him, to retrieve some money hed paid from his credit card into a trading platform, after the 
platform ceased operating and didnt pay him back. 
What happened
Mr C was using a trading platform, and making payments to it from his RBS credit card. He 
was notified on 10 March 2019 that it was in the process of ceasing operations. Mr C told us 
he didnt get his money back. He contacted RBS on 11 July 2019, and asked it to make a 
chargeback for the money hed paid to the platform. 
RBS refused to make the chargeback. It said Mr C had contacted it over 120 days after the 
business had ceased operations, and it couldnt get his money back. 
Our investigator didnt think that RBS made a mistake. She said that the rules which govern 
the chargeback scheme just dont allow RBS to make a chargeback request after more than 
120 days. 
Mr C said hed only waited because the trading platform had suggested it would be in touch. 
And he said hed invested quite a bit of money with the platform, so he thought he was 
surely entitled to some compensation from RBS. Because Mr C didnt agree with our 
investigator, the case was passed to me to resolve. 
My provisional decision
I issued a provisional decision on this complaint and explained why I didnt propose to 
uphold it. This is what I said then: 
Mr C is concerned he hasnt been able to retrieve the money held in his trading 
account. But this complaint isnt about the trading platform, its about RBS. So I have 
to consider what RBS has done. It may not be fair to hold RBS responsible for putting 
things right. 
There are some things that RBS can do if someones received a poor service, and 
paid for that using one of its cards. It might be able to make a chargeback request. Or, 
if the payment was on a credit card, it might be able to make a claim under section 75 
of the Consumer Credit Act. We usually refer to this as a s.75 request. I know that 
RBS didnt consider a s.75 request, but Ill look at it here, for completeness. 
Ill start with the chargeback request. The chargeback scheme is run by the card 
scheme operator, whose symbol is on Mr Cs card. Its not run by RBS. RBS doesnt 
make the scheme rules, it has to follow them, and it cant change them. 
RBS said that it had to bring a chargeback complaint within 120 days of the company 
going into liquidation. It thought when Mr C contacted it, it was already too late to do that. I dont think thats quite right. However, I still dont think RBS is able to help Mr C 
with a chargeback request. Thats because chargeback requests are typically made by 
people who are buying goods or services. And I dont think thats what Mr C was doing 
in this case. I think what Mr C was doing, when he put money onto the trading 
platform, was just transferring money that he could use to trade. 
The trading platform asked Mr C to sign, when he was putting money onto the 
platform, saying I understand what type of service I will receive, and I am fully aware 
of the risks within that service. But the payment is then acknowledged as a deposit, 
not a payment for services. When Mr C transferred money onto the platform, I dont 
think he was buying a service. 
If Mr C was just transferring money, then the chargeback rules dont apply to what he 
did. RBS cant use them to try to get his money back. 
Ive also thought about whether RBS could have considered a s.75 request for Mr C. 
Again, I dont think this would help him, for the same reasons. Mr C wasnt paying for 
any goods or services from the trading platform, he was just depositing money into a 
trading account.
Ive considered this complaint carefully, and its my provisional view that rules on 
chargebacks and on s.75 requests dont cover what has happened to Mr C. So that 
means that there isnt a way for RBS to help Mr C get his money back. 
For those reasons, I dont think RBS has to do anything more now. I know that Mr C 
will be disappointed, but I dont think this complaint should be upheld.
I invited the parties to make any final points, if they wanted, before issuing my final decision. 
Mr C didnt reply. RBS said it had nothing to add. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive reconsidered all the available evidence and arguments to decide what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. I havent changed my mind.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 26 June 2020.
Esther Absalom-Gough
Ombudsman