DRN-2100560
The complaint
Mr C complains about Bank of Scotland plc, trading as Halifax, and the problems he faced 
when attempting to withdraw cash from his account to top up utility accounts.
What happened
In July 2020, Mr C took a taxi to a cashpoint close to his home address. He attempted to 
withdraw cash to top up his utility accounts. But he was unable to do so. He attempted to 
withdraw different amounts but none of the transactions were successful. So, he continued 
in the taxi to his local Halifax branch.
He was able to withdraw £80 from the cash counter while in the branch. But as his journey 
had taken longer than expected, the taxi fare was more expensive. This meant he was only 
able to top up his utility accounts £15 each as the taxi fare cost £50. Mr C was unhappy with 
this, so he raised a complaint.
Mr C explained other people around him were able to withdraw cash from the cashpoint at 
the time. So, he thought there was an issue with his card. And as the card was provided by 
Halifax, he thought they were to blame. And he explained the increased taxi fare had forced 
him into financial difficulty, meaning he was unable to sufficiently top up his utility accounts 
leaving him without gas and electric. So, he wanted Halifax to refund him the taxi fare and to 
compensate him for the stress and upset hed experienced.
Halifax didnt agree. They didnt they were responsible for Mr C being able to withdraw cash 
from the cash point that day. They explained there were a number of potential reasons why 
the transactions werent successful. But most likely, there was a fault with the cash point Mr 
C attempted to use. And as that cash point wasnt provided by them, they didnt think they 
should be held responsible. So, they didnt offer anything further. Mr C was unhappy with 
this response, so he referred his complaint to us.
Our investigator looked into the complaint and didnt uphold it. She recognised the difficulties 
Mr C had faced following the situation, and how this was made worse by Mr Cs health 
conditions. But she didnt think Halifax had done anything wrong. She thought it was most 
likely the issue arose from a fault with the cash point. And Halifax werent responsible for the 
cashpoint Mr C used. So, she didnt think it would be fair to ask Halifax to refund the cost of 
Mr Cs taxi or compensate him for the difficulties he faced afterwards.
Mr C didnt agree with this. He maintained the card was not working properly and pointed to 
difficulties he had when using the card online around the same time. He also explained the 
cashier in branch commented on something being irregular with the card and felt this 
supported his view. 
Our investigator considered these points. But they didnt change her view. She explained 
she hadnt seen any evidence on Mr Cs account that showed a block was placed on his 
card or any online transactions he made. And she explained Halifax had confirmed 
information available to cashiers wouldnt have been able to flag anything on the account as 
being irregular. So, she maintained her view that Halifax had done nothing wrong. And 
because of this, she didnt think they needed to do anything further. As Mr C didnt agree 
with this, the complaints been passed to me for a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im not upholding the complaint for broadly the same reasons as the 
investigator. Ive focused my comments on what I think is relevant. If I havent commented 
on any specific point, its because I dont believe its affected what I think is the right 
outcome.
First, I want to recognise the impact this situation has had on Mr C. Ive no doubt it wouldve 
been frustrating when he was unable to withdraw cash from the cash point. And I understand 
it wouldve been inconvenient for him to then attend his local branch to resolve the issue. I 
can appreciate this was a journey he didnt anticipate and as he was using a taxi, it wouldve 
incurred an additional cost. So, I can appreciate how this additional cost may have impacted 
the amount he could top up his utility accounts. But for me to agree that Halifax should 
refund him this additional cost, and compensate him for the suffering it caused afterwards, 
Id need to be satisfied that it was Halifaxs error that prevented Mr C from withdrawing the 
cash. And in this situation, I dont think thats the case.
Ive seen that Mr C attempted four separate withdrawals at the cashpoint, of different 
amounts. And all four were unable to be completed. And Ive seen shortly after, Mr C was 
then able to withdraw £80 from his local branch. Halifax have explained there could be a 
number of explanations as to why this happened. So, Ive had to consider which I think is 
most likely based on the evidence I have available.
Im aware Mr C thinks Halifax may have placed a block on his account. This is because of 
issues he had using his card online around the same time. So, Ive considered this first. Ive 
seen Mr Cs account notes and there is nothing to show a block was placed. And having 
looked through Mr Cs statements, I cant see evidence to show any online transactions 
made around the same time. So, based on this, I dont think Halifax placed any sort of block 
or restriction on Mr Cs account that wouldve led to his cash withdrawal being declined.
Ive then considered whether there was an issue with Mr Cs card. As Halifax explained, the 
magnetic strip can be affected if the card is stored around a mobile phone for a period of 
time. But Mr C didnt have his phone on him at the time, so didnt think this could be the 
case. And Mr Cs card was able to withdraw £80 in branch after the failed cash withdrawals, 
so Im satisfied the card was still in working order. I do appreciate Mr Cs comments 
regarding comments the cashier made regarding irregularities, but I dont think this impacts 
my decision that the card was functioning correctly when he was able to make a withdrawal 
in the branch. 
And, having looked through Mr Cs withdrawal history, I can see after making the £80 
withdrawal in branch, he made a further withdrawal of £60 on the same day. This satisfies 
me that Mr Cs card was working. But it also shows me that Mr Cs card was able to 
withdraw cash from another cash point separate to the services provided by Halifax in 
branch.
 
So, I must consider what else couldve gone wrong to prevent Mr C from withdrawing the 
cash. As Ive explained, I dont think there any blocks on his account. And I think Mr Cs card 
was fully functional at the time. And Mr C was able to use this card to withdraw cash from 
both the branch and another cash point on the same day.Considering all this together, I think its most likely that it was a fault with the first cash point 
Mr C used that day that led to the declined transactions. And as this cash point wasnt 
provided or managed by Halifax, it wouldnt be fair to hold them responsible for this. And so, 
it also wouldnt be fair to hold them accountable for the additional expenses Mr C incurred on 
the taxi fair, or the suffering that resulted from the lower amount he had available to top up 
his utility accounts.
Thats not to say I havent considered Mr Cs comments about other customers being able to 
use the cash point around the same time. I can understand why this would be confusing and 
why it would lead him to believe the error was the fault of his card and so the responsibility of 
Halifax. But Im unable to speculate on why other customers could use the machine and 
whether there were intermittent faults present. What I can say is there were no restrictions 
on Mr Cs card, and he was able to use the card on the same day both in branch and at 
another cashpoint. So, on the balance of probabilities, I think a fault with the cash point was 
the most likely reason for the declined transactions. And as I explained above, I dont think a 
fault with the cash point was the responsibility of Halifax. So, I dont think they need to do 
anything more.
I also want to comment on the letter Mr C received from Halifax while waiting for an 
ombudsman to consider his complaint. Im aware Mr C sees this letter as Halifax agreeing 
with his complaint. But I dont think it is. Ive seen the letter Halifax sent to Mr C and it 
explains their recognition of Mr Cs financial difficulties he currently faces. It offers Mr C the 
chance to contact them to discuss this in greater detail, so Halifax can offer ways to help 
support Mr C during this time. The letter doesnt accept responsibility for the problems Mr C 
faced when attempting to withdraw cash on the day in question. So, this letter doesnt impact 
my decision.
I understand this isnt the outcome Mr C was hoping for. I understand hes been left in a 
difficult financial position and this has impacted long standing health conditions. I want to 
reassure Mr C I took this is into account when coming to the decision I have. Im pleased to 
see Halifax have noted Mr Cs financial difficulties and reached out to him to discuss support 
that may be available to him. Id expect them to act positively and sympathetically when 
having these conversations and I hope this will go some way to helping ease Mr Cs current 
suffering.
My final decision
For the reasons outlined above, I dont uphold Mr Cs complaint about Bank of Scotland plc, 
trading as Halifax.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 2 December 2020.
 
Josh Haskey
Ombudsman