DRN-2727441
The complaint
Mr U, a sole trader, complains about several issues he encountered with Barclays Bank UK 
PLC.
 
In summary, hes unhappy with the handling of his business accounts and the general level 
of service he received. Hes also unhappy Barclays wanted to close his accounts  which 
was a decision the bank later rescinded.
What happened
In January 2020, Mr U phoned Barclays about his business accounts. Hed acquired total 
control of the business, and he wanted to change the existing partnership accounts to sole 
trader accounts.
 
The bank told Mr U it wasnt possible for the existing partnership accounts to be amended. 
The legal entity of his business had changed, it was no longer a partnership, so new sole 
trader accounts had to be opened. Barclays told Mr U hed have to make an appointment in 
branch to carry out the necessary administration, which he was unhappy about.
 
Mr U was also unhappy at the length of time before a branch appointment would become 
available. The call handler initially told him no appointments were available, but then gave a 
timescale of around six to eight weeks. Mr U felt hed been intentionally misled, and hed 
only been given a revised timescale because hed pushed back to try and secure a quicker 
appointment. So, he raised a complaint.
 
Barclays called Mr U a short while later to address his complaint. But Mr U was unhappy 
with how this call was handled too, he felt the member of staff he spoke with was 
disorganised. Moreover, Mr U disagreed when the call handler told him that his new sole 
trader accounts would be ineligible for free business banking which Barclays offered new 
customers. Mr U said he was being forced to open new business accounts, so believed he 
was eligible.
 
Mr U asked to speak with a manager. When he did so, he explained his dissatisfaction at 
how the previous two calls had been handled. But the manager didnt resolve things to his 
satisfaction.
In February, Mr U visited his local branch and was able to book an appointment for a few 
days time. During his appointment, Mr U wasnt happy with the level of service he received. 
He said hed been asked to bring documentation which  in the end  didnt need to be used, 
and that the appointment was over relatively quickly when hed been told it would last an 
hour.
 
Following the branch meeting some administration issues came to light. The cheque books 
for Mr Us new sole trader accounts werent as hed requested, and he was then told hed 
need to open a new client account  something he said hed been promised wouldnt be 
necessary.
 
Over the course of several phone calls responding to his previous complaints, Mr U raised 
further concerns about his appointment in branch. He was unhappy his new accounts hadnt 
been set up as hed asked, and he also alleged that he could smell alcohol on the person 
hed dealt with.
 
More phone calls took place, none of which resolved matters to Mr Us satisfaction. During 
one call, Mr U felt he was lied to by the person he spoke with. And he was unhappy when 
Barclays told him this call hadnt been recorded.
 
In May, Mr U applied for a Bounce Back Loan. While his application was pending review, he 
received a letter from Barclays  signed by his local branch manager  giving him notice that 
the bank would be closing his accounts. In summary, Barclays letter set out that Mr Us 
behaviour towards staff had been unacceptable and it no longer wished to provide its 
services to him. 
Mr U felt this action was malicious. He believed the manager of his local branch was reacting 
to his numerous complaints, and that the notice to close his accounts was specifically 
designed to cause as much difficulty to him and his business as possible. Mr U also felt the 
banks letter had been precisely scheduled to arrive over a bank-holiday, giving him less 
time to find an alternative bank. So, he raised a further complaint and  around the same 
time  also approached our service.
 
The bank ultimately reversed its decision to close Mr Us accounts. It said the four-week 
timescale it had provided was inadequate in the circumstances of the Covid-19 pandemic. 
And it offered Mr U £150 compensation, which he rejected.
 
An investigator here looked at what had happened. In summary, she said:
- Barclays hadnt acted unreasonably in requiring Mr U to open new sole trader 
accounts because the legal entity of his business had changed;
- The service Barclays provided during phone calls hadnt been inadequate. And 
Mr Us serious allegation about a member of staff had been dealt with 
appropriately;
- The four-week notice period given to Mr U before the closure of his accounts 
wasnt fair, and it left him with very little time to make alternative arrangements in 
the circumstances. But that didnt mean the banks decision to issue notice in the 
first place was wrong, so Mr U wouldve always had to take some action to find 
an alternative bank. And it therefore wouldnt be reasonable to require Barclays 
to cover the costs Mr U says he incurred;
- Mr U had been caused some inconvenience. There were issues with his online 
banking, which had led to some disruption, and there had been administrative 
problems with his new accounts;
- To put things right, Barclays should pay Mr U a total of £400 compensation. 
Further, any business banking fees should be refunded to him from June 2020 
because thats when Mr U had experienced problems accessing his accounts 
online and been served with notice the accounts would be closed. 
Barclays accepted the investigators recommendation, but Mr U disagreed. He felt the 
investigator hadnt properly assessed the facts of his complaint. Mr U asked that his complaint be passed to an ombudsman, and he said he expected to receive £7,000 
compensation from the bank.
 
As an agreement couldnt be reached, the complaint was passed to me to decide. I issued a 
provisional decision on 25 October 2021 saying I intended to uphold the complaint. I said:
In support of his complaint, Mr U has sought to raise several points and its clear he 
feels very strongly about what happened. Hes provided detailed submissions, and Id 
like to thank him for taking the time to do so.
 
While I have considered everything Mr U has said and provided, Ive summarised the 
complaint in far less detail  and I havent commented on everything hes raised. I 
dont intend any discourtesy by this. Rather, it reflects the informal nature of this 
service.
 
Given the numerous issues Mr U has raised, Ive addressed his complaint as follows:
Switching from partnership to sole trader accounts;
The level of service Mr U received;
Barclays decision to close his accounts; and
The consequential losses Mr U says he incurred as a result of Barclays 
actions. 
Switching from partnership to sole trader accounts
I dont think Barclays acted unreasonably by requiring Mr U to open new sole trader 
accounts, or by asking him to attend a meeting in branch to do so.
 
Mr Us business was no longer a partnership. Its legal entity had changed and, as a 
result, its fair to say some administration would be required which would likely 
involve some time and effort on Mr Us part. So, it follows that I dont agree Barclays 
put Mr U to any unnecessary inconvenience. 
Further, Barclays has explained that it didnt need to carry out extensive verification 
during Mr Us branch meeting because he was already an existing customer. And I 
think thats reasonable.
The level of service Mr U received
Mr U raised a number of complaints about individual staff members and the level of 
service he was given, particularly about people he spoke with on the phone. 
I wont address each of these in detail because Ive not found the level of service 
Barclays provided during calls to be inadequate.
 
Having listened to the available call recordings, Im satisfied that call handlers tried to 
help Mr U and they didnt intentionally provide misleading or incorrect information. 
Nor do I think they spoke with him discourteously. Instead, it seems to be the case 
that Mr U simply didnt like what he was being told  so he complained about it. But 
that doesnt mean staff did something wrong.
Turning to the other, more specific, instances that Mr U has also complained about. 
Mr U alleges that he could smell alcohol on the person he dealt with during his branch appointment. Barclays has investigated, and it strongly denies what Mr U has 
said. While theres no way for this service to know either way, Ive read the outcome 
of the banks investigation and I know its also been passed to Mr U. He doesnt 
agree with it, but its not helpful  or at all fair to the individual concerned  to 
speculate here. Im satisfied that the bank has acted appropriately by investigating 
the matter and providing an explanation, so I wont comment on this point any further.
  
Next, Mr U has said a specific call hes unhappy about conveniently wasnt recorded. 
The bank has clarified that at the time, in May 2020, staff were working from home at 
short notice due to the Covid-19 pandemic and calls werent recorded. I think thats 
reasonable, its important to keep in mind that banks had to adjust to the pandemic 
too and theres nothing to make me think the bank deliberately didnt record this call.
Aside from what Ive set out above, there are some things which I think couldve gone 
better. There was a problem with Mr Us cheque books for his new sole trader 
accounts where his trading name was printed incorrectly. And there appears to have 
been some mixed messaging around his client account, whether hed have to open a 
new one or not.
Further, Mr U had difficulty accessing online banking which I know continued for 
some time. I dont doubt that wouldve put him to some considerable inconvenience 
given how busy hes said his business is, and how he generally carries out the 
majority of business transactions online. So, I think its right that Mr U is 
compensated for these issues. Ill set out further below how I think the bank should 
put things right.
Barclays decision to close Mr Us account
 
I dont think Barclays acted unreasonably when it decided to close Mr Us accounts. 
And while the bank may have reversed that decision, I dont find that it was under 
any obligation to do so.
  
To explain, a bank can make its own decisions about who its prepared to offer 
banking services to. Sometimes, a bank will choose to end its relationship with a 
customer. We wont generally intervene in a banks commercial discretion, but wed 
expect it to comply with the terms and conditions of the agreement. The terms and 
conditions of Mr Us account allow it to end the agreement with two months notice, 
but it can also end the agreement with less notice  or immediately  in certain 
circumstances.
 
Of reference here, Barclays can close an account with less notice if a customer 
behaves in a threatening or abusive manner. And in Mr Us case, the bank has said it 
considered his conduct towards staff to be unacceptable  specifically his repeated 
questioning of their competence, professionalism and integrity.
Barclays outlined in its letter to Mr U how his behaviour and personal accusations 
towards a staff member had caused them utter distress. And the bank also said 
Mr U had been uncooperative with other staff during telephone calls, causing further 
distress. With that in mind, I think the bank made a fair interpretation of the terms and 
conditions and it reasonably decided it no longer wanted to provide its services to 
Mr U.
 
Mr U believes the banks decision was malicious, an action driven by staff because 
hed raised complaints. He felt the decision was designed to cause him and his 
business much disruption, and delay an application hed recently made for a Bounce Back Loan. Mr U has mentioned his loyalty as a customer over the last 15 
years or so, and that the bank hasnt taken this into account in its treatment of him.
 
I dont see things the same way. Simply being a customer of the bank for a long time 
doesnt allow someone to behave as they wish. And nor do I think it means that 
Barclays shouldnt take the action it thinks appropriate, within the terms and 
conditions, which is what I find it did here. I dont agree that Barclays decision was 
made maliciously or without good reason. Instead, I think Barclays made a legitimate 
commercial decision following Mr Us conduct towards its staff.
  
Barclays gave Mr U four weeks notice before his accounts were to be closed. And I 
think it was entitled to do so, given Mr U had breached the terms and conditions. But, 
after he complained, the bank reversed its decision and offered Mr U £150 
compensation to recognise the four-week notice period not being appropriate in the 
circumstances of the Covid-19 pandemic. Mr U rejected the offer.
 
I can see why the bank felt that was a reasonable thing to do given the 
unprecedented situation around the pandemic. But I dont think the reversal renders 
Barclays initial decision to serve notice unfair or unreasonable. And it could still have 
gone ahead with the closure if it wished.
The consequential losses Mr U says he incurred as a result of Barclays actions
After receiving notice that Barclays was going to close his accounts, Mr U took steps 
to find an alternative bank. His partnership accounts were transferred to another 
bank in June.
Mr U says he incurred costs as a result of the short timeframe he was given to move 
things around and, because Barclays rescinded its notice anyway, he feels these 
costs should be reimbursed. I wont list everything Mr U has specified here, but hes 
estimated his costs to be around £7,000.
 
I understand why Mr U felt the need to move quickly once he learnt of Barclays 
decision. But, in all the circumstances, I dont think it would be right of me to award 
such a substantial sum in his favour. Thats because, as Ive outlined above, I dont 
consider that Barclays acted wrongly when it decided it no longer wanted to provide 
its services to Mr U. 
Instead, I find the banks decision was reasonable in the circumstances and it follows 
that Mr U was always going to have to take some action. So, given I dont think the 
bank made a mistake, I dont accept that Barclays should be held liable for the costs 
Mr U may have incurred at the time in arranging to bank elsewhere. 
Putting things right
Our investigator recommended that Barclays pay Mr U £400 compensation. She also 
said Mr U should be refunded any business banking fees charged from June 2020, 
given hed had trouble accessing his accounts online and had taken steps to find an 
alternative bank around that time.
 
In response, Barclays explained there were no business banking fees to refund from 
June. The old partnership accounts had been moved to a different bank during that 
month, and Mr U had been given free business banking as a gesture of goodwill for 
his new sole trader accounts. The bank agreed with the investigators recommendation to pay Mr U £400.
On the other hand, Mr U disagreed. He doesnt feel the compensation amount is 
enough, and hes highlighted how £400 is a very small fraction of what his business 
accounts handle every year. Mr U thinks he should receive the costs hed cited of 
around £7,000 and that any business banking fees should be refunded from 
January 2020, when he first raised the issue.
 
I dont see the relevance of Mr Us business turnover, or how it impacts whats 
considered fair compensation here. And nor do I agree that business banking fees 
should be refunded from January given Mr U was still using the accounts at the time. 
Rather, I think £400 is enough to reflect the inconvenience Mr U wouldve been put to 
as a result of the issues with his online banking; his cheque books and the confusion 
around his client account. So, thats what I intend to require Barclays pay him as 
resolution of this complaint. 
The Financial Conduct Authority (FCA) Dispute Resolution (DISP) Rules set out that I may 
fix and extend time-limits  (see the rules and guidance in DISP 3.5 of the Financial Conduct 
Authority Handbook). Further, the DISP Rules also set out that  if either party fails to 
comply with a time limit  I may proceed with consideration of the complaint.
I set a deadline of 22 November 2021 for both parties to provide their responses to my 
provisional decision. Barclays said it accepted my findings and had nothing further to add. 
But Mr U didnt respond by the deadline. He replied the following day, on 23 November, and 
said hed answer my provisional decision on or before 16 December. 
I explained to Mr U that its not for either party to set their own deadlines. Nonetheless, I 
would allow some additional time for further submissions to be made. But I didnt think 
16 December was suitable, given there had already been sufficient time to reply and Mr U 
had contacted us after the initial deadline expired. So, I granted an extension until 
3 December. 
That extended deadline has now passed. Mr U still hasnt provided any further comments or 
evidence for me to consider, and nor has he explained why he couldnt reply by 3 December. 
So, I now consider it appropriate to issue my final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As neither party has provided any further comments or evidence, I see no reason to depart 
from the conclusions I reached in my provisional decision. 
With that being the case, I uphold Mr Us complaint. Barclays now needs to put things right 
as I described within my provisional decision.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold Mr Us complaint and I require Barclays Bank UK PLC to 
pay him £400 compensation. Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr U to accept or reject my decision before 4 January 2022.
 
Simon Louth
Ombudsman