DRN-2873349
The complaint
The estate of Mrs S complains that National Savings and Investments (NS&I) required a 
Grant of Probate to release funds to the executor. 
What happened
Mr S has told us Mrs S passed away in April 2019. Mr S says he contacted a number of 
other businesses and arranged for the proceeds of Mrs S accounts to be released to him as 
executor. Mr S provided a will that showed he was entitled to act on behalf of the estate. 
NS&I said that, because of the amount of money held on the late Mrs S behalf it required a 
Grant of Probate to proceed. Mr S obtained the Grant of Probate but has explained the cost 
was over £2,000.
On behalf of the estate, Mr S complained. But NS&I didnt agree an error had been made. 
Mr S referred the complaint to this service and it was passed to an investigator. They said 
businesses are allowed to decide what documents are required to show an executor has 
authority to represent an estate. The investigator thought NS&I had dealt with the complaint 
fairly and didnt ask it to do anything else. Mr S asked to appeal, so the complaint has been 
passed to me to make a decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Id like to begin by saying how sorry I am at the circumstances of this case. I understand Mr 
S is particularly upset that the estate of Mrs S had to use funds to obtain a Grant of Probate 
in order for NS&I to release the funds it held. Ive looked at the available information to 
decide whether NS&I has made an error or acted unfairly. 
As our investigator has said, in England a small estate is below £5,000. The sums Mrs S 
had saved with NS&I were substantially higher which meant the estate wasnt classed as a 
small estate. NS&I says that where a customer passes away and their estate exceeds the 
small estate limits it requires a Grant of Probate from the executor to release the funds 
saved. 
Whilst I understand other businesses may operate differently, Im satisfied NS&I is free to 
decide what evidence it requires to verify an executor is entitled to act on behalf of an estate. 
I can see a will was available to NS&I but its policy meant a full Grant of Probate was 
necessary because of the amounts involved. 
I appreciate the cost of obtaining probate was substantial. But as NS&I couldnt release the 
late Mrs S funds without it, I havent found grounds to tell it to cover the fees the estate 
incurred. 
Whilst it doesnt impact the case against NS&I, our service also requires sight of a Grant of 
Probate in cases where the estate exceeds the small estate limit of £5,000. If Mr S hadnt 
been able to provide a copy of the Grant of Probate, its highly unlikely we wouldve been 
able to consider the merits of this complaint. Ive given this information to provide some 
context and show organisations may differ in their approaches when a consumer passes 
away. 
Im very sorry to disappoint Mr S but I havent found NS&I made a mistake or treated the 
estate of Mrs S unfairly when it requested a Grant of Probate to release the funds held. As I 
havent found NS&I acted unfairly, Im not telling it to take any further action.
 
My final decision
My decision is that I dont uiphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask the estate of Mrs S 
to accept or reject my decision before 27 July 2021.
 
Marco Manente
Ombudsman