DRN-3134758
The complaint
Mrs M complains that Marks & Spencer Financial Services plc, trading as M&S Bank, wont 
refund to her the money that she paid for a driveway. Her daughter and son-in-law are also 
involved with her complaint.
What happened
Mrs M used her M&S Bank credit card in November 2014 to pay a deposit of £1,825 towards 
the total cost of £18,250 for a driveway to be laid at her daughters house. The price included 
a ten year insurance backed guarantee. Mrs M says that the driveway wasnt laid correctly 
so it started sinking, repairs have left a two-tone driveway which hasnt weathered-in as 
promised and that the supplier has stopped trading. Shes been quoted more than £20,000 
to replace the driveway. 
She claimed a refund from M&S Bank in September 2020 of the £18,250 that had been paid 
for the driveway under section 75 of the Consumer Credit Act 1974. M&S Bank said that 
Mrs M had confirmed that the driveway was laid at her daughters house and her daughter 
had reimbursed her for it. It said that section 75 only covered the loss of Mrs M as its 
cardholder so it wouldnt be able to assist her with her claim. 
Mrs M wasnt satisfied with its response so complained to this service. Our investigator didnt 
recommend that her complaint should be upheld. He said that Mrs M had contracted with the 
supplier on behalf of her daughter which broke the debtor-creditor-supplier link because she 
was never intended to be the recipient of the work carried out by the supplier because it was 
for her daughters benefit and not her own. He said that Mrs M had had some usage of the 
driveway since it was installed as she had visited and stayed at her daughters home  but 
he didnt consider that that usage was enough to satisfy the requirements in the Act.
Mrs M has asked for her complaint to be considered by an ombudsman. She says that she 
can bring a claim against the supplier in respect of a misrepresentation or breach of contract 
and that she has a like claim against the creditor who with the supplier is jointly and severally 
liable to the debtor. She says that its not fair to be left with a two-tone driveway and that 
shes the debtor, M&S Bank is the creditor and the supplier supplied the driveway, and 
whether this was at her home or not is irrelevant as a formal and legally binding contract was 
entered into between her and the supplier. 
She says that the supplier provided a ten year guarantee, repaired the dipping section of the 
driveway and said that the difference in colour would weather-in and, if she wasnt happy 
after the winter, it would replace the full driveway. She says that the supplier has become 
insolvent leaving her with a two-tone driveway and a ten year guarantee which is worthless. 
She says that shes a wheelchair user so has benefitted tremendously from the driveway 
being even and has a right to be compensated for damages caused by the suppliers breach 
of contract.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the conclusions reached by our investigator for these reasons:
Mrs M paid the deposit for the driveway using her M&S Bank credit card and, in 
certain circumstances, section 75 gives a consumer an equal right to claim against 
the supplier of goods or services or the provider of credit if theres been a breach of 
contract or misrepresentation by the supplier;
one of those circumstances is that there must be a relevant relationship between the 
debtor, the creditor and the supplier;
the debtor here is Mrs M because she used credit to pay the deposit for the driveway, 
the creditor is M&S Bank because it provided the credit to Mrs M and the supplier is 
the supplier of the driveway  but for there to be a relevant debtor-creditor-supplier 
relationship the supplier has to supply the goods or services to the debtor;
the suppliers invoice for the driveway doesnt specify who the customer is or who the 
work was done for but Mrs M told M&S Bank that the driveway was laid at her 
daughters house and that her daughter reimbursed her for the money that shed paid 
for the driveway  so its clear to me that the driveway was laid at Mrs Ms daughters 
house;
Mrs M has had some benefit from the driveway because shes used it when shes 
visited and stayed with her daughter and, as she uses a wheelchair, shes benefitted 
from the driveway being even as shes described  but I dont consider that thats 
enough to show that the driveway was supplied to Mrs M or for her benefit;
I consider that the driveway was supplied to Mrs Ms daughter, and not to Mrs M or 
for her benefit;
the requirement for a debtor-creditor-supplier relationship is clearly set out in 
section 75 and I dont consider that theres a relevant debtor-creditor-supplier 
relationship in these circumstances because the driveway was supplied to Mrs Ms 
daughter but M&S Bank provided the credit to Mrs M;
I sympathise with Mrs M and her daughter for the issues that theyve had with the 
supplier and the driveway but I dont consider that M&S Bank is liable for any breach 
of contract or misrepresentation by the supplier in these circumstances; and 
I find that it wouldnt be fair or reasonable for me to require M&S Bank to refund to 
Mrs M the deposit of £1,825 or any other money that she paid for the driveway, to 
pay her any compensation or to take any other action in response to her complaint.
My final decision
My decision is that I dont uphold Mr Ms complaint.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs M to accept or 
reject my decision before 9 December 2021.  
Jarrod Hastings
Ombudsman