DRN-1968338
 
The complaint
Mr Hs complaint is about Old Park Capital Limited (OPC), the operator of a Business 
Premises Renovation Allowance (BPRA) scheme (the scheme). It was a collective 
investment scheme and he invested around £27,000 into it in March 2013. 
In the main, Mr H says OPC failed to inform him that insufficient capital had been raised for 
the scheme (that he would have exercised a contractual right to withdraw from it if he knew); 
and that it failed to file tax returns  related to the scheme  on time, which led to HMRC 
fines against him.
What happened
One of our investigators considered the complaint and concluded that it should be upheld. 
He mainly noted as follows:
OPC had not responded to repeated information requests from this service.
Therefore, a view on the complaint had to be concluded on the basis of available 
evidence, wider knowledge about OPCs role in the scheme and information from 
previous similar/comparable complaints about OPC and the same scheme which 
have been upheld by this service.
The failure to raise the requisite capital for the scheme increased its vulnerability to 
failure  materially changing the scheme and making it different from when Mr H 
invested in it. It is likely that Mr H would have withdrawn from it if he was aware of 
such a change in circumstances and it would have been reasonable for him to do so. 
OPC was wrong to have failed to inform him about the funding problem and it 
deprived him of the opportunity to withdraw his investment.
OPC also filed the relevant tax returns without due care and skill, and is responsible 
for the HMRC fines applied against Mr H.
OPC should refund Mr Hs capital to him, should compensate him for the tax 
penalties (arising from the scheme) he faced (with interest) and should pay him £500 
for the trouble and upset the matter has caused him.
Mr H accepted this outcome. OPC did not provide a substantive response to the 
investigators view but instead it said it considered the complaint out of time  because, it 
said, the complaint had been made more than six years after Mr Hs investment in the 
scheme; so it is outside the regulators six years time limit for making complaints. 
OPC referred to Mr Hs submission of his complaint form to this service in July 2019 and 
said this was more than six years after his investment in March 2013. The investigator 
clarified that the regulators rules can be met when a complaint is made to a firm; that Mr H 
made his complaint to OPC on 11 October 2018 (within six years of the investment in 2013); 
and he shared documentary evidence that the 2018 complaint was sent to OPC. OPC 
maintains that it did not receive the complaint. 
The matter was referred to an ombudsman.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I have reached the same conclusions expressed by the investigator in 
terms of our jurisdiction to address the complaint and in terms of its merits.
Jurisdiction
The time limit rules say that a complaint must be made within six years of the event being 
complained about or, if later, within three years of when the consumer knew or ought 
reasonably to have known they had cause for complaint. This is set out in DISP 2.8.3 which 
says:
The Ombudsman cannot consider a complaint if the complainant refers it to the Financial 
Ombudsman Service:
more than six months after the date on which the respondent sent the complainant its 
final response, redress determination or summary resolution communication; or
more than:
(a) six years after the event complained of; or (if later)
(b) three years from the date on which the complainant became aware (or ought 
reasonably to have become aware) that he had cause for complaint;
unless the complainant referred the complaint to the respondent or to the Ombudsman 
within that period and has a written acknowledgement or some other record of 
the complaint having been received; [my emphasis]
Mr Hs complaint is about how OPC operated, managed and administered the scheme. It is 
not disputed that he invested in the scheme in 2013. There is documentary evidence of his 
email to OPC  using the correct email address  on 11 October 2018 expressly confirming 
his submission of a complaint and detailing the complaint on the same grounds as those (as 
summarised above) confirmed in the complaint that was referred to this service. This was 
done within six years of his investment in 2013, so his complaint has been made in time.
As I emphasised above, the rules allow for a complaint to be submitted either to the 
respondent firm or to this service. In Mr Hs case, he submitted it to OPC (in time) and then 
referred it to this service (as he was entitled to do). His email to OPC was properly 
addressed and the evidence he has shared with us shows that it was sent at the time. 
Given the usual workings of emails, I consider this equivalent to evidence that it was 
received by OPC at the time. 
OPC highlights that it never acknowledged receipt of Mr Hs email. However, this does not 
persuade me to cast doubt on the evidence Mr H has provided. There have been emails 
from this service to OPC  related to our consideration of the complaint  which it has 
neither acknowledged nor responded to, so it is plausible that it did the same with regards to 
Mr Hs complaint email in 2018.
Merits
I consider that the investigator had enough available evidence and wider information to 
determine his view on the complaint. The wider information includes documentation provided 
as part of other complaints referred to this service about OPC, about the same scheme and about the same complaint issues. I have used the same wider basis (of evidence and 
information, including comments from OPC) to determine this decision. I find as follows  
Tax Returns
Tax return documentation, including those signed by OPC, confirms its responsibility 
to file the scheme members tax returns on their behalf/on behalf of the scheme. The 
members agreement for the scheme also refers to the operator/manager (which was 
OPC) having an administrative obligation in this respect.
There is ample evidence of OPCs failure to file the tax returns relevant to Mr H, to 
his investment in the scheme and to his complaint. This includes evidence of cross 
correspondence between members of the scheme (including Mr H) and OPC over 
this matter and HMRC documentation about the fines incurred. Their contents show 
that OPC was responsible for the relevant filing, had to be chased and reminded to 
do so and had to be chased to assist in addressing problems with HMRC arising from 
the late tax return filings.
Overall, I consider that OPC was inefficient in filing the tax returns and that this led to 
the problems with and the fines from HMRC that Mr H faced. There is wider evidence 
of the same cause and effect in the other complaints referred to this service  some 
of which have already been upheld. OPC had a regulated duty to discharge this 
responsibility with due skill, care and diligence and it was aware of the requirement to 
submit the relevant tax returns on time (in order to avoid fines). Its failure to do so 
breached this duty and, importantly, directly caused the fines applied to Mr H, so it 
must be responsible for compensating him in this respect.
Withdrawal from the scheme
There is evidence of an information memorandum (IM) for the scheme. As I said 
above, other complaints about OPC, about the same scheme and about the same 
allegations as those made by Mr H have been submitted to this service by other 
members of the scheme.
There are copies of the IM within the documentation for the complaints (about OPC 
and about the scheme) we have received. I have access to them all and I consider 
them applicable to Mr Hs complaint. The same applies to other relevant documents, 
including membership and management agreement documentation for the scheme.
The IM refers to the scheme raising around £7 million (roughly equally split between 
investor capital and loans) in order to acquire and develop a specific commercial 
property for commercial purposes. It is in this context that it was sold as a scheme 
that benefits from potential BPRA based tax reliefs. 
Within the IM references are made to the different details and terms of the scheme. 
These include a minimum investment subscription (made up of investor capital and a 
loan element), a minimum investor capital amount, a list of the scheme managers 
responsibilities (which expressly include the duty to report to and update the 
schemes members on their interests in and progress of the scheme and to give them 
access to the schemes records) and, importantly (and under the headings of LLP 
Financing and Risk Factors), confirmation of the following  
The total funds required to be raised by the LLP in order for the Offer to proceed are 
£3,750,000  [my emphasis]If insufficient subscriptions in the view of [the manager] are received and a financial 
close fails to occur, then monies subscribed, with any interest earned thereon, will be 
returned to subscribers. [my emphasis]
The management agreement for the scheme echoed broadly the same list of 
responsibilities as provided in the IM and the terms for the scheme that are 
addressed in the IM are broadly reflected in the management and membership 
agreements.
OPC argues that raising capital for the scheme was supposed to span the 2012/2013 
and 2013/2014 tax years and that development work was supposed to be agreed or 
begin before the end of the first tax year (and before financing for the scheme was 
concluded) in order to qualify for tax relief related to that year. It has argued that the 
scheme was therefore permitted to proceed into action before its financing was 
completed and/or despite any shortfall in its financing. 
Significantly less than the required investor capital was raised for the scheme  
around 15% of it was raised, which amounted to around 7% of the total scheme 
funding required. A loan facility of around £3 million was used to support this 
shortfall, but the effect was that the ratio of loan/borrowing/debt to capital/equity 
changed drastically from what had been presented to Mr H at the outset and, with 
this, the risk profile of the scheme also changed (increased) significantly. The capital 
to loan ratio was no longer broadly equal, instead the loan element was around six 
times the size of the capital element.
I consider that OPCs responsibilities as manager and operator of the scheme 
included the duty to disclose this to Mr H at the time. This fell within its duty to report 
to, and update, the schemes members on their interests in the scheme and on the 
schemes progress. I have not seen evidence that it did. Mr H asserts that he was not 
informed and, on balance (and in the absence of evidence to the contrary), I accept 
his assertion. 
In addition to OPCs reporting obligations the need to disclose the financing situation 
to members like Mr H was also essential in the context of the capital refund 
arrangement I quoted above. With significantly less investor capital than required, the 
viability of the scheme had to be doubtful and on that basis the prospect of refunding 
monies subscribed must have been a probability, at least, if not a certainty. This 
could not have been reasonably concealed from the investors and it was 
unreasonable for OPC not to have updated any of them in this respect. 
Even if OPC decided to be optimistic about the scheme despite the significant 
financing shortfall, it must be noted that he managed and operated it on behalf of the 
investors like Mr H. If it believed there was merit in proceeding further despite the 
shortfall, that should have been expressed as a part of its update to him on the 
matter and he should have been given the option of either sharing OPCs optimism or 
exercising his right to withdraw his capital. It was unreasonable for OPC to deprive 
him of discretion/choice in this respect and that is what it did by not updating and 
informing him about the shortfall. 
Had Mr H been so informed, I am persuaded by evidence that he would have 
withdrawn his capital. Funding would have been essential to a scheme in which the 
sole or main activity was property development so without requisite capital to fund 
such development it is arguable that the scheme was no longer viable (especially as the investor capital generated was so significantly less than was required). I consider 
that this would probably have been the rationale behind a decision by Mr H to 
withdraw his capital and it would have been a well-founded rationale.
Overall and on balance, I conclude that Mr H must be compensated by OPC in this 
matter too. Furthermore, I endorse the investigators finding that OPC should pay him 
£500 for the trouble and upset he has been caused in the matters related to its 
mismanagement of the scheme.
Putting things right
fair compensation
In deciding what is fair my aim is to put Mr H as close as I can to the position he would 
probably now be in if he had been informed about the financing shortfall and had withdrawn 
his capital (and loan); and if OPC had not delayed in filing his tax returns. 
Tax Returns
Fair compensation for Mr H in this respect is to receive, with interest, an amount that covers 
the total of all the fines and/or penalties from HMRC that he faced and paid as a direct result 
of OPCs delay in filing his and/or the schemes tax returns. Evidence of the relevant HMRC 
fines/penalties should be shared, by Mr H, with OPC upon its request if needed to calculate 
the compensation figure.
Withdrawal from the scheme
It is necessary to consider when Mr H ought to have been told about the financing shortfall. 
This will help to define the point (thereafter) at which he would have been due a refund of his 
capital, having previously asked for it in response to news about the shortfall. An early 
decision that was made in one of the other cases referred to us considered this too. The 
ombudsman concluded that the point at which the relevant complainant ought to have been 
due a refund is 30 June 2013. I consider this also applies to Mr Hs case.
OPC was aware of the shortfall around the start of the 2013/2014 tax year; reasonable time 
should be allowed for OPCs consideration of the impact of  the shortfall and of any solution 
it might have wished to explore (and propose); had it then informed Mr H soon thereafter, 
reasonable time should be allowed for Mr Hs consideration of his position (and his decision) 
in response to such an important update; as stated above, he would probably have decided 
to withdraw his capital (and loan), so reasonable time should also be allowed for him 
communicating this and for the processing of such withdrawal; overall, and subsequent to 
these allowances, I consider that the refund of his capital (and loan) would have been due to 
him by the end of the first quarter in the 2013/2014 tax year  that is, 30 June 2013.
The refund entitlement included any applicable interest (from when the payment was made 
into the scheme to when it was withdrawn  the first period) so this must be reflected in the 
compensation due to Mr H. The effect being that the refund amount that would have been 
due to him on 30 June 2013 would have included any applicable interest for the first period 
(the end of the first period being 30 June 2013)  and, as explained below, additional 
interest must then be calculated upon that amount from 1 July 2013 to the date of settlement 
(the second period). The interest rate applicable for the first period does not appear to be 
stipulated in available evidence so the Bank of England base rate should be used in this 
respect.
what must OPC do?To compensate Mr H fairly, OPC must:
Tax Returns
Pay him the amount equal to the total of all the HMRC fines and/or penalties he 
incurred/incurs as a direct result of OPCs filing of his/the schemes tax returns at the 
times that it did; plus interest from the time Mr H paid/pays the fines/penalties to 
HMRC to the date OPC settles this compensation; interest applies at the rate of 8% 
simple per year.
Withdrawal from the scheme
Pay him the amount equal to his capital investment plus interest at the Bank of 
England base rate from the date of his investment up to 30 June 2013 (the refund 
amount); plus interest on the refund amount at the rate of 8% simple per year from 1 
July 2013 to the date OPC settles this compensation; plus any loan element of Mr 
Hs investment and plus any and all interest payments and charges he 
incurred/incurs in relation to the loan element.
[Mr H should give credit for any tax relief (or similar benefit) he has received from 
HMRC in relation to his investment in the scheme which he has not paid back and/or 
does not have to pay back.]
[If relevant and if OPC requests, Mr H should also assign to OPC any remaining 
interest he has in the scheme so that if there is any present or future value in it such 
value would belong to OPC.]
Pay him compensation for any reasonable costs he has incurred, since 30 June 
2013, in trying to resolve the schemes problems with OPC; and/or in trying to 
dissolve or mitigate his interest in the scheme; Mr H must provide OPC with 
documentary evidence of any such reasonable costs.
Trouble and Upset
Pay him £500 for the trouble and upset caused to him by the problems that arose 
from the scheme because OPC denied him the opportunity to withdraw his 
investment.
Income tax may be payable on any interest awarded (above).
compensation limit
Where I uphold a complaint, I can make a money award requiring a financial business to pay 
compensation of up to £150,000, £160,000, £350,000 or £355,000 (depending on when the 
complaint event occurred and when the complaint was referred to us) plus any interest that I 
consider appropriate. If fair compensation exceeds the compensation limit the respondent 
firm may be asked to pay the balance. Payment of such balance is not part of my 
determination or award. It is not binding on the respondent firm and it is unlikely that a 
complainant can accept my decision and go to court to ask for such balance. A complainant 
may therefore want to consider getting independent legal advice in this respect before 
deciding whether to accept the decision. My final decision
For the reasons given above, I uphold Mr Hs complaint. I order Old Park Capital Limited to 
pay him compensation as detailed above and to provide him with a calculation of the 
compensation in a clear and simple format.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 31 August 2020.
Roy Kuku
Ombudsman