DRN-2829445
The complaint
The estate of Mrs T complains that it received poor service from Hanley Economic Building 
Society (Hanley).
What happened
The estate of Mrs T is represented by Mr T  he is the sole executor of the estate and was 
Mrs Ts son. Mr T has brought this complaint and I will refer to him as such. Mrs T died in 
February 2020. Mr T contacted Hanley to organise the payment of his late mothers funds to 
him, as sole executor and beneficiary. There were some delays. Hanley called Mr T on 12 
March 2020. Mr T had to call them back. The late Mrs Ts account was closed the following 
day  on 13 March 2020. Mr T wrote further letters on 28 March 2020, 23 April 2020 and 29 
May 2020. Hanley replied on 14 May 2020 and 15 June 2020.
Mr T complained that the manager who he spoke to on 12 March 2020 acted inappropriately. 
He said he felt bullied into accepting that Hanley was doing him a favour by sending him the 
money to which he was entitled. And eventually, Hanleys agreement to payment of 
compensation of £100 was only made begrudgingly. He also wanted the cost of his call to 
Hanley to be reimbursed. And he said that his subsequent letters to Hanley about his 
complaint werent responded to in a timely way, nor did they go into the detail of his 
complaint. As a result, he asked for compensation of £200.
Hanley admitted there had been some failings in dealing with Mr Ts original request for the 
payment of his late mothers money and apologised. But  looking at Mr Ts complaint about 
the call on 12 March 2020 - they felt that there was no evidence of bullying on the call and 
thought that the senior manager had shown an apologetic tone. They sent a copy of the call 
to Mr T. They confirmed that the letter sent by the CEO to Mr T was sent in a secure 
manner, as it was stored on Hanleys servers. They paid compensation of £100.
Mr T brought the estates complaint to this service. Our investigator looked into what had 
happened.  She said this service cant look at the way in which complaints are handled by 
businesses as it falls outside our jurisdiction. But she considered the overall service provided 
by Hanley, based on the call in question on 12 March 2020. She thought that the manger 
tried to be flexible and apologetic on the call. She didnt consider the manager bullied Mr T. 
She thought that Hanley acted fairly.
Mr T asked that his complaint be reviewed by an ombudsman.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr Ts complaint focuses on the call on 12 March 2020 and the subsequent correspondence 
between him and Hanley  not on what happened before then. So  thats what I will 
concentrate on, rather than Hanleys service failings before then  which they admitted to 
and apologised for.
Looking at how Hanley handled Mr Ts complaint letters after the 12 March 2020 call, our 
investigator is correct  this is not something we can look at. This service is governed by 
strict rules about what complaints we can, and cannot, look at. These are covered in The 
Financial Conduct Authoritys Handbook. This defines a complaint as being about a financial 
product or service. So, complaints specifically about a businesss complaint handling or 
those processes arent included. Mr Ts concerns about Hanleys response here are 
specifically about how they handled a complaint and replied to it, so  this aspect of Mr Ts 
complaint isnt one we can look at.
The crux of Mr Ts complaint is the call on 12 March 2020. Ive listened to it. This was clearly 
a difficult time for Mr T as hed lost both his parents recently. I have to say that I didnt find 
the manner and tone of Hanleys manager inappropriate. She offered Mr T her condolences. 
She apologised several times for the previous errors and delays hed experienced. She was 
flexible in validating Mr Ts address. And she used her personal authority to override 
Hanleys requirement for the withdrawal to be independently witnessed and she also 
validated Mr Ts ID and address. She appeared to me to be empathetic and tried to help. In 
my view, where the call caused Mr T to become frustrated  was that she tried to say that 
her flexibility was effectively a goodwill gesture. Whereas Mr T had asked for compensation 
of £100. It may well have defused a difficult situation if shed simply offered to agree to pay 
Mr Ts requested compensation. But  I dont think that was an error on Hanleys part, and 
doesnt mean I think that I should uphold Mr Ts complaint because of that. Taking 
everything into consideration, overall, on balance, I consider the call was handled 
appropriately.
Mr T has asked for additional call costs  he had to call Hanley back on 12 March 2020. The 
call was timed at 23 minutes. We asked Mr T for evidence of this cost, but he didnt want to 
provide this. So - without this, I cant consider this.
So, I my decision is that Hanley acted fairly and reasonably. I sense that Mr T wont agree 
with me and will be disappointed  as I can see his strength of feeling about what happened, 
but Im not going to ask Hanley to do anymore here.
My final decision
I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask the estate of Mrs T 
to accept or reject my decision before 23 July 2021.
 
Martin Lord
Ombudsman