DRN-3123914
The complaint
Mrs B and Mr B complain Barclays Bank UK plc unreasonably refused their application for a
further advance on their existing mortgage.  
What happened
Mrs B and Mr B had an existing mortgage with Barclays Bank UK plc. Towards the end of
March 2020, they made an application to borrow an additional amount of around £60,000. At
the time Barclays would allow them to borrow, in total including their existing mortgage, up to
85% of the value of their property. Mrs B and Mr B submitted financial information to
Barclays who found it was affordable for them. Barclays went ahead and arranged a
valuation of their property over which the borrowing would be secured, although this didnt
happen until May 2020.
Due to the Covid-19 pandemic restricting access to properties, Barclays valuers originally
carried out a desktop rather than an on-site valuation. Even though Barclays gave the valuer
the right information, the valuation was done on the basis the property had three bedrooms,
rather than the four it had. And home improvements werent taken into account. The
valuation came in at £400,000, much lower than the £495,000 Mrs B and Mr B thought the
property was worth. They complained to Barclays about that.
Barclays arranged for an on-site valuation to be done after Covid-19 restrictions about
accessing properties had eased, but this didnt happen until July 2020. The new valuation
came in at £465,000. Although this was still lower than Mrs B and Mr B thought it should be
and meant they could borrow less than theyd asked for, they decided to accept it.
However, Barclays then declined to lend the amount Mrs B and Mr B had decided to borrow.
Barclays said this was because theyd changed their lending criteria and the loan to value
ratio (LTV) of their total borrowing would have been more than the 80% now allowed. Mrs B
and Mr B complained.
Barclays cancelled Mrs B and Mr Bs application while the complaint was ongoing although
Mrs B and Mr B say they didnt ask for that to happen. And when Barclays processed a new
application in October 2020, they said Mrs B and Mr B had failed the affordability
assessment. This was because by then Barclays had introduced new rules about how
bonuses, which formed part of Mrs B and Mr Bs income, were assessed.
Mrs B and Mr Bs complaint to Barclays about everything that had happened wasnt looked
at within the relevant timescales, so our investigator considered their complaint before
Barclays issued a formal response. While our investigator was looking into things, Barclays
offered Mrs B and Mr B compensation of £250 for the distress and inconvenience theyd
suffered during the application process and for the poor handling of their complaint.
Our investigator felt this was an appropriate amount of compensation for the distress and
inconvenience Mrs B and Mr B had suffered. But she also thought Barclays should deal with
Mrs B and Mr Bs application in line with the policies that existed at the time they originally
applied for the loan. She said Barclays delays including in getting a valuation based on
correct property details meant Mrs B and Mr Bs application was considered after Barclays
had made policy changes, which in turn led to the application failing.
There were some developments that led to our investigator to make further
recommendations.
When Barclays refused to lend, Mrs B and Mr B approached another  second charge -
lender. They were offered a loan for around £63,000 plus fees based on a valuation of
£495,000, albeit at higher rates of interest than Barclays had been offering them. I
understand Mrs B and Mr B told Barclays about the valuation, but Barclays didnt change
their mind about lending.
The second charge loan completed in around March 2021 although Mrs B and Mr B were
deciding whether to go ahead with it when our investigator updated her view. She said if they
decided to go ahead with the second charge loan, Barclays should refund the fees Mrs B
and Mr B would incur in taking out that loan, less the fees they would have had to pay to
Barclays  a net amount of £2,090. And she said Barclays should also pay to Mrs B and Mr
B the difference in the interest they would have paid on the amount Barclays would have lent
them and the interest they would pay the second charge lender on the same amount for a
period of two years, as that reflected the period of the fixed interest rate product they would
get from the second charge lender.
Initially our investigator said the amount of the borrowing from Barclays should be based on
the valuation of £465,000. But when Mrs B and Mr B told her theyd been offered a new fixed
interest rate product on part of their Barclays loan, which appeared to be based on the
property being valued at £495,000, she said calculating the amount Barclays would have
lent should be based on that higher valuation.
Mrs B and Mr B accepted our investigators view, but Barclays didnt agree and asked for an
ombudsman to review things. I therefore looked at everything afresh and came to a 
provisional decision, an extract of which follows:
What Ive provisionally decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Whilst I agree broadly with our
investigators view, my findings on how to put things right are different in some respects. So,
I am issuing a provisional decision to give the parties the chance to comment on everything
before I issue my final decision.
Barclays have explained the difficulties they had in running their business when the Covid-19
pandemic originally hit. I acknowledge it was a challenging period for businesses and it took
time for them to adapt their processes for things like remote working and staff absences. I
think its understandable there was a delay in Barclays arranging the initial desktop valuation
and it wasnt possible for an on-site valuation to take place at that time.
However, whilst Barclays may have given their valuer the right information about the
property, the valuer made mistakes that affected the valuation. Barclays say backlogs had
built up during lockdown which I accept. But I think Barclays should have arranged for the
second valuation with the correct information about the property to be carried out sooner,
whether on site or remotely, given the mistakes in the first valuation. It was only a question
of amending some information the valuer had got wrong the first time.
Barclays say their lending criteria changed while Mrs B and Mr Bs application was ongoing.
So, when it did go ahead, they could only lend in total up to 80% LTV, rather than up to the85% theyd been willing to lend to Mrs B and Mr B initially. However, Barclays records for
May and June refer to the maximum LTV being 85%. The notes for June show the reason
why Barclays were prepared to lend less than Mrs B and Mr B wanted, was because the
total amount of their borrowing would exceed 85% of the value of the property if the
additional loan went ahead. This suggests Barclays LTV limit was still 85% in June, rather
than the 80% it changed to later.
The second valuation was carried out in July. Theres no mention of that valuation in
Barclays notes until August when they mention the LTV being a maximum of 80%.
If theyd arranged the second valuation by June, as Id expect them to have done, I think its
likely Mrs B and Mr Bs application would have gone ahead. They would still have been able
to borrow up to 85% of the value of their property and Barclays had already found they could
afford it, so there was no need for a new application to be made.
I acknowledge Barclays argument they hadnt issued a mortgage offer to Mrs B and Mr B so
werent contractually obliged to go ahead with the loan. But I dont think its fair Mrs B and
Mr B lost out on getting the Barclays loan as a result of the valuation error and Barclays
delays.
Although Mrs B and Mr B are unhappy they werent told about the change in the LTV criteria
until several months later, I wouldnt expect Barclays to have warned them a change was
coming, or for Mrs B to be told about it even as an employee of Barclays, as that is sensitive
commercial information. And its reasonable for lenders to make changes to their lending
criteria from time to time for business reasons. But I would expect Barclays to have told
Mrs B and Mr B once the change in policy had been made if this was going to affect their
application, which didnt progress until around October.
What seems to have happened here is that when their application didnt progress due to the
dispute over the valuation, it was cancelled  Mrs B and Mr B say without their agreement.
And when a new application was finally taken forward, Mrs B and Mr B then failed on
affordability as their bonuses couldnt be considered because of another change in Barclays
policy. I think providing good customer service required Barclays to keep in close contact
with Mrs B and Mr B to explain what was happening.
Bearing everything in mind, I intend to uphold Mrs B and Mr Bs complaint. So, Ive thought
about how Mrs B and Mr B can be put in the position they would have been in but for
Barclays actions.
Mrs B and Mr B say that, although theyve now borrowed more from another lender, if
Barclays had made them an offer, theyd have accepted a lower amount because theyd
have paid less interest and would have adjusted their budget. I accept what they say about
that since theyd have been able to borrow at lower interest rates and incurred lower fees.
I understand Mrs B and Mr B have borrowed from the second charge lender over a term that
ends around the same time as their Barclays mortgage. And theyve taken a fixed interest
rate product over a period of two years. 
Mrs B and Mr B say Barclays recently offered them a new fixed interest rate product on part
of their existing mortgage. They say the rate Barclays offered them was based on total
borrowing of up to 75% LTV and must therefore have been based on a valuation of
£495,000 given the amount they have left on the mortgage.
From what Ive seen, the amount left on the mortgage was around £345,000 at the time of
that offer. If thats right, then the LTV based on the July 2020 valuation of £465,000 would be
74% and Barclays recent offer would be in line with that valuation. I think it is fair to use the£465,000 valuation as the basis of the calculations to put things right, not only because of
that  if those figures are right - but also because £465,000 is the valuation closest in time to
when Mrs B and Mr Bs application should have gone through.
To put things right I think its fair for Barclays to pay to Mrs B and Mr B the difference 
between
(a) the interest they would have paid to Barclays on the sum Barclays would have 
lent to them had their application gone ahead assuming
i. A valuation of £465,000;
ii. A maximum LTV of 85%;
iii. The interest rates available in June 2020 when the second valuation 
ought to have been carried out and mortgage offer made; and
iv. A fixed interest rate product for two years; and
(b) the interest they will pay to the new lender - on the amount Barclays would have 
lent to them - for the two-year period of their fixed interest product with the second 
charge lender.
Barclays should provide Mrs B and Mr B with details of the rates that would have been
available to them in June 2020 and, if there were more than one, Mrs B and Mr B should say
which of those rates they would have chosen. Mrs B and Mr B should provide Barclays with
details of the mortgage and fixed interest rate product they have taken with the second
charge lender, the interest rate they are paying and the fees they incurred.
I understand Barclays fees would have been £1,000, whereas Mrs B and Mr B had to pay a
brokers fee of £2,495 and a lenders fee of £595. I think its fair for Barclays to pay Mrs B
and Mr B the difference between those figures of £2,090 except that if, as a result of Mrs B
and Mr B choosing a different Barclays product, the fee would have been different, that
should be taken into account in calculating the difference in fees payable to Mrs B and Mr B.
I can see Mrs B and Mr B were disappointed and inconvenienced by the error in the
valuation, the delays and poor service they received and having to go through another
application with a different lender. I think Barclays should pay them compensation for that.
Bearing everything in mind, I think the offer of £250 Barclays has made is fair.
My provisional decision
My provisional decision is that
1. Barclays Bank UK PLC should provide Mrs B and Mr B with evidence of the rates 
that would have been available to them in June 2020 and, if there were more than 
one, Mrs B and Mr B should say which of those rates they would have chosen; and
2. Mrs B and Mr B should provide Barclays with evidence of the mortgage and fixed 
interest rate product they have taken with the second charge lender, the interest rate 
they are paying and the fees they incurred.
Based on that information, I direct Barclays Bank UK PLC to pay to Mrs B and Mr B1. The difference between
a) the interest they would have paid to Barclays on the sum Barclays would have 
lent to them had their application gone ahead, assuming
i. A valuation of £465,000;
ii. A maximum LTV of 85%;
iii. The interest rate available in June 2020 that Mr B and Mrs B choose;and
iv. A fixed interest rate product for two years; and
b) the interest Mrs B and Mr B will pay to the new lender - on the amount Barclays 
would have lent to them - for the two-year period of their fixed interest product 
with the second charge lender.
2. The difference between the fees Barclays Bank UK PLC would have charged Mrs B 
and Mr B and the fees they paid in taking out the secured charge loan.
3. £250 compensation for distress and inconvenience.
Developments
Following my provisional decision, I let the parties know I intended to put some time limits on 
the directions I proposed to make. I asked them to let me have their comments on those time 
limits by the deadline I set for responding to the provisional decision.
Mrs B and Mr B agreed my provisional decision and additional proposals. Barclays havent 
commented on either. So, Ive now come to my final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I havent received any comments from the parties that lead me to change my provisional 
decision. So, for the reasons I explained in my provisional decision I uphold Mrs B and Mr 
Bs complaint.
Putting things right
I set out in my provisional decision what should happen to put things right. I havent seen 
anything that changes my mind about that. In addition, I think its appropriate the time limits I 
proposed to the parties, for the steps Ive decided should be taken, should be put in place so 
things are resolved in a reasonable timescale.
My final decision
1. Barclays Bank UK PLC should, within 14 days of Mrs B and Mr B accepting this 
decision, provide Mrs B and Mr B with evidence of the rates that would have been 
available to them in June 2020 and, if there were more than one, Mrs B and Mr B 
should say which of those rates they would have chosen; 2. Mrs B and Mr B should, within 14 days of accepting this decision, provide Barclays 
with evidence of the mortgage and fixed interest rate product they have taken with 
the second charge lender, the interest rate they are paying and the fees they 
incurred;
3. Within 14 days of the parties exchanging the information at points 1 and 2 above and 
Mrs B and Mr B choosing a rate, Barclays Bank UK PLC should provide Mrs B and 
Mr B with their calculations as to the difference in interest rates and the difference in 
fees for Mrs B and Mr B to agree; and
4. Within 14 days of Mrs B and Mr B agreeing those calculations, Barclays Bank UK 
PLC should make the payments, including the compensation for distress and 
inconvenience, that I direct them to make below.
I direct Barclays Bank UK PLC to pay to Mrs B and Mr B:
1. The difference between
a) the interest they would have paid to Barclays on the sum Barclays would have 
lent to them had their application gone ahead, assuming
i. A valuation of £465,000;
ii. A maximum LTV of 85%;
iii. The interest rate available in June 2020 that Mr B and Mrs B choose; and
iv. A fixed interest rate product for two years; and
b) the interest Mrs B and Mr B will pay to the new lender - on the amount Barclays 
would have lent to them - for the two-year period of their fixed interest product 
with the second charge lender.
2. The difference between the fees Barclays Bank UK PLC would have charged Mrs B 
and Mr B and the fees they paid in taking out the secured charge loan.
3. £250 compensation for distress and inconvenience.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 23 November 2021.
 
Julia Wilkinson
Ombudsman