DRN-2578702
The complaint
Mr J complains that HSBC UK Bank Plc, trading as first direct, wont honour a promotional 
offer he feels he qualifies for.
What happened
Mr J opened a current account with first direct in February 2019 and then closed the account 
in April 2020. At the time, first direct was running a promotional offer where customers who 
closed their accounts, and met certain conditions, would receive a £100 goodbye payment.
Mr J felt he met the conditions of the offer and so qualified for the £100 payment. But first 
direct said he hadnt closed his account within 12 months of opening it and so didnt agree 
he qualified. Mr J wasnt happy with first directs response and so referred his complaint to 
our service.
One of our investigators looked at the complaint and said he felt first direct had acted 
reasonably. He felt Mr J hadnt met the criteria for the offer as the account wasnt closed 
within 12 months. Mr J disagreed, so the complaint has been passed to me for a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I dont think first direct needs to pay the £100 goodbye payment to Mr J. Ill 
explain why below.
Ive seen the promotional material for first directs goodbye payment. It says, to qualify, 
there are conditions about money being paid into the account each month, not having 
banked with first direct before and having initially switched to first direct using the current 
account switch service. It also says the customer must have let first direct know theyre 
unhappy within 12 months of opening the account and all products they hold with first direct 
must also be closed.
Neither Mr J nor first direct has suggested that Mr J didnt meet the criteria about paying 
money into the account, not having banked with first direct before or initially switching the 
account. So Ive assumed he met these criteria.
Mr J says he told first direct he was unhappy within 12 months of opening his account. And, 
as the promotional material doesnt say the account has to be closed within 12 months, he 
feels he qualifies for the payment. But first direct says the account must also be closed 
within 12 months and, as Mr Js account wasnt closed within 12 months, he doesnt qualify.
I think the wording of the promotional material could have been clearer. But it mentions both 
letting first direct know within 12 months and then that all products also need to be closed. 
So I think the 12-month time limit was intended to apply to the closing of the account too. 
And I think the material should be interpreted as meaning that a customer would need to 
both let first direct know they were unhappy and then close their account within 12 months of 
originally opening the account.
If the wording was interpreted as Mr J suggests, it could mean that a customer could close 
their account years later and still qualify for the goodbye payment provided theyd 
mentioned they were unhappy within the first 12 months. And I dont think this would be a 
reasonable interpretation.
So, as he didnt close his account within 12 months of opening it, I dont think Mr J qualifies 
for the £100 goodbye payment. And I think first direct has acted reasonably in not paying it 
to him.
I also dont think the wording of the promotional material caused Mr J to change his 
behaviour in any way. As, from what hes told us, he decided to change banks because he 
was unhappy with the service he received from first direct, rather than to specifically take 
advantage of this offer. So I dont think the wording has caused Mr J any loss.
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr J to accept or 
reject my decision before 12 March 2021. 
Alan Millward
Ombudsman