DRN-3158755
The complaint
Mr and Mrs H unhappy because Union Reiseversicherung AG (URV) declined a claim 
made under their travel insurance policy
What happened
Mr and Mrs H had the benefit of a single trip platinum travel insurance policy, underwritten 
by URV (the policy). The policy covered the period 12 to 27 March 2020 which coincided 
with the dates of a trip theyd booked to a country in Asia.
The airline who Mr and Mrs H were due to fly back to the UK with (via a stopover in a 
country that Ill refer to as U) contacted Mr and Mrs H on 26 March 2020 notifying them that 
their flight scheduled for 27 March 2020 had been cancelled due to Covid-19. The 
Government in U had issued a directive on 25 March 2020 halting all inbound, outbound and 
transit passenger flights to and from U. 
Mr and Mrs H ultimately booked a different return flight home to the UK (which wasnt via U). 
That flight was also due to depart on 27 March 2020  albeit later in the day.
Mr and Mrs H made a claim under the policy for the costs of the return flights back to the UK 
they had to pay for. Subsequently they ended up receiving some money back from the 
airline whod cancelled their original return flights, but they were still left out of pocket.
URV declined the claim on the basis that there was no cover for curtailing the trip because of 
Covid-19. Unhappy, Mr and Mrs H brought a complaint to our Service. 
Our investigator looked into what had happened and didnt uphold Mr and Mrs Hs complaint. 
Thats because our investigator didnt think there was any cover under the policy as the trip 
wasnt cut short; Mr and Mrs H returned to the UK on the date on which they had initially 
intended to return. 
Mr and Mrs H disagree so their complaint has been passed to me to look at everything 
afresh to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Industry rules set out by the regulator (the Financial Conduct Authority) say insurers must 
handle claims fairly and shouldnt unreasonably reject a claim. Ive taken these rules into 
account when reaching my decision. 
I know Mr and Mrs H will very disappointed, but Im satisfied that URV has acted fairly and 
reasonably by declining their claim. Ill explain why below.
Page 17 of the policy provides for URV to pay certain costs if a trip is curtailed (cut 
short) due to listed reasons. Not only do none of the prescribed reasons apply to the 
circumstances which resulted in Mr and Mrs Hs return flight being cancelled, but Mr 
and Mrs H didnt cut short their trip. They departed the country theyd been visiting  
in order to return to the UK - on the same day theyd originally planned to do so. 
Having reviewed the remaining sections of the policy, Im satisfied that there isnt any 
cover in the circumstances they found themselves in. For example, their trip hadnt 
been delayed or abandoned, and their departure hadnt been missed as set out in the 
delayed department/abandonment of trip and missed departure sections of the policy 
(at pages 21 and 22 of the policy). And the catastrophe section of the policy (at page 
23) doesnt apply to the circumstances Mr and Mrs H found themselves in either. 
Ive taken into account all Mr and Mrs Hs comments including what they say about 
paying for an enhanced travel insurance policy so they thought theyd be covered for 
most eventualities, that the policy had been taken out before the World Health 
Organisation had declared Covid-19 a global pandemic and that its not 
unreasonable to assume that that the costs theyd incurred as a result of their return 
flight being cancelled would be claimable. Ive also considered what they say about 
the policy not specifically excluding a claim relating to the circumstances they found 
themselves in. When considering whats fair and reasonable, Ive looked at the 
individual circumstances of this case in light of the policy terms Mr and Mrs H had the 
benefit of. Terms and conditions for travel insurance  like all insurance policies - 
vary significantly. And they dont cover every eventuality even if an enhanced level of 
protection has been purchased.
Mr and Mrs H have also referred to a paragraph from a website of an insurance 
comparison website. However, Ive placed less weight on what it says. Thats 
because it relates to cancellation claims. Mr and Mrs H didnt cancel their trip. And, 
as Ive said above, Ive considered the terms and conditions of the policy they had 
the benefit of. 
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.  Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im 
required to ask Mr and Mrs H to accept or reject my decision before 4 January 2022.
 
David Curtis-Johnson
Ombudsman