DRN-3366052
The complaint
Mr and Mrs S complain that HSBC UK Bank Plc, trading as first direct, wont reimburse 
funds Mrs S lost when she fell victim to a scam. 
What happened
Mrs S received a cold call with an investment opportunity from Crypto Capitals. Mrs S was 
attracted by the opportunity and promise of good returns, and so she decided to invest.
Below is a table of the transactions in dispute, all of which were made by debit card to 
Crypto Capital.
Date Amount
21 December 2017 £250
28 December 2017 £1,000
28 December 2017 £1,000
15 January 2018 £2,000
31 August 2018 £5,000
11 November 2018 £500 credit
Total loss £8,750
first directs records show that Mrs S first wanted to raise a chargeback through it as she 
wasnt getting the 15% return advised. And she complained that she had ben the victim of 
fraud. first direct explained a chargeback couldnt be raised for the lack of a promised return; 
it would need evidence of the funds crediting the account and her not being able to withdraw 
them.
Mrs S subsequently sent Crypto Capital a withdrawal request for £4,200 which was 
acknowledged and approved on 29 March 2019, but never paid. Mrs S didnt provide this 
evidence to first direct. first direct issued a final response on 4 April 2019 explaining the 
chargeback was out of time.
Not happy with that Mrs S referred the matter to our service. Ultimately, our investigator 
upheld the complaint  he was satisfied first direct hadnt acted unfairly in relation to the 
chargeback as Mrs S hadnt provided evidence of an available withdrawal balance, but he 
did think it ought to have intervened when she made her final payment. And had it done, he 
believes Mrs S would have been able to provide the information necessary to meet any 
chargeback requirements for the earlier payments. He therefore asked first direct to 
reimburse the transactions in full and add interest.
Although extensions were granted, we hadnt had a response from first direct. I was satisfied 
it had had plenty of time to provide its side of the story, and it was appropriate to progress 
this complaint for a decision. 
I issued my provisional decision on 1 March 2022, explaining why I wasnt minded to uphold 
the complaint. first direct hasnt responded and so I assume it has nothing further to add. 
Mrs S considers the decision to be rubbish, that fraud pay and comments its no wonder 
people dont trust governments or banks. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I understand Mrs S is disappointed with my provisional findings. However, Im considering a 
complaint against the bank, not the scammers. The bank doesnt have any responsibility for 
the actions of the scammers, nor Mrs S in choosing to the make the investments she did. It 
is only responsible for its own actions in processing Mrs Ss authorised payments. And for 
the reasons I had previously given, I didnt find it had done anything wrong. As Mrs S hasnt 
provided any further evidence for me to consider, I see no reason to alter my provisional 
findings, and so I make them final below. 
A chargeback is a voluntary scheme run by card scheme providers  in this case, Visa. It 
arbitrates on disputes between a customer and a merchant where they havent been able to 
resolve matters themselves. The arbitration process is subject to the rules of the scheme  
which are set by Visa  and there are only limited grounds on which a chargeback can be 
raised and there are strict time limits which apply. Chargebacks raised outside of these 
grounds, or late, are deemed invalid.
first directs records show that when she first raised her chargeback on 13 March 2019, Mrs 
S did so because she wasnt getting the 15% return advised. That wouldnt be considered a 
valid chargeback reason in the absence of documentary evidence of a guaranteed return. I 
can see that it did advise her it could raise a chargeback if she had evidence of not being 
able to withdraw funds. Mrs S made her withdrawal request on 21 March 2019, and this 
request was approved by Crypto Capitals on 29 March 2019; Mrs S says it was never paid. 
That evidence would be sufficient for a chargeback to be raised. But Mrs S has confirmed 
she never sent it to first direct and has only sent it to us in the last few days. It is now far too 
late for a chargeback to be raised; Visa has a strict time-limit of 120 days from the date of 
the transaction, with an overriding time limit of 540 days. The provision of Mrs Ss evidence 
is well outside of those time limits. I dont find first direct was acting unfairly or unreasonably 
when not pursuing a chargeback claim that didnt have any reasonable prospect of success. 
And I wont be asking it to attempt a chargeback now for the same reason.
So the next question I need to consider is whether first direct ought to have intervened 
before allowing any of the payments to be made?
Under regulations, and in accordance with general banking terms and conditions, banks 
should execute an authorised payment instruction without undue delay. The starting position 
is that liability for an authorised payment rests with the payer, even if they were duped into 
doing so, for example as part of an investment scam.
However, in accordance with the law, regulations and good industry practice, a bank has a 
duty to protect its customers against the risk of fraud and scams so far as is reasonably 
possible. If, in breach of that duty, a bank fails to act on information which ought reasonably to alert a prudent banker to potential fraud or financial crime, it might be liable for the losses 
incurred by its customer as a result.
Its far from certain in this case that Mrs S has been the victim of a scam, rather than simply 
losing her money as a result of investing into a high-risk investment. Whilst I accept there is 
a warning on the IOSCO Investor Alerts Portal, that wasnt placed until after Mrs S made her 
payments. And the warning doesnt contain any information. It seems to have been placed 
there by the Swiss Financial Markets Supervisory Authority, and although it says Crypto 
Capitals isnt entered in the commercial register, there is nothing contained within the 
remarks section to elaborate further or understand what is meant by that.
If there is no fraud or scam, and Mrs S has simply lost her money due to a high-risk venture, 
there was no duty on first direct to intervene at all; a bank doesnt have a duty to give 
investment advice or warn against poor investment choices when executing a payment 
request. But even if I accept this was a scam, Im not persuaded first direct ought to have 
intervened here.
The payments made to Crypto Capitals were all made by Mrs S using her debit card and 
associated security credentials. I therefore conclude these were authorised payments  for 
which Mrs S is liable, unless there is evidence the bank could and should have done more to 
protect her, which issue I now turn to.
Mrs S made five payments in total, spanning eight months. I have considered whether these 
ought to have triggered the banks alert systems such that it ought to have questioned 
whether she was a victim of a scam and intervened. I have considered the operation of Mrs 
Ss account in the months leading up to the transactions in question. I think it fair to say, 
aside from some household bills, the account is primarily used for gambling, both here and 
abroad; some of which were also new payees. Other transactions of a similar amount to the 
final payment of £5,000, sent in August 2018, had also been made. Im not persuaded that 
any of the payments to Crypto Capitals were so unusual or uncharacteristic that they ought 
to have triggered an alert or given grounds for suspecting fraud.
It follows that I find no persuasive evidence that first direct breached its duty to Mrs S or that 
it shouldnt have executed without undue delay the payment requests she had made and 
authorised. There is a reasonable balance to be struck for the benefit of all account holders 
and/or commercial efficiency  and the bank did also have a duty to execute properly 
authorised payment requests within a reasonable period.
In summary, having considered the matter very carefully, and realising this will come as a 
considerable disappointment to Mrs S, I dont uphold this complaint. I accept she has lost 
money. But I can only uphold a complaint and make an award if Im persuaded the bank has 
done something wrong. And for the reasons given here, Im not persuaded first direct has. 
My final decision
For the reasons given, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S and Mrs S to 
accept or reject my decision before 12 April 2022.
 
Claire Hopkins
Ombudsman