DRN-2642904
The complaint
Miss G complains that Mutual Clothing and Supply Company Limited lent to her 
irresponsibly.
 
What happened
Mutual has provided a table showing some details of the approved loans. Most of the 
columns are duplicated here. Each loan had a 102 week term. Some of the repaid figures on 
loans 7 and 8 may have altered since we received this information from Mutual.
Loan Start dateCredit 
approvedTotal 
amount 
repayableWeekly 
repay 
figuresSettlement 
dateBalance at 
refinanceTotal repaid
121/05/2011 £500.00 £775.00 £7.59 18/07/2012 £461.70 £313.30
221/07/2012 £650.00 £1,007.50 £9.87 27/08/2014 £1,007.50
323/08/2014 £2,000.00 £3,100.00 £30.39 10/02/2016 £705.20 £2,394.80
407/11/2015 £500.00 £775.00 £7.59 12/07/2017 £775.00
513/02/2016 £2,000.00 £3,100.00 £30.39 25/10/2017 £604.80 £2,495.20
628/10/2017 £2,000.00 £3,100.00 £30.39 03/07/2019 £523.40 £2,576.60
717/11/2018 £1,000.00 £1,550.00 £15.19 £1,412.10 7
8815/06/2019 £2,000.00 £3,100.00 £30.39 £2,116.30
Mutual and Miss G have agreed that loans 1 and 2 are not to be included in this complaint 
due to a jurisdiction issue raised by Mutual and Miss G has accepted that. Loans 1 and 2 are 
greyed out in the table. So, our adjudicator looked at the complaint for loans 3 to 8, but loans 
1 and 2 would have remained relevant in relation to the overall lending history. She thought 
that Mutual should put things right for Miss G for loans 3 to 8. 
Mutual disagreed and sent a detailed reply. The complaint was passed to me for a decision. 
I have reviewed loans 3 to 8 within the context of the lending relationship.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mutual has had other decisions from this Service which detail our approach to complaints of 
this nature and what we think about the rules and regulations that surround the sale of this 
type of credit. So Mutual should be aware of our approach to these issues. And our general 
approach to complaints about irresponsible lending - including all the relevant rules, 
guidance and good industry practice  are on our website. So, I dont intend to go into detail 
about those here. But a brief summary is below.
Mutuals response to our adjudicators opinion was substantial. This included points and 
issues relating to Mutual as a business in the lending market, the citation of published 
documents, the role of home credit lending, Mutuals view on repeat lending, and the 
provision of graphs to compare its repayments with high cost short term credit lenders.  
So, I have read all the submissions, but I have not addressed each one as this Service has 
addressed many of Mutuals points, comments and views raised in other final decisions. 
Where Mutual has raised points relevant to Miss Gs circumstances or complaint I have 
referred to them where necessary. 
I consider it reasonable to describe this lending as high cost credit, as does the Financial 
Conduct Authority (FCA), which includes home collected credit within its identified high cost 
credit cohort. And while I note Mutuals loans have longer terms than, for example, a 
payday loan, that does not make it a low risk, or inexpensive, option for a consumer. And, as 
such, long-term use of these products can be harmful to a consumer. The FCA has not said 
anything to the contrary on this point. I have considered these issues alongside everything 
else in making my decision.
Mutual needed to take reasonable steps to ensure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In practice
this meant that it should have carried out proportionate checks to make sure Miss G could
repay the loans in a sustainable manner.
These checks could consider several different things, such as how much was being lent, the 
repayment amounts, and the consumers income and expenditure. In the early stages of a 
lending relationship, I think less thorough checks might be reasonable and proportionate.
But certain factors might point to the fact that Mutual should fairly and reasonably have done
more to establish that any lending was sustainable for the consumer. These factors include:
having a low income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make any
loan repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income);
the amounts to be repaid being especially high (reflecting that it could be more
difficult to meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income);
having a large number of loans and/or having these loans over a long period of time 
(reflecting the risk that repeated refinancing may signal that the borrowing had 
become, or was becoming, unsustainable);
coming back for loans shortly after previous borrowing had been repaid (also 
suggestive of the borrowing becoming unsustainable).
There may even come a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable.
And the loan payments being affordable on a strict pounds and pence calculation might be
an indication a consumer could sustainably make their repayments. But it doesnt
automatically follow this is the case. The industry regulator defines sustainable as being
without undue difficulties and the customer should be able to make repayments on time, 
while meeting other reasonable commitments; as well as without having to borrow to meet 
the repayments. And it follows that a lender should realise, or it ought fairly and
reasonably to realise, that a borrower wont be able to make their repayments sustainably if
theyre unlikely to be able to make their repayments without borrowing further.
 
Ive looked at the overall pattern of Mutuals lending history with Miss G, with a view to 
seeing if there was a point at which Mutual should reasonably have seen that further lending 
was unsustainable, or otherwise harmful. And so Mutual should have realised that it 
shouldnt have provided any further loans. Given the circumstances of Miss Gs case, I think 
that this point was reached by loan 3. I explain why I think this in the following paragraphs. Mutual has produced a graph which shows that Miss Gs lending relationship with it was 
unbroken and often with overlapping loans from May 2011 and, based on the information 
I have at the time of writing this decision, Miss G remains indebted to Mutual today. 
Mutual has referred to its low and grow policy together with its focus on a customers 
previous repayment record as a strong indicator of their likely good payment ability going 
forward. For Miss G loan 3 was more than three times the amount of loan 2 and tripled her 
weekly repayments. Although Mutual has said that when Miss G applied for loan 3 she was 
debt free, it seems that there was a small cross over with loan 2. And Miss G has explained 
in her complaint form to us: 
I have been borrowing from mutual for many years, I have always got one or 2 loans 
at a time sometimes I get a loan from them to pay off that loan so I get another one. 
At the start I was a single parent with no job and found it hard to repay the loans.
I have had to borrow from other lenders to keep payments or sometimes I just 
couldnt pay them at all. I have used [Miss G listed two payday lenders] and got credit 
cards to try and make payments to each of them by borrowing off the other one. 
I have had to go without paying some of my bills to make payments and I got into a 
lot of financial difficulties.
Mutual has set out in the final response letter to Miss G the income and expenditure figures 
which a) included her partners income but not any of that partners expenditure over and 
above household bills and b) this income and expenditure information dated from 2019. 
When Miss G was applying for loan 3 it was 2014, so it was a set of figures from 5 years 
later. The situation likely was different in 2014 to 2019.  
These figures have been repeated in the more recent submissions to this Service following 
the adjudicators opinion. These figures are not persuasive to lead me to think that Mutual 
had carried out the checks it ought to have carried out for a large loan such as loan 3. And 
what the figures do show me is that Miss G alone earned relatively little - about £183 a 
week, from which some household expenses had to be deducted. Including her partners 
income without any further details about that partners financial circumstances does not 
seem to be a comprehensive way to assess Miss Gs situation when the loan was being 
approved for her. 
Miss G applied for Loan 3 when she still owed money on loan 2 or had just paid it off. For 
her to return immediately for a fresh loan ought to have alerted Mutual to the need for more 
information. And although Mutual explains a great deal about the checks it likely did I have 
very little evidence of it. The Loan 3 repayment was scheduled to be three times the amount 
she had been paying for loan 2. 
Mutual has said that it thinks refinancing of loans is not uncommon. That seems to be its 
rationale for considering that refinancing of home credit loans is an acceptable approach. 
Mutual has supplied one set of credit file search results for 2019 which relates to Miss G, but 
despite referring to the fact it carried out credit checks for all the loans no other records have 
been sent to me. 
It says: 
You were maintaining up-to-date repayments on several other credit agreements and 
credit cards. Your report did not show any signs that you were in serious financial 
difficulty. There were no active payday lenders on your credit report.But the 2019 report is not the best evidence to show me that proportionate checks had been 
carried out for loan 3 and the reason for that is its 5 years later. And the 2019 report does 
give me some details of other credit commitments from 2014 and from that I can see Miss G 
did have other high cost credit at that time.
And information Miss G has provided to us show that from July 2013 to January 2014 and 
again from May 2015 to August 2018 she had regular loans from another well known high 
cost instalment credit provider. These dates dovetail with the lending being provided to 
Miss G by Mutual.  We have bank statements for Miss G for 2016 and although these do not 
cover all the period of Mutual lending, it does give me an insight into her situation. Those 
statements show that Miss G was regularly taking and repaying other high-cost lenders as 
well as Mutual. So these details indicate that Miss Gs explanation that she was taking other 
loans to repay different lenders was likely correct and borrowing to repay borrowing is a 
classic sign of unsustainability.
So the picture which presents itself overall is that Miss G was borrowing in succession and 
often overlapping the Mutual loans or refinancing them; borrowing from other high- cost 
lenders to assist her to repay debts; and by the time she had refinanced the last two loans 
she was still very much in debt with Mutual and to a greater degree than several years 
earlier when she had started to borrow from Mutual. On current information provided to me, 
Miss G remains indebted to it and so I think that shes not really made any inroads into the 
amount she owes Mutual over the years. 
I think that Miss G lost out because Mutual continued to provide borrowing from loan three
onwards because:
these loans had the effect of unfairly prolonging Miss Gs indebtedness by allowing 
her to take expensive credit over an extended period; and
the length of time over which Miss G borrowed was likely to have had negative 
implications on her ability to access mainstream credit and so kept her in the market 
for these high-cost loans.
So, overall, Im upholding the complaint about loans 3 to 8 and Ill go on to set out what 
Mutual should do to put things right.
Mutual has referred to the 2020 High Court judgement in the case of Kerrigan vs Elevate
Credit International Limited. It has given its own explanations as to what it thinks the Judge 
meant where that Judge said that the relationship could be fair if there were a lower number 
of loans per year: for example, under four loans a year. Mutual has said, as it lent a lower 
amount than this to Miss G, then this would indicate that it hadnt lent unsustainably.
The Judgment was about whether an unfair relationship had developed. This is a different 
question, with some different considerations than whether a loan or series of loans had been 
lent irresponsibly. There might be some overlap between whether a pattern of lending itself 
shows that the lending is unsustainable, and a relationship is unfair. But the court in this 
judgment was considering issues related to short term high cost credit rather than home 
collected credit. I can see Mutual has acknowledged they are different products with different
considerations. And it has repeatedly been keen to distance its products from those of short 
term high cost credit providers. So, I dont think that the Judges conclusions about a
differently structured product can be directly applied here.
And in any event the number of loans is just one aspect of decided whether a lending pattern
is harmful. The loan size, duration of loans, the repayments and other factors need to be
also looked at, as Ive done above.So, whilst I have noted Mutuals submissions on this point, it hasnt introduced any 
arguments which persuade me to change the outcome about this complaint.
Putting things right
In deciding what redress Mutual should fairly pay in this case Ive thought about what might 
have happened had it stopped lending to Miss G from loan 3, as Im satisfied it ought to 
have.
Clearly there are a great many possible, and all hypothetical, answers to that question. For 
example, having been declined this lending Miss G may have simply left matters there, not 
attempting to obtain the funds from elsewhere  particularly as a relationship existed 
between her and this lender which she may not have had with others. If this wasnt a viable 
option, she may have looked to borrow the funds from a friend or relative  assuming that 
was even possible.
Or, she may have decided to approach a third-party lender with the same application, or 
indeed a different application (i.e. for more or less borrowing). But even if she had done that, 
the information that would have been available to such a lender and how they would (or 
ought to have) treated an application which may or may not have been the same is 
impossible to now accurately reconstruct. From what Ive seen in this case, I certainly dont 
think I can fairly conclude there was a real and substantial chance that a new lender would 
have been able to lend to Miss G in a compliant way at that time.
Having thought about all these possibilities, Im not persuaded it would be fair or reasonable 
to conclude that Miss G would more likely than not have taken up any one of these options. 
So, it wouldnt be fair to now reduce Mutuals liability in this case for what Im satisfied it has 
done wrong and should put right.
Mutual shouldnt have given Miss G loans 3 to 8. If it has sold the outstanding debts Mutual 
should buy these back if its are able to do so and then take the following steps. If Mutual is 
not able to buy the debts back then it should liaise with the new debt owner to achieve the 
results outlined below.
A) Mutual should add together the total of the repayments made by Miss G towards interest, 
fees and charges on all upheld loans without an outstanding balance, not including 
anything Mutual has already refunded.
B) Mutual should calculate 8% simple interest* on the individual payments made by Miss G  
which were considered as part of A, calculated from the date she originally made the 
payments, to the date the complaint is settled.
C) Mutual should remove all interest, fees and charges from the balance on any upheld 
outstanding loans, and treat any repayments made by Miss G as though they had been 
repayments of the principal on all outstanding loans. 
If this results in Miss G having made overpayments then Mutual should refund these 
overpayments with 8% simple interest* calculated on the overpayments, from the date the 
overpayments would have arisen, to the date the complaint is settled. Mutual should then 
refund the amounts calculated in A and B and move to step E.
D) If there is still an outstanding balance then the amounts calculated in A and B should be 
used to repay any balance remaining on outstanding loans. If this results in a surplus then 
the surplus should be paid to Miss G. However, if there is still an outstanding balance then Mutual should try to agree an 
affordable repayment plan with her. 
Mutual shouldnt pursue outstanding balances made up of principal Mutual has already 
written-off.
E) The overall pattern of Miss Gs borrowing for loans 3 to 8 means any information recorded 
about them is adverse, so Mutual should remove these loans entirely from Miss G s credit 
file. 
Mutual do not have to remove loans 7 and 8 from Miss G s credit file until these have been 
repaid, but Mutual should still remove any adverse information recorded about these loans.
*HMRC requires Mutual to take off tax from this interest. If Miss G asks Mutual for a 
certificate showing how much tax its taken off, Mutual should provide this.
If Mutual intends to use the refund to reduce an amount Miss G owes to Mutual, it must do 
this after tax. 
Mutual cannot carry out a set-off unless it owns the debt.  
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold Miss Gs complaint in part and direct that Mutual Clothing 
and Supply Company Limited must do as I have directed above.                  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss G to accept 
or reject my decision before 24 May 2021.
 
Rachael Williams
Ombudsman