DRN-3887797
The complaint
Ms S is unhappy that Leeds Building Society (LBS) recorded incorrect information on her 
credit file, showing missed payments for months when shed made payments or had an 
arrangement in place. To settle the complaint Ms S wants LBS to pay severe 
compensation.
What happened
The broad circumstances of this complaint are known to Ms S and LBS. Im also aware that 
the investigator issued a detailed response to the complaint, a copy of which has been sent 
to all parties, and so I dont need to repeat the details here, other than to say that the 
investigator upheld the complaint. Our decisions are published and its important that I dont 
include any information that might result in Ms S being identified. Instead Ill focus on giving 
the reasons for my decision. If I dont mention something, it wont be because Ive ignored it. 
Itll be because I didnt think it was material to the outcome of the complaint. 
The investigator asked LBS to amend Ms Ss credit file to show payment arrangements 
made between December 2019 and March 2022, (except for December 2020 to June 2021 
when there was no arrangement in place). He also thought LBS should pay compensation of 
£300 for distress and inconvenience.  LBS didnt respond to this and so it falls to me to issue 
a final decision on the complaint.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Where the evidence is incomplete or inconclusive, I must decide what I think is most likely to 
have happened, based on the evidence that is available, and the balance of probabilities.
LBS hasnt responded to our enquiries, other than to send a copy of its final response letter. 
I should not need to remind LBS of its duty to co-operate with our investigations, so the lack 
of response is disappointing, particularly as there has been no explanation from LBS for this. 
In the final response letter sent to Ms S, LBS says that it had been agreed that payment 
holidays taken during the period when special rules applied because of Covid wouldnt be 
reported to credit reference agencies. But LBS said that, although a concessionary 
arrangement had been agreed in October 2020, no other arrangements to pay had been 
reached and token payments made didnt constitute a formal payment arrangement. 
However, LBS said that, where thered been issues in payments coming in from the DWP 
(when LBS had agreed to accept £200 per month from Ms S) it would retrospectively record 
a payment arrangement from December 2021 to March 2022.
However, I agree with the investigator that the correspondence from LBS provided by Ms S 
is persuasive that payment arrangements were agreed at other times. Ms S says these have 
not been reflected in her credit file. I am satisfied that, where LBS has written to Ms S about 
payment arrangements, these should be reflected accurately in her credit file. 
In the circumstances, I uphold the complaint.
Putting things right
In full and final settlement of this complaint, Leeds Building Society must update Ms Ss 
credit file to reflect all payment arrangements made between December 2019 and April 
2022, as set out in its letters to Ms S. LBS should have this correspondence on file, but if it 
isnt able to locate it, LBS can ask Ms S to send this. LBS must compensate Ms S for any 
expense incurred in sending the correspondence (e.g. copying or postage) if the letters cant 
be received by LBS via email.
Ive noted Ms Ss request that LBS be required to pay severe compensation. However, we 
arent a court and so dont have any power to award damages or make punitive awards. In 
all the circumstances of this case, Im satisfied that an award of £300 compensation is fair 
and reasonable for the distress and inconvenience caused to Ms S by LBSs failure to 
update her credit file.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint and direct Leeds Building Society to settle it 
as detailed above.
This final decision concludes the Financial Ombudsman Services review of this complaint. 
This means that we are unable to consider the complaint any further, nor enter into any 
correspondence about the merits of it.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms S to accept or 
reject my decision before 15 February 2023.
 
Jan O'Leary
Ombudsman