DRN-2259172
The complaint
Mrs B has complained about Admiral Insurance Company Limiteds decision to look to 
recover costs from her for a claim made against her car insurance policy. 
What happened
Mrs B bought a car insurance policy with Admiral. In March 2015 she told Admiral that her 
husbands friend was driving the car when he was involved in an incident and caused 
damage to another vehicle. 
Admiral discovered that the driver of Mrs Bs car wasnt insured to drive it. In January 2018 it 
contacted Mrs B and said it would look to recover the costs of the claim it settled with the 
third party from Mrs B. 
Mrs B was shocked to hear from Admiral. Mrs B had accepted her No Claims Bonus would 
be reduced and her premium had gone up as a result of the claim. But she said Admiral 
hadnt warned her that it might look to recover the costs of the claim from her. She said 
shed renewed her policy with it since 2015 and was under the impression Admiral had dealt 
with the claim.
Mrs B said Admiral agreed it would contact the police for a report. In October 2019 Admiral 
contacted Mrs B and said there was no police report available of the incident. And so it said 
Mrs B owed Admiral for the costs of the claim. 
Mrs B made a series of complaints to Admiral in November 2019 and January 2020. The 
crux of her complaint was about how long Admiral took to contact her to recover the costs of 
the claim. She didnt think its decision was fair. 
Admiral upheld some of Mrs Bs complaints. It said it wasnt proactive enough in updating 
Mrs B and it should have explained much sooner how it intended to deal with the claim. It 
also delayed sending a compensation payment of £150 for its poor handling of the claim in 
November 2019 until January 2020. So it paid interest on this amount. 
Admiral said it wasnt able to provide Mrs B with recordings of calls it had listened to in 
support of its decision, as they were no longer available. For the inconvenience caused to 
Mrs B, Admiral paid a further £150 compensation. 
Admiral said that its decision to recover the costs of the claim from Mrs B was correct. It said  
Mrs B gave clear information about the incident and who was driving. As the driver wasnt 
insured to drive the car, Admiral had to settle the third party claim. But it was entitled to look 
to recover the costs of the claim from Mrs B. 
Mrs B asked us to look at her complaint. She said the pressure from Admiral to settle the 
costs had made her ill. 
Our investigator thought Admiral had acted reasonably and in line with the Road Traffic Act 
in pursuing Mrs B for the costs of the claim it was obliged to settle as the insurer of Mrs Bs 
car.
Mrs B didnt agree. She says it isnt fair that Admiral led her to believe for three years that it 
would cover the claim on the basis that she or her husband was driving the car. 
So she wants an ombudsman to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Under Mrs Bs policy, Admiral says it will allow cover for other people using the car as 
follows: anyone named on your current Certificate of Motor Insurance to drive your car, as 
long as they are driving with your permission, hold a valid licence and are not disqualified 
from driving other people using their car.
And it says the following:
We will not cover you or be liable for any of the following:
1 Any accident, injury, loss, theft or damage which happens while your car is:
 used by a person or for any purpose not shown on your current Certificate of Motor 
Insurance
Admiral says it will not cover loss or damage except so far as to meet the requirement under 
the Road Traffic Act (RTA).
So I think it was clear that Mrs Bs insurance policy with Admiral provided cover for Mrs B 
and any named driver listed under the Certificate of Insurance. Mrs B told Admiral  and us 
that the driver of the car was her friends husband and that he drove into the rear of another 
car and drove off. 
As Admiral didnt insure the driver of Mrs Bs car at the time of the incident, it contacted the 
other driver on several occasions to obtain details of his insurance. However, the driver 
didnt respond to their enquiries. Both the driver and his wife later told Admiral he wasnt 
involved in the incident and wasnt driving Mrs Bs car. 
This means that Admiral as the insurer of Mrs Bs car had to deal with a third party claim. 
The Road Traffic Act has provision to protect third parties that arent at fault so that they 
arent left without recourse for their losses after an incident. But as Admiral wouldnt have 
otherwise covered the claim  as the driver wasnt named under their policy  this means 
Admiral is entitled to recover the costs it pays to a third party under the provision of the RTA 
from Mrs B as the policyholder. 
I agree with Mrs B that Admiral should have explained what would happen much sooner in 
its handling of the claim. And so I can understand her shock at being told in January 2018 
that she would be liable for the costs of the claim. I think Admiral should have better 
explained things to Mrs B and at a much earlier stage. Having said that, Im satisfied that 
Admiral took the necessary steps to obtain the driver of Mrs Bs cars insurance details 
between 2015 and 2017. I dont think its Admirals fault that the driver refused to co-operate. 
And so as things stand, Admiral has no evidence the driver Mrs B named was insured to 
drive her car when the incident occurred.
I understand Mrs B is disappointed and upset about Admirals decision to pursue her for the 
costs of the claim. But I think the compensation Admiral paid Mrs B for its delay and lack of explanation is in line with awards we give for similar cases. And I think it settled the claim 
reasonably and in line with the policy. And I think Admiral treated Mrs B fairly and as it would 
any other customer in the same position. So I think Admiral is entitled to look to recover the 
costs of the claim from Mrs B. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above, ,my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs B to accept or 
reject my decision before 3 March 2021.
 
Geraldine Newbold
Ombudsman