DRN-1450667
The complaint
Mr J complains that The National Farmers Union Mutual Insurance Society Limited (NFU) 
settled a claim under his insurance policy for more than it should have.
What happened
Mr J was involved in an accident, on private land, where he hit another car, causing in his 
opinion minor damage in the form of a scratch on the front bumper, which he took a 
photograph of at the time. Mr J accepted that the accident was his fault and advised NFU.
Mr J had obtained a quote for a smart repair to the other car based on the photograph he 
had taken. The quote was for around £200, and Mr J had hoped to deal with the matter 
privately with the owner of the other car. However, the other party wasnt willing to do this. 
NFU did contact the other party, when Mr J informed it, to see if it could assist with getting 
the repairs done. But the other party said he had already made his claim through a credit 
hire company (K). 
Mr J provided NFU with the smart repair quote as a guide to what it should pay out and 
asked to be kept informed of the claim progress, it didnt do this.
K contacted NFU with its outlay asking for payment. The outlay included a full breakdown of 
the repairs and costs for car hire while the repairs were carried out. 
Mr J saw the other car following the repairs and thought it looked like the repairs had gone 
further than the damage he had caused, so called NFU to see how much the claim had been 
settled for. NFU confirmed it had settled the claim for approximately £3,000. Mr J was 
unhappy with this and complained to NFU that he felt it was exaggerated and because of 
this it should mark the claim as non-fault, so it doesnt have an impact on his future 
insurance policies. Mr J also asked to see the breakdown of the costs.
NFU asked one of its engineers to look at the costs of the claim. The engineer was satisfied 
that the cost for the repairs was broadly in line with what he would expect. He noted that 
while it was a lot higher than the quote Mr J had gotten, he wouldnt expect the other party to 
accept a smart repair to their car. 
Based on this NFU was satisfied it had acted fairly when settling the claim and so didnt 
uphold this element of Mr Js complaint. NFU said it couldnt share the breakdown of the 
repairs with Mr J because of data protection and said it had made a commercial decision to 
settle the claim. It did recognise that it hadnt communicated as well as it could have with Mr 
J and offered £100 in compensation for this. Mr J remained unhappy and brought his 
complaint to this service.
The investigator looked into the complaint but didnt uphold it, in summary she said:
as Mr J had admitted fault NFU was entitled to settle the claim under the policy terms 
she felt the claim had been settled fairly 
she didnt think it was unreasonable for NFU not to provide Mr J with a copy of the 
report  and didnt think even if it had it would change things
Mr J disagreed and so the matter has been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Although Ive read and considered the whole file, this decision only addresses those issues
I consider to be materially relevant to this complaint. However, Ive given careful
consideration to all of the submissions made before arriving at my decision. Having done so 
I have to tell Mr J that I think the investigator reached the right outcome here and for broadly 
the same reasons, Ill explain.
When the other party decided he wanted to make a claim against Mr Js insurance policy 
NFU had to deal with the claim. It did however contact the other party to see if it could assist 
 an insurer does this to try and mitigate the costs of the claim as it is able to negotiate 
discounts with its own suppliers that it may not get with other companies. The other party 
refused NFUs offer as they had decided to use K. There was nothing that NFU could do to 
change that other than to make sure that the costs it paid were a fair reflection of the claim.
The claims cost was around £3,000 made up of roughly a 50/50 split of repairs and car hire. 
I can see that NFUs internal engineer examined the costs of the repairs and said they were 
broadly in line with what theyd expect  K provided NFU with a full report showing what 
repairs were carried out to he vehicle and these were consistent with the damage you might 
expect as a result of the accident that happened. I know Mr J disagrees as he feels it was 
just a scratch, but I havent seen any evidence to suggest that the claim was exaggerated in 
anyway.
And while I appreciate Mr Js strength of feeling that this couldve been dealt with as a smart 
repair, at a much lower cost, ultimately the other party didnt want that and as it was his car, 
it was his right to choose how he wanted to approach the claim.
Turning to the hire car costs, the evidence shows that the other party was in like for like hire 
for 21 days. While this may seem like a long time K has provided a document to show that 
the other parties own car was delayed while in the body shop. This isnt something that NFU 
would be able to control.
Also, on file is a declaration from the other party showing they need a like for like 4x4 car  
based on their usage  which is mainly towing. The daily rate for hiring this type of vehicle is 
more expensive than a smaller car would be, so this has affected the overall cost of the 
claim, but again this isnt something that was within NFUs control. However, I can see that it 
negotiated these costs down from £3,030.44 to £1630.81 before settling. So, Im satisfied 
that it did what it could to mitigate the costs of this claim.
Mr J did admit liability for the accident and even if he hadnt NFU still wouldve had to deal 
with the claim as a fault one as Mr J hit a parked vehicle. Its important that all insurers record 
claims accurately to ensure that all consumers are treated fairly when they are rating the 
risks they take on. So, while I appreciate that Mr J doesnt agree with the cost of the claim 
that not a reason for it to be recorded as non-fault. It follows I wont be asking NFU to 
change the way it recorded this claim.Mr J did ask NFU to keep him informed of the claims progress and it didnt do this as it 
shouldve done, but I think the £100 it offered Mr J to reflect this is fair in the circumstances. 
So, I havent looked into this part of his complaint any further.
NFU did decline Mr Js request to see the repair reports and while I dont agree that there is 
any commercially sensitive information included in the report there are details of the other 
party and so NFU must protect that data. Because of this I dont think it was unreasonable 
not to share this with Mr J. As I explained above, I have seen the evidence and hope that as 
Ive now explained it in a bit more detail Mr J will be able to accept that there is nothing being 
hidden within the reports he was refused access to and that NFU was just protecting the 
other partys data.
I know Mr J will be disappointed with this outcome. But my decision ends what we  in trying 
to resolve his dispute with NFU can do for him.
My final decision
For the reasons outlined above, my final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr J to accept or 
reject my decision before 27 October 2020.
 
Amber Mortimer
Ombudsman