DRN-3995648
The complaint
Ms T and Mrs T as trustees of the T Trust complain that Scottish Widows Limited mis-sold a
whole of life policy to Mrs T and that the life cover has fallen significantly, and the policy
value has reduced to zero. Ms T and Mrs T as trustees of the T Trust also complain Mrs T
was unable to contact Scottish Widows Limited by telephone when she received the 2021
review document and wished to confirm the cash-in value.
What happened
Mrs T took out a whole of life policy with Scottish Widows 1995. The policy was sold by a
third party and provided life cover for the whole of Mrs Ts life on a maximum sum assured
basis. As administrators Scottish Widows reviewed the policy regularly to ensure the level of
premium Mrs T paid would continue to provide the initial level of cover, in this case
approximately £15,000. In 2009 the policy failed a review. Scottish Widows wrote to Ms T
and Mrs T as trustees of the T Trust to tell them that in order to maintain the life cover Mrs T
would need to increase the monthly premium she was paying. Ms T and Mrs T as trustees of
the T Trust elected to maintain the premium and the life cover was reduced to approximately
£10,000.
When Mrs T received a further review letter in 2021, she says she attempted to contact
Scottish Widows by telephone to obtain a cash-in value but was unsuccessful. Mrs T
complained to Scottish Widows that shed been unable to contact it by telephone and
couldnt make an informed decision about the 2021 review and the deadline was
approaching. Scottish Widows didnt record this as a complaint, but in reviewing its records
in February the following year, it apologised to Mrs T and paid her £200 for its late response.
Scottish Widows increased this amount by £100 later the same month.
Ms T and Mrs T as trustees of the T Trust werent happy with the response from Scottish
Widows and brought the complaint to the Financial Ombudsman Service where one of our
Investigators looked into things. The Investigator thought that as the whole of life policy
hadnt been sold by Scottish Widows we couldnt consider the mis-sale of the policy. And, as
Mrs T ought reasonably to have been aware she had cause for complaint that the benefits of
the policy had decreased by 2010 at the latest, that this part of the complaint was out of
time. In respect of Scottish Widows failure to initially respond to Mrs Ts request for a cash-in
value in 2021, and the difficulty Mrs T had in making contact with Scottish Widows in 2021,
the Investigator thought the payment Scottish Widows has already made to Mrs T was a fair
and reasonable one.
Ms T and Mrs T as trustees of the T Trust asked that an Ombudsman decides the complaint.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I will address the relevant comments I received from Ms T and Mrs T as trustees of the T
Trust in my decision below and I will address each complaint in turn.
The sale of the whole of life policy
I appreciate Ms T and Mrs T as trustees of the T Trust believe that Scottish Widows is now
responsible for the sale of the policy, and Ive considered the comments and submissions
provided, but Im satisfied this is not the case. Scottish Widows is the administrator of the
policy, but it was another business that provided the advice and sold the policy. Ms T and
Mrs T as trustees of the T Trust can make a complaint to the business that sold the policy in
1995, but Ive decided we cant consider a mis-sale complaint against Scottish Widows.
Policy value and benefit
Scottish Widows hasnt provided consent for the Financial Ombudsman Service to consider
this complaint as it believes it has been made out of time. I dont have a free hand to decide
complaints. I must act within my powers which are set out by the Financial Services and
Markets Act 2000 along with the Financial Conduct Authoritys (FCA) Dispute Resolution
(DISP) Rules. These can be found on the FCAs website. DISP 2.8.2 says we cant consider
a complaint referred to us more than six years after the event complained of, or more than
three years after the complainant became aware (or ought reasonably to have become been
aware) that they had cause for complaint  unless there were exceptional circumstances.
Ombudsmen are required to work within the confines of the rules; they cant simply be
disregarded no matter how strongly a customer feels things have gone wrong.
In respect of this particular complaint, Scottish Widows provided Ms T and Mrs T as trustees
of the T Trust with a policy review letter in 2009. This letter explains that the current premium
wasnt enough to meet the cost of providing the benefit  in this case the benefit was life
cover. The letter explains the options available to Ms T and Mrs T as trustees of the T Trust
 and the trustees elected to keep the premium the same and reduce the life cover benefit.
Scottish Widows provided key features and an illustration for the whole of life policy in 1995,
when it was sold. The illustration provided at the time of the sale makes it reasonably clear
deductions include the cost of life cover, commissions, expenses, and charges and that the
policy wasnt intended as a savings plan. The key features also explain that the life cover
benefit and premiums arent guaranteed and are subject to regular reviews.
So, although the policy was sold in 1995, which is more than six years ago, Ive considered
whether Ms T and Mrs T as trustees of the T Trust complained within three years of when
they ought reasonably to have been aware they had cause to complain. In this regard Im
satisfied that Ms T and Mrs T as trustees of the T Trust would reasonably have been aware
no later than 2009 that the policy benefits would reduce if premiums werent increased. As
Ive not been made aware of any exceptional circumstances why this part of the complaint
wasnt made within three years of the 2009 review, Ive decided that I cant consider this part
of the complaint.
Ive considered Mrs Ts comments relating to a case study on our website, but Ive made my
final decision in respect of this part of the complaint based on the specific circumstances of
the complaint brought by Ms T and Mrs T as trustees of the T Trust.
The 2021 review
Ms T and Mrs T as trustees of the T Trust say that after receiving the 2021 policy review
from Scottish Widows, Mrs T tried a number of times to call Scottish Widows to establish
what the cash-in value of the policy was. After being unable to make contact, Mrs T wrote to
Scottish Widows to ask for the cash-in value. Scottish Widows did send the policy value
details in a letter on 13 April, but this was only a day before Ms T and Mrs T as trustees of
the T Trust had to respond to the 2021 review letter.Ive noted that the review letter sent by Scottish Widows dated 16 March 2021 explains that
the fund value of the policy was zero. Although this may not have been clear that this was
also the cash-in value, Scottish Widows sent out a new review letter on 13 April that
confirms the value of the policy was zero. Regardless of this, Scottish Widows accepts that it
could have handled the concerns raised by Ms T and Mrs T as trustees of the T Trust better
than it did and paid £300 to Mrs T for the poor service it provided.
Mrs T says that Scottish Widows didnt provide an explanation why the level of life cover
could not be maintained. However, the 2021 review letter explains: The cost of the death
benefit will change each month and varies based on the age of Mrs T and the difference
between the amount of benefit and the current fund value (which was highlighted as being
zero). It goes to explain that the monthly cost of the death benefit is paid by cashing in units
held in the policy. I consider that this reasonably explains why the level of cover couldnt be
maintained.
Im satisfied £300 is a fair and reasonable remedy for this part of the complaint. It reflects
that Mrs T had to call and write to Scottish Widows to clarify what the cash-in value of the
policy was. This would have caused Mrs T some concern that she could not make an
informed decision before the 14 April 2021. However, Ive noted that Ms T and Mrs T as
trustees of the T Trust were able to confirm they wanted to reduce the life cover and
maintain the premium in May 2021  and as this was the default option provided by Scottish
Widows, I dont consider there is any further remedy required.
My final decision
Ive decided that the £300 Scottish Widows Limited has already paid is a fair and reasonable
remedy for the complaint that I can consider.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms T and Mrs T as 
trustees of the T Trust to accept or reject my decision before 3 August 2023.
 
Paul Lawton
Ombudsman