DRN-1725207
The complaint
Mrs E has complained about the amount of compensation Barclays Bank UK Plc (Barclays) 
has offered to settle her complaint about the mis-sale of a payment protection insurance 
(PPI) policy associated with a credit card.
What happened
Mrs E complained to Barclays that she may have been mis-sold PPI associated with a credit 
card. Mrs E says she first complained about the mis-sale in 2012 and was told there was no 
PPI. In 2019 she used a complaints management company (CMC) and Barclays said there 
was PPI and offered to uphold the complaint and pay compensation. 
Initially Mrs E was told over the telephone she would get compensation of around £9,600 but 
when the final offer was made it was only for £4,721.08. Mrs E wasnt happy with the 
reduced amount. Barclays said there had been an error in giving the first higher figure which 
had only been an estimate. It apologised and paid Mrs E an additional £200 for the trouble 
and upset this error had caused. 
Mrs E brought her complaint to this service; this was done directly, not through her CMC. 
She was unhappy with the offer and felt she should get the original amount she was told of 
over £9,600 but also felt that Barclays should pay the costs of the CMC fee which was paid 
out of her compensation. She said if Barclays had dealt with her case properly in 2012 she'd 
have had the use of the money earlier and wouldnt have had to pay the fees of the CMC. 
Our adjudicator looked at the complaint and found that the compensation should have been 
calculated for a longer period overall. So Barclays then recalculated and offered an 
additional amount of compensation to settle the complaint. 
Our adjudicator now thought the compensation covered the correct period and was fair. And 
he didnt think that Mrs E should get any additional compensation for consequential losses  
this being the CMC fee.
Mrs E remained unhappy as she didnt agree she should have to pay the CMC fees and she 
asked for an ombudsman to review the complaint. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Barclays has already agreed to settle Mrs Es complaint that the PPI was mis-sold. So Im 
not  looking at how the policy came to be sold as thats not in dispute.
In this decision I will only be considering whether Barclays has offered fair compensation 
and whether it needs to offer anything further. 
compensation due for the mis-saleWhen a business agrees to settle a PPI complaint, Id expect it to, as far as is possible, put 
the consumer in the position theyd be in now had they not taken the PPI policy.
With the type of PPI policy Mrs E was sold, this generally means refunding all the costs the 
PPI caused on the account and paying 8% simple interest to compensate for any time Mrs E 
was out of pocket for the costs of the PPI. If any additional costs have been directly caused 
by the PPI, then these too should be refunded.
When Barclays first upheld Mrs Es complaint in 2019 it did not have full data available about 
the account and the first amount of over £9,600, given to Mrs E over the telephone when she 
was chasing the matter, was an estimate of the compensation. When Barclays managed to 
retrieve more statements for the account, it was then able to use more accurate data to work 
out what Mrs E had most likely paid for the costs of the PPI. 
When it first did this, it took the start date for the account as December 2002, as that was the 
date from which the statement data was available. This resulted in the offer it then made of 
£4721.08 after tax (5,218.82 before tax). 
However, after Mrs E brought her complaint to this service and we pointed out to Barclays 
that the account had opened in May 1998, it agreed to make some estimates for the period 
the data was missing and recalculated the compensation. This resulted in an updated offer 
and an additional £1,630.99 was indicated as being due to Mrs E.
Mrs E has been asked if she has any statements for the period between May 1998 and 
December 2002 and if so then Barclays was willing to recalculate the compensation using 
the accurate data. However Mrs E hasnt provided any further statements. So the approach 
taken by Barclays to estimate this period is fair.
After the matter was referred to me for a final decision, when considering the calculations 
provided by Barclays I requested clarification on what seemed to be a slight discrepancy in 
the figures. Barclays has reviewed the figures and its calculation and indicated it seems 
there was an input error for one date. It has now corrected this figure and recalculated the 
compensation due. 
This new calculation indicates the total compensation due for the mis-sale is £7,089.43 
before tax, which would be £6,363.71 after tax is taken off. As Mrs E was paid the original 
compensation calculated in June 2019 of £4,721.08 after tax, this means she is owed an 
additional £1,642.63 in compensation. So a further slight increase in Barclays offer. 
Having looked at the compensation calculations provided by Barclays I think what it has now 
calculated is correct and reflects the costs Mrs E paid for the PPI plus provides 
compensatory interest on the amounts she was out of pocket less tax.
I have noted that Barclays paid Mrs E an additional £200 for distress and inconvenience 
earlier in this case. This was for its error when it told her the estimated compensation 
amount that then reduced from around £9,500 to £4,700. 
When looking at the calculations that Barclays has carried out, there have been further 
errors identified since the complaint was brought to this service. This has resulted in an 
additional amount of over £1,600 being identified as due. And this was the result of further 
errors, this time in the calculations. 
These errors by Barclays in its calculations has again caused wrong offer amounts to be 
notified to Mrs E and further confusion and stress for her. So I think Barclays should pay a further £100 for distress and inconvenience for its failure to calculate and provide the correct 
compensation amounts.
additional compensation claimed
Turning to the additional compensation that Mrs E wants paying for the CMC fees, I have 
looked at the history of this matter and how the additional costs Mrs E wants have arisen. 
Mrs E says she complained to Barclays in 2012 about the mis-sold  PPI on her credit card.  
She has provided a copy of a letter she sent to Barclays in May 2012.
Barclays says it has no record on file that Mrs E made a complaint about the PPI on her 
credit card in 2012. The first complaint registered about this was in 2019 from the CMC.
I note from some other correspondence Mrs E has provided she was in contact with 
Barclays over PPI on a totally unrelated financial product she had and she did receive some 
correspondence about that in 2012.
It is clear from what Mrs E said in her letter to Barclays in 2012 that she knew she could 
bring any complaint to this service if she was unhappy. If Barclays did respond saying there 
was no PPI on the credit card account, it would also have given Mrs E referral rights to bring 
any issues to this service. But Mrs E never raised any complaint with this service until 2019.
It was entirely Mrs Es decision whether she used the services of a third party. She could in 
2019 have raised any concerns she had directly with Barclays and this service, but she 
chose not to. She made the decision to use the services of a third-party CMC, so she is 
responsible for the fees charged by that third party. Her agreement with the CMC was totally 
independent from any financial agreement with Barclays and Barclays is not responsible for 
the fees of the CMC.
I appreciate Mrs E is frustrated because she complained to Barclays previously and recalls 
being told she didn't have PPI on this account. Sometimes things can and do go wrong and 
also over the years more data and information has been found by many businesses. Once 
the matter was raised again Barclays investigated the complaint. 
With regard to any complaint in 2012, and if the PPI had been found at that time, there are a 
few points about this as Mrs E feels she would have had the use of the money earlier, not 
had to pay any CMC fees and so had more money paid to her directly for her own use.
If the PPI mis-sale had been upheld in 2012 the compensation for the compensatory 
interest, which is now £3,628.63, would have been substantially less, probably around 
£2,000 less. So, the compensation due would also be that much less than the total now 
offered. The simple interest is compensating Mrs E for being out of pocket, and as the 
complaint wasnt finalised in 2012 then she is getting more compensatory interest. 
The records I have seen also indicate that Mrs E defaulted on payment of her credit card in 
2006. A payment plan was put in place at that time which ran until December 2008. No 
interest was charged on the account once the payment plan started in 2006. 
The debt owing on the card in December 2008 was over £9,500 and at this point the debt on 
the account was charged off by Barclays, meaning it did not seek to recover the debt any 
further at that time. 
In 2012 Mrs E still had this debt on her card account, which was several thousand pounds 
more than the compensation Barclays would have been due to pay to her for the mis-sold PPI. So it is highly likely Barclays would have set off the compensation against the debt 
owed on the account, which it could rightfully do. So Mrs E would not have received any 
compensation paid to her directly. 
In 2016 Barclays sold the debt on the account to a third party. This meant Barclays no longer 
had any legal interest in that debt and so cannot set off the compensation against the debt. It 
is unknown if Mrs E ever repaid in full or in part any of the sold debt - and some of it would 
have been for the PPI costs. But Mrs E has now been paid for all the PPI costs  a total of 
£3,460.80 for the actual costs of the PPI. So even if she never repaid the total costs 
charged, she is getting them all back. And getting simple interest on those costs up to the 
date of the final payment of the compensation.
Taking all these factors into account I dont think the fact that Mrs Es complaint wasnt 
finalised in 2012 has caused her any extra losses. She has received extra compensatory 
interest for the period since 2012 and she has been paid directly the full PPI compensation. 
Taking the complaint to Barclays again in 2019 through a third-party CMC was Ms Es 
choice and she was aware that they would charge a fee if any compensation was paid. 
I think what Barclays is now offering for the mis-sold PPI is fair compensation and I do not 
think that there are any additional costs cause by the PPI that need to be refunded. 
The only additional amounts Barclays needs to pay to Mrs E is the difference between what 
has been paid in 2019 and what it has now calculated as fair compensation, plus the £100 I 
am awarding for distress and inconvenience caused by the errors made in reaching the final 
compensation amount. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, Barclays Bank UK Plc has now calculated fair compensation 
and it needs to pay the additional amount of compensation still due plus the £100 I have 
awarded for the distress and inconvenience. But Im not upholding the complaint that it 
needs to pay any additional costs incurred by Mrs E.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs E to accept or 
reject my decision before 8 July 2020.
Chris Fraser
Ombudsman