DRN-4366740
The complaint
Mrs H, represented by Mr H, complains that Phoenix Life Limited failed to provide 
documents that she requested about a with profits policy and the poor return on the 
investment.
What happened
Mrs H and Mr E were the policyholders of a with profits policy that started on 24 April 1998 
with their mother named as life assured.  The policy paid out on the death of their mother in 
2020. 
On 11 November 2019 Mrs M wrote to Phoenix saying that she and Mr E were concerned 
about the extremely poor return on the investment and she requested all documentation that 
it had. As Mrs Hs name and address didnt match the information Phoenix had in its records 
it didnt recognise the letter as being from her but treated the letter as a complaint.
There was some correspondence about this including a letter from Mrs H on 26 November 
2019 explaining the use of her initials and that she wasnt making a complaint and a 
response from Phoenix dated 2 December 2019 stating the complaint had been withdrawn. 
There was a further letter dated 23 March 2020 in which she provided ID documents 
previously requested by Phoenix and asking again for the policy documents to be provided. 
There was also some email correspondence from Phoenix to Mrs H in this period from the 
complaints department, which she didnt open as she didnt know who the sender was. This 
led to Phoenix offering her £30 for the worry caused from receiving emails from an unknown 
sender.   
There was then ongoing communication between Mrs H (and Mr H) and Phoenix over the 
course of 2020 about the documents she wanted sight of. It treated her request as a Subject 
Access Request (SAR) and because of this provided limited documentation to her, most of 
which she had previously been aware of. She wrote to Phoenix on 19 January 2021 saying 
Phoenix were treating her with contempt, as she had made clear she wanted sight of all 
relevant documents for the policy.
Phoenix treated this as a complaint and sent a final response letter (FRL) on 25 February 
2021 which Mrs H says she didnt receive. It sent a further FRL on 12 July 2021 saying the 
contents of the letter were a copy of the earlier letter. The July 2021 FRL explained that 
Phoenix couldnt disclose information about the policy or any third party and that under a 
SAR could only disclose personal information about her.
Mrs H referred the complaint to us following receipt of the FRL from Phoenix. There was 
thereafter correspondence between Mr H and us about the need for Mr E to be a party to the 
complaint for us to consider the complaint, on the basis that Phoenix had said he was the 
sole trustee of the policy. This ended with one of our investigators providing an opinion in 
which he said we would not be able to consider the complaint without Mr Es consent.
There was thereafter further correspondence between Mr H and the investigator about the 
need for Mr E to be party to the complaint, with Mr H stating that Mr E wasnt the sole 
trustee. 
Phoenix then wrote to the investigator on 10 November 2022 saying that it had just 
discovered that Mrs H should have been noted as a trustee on its systems and that she is 
entitled to receive all information about the policy. It subsequently offered £300 to Mrs H for 
the distress and inconvenience caused by its error.
Mr H referred to the offer as derisory but said that Mrs H would accept it as an interim 
payment. The investigator informed Mr H that he thought the offer was fair and reasonable. 
Phoenix sent a cheque to Mrs H, although this was sent to the wrong address - that of Mr E. 
It also provided Mrs H with the documents relating to the policy that she had been seeking 
from it.
Mr H said that the investigator hadnt dealt with the other complaint issue, about the 
performance of the investment. The investigator explained that to deal with that complaint, 
he still needed the consent of the other trustee, Mr E.
The matter was referred to me for a decision and I issued a provisional partly upholding it, 
the findings from which are set out below.
Given various comments made by Mr H and queries he has raised I think it would be helpful 
if I set out in simple terms the role of our service. We are an independent alternative dispute 
resolution service in the financial services sector to whom complainants can refer a 
complaint if they are dissatisfied with the response they have received from a business they 
have complained to.
On a complaint being referred to us we will consider its merits  subject to the complaint 
being one we are able to consider, which I discuss further below. If we think a complaint 
should be upheld then we can award redress to the complainant. This can include a financial 
award to put the complainant as far as possible back in the position they should have been 
in but for what a business did wrong, or an amount for such things as distress and 
inconvenience suffered by the complainant. 
What we cannot do is impose a financial penalty or fine on a business for getting things 
wrong. This is quite different to an award of redress, which is for the benefit of the individual 
complainant.
I hope this helps clarify what our role is and what we can and cannot do when dealing with a 
compliant referred to us. 
Turning to what this complaint is about, Mr H has said that it involves two issues, namely 
Phoenixs failure to provide documents requested by Mrs H  which documents have now 
been provided  and the poor performance of the investment.
The documents issue
I have briefly set out the timeline of Mrs Hs attempt to obtain all relevant documents for the 
policy in the background above. She first requested the documents in November 2019. Her 
name and address didnt match the record that Phoenix had for her but this was clarified 
within a short time and her new address was recorded by Phoenix. 
Thereafter the matter became protracted, partly because Phoenix had changed its work 
practices due to the Covid pandemic. This led to its staff working remotely and 
communicating by email, which on occasion meant Mrs H received emails from an unknown sender which she was understandably reluctant to open. 
However, I think the main cause for her request for documents becoming protracted was 
because Phoenix mistakenly believed that she wasnt entitled to the documents she had 
asked for - because she wasnt recorded as a trustee on its systems, as she should have 
been.
This led to Phoenix wrongly assuming she wasnt entitled to the documents requested and 
treating her request as a SAR and providing her with documents which  as she pointed out 
 she already had. I think matters were made more confusing for Mrs H because I dont think 
Phoenix clearly explained why she wasnt entitled to see all the documents she had 
requested.
Phoenix continued to maintain that it had done nothing wrong long after the complaint was 
referred to our service. It was only in the course of dealing with a request for clarification 
from the investigator as to what documents Mrs H was entitled to see that Phoenix identified 
that it hadnt recorded her as a trustee originally, when it should have done.
The delay in providing the documents and the necessity for Mrs H to keep on chasing for 
these and being told more than once she wasnt entitled to see anything other than her 
personal information undoubtedly caused no small amount of distress and inconvenience to 
Mrs H over a prolonged period of time  around two years. This is something that Phoenix 
acknowledges, offering £300 to Mrs H for this. 
I am not satisfied that this amount reflects the distress and inconvenience caused by it 
wrongly refusing to release documents to Mrs H over such a protracted period. The 
frustration that Mrs H felt resulting from her not being provided with documents she believed 
 rightly  that she was entitled to see comes across clearly in the various communications 
from her. 
I have also taken into account that in the process of paying Mrs H the £300 that it thought 
was a reasonable amount for distress and inconvenience Phoenix sent the cheque to the 
wrong address  that of Mr E. I have seen nothing that makes me think this was a deliberate 
act on its part, as Mr H has intimated. I think it far more likely that this was an administrative 
error. However, given Mr H has indicated that Mrs H and Mr E are estranged, I think some 
additional distress and inconvenience likely resulted from this error.
In the circumstances I think an overall award of £500 for distress and inconvenience is fair 
and reasonable. 
The poor performance issue 
When a complaint is referred to us we need to consider whether we have jurisdiction to 
consider the complaint and if we then decide that we do have jurisdiction, whether we should 
consider the complaint in any event. The rules in relation to this are set out in the Dispute 
Resolution rules (DISP) in the Handbook of the industry regulator, the Financial Conduct 
Authority.
In terms of our jurisdiction DISP 2.8.1R states, amongst other things, that we can only 
consider a complaint where the business to whom the complaint has been made has sent a 
final response or eight weeks has elapsed since the complaint was received by the 
business. 
Mrs H did refer to poor performance in her original letter of 11 November 2019, but when 
Phoenix said it was treating the letter as a complaint she responded and explicitly stated that she wasnt raising a complaint which resulted in Phoenix confirming on 2 December 2019 
that the complaint had been withdrawn. So, Phoenix has consequently not investigated that 
complaint or provided an FRL in respect of it.
The performance issue was only raised again by Mrs H when she contacted us following 
receipt of the FRL from Phoenix of July 2021  which FRL only dealt with the documents 
issue. In the circumstances I am not satisfied that we currently have jurisdiction  to consider 
the complaint, as it has not been made to Phoenix first. It needs to be given the opportunity 
of investigating the complaint about poor performance and providing its final response to this 
(or fail to provide the response  within eight weeks) before we can consider the complaint.
Even if I am wrong about that, and the complaint made to Phoenix in the letter of 11 
November 2019 or some later communication did trigger the start of the eight week period 
for providing a final response such that this issue is within our jurisdiction, I would still need 
to consider whether we should consider it - as there are circumstances where it is 
appropriate to dismiss a complaint that is referred to us that is within our jurisdiction.
The rules about dismissing a complaint are set out in DISP 3.3. The grounds for dismissal 
are set out under DISP 3.3.4AR - which sets out five grounds for dismissal, the last of which 
is that:
(5) dealing with such a type of complaint would otherwise seriously impair the effective 
operation of the Financial Ombudsman Service.
There are then examples set out in DISP 3.3.4BG of the type of complaint that may fall 
within this ground - one of which is where the complaint involves, or might involve, more than 
one eligible complainant and has been referred without the consent of the other eligible 
complainant/s. 
Both Mrs H and Mr E are trustees and as such eligible complainants but Mr E hasnt 
consented to a complaint about poor performance being referred to us. So, this complaint 
falls squarely within the example provided as to what might amount to a complaint that would 
otherwise seriously impair our effective operation and as such would justify dismissing it. 
The power to dismiss a complaint is discretionary and there may be circumstances where I 
consider that the fact not all eligible complainants are party to the complaint isnt a reason to 
dismiss. However, I am not persuaded this is such a case. I am satisfied in the 
circumstances of this case that if we have jurisdiction to consider the complaint about poor 
performance I should in any event dismiss it - not least because Mr H has suggested that 
Mrs H and Mr E have fallen out and he may well not agree with her about the complaint.
I would make one further point in relation to the complaint about poor performance, as it is 
possible that Mr E may subsequently consent to a complaint being referred to us on that 
issue. Generally we do not consider complaints that are only about performance of an 
investment, as a business cant be held responsible for what the markets do. 
I appreciate that Mrs H will feel very disappointed that the complaint about performance is 
one I dont think we currently can consider - or one that we should consider in any event, 
even if we do have jurisdiction. However, I must comply with the rules that govern us and 
apply any discretionary power afforded to me reasonably.
I gave both parties the opportunity of responding to my complaint and providing any further 
information they wanted me to consider before issuing my final decision.
Phoenix responded and said that it agreed with my provisional decision. Mr H responded on behalf of Mrs H and acknowledged that I was unable to look into the issue about 
performance. Regarding the issue about the failure of Phoenix to provide documents to Mrs 
H when it should have done he said the award of £500 I had made was an insult.
Mr H said that I had implied that Phoenix had an excuse for not sending the documents 
because staff were working from home and then set out why he disagreed this was a reason 
for documents not to be sent. He said after the initial confusion over Mrs Hs initials was 
cleared up even a cursory glance at the policy would have established Mrs H as a trustee 
and entitlement to the documents. He said instead Phoenix continued to deny Mrs H was 
entitled to the documents, even after our involvement, for three years and yet I didnt see 
that as grounds for reasonable compensation.
Mr H pointed out that of the 17 letters sent by Mrs H only four were replied to by the same 
person which he says was an example of how seriously Phoenix were taking matters. He 
said I cant put Mrs H back in the position she should be in as I cant bring back the many 
hours she has wasted over nearly four years but what I can do is award proper and 
reasonable compensation. He said that the award I had made in my provisional decision isnt 
a punishment, deterrent or reasonable compensation and is unlikely to change Phoenixs 
working practices in the future.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I am sorry to hear of the deterioration in the health of Mrs H and the conclusion of this case 
is hopefully one less thing for her (and Mr H) to concern themselves with.
I have noted everything that Mr H has said on behalf of Mrs H in relation to my provisional 
decision. He hasnt said anything that would lead me to change the findings in my 
provisional decision which I stand by.
The main issue Mr H has raised in response to my provisional decision is about the redress I 
have awarded. However, I am not persuaded the award I have made was unfair or 
unreasonable in the circumstances. I note that he has interpreted the award as being £500 
in addition to the £300 already paid by Phoenix but I said I was awarding £500 overall, by 
which I meant this included the £300 already paid to Mrs H.
Mr H has referred to me implying that Phoenix had an excuse for not sending the documents 
because staff were working from home. However, I made clear that I thought the main 
reason for the failure on the part of Phoenix to send the documents Mrs H was entitled to 
see was because it hadnt recorded her as a trustee, as it should have done. 
Mr H has referred to the award not being a punishment and that it is unlikely to change 
Phoenixs working practices. I explained in my provisional decision that we are not the 
regulator. It isnt part of our function to punish a business and the awards we make are to 
compensate the complainant. I have no power to make an award that is a punishment or 
deterrent. 
Mr H has also argued that the award I have made isnt fair or reasonable and in some way 
has contributed to Mrs Hs distress. It is certainly not my intention to increase Mrs Hs 
distress by making the award that I have and I am sorry if that has been the effect of my 
award. 
However, I am not persuaded that what I have awarded isnt fair and reasonable in the circumstances. I acknowledge that Phoenixs insistence that Mrs H wasnt entitled to see 
documents it should have provided to her was protracted. This undoubtedly caused no small 
amount of frustration.
I also acknowledge that the 17 letters Mr H refers to Mrs H having written and consideration 
of the responses to those letters would have taken up several hours of Mrs Hs time, but this 
isnt a case where she was on the phone regularly or writing every couple of weeks.
The award I have made takes account of the protracted nature of the wrongdoing by 
Phoenix and the frustration this will have caused over the period in question allowing for the 
level of contact that there was between Mrs H and Phoenix about the documents. 
I am upholding this complaint because Phoenix didnt provide Mrs H with the documents 
about the policy she asked for as it wrongly believed she wasnt entitled to these. I am 
satisfied that the award of £500 for distress and inconvenience to include the £300 already 
paid by Phoenix is fair and reasonable in the circumstances. I appreciate that this will be 
disappointing to Mrs H (and Mr H) but I am not persuaded that I should increase that award.
Putting things right
Phoenix must pay Mrs H £500 overall for the distress and inconvenience caused by its 
failure to provide her with the documents she was entitled to see, to include the £300 it has 
already paid.
My final decision
I uphold the complaint to the extent set out. Phoenix Life Limited must pay Mrs H the redress 
I have set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs H to accept or 
reject my decision before 30 October 2023.
 
Philip Gibbons
Ombudsman