DRN-3591936
The complaint
Mr J complains about the advice given by Utmost Life and Pensions Limited (Utmost) to 
transfer the benefits from his deferred defined-benefit (DB) occupational pension scheme to 
a personal pension. He says the advice was unsuitable for him and believes this has caused 
a financial loss.
What happened
Mr J approached Utmost around February 1999 to discuss his pension and retirement 
needs. 
Utmost completed a fact-find to gather information about Mr Js circumstances and 
objectives. Utmost also carried out an assessment of Mr Js attitude to risk, which it deemed 
to be medium. 
On 25 February 1999 Utmost advised Mr J to transfer his pension benefits into a personal 
pension and invest the proceeds in a managed fund. In summary the suitability report said 
the reasons for this recommendation were:
because of the projected growth rate required of 7.01% to match Mr Js DB scheme 
benefits.
because Mr Js medium attitude to risk indicated was willing to consider the transfer 
based on the projected growth rate.
to provide the potential for higher benefits in exchange for the loss of guarantees.
to enable Mr J to control his pension.
because the death benefits provided by Mr Js DB scheme werent important given 
he didnt have any dependants and he didnt expect this to change.
To provide for a retirement age of 60.
Mr J accepted the recommendation and the transfer took place. Mr J also started a monthly 
contribution to his new pension of around £40 a month.
In 2021 Mr J complained To Utmost about the suitability of the transfer advice because he 
doesnt think it was in his best interests to transfer out of his DB scheme given his low 
appetite for risk and because his pension represented his only provision for retirement.
Utmost didnt uphold Mr Js complaint. In summary it said that it explained to Mr J the 
benefits he would be giving up by transferring and that his eventual benefits payable would 
be dependent on investment growth. 
Overall it said that Mr J was provided with enough information to make an informed decision 
and to what to do and the transfer was reasonable in the circumstances.
Mr J referred his complaint to our service. An investigator upheld the complaint and required 
Utmost to pay compensation. In summary they said that taking into account the critical yield 
required to match Mr Js DB scheme benefits, his attitude to risk, the discount rate and the 
regulators growth projection rates, they thought it likely at best Mr J would end up with 
broadly the same level of benefits to his DB scheme as a result of transferring out. And in 
considering whether there were any other compelling reasons to transfer they didnt think 
flexibility or control were real or important reasons to transfer  they thought they were stock 
or generic motives recorded by Utmost. So overall they didnt think the advice to transfer 
was suitable and that Utmost had failed to demonstrate that transferring was in Mr Js best 
interests. The concluded by saying that they thought Mr J wouldve likely remained in his DB 
scheme had he been given suitable advice.
Despite us sending reminders, Utmost didnt respond to the investigators assessment.
Because it is assumed Utmost disagrees, the complaint was referred to me to make a final 
decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
When considering what is fair and reasonable, I am required to take into account relevant 
law and regulations; regulators rules, guidance and standards; codes of practice; and,
where appropriate, what I consider to have been good industry practice at the time. And 
where the evidence is incomplete, inconclusive or contradictory, I reach my conclusions on 
the balance of probabilities  that is, what I think is more likely than not to have happened 
based on the available evidence and the wider surrounding circumstances.  
The applicable rules, regulations and requirements 
The advice was provided by a business now known as Utmost in 1999. At this time it was 
regulated by the Personal Investment Authority (PIA). Utmost was a previous member of 
the Life Assurance and Unit Trust Regulatory Organisation (LAUTRO). When the PIA took 
responsibility for LAUTRO businesses in 1994, they adopted the LAUTRO rules. And these 
adopted rules applied at the time of the advice in this case.
The LAUTRO rules included a Code of Conduct at Schedule 2 to the rules. This required 
advisers to exercise due skill, care and diligence and deal fairly with investors. Paragraph 
6 of the Code of Conduct required advisers to give best advice, which included that they 
should not:
Make inaccurate or unfair criticisms of other investments, or of any occupational or 
state pension; or
Advise the investor to convert, cancel or allow to lapse any investment contract, 
occupational or state pension, unless they genuinely believed it to be in the 
consumers best interest and clearly disclosed all relevant consequences and 
disadvantages.
Paragraph 8 required an adviser to consider the investors financial position generally and to 
all other relevant circumstances - which included their rights under occupational and state 
pensions. It required them to recommend the contract from within the provider or marketing 
groups range which was most suited to the investor.
Ive considered the advice given to Mr J with this in mind. And having done so, Ive decided 
to uphold the complaint for largely the same reasons given by the investigator  I dont think 
the advice Mr J received to transfer out of his DB pension scheme was suitable. My reasons 
are set out below. Financial viability 
Utmost said that one of the reasons Mr J wanted to transfer out of his DB scheme was 
because of the potential for better benefits through a personal pension. 
The advice was given during the period when the regulator was publishing 'discount rates' 
for use in loss assessments resulting from the industry-wide Pensions Review. Whilst 
businesses weren't required to refer to these rates when giving advice on pension transfers, 
I consider they provide a useful indication of what growth rates would have been considered 
reasonably achievable when the advice was given in this case.
 
The investment return (critical yield) required to match the occupational pension at 
retirement was quoted as 7.01% per year. This compares with the discount rate of just under 
7% for 26 years to retirement in this case.
For further comparison, the regulator's upper projection rate at the time was 12%, the middle 
projection rate 9%, and the lower projection rate 6%.
I've taken this into account, along with the composition of assets in the discount rate, Mr Js 
attitude to risk and also the term to retirement. 
In my view there would be little point in Mr J giving up the guarantees available to him 
through his DB scheme only to achieve, at best, the same or broadly the same level of 
benefits outside the scheme. And here, while the critical yield was lower than the regulators 
middle projection rate, it was higher than the lower projection rate. And it was also around 
the same as the discount rate. So it appears at best, only the same level of benefits might be 
achieved by transferring.
Ive also thought about this in the context of Mr Js capacity for loss  his DB scheme was 
the only real source of his future retirement income, which was guaranteed and would 
increase. He wasnt an active member of an occupational pension scheme because he was 
self-employed. Hed only recently started contributing a relatively small monthly amount 
towards a personal pension. And other than a few hundred pounds in the bank as an 
emergency fund, Mr J didnt have any other assets or investments to his name. So I think Mr 
Js capacity for loss was low.
I can also see that the adviser originally recorded on the advice paperwork that they 
considered the growth rate required from the personal pension to match Mr Js DB scheme 
benefits was low. And while the adviser was instructed to correct the description by 
sending Mr J a follow-up letter, if the adviser no longer believed this to be the case, then I 
wouldve expected them to have taken the opportunity to reconsider the advice overall  not 
simply clarify that it wasnt the correct description.
In response to Mr Js complaint, Utmost said that it told him about the risks involved, the 
guarantees he would be giving up and that his future benefits would be dependent on 
investment growth. So overall Utmost believes Mr J was given enough information to make 
an informed decision about things.
But Utmost was under a duty to provide suitable advice. Merely disclosing information 
doesnt make an unsuitable recommendation suitable .Utmost told Mr J that it was 
recommending the transfer because the personal pension had greater benefit potential. But I 
think it was unlikely that Mr J would be able to exceed the benefits he was entitled to under 
the DB scheme through a personal pension  at best I think they would be broadly the same. So given this together with Mr Js circumstances at the time including his capacity for loss, I 
think Utmost ought to have told Mr J it wasnt in his best interests to transfer out.
Overall, because I think it is likely Mr J would not be better off financially if he transferred out 
of his DB scheme, for this reason alone, I dont think the advice to transfer out of the DB 
scheme was suitable for Mr J. But I accept that financial viability isnt the only consideration 
when giving transfer advice - there might be other considerations which mean a transfer is 
suitable, despite providing broadly the same overall benefits. Ive considered these below.
Flexibility
The fact-find recorded that Mr J wanted flexibility of retirement date. And while it wasnt 
specifically referred to as a reason why Utmost recommended Mr J transfer out of his DB 
scheme, it seems reasonable that it considered this in giving its advice. But I dont think Mr J 
required flexibility in retirement. I say this because Mr Js normal retirement age of his DB 
scheme was 60. And this was the same age as Mr Js target retirement date. It was also the 
same age the adviser recorded as being the most likely age Mr J would retire, despite 
indicating that flexibility was important.
Furthermore, Mr J was only in his early thirties at the time of the advice and based on what 
Ive seen he didnt have concrete retirement plans and I dont think he wouldve known his 
future income need had Utmost asked him. As Mr J had in excess of 20 years before he 
could think about accessing his pension, I think it was too soon to make any kind of decision 
about transferring out of the DB scheme. So, I dont think it was a suitable recommendation 
for Mr J to make any kind of irreversible decision to give up his guaranteed benefits now 
when he didnt know what his needs in retirement would be. If Mr J later had reason to 
transfer out of his DB scheme  for example because he needed to access a higher level of 
income than his scheme provided - he could have done so closer to retirement.
Im also mindful that Mr J didnt need to transfer out of his DB scheme to achieve flexibility if 
thats what he required  he already had a degree of flexibility in how and when he took 
some of his future retirement benefits because he had an existing personal pension plan. 
And while it was of low value at the time of the advice, Utmosts overall recommendation for 
Mr Js retirement planning was that he contribute a monthly amount to the new personal 
pension. But he couldve been advised to direct this to his existing personal pension while at 
the same time remaining in his DB scheme. In my view this wouldve been a suitable 
recommendation  it wouldve given Mr J a guaranteed future retirement income foundation 
which he could then build upon using his existing personal pension. 
Control 
I think Mr Js desire for control over his pension benefits was overstated. Mr J was not an 
experienced investor  in fact he was completely inexperienced as the advice paperwork 
records - and I cannot see that he had an interest in or the knowledge to be able to manage 
his pension funds on his own. 
Indeed the fund choice was a managed fund, which I think supports my view. So, I dont 
think that this was a genuine objective for Mr J  it was simply a consequence of transferring 
away from his DB scheme.Summary
I dont doubt that the potential for higher benefits, flexibility, and control on offer through a 
personal pension would have sounded like attractive features to Mr J. But Utmost wasnt 
there to just transact what Mr J might have thought he wanted. The advisers role was to 
really understand what Mr J needed and recommend what was in his best interests. 
Ultimately, I dont think the advice given to Mr J was suitable. He was giving up a 
guaranteed, risk-free, and increasing income. By transferring, Mr J was at best likely to 
obtain no more than his existing benefits and in my view there were no other particular or 
compelling reasons, which would justify a transfer to support or outweigh this.
So, I think Utmost shouldve advised Mr J to remain in his deferred DB scheme.
I now need to consider whether Mr J wouldve gone ahead anyway, against Utmosts advice. 
Having done so, if things had happened as they should have, I dont think Mr J wouldve 
insisted on transferring out of his DB scheme and gone ahead in any event. I say this 
because Mr J was not in my view an experienced investor who possessed the requisite 
knowledge, skill or confidence to go against the professional advice he sought and was 
given. And at the time his pension accounted for the majority of his retirement provision  so 
I think he relied on the advice he was given. Therefore, if Utmost had provided Mr J with 
clear advice against transferring out of the DB scheme, explaining why it wasnt suitable for 
him, I think he wouldve accepted that advice.
  
Putting things right
On 2 August 2022, the FCA launched a consultation on new DB transfer redress guidance 
and has set out its proposals in a consultation document - CP22/15-calculating redress for 
non-compliant pension transfer advice. The consultation closed on 27 September 2022 with 
any changes expected to be implemented in early 2023.
In this consultation, the FCA has said that it considers that the current redress methodology 
in Finalised Guidance (FG) 17/19 (Guidance for firms on how to calculate redress for 
unsuitable defined benefit pension transfers) remains appropriate and fundamental changes 
are not necessary. However, its review has identified some areas where the FCA considers 
it could improve or clarify the methodology to ensure it continues to provide appropriate 
redress. 
The FCA has said that it expects firms to continue to calculate and offer compensation to 
their customers using the existing guidance in FG 17/9 whilst the consultation takes place. 
But until changes take effect firms should give customers the option of waiting for their 
compensation to be calculated in line with any new rules and guidance that may come into 
force after the consultation has concluded.
Weve previously asked Mr J whether he preferred any redress to be calculated now in line 
with current guidance or wait for the any new guidance/rules to be published. 
Mr J didnt make a choice by the deadline provided, so as set out previously Ive assumed in 
this case he doesnt want to wait for any new guidance. 
I am satisfied that a calculation in line with FG17/9 remains appropriate and, if a loss is 
identified, will provide fair redress for Mr J.A fair and reasonable outcome would be for the business to put Mr J, as far as possible, into 
the position he would now be in but for the unsuitable advice. I consider Mr J would have 
most likely remained in his DB scheme if suitable advice had been given.
Utmost must therefore undertake a redress calculation in line with the regulators pension 
review guidance as updated by the Financial Conduct Authority in its Finalised Guidance 
17/9: Guidance for firms on how to calculate redress for unsuitable DB pension transfers.
For clarity, Mr Js DB scheme normal retirement age was 60. Because I think this is when
Mr J would most likely have taken his benefits had he remained in his DB scheme, 
compensation should be based on a normal retirement age of 60.
This calculation should be carried out as at the date of my final decision and using the most
recent financial assumptions at the date of that decision. In accordance with the regulators 
expectations, this should be undertaken or submitted to an appropriate provider promptly 
following receipt of notification of Mr Js acceptance of the decision.
Utmost may wish to contact the Department for Work and Pensions (DWP) to obtain Mr Js 
contribution history to the State Earnings Related Pension Scheme (SERPS or S2P). 
These details should then be used to include a SERPS adjustment in the calculation, which 
will take into account the impact of leaving the occupational scheme on Mr Js SERPS/S2P 
entitlement.
If the redress calculation demonstrates a loss, the compensation should if possible be paid 
into Mr Js pension plan. The payment should allow for the effect of charges and any 
available tax relief. The compensation shouldnt be paid into the pension plan if it would 
conflict with any existing protection or allowance.
If a payment into the pension isnt possible or has protection or allowance implications, it 
should be paid directly to Mr J as a lump sum after making a notional deduction to allow for 
income tax that would otherwise have been paid. Typically, 25% of the loss could have been 
taken as tax-free cash and 75% would have been taxed according to his likely income tax 
rate in retirement - presumed to be 20%. So making a notional deduction of 15% overall 
from the loss adequately reflects this.
The payment resulting from all the steps above is the compensation amount. This amount 
must where possible be paid to Mr J within 90 days of the date Utmost receives notification 
of his/her acceptance of my final decision. Further interest must be added to the 
compensation amount at the rate of 8% per year simple from the date of my final decision to 
the date of settlement for any time, in excess of 90 days, that it takes Utmost to pay Mr J.
Its possible that data gathering for a SERPS adjustment may mean that the actual time 
taken to settle goes beyond the 90 day period allowed for settlement above - and so any 
period of time where the only outstanding item required to undertake the calculation is data 
from DWP may be added to the 90 day period in which interest wont apply.
If the complaint hasnt been settled in full and final settlement by the time any new guidance 
or rules come into effect, Id expect Utmost to carry out a calculation in line with the updated 
rules and/or guidance in any event.My final decision
Determination and money award: I uphold this complaint and require Utmost Life and 
Pensions Limited to pay Mr J the compensation amount as set out in the steps above, up to 
a maximum of £160,000.
Where the compensation amount does not exceed £160,000, I would additionally require
Utmost Life and Pensions Limited to pay Mr J any interest on that amount in full, as set out 
above.
Where the compensation amount already exceeds £160,000, I would only require Utmost 
Life and Pensions Limited to pay Mr J any interest as set out above on the sum of £160,000.
Recommendation: If the compensation amount exceeds £160,000, I also recommend that
Utmost Life and Pensions Limited pays Mr J the balance. I would additionally recommend 
any interest calculated as set out above on this balance to be paid to Mr J.
If Mr J accepts this decision, the money award becomes binding on Utmost Life and 
Pensions Limited.
My recommendation would not be binding. Further, its unlikely that Mr J can accept my 
decision and go to court to ask for the balance. Mr J may want to consider getting 
independent legal advice before deciding whether to accept any final decision.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr J to accept or 
reject my decision before 10 November 2022. 
Paul Featherstone
Ombudsman