DRN-3247185
The complaint
Mr M complains that a car acquired with finance from BMW Financial Services (GB) Limited 
trading as BMW Financial Services wasnt of satisfactory quality.
What happened
In May 2021 Mr M was supplied with a car and entered into a hire purchase agreement with 
BMWFS.
Mr M experienced some issues with the car. He complained to BMWFS in June 2021 and 
provided evidence of the faults. In November 2021 BMWFS issued a final response and said 
it didnt accept Mr Ms request to reject the car because he hadnt raised his complaint within 
the first 30 days.
Mr M wasnt happy with the response and complained to this service. In the meantime, hes 
sold the car and settled the agreement. He wants compensation for the issues he 
experienced with the car whilst it was in his possession, and for the incorrect mileage stated 
on the agreement.
Our investigator upheld the complaint. She said there were faults with the car as evidenced 
by the diagnostic report dated July 2021. The investigator said shed requested further 
evidence and arguments from BMWFS, but it hadnt responded, so she reached her view 
based on the available information. The investigator said that although Mr M had sold the car 
for less than he paid for it, it wouldnt be fair to ask BMWFS to reimburse the shortfall 
because Mr M had used the car for several months and had added mileage to it. The 
investigator recommended that BMWFS should pay compensation of £150 to Mr M to reflect 
the distress and inconvenience caused.
Mr M didnt agree. He said the mileage on the agreement was incorrect and that the car was 
now being advertised for sale for a higher price than hed paid for it. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The Consumer Rights Act 2015 is relevant to this complaint. It says that goods must be of 
satisfactory quality when supplied. Cars are of satisfactory quality if they are of a standard 
that a reasonable person would regard as acceptable, taking into account factors such as 
the age and mileage of the car and the price paid.
Under the Consumer Rights Act 2015, where a fault occurs in the first 30 days, the 
consumer has a short term right to reject, If a fault occurs in the first 6 months, theres a 
presumption that the fault was present or developing at the point of supply and its up to the 
business to put thigs right. The business is allowed one opportunity to repair the car. If the 
repair isnt successful, the consumer can reject the car.
Ive looked at the available evidence. This is limited, because BMWFS didnt provide 
information to the investigator when it was requested. I can see that Mr M obtained a 
diagnostic report in July 2-021. This evidences several fault codes. Based on what Ive seen, 
it seems likely that there was a fault with the car.
Mr M has said that he asked to reject the car when he became aware of the faults in June 
2021. His request to reject was made outside of the first 30 days of the agreement, so he 
couldnt rely on his short term right to reject.
I havent seen any evidence to suggest that any repairs were attempted. Mr M has said that 
he continued to experience the issues whilst his complaint to BMWFS was ongoing. I dont 
have enough information about the faults to comment any further on them, so I can only look 
at the service Mr M received from BMWF when he asked to reject the car.
Mr M has said that he sold the car for around £1500 less than he paid for it. Hes also said 
that the mileage shown on his finance agreement was lower than the actual mileage when 
the car was delivered to him.
Mr M has been able to use the car despite the issues, so this isnt a case where a refund of 
monthly payments is appropriate.
I can see that BMWFS took quite a long time to investigate Mr Ms complaint and when it 
issued its final response, it failed to address all the issue that Mr M had raised about the 
mileage. And although I dont think the mileage issue has impacted on Mr M in terms of what 
he sold the car for, its an issue that BMWFS should have investigated and addressed in its 
final response.
I appreciate that Mr M feels that he should be compensated for the difference between what 
he paid for the car and what he sold it for. However, I havent seen any evidence to suggest 
that the car was sold for less because of the issues that Mr M experienced with it. And I can 
see that Mr M used the car for several months and put mileage on it. In the circumstances, I 
dont think it would be fair to ask BMWFS to compensate Mr M for the difference.
Putting things right
Its clear that Mr M has been caused distress and inconvenience as a result of the issues 
with the car, and by BMWFSs failure to address all of his complaint points in its final 
response. I think its reasonable to ask BMWFS to pay £150 compensation to reflect this. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold the complaint. BMW Financial Services (GB) Limited must 
pay compensation of £150 to Mr M.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 28 March 2022.
 
Emma Davy
Ombudsman