DRN-3143044
The complaint
Mr J complains that MBNA Limited lost key documents that he supplied to it, when he asked
it to make a Section 75 claim for an expensive purchase he made. Mr J says that one of
those documents was all he needed to win a court case, and its irreplaceable.
  
What happened
Mr J said he made a purchase for £8,500, which was a gift for his wife. He said the purchase
wasnt satisfactory for its intended purchase, and hed asked for his money back, but the
seller wouldnt return the money. He then asked MBNA to look into this, and it took a very
long time indeed to tell him it couldnt help.
Mr Js complaint is that when he asked MBNA to give him back the documents that hed sent
it for this claim, so he could take a court case instead, MBNA said it had failed to scan those
in before destroying them. So it didnt have the originals, and it didnt have copies either.
MBNA offered to pay Mr J £100 for the inconvenience and the length of time it had taken to
respond to his complaint. Mr J didnt want to accept that. He wanted what he said hed have
got back through the court case, if he still had the right documents, which he said was the
full amount of £8,500.
Our investigator didnt think MBNA had to pay Mr J £8,500, because we couldnt know if his
claim wouldve been successful. But she didnt think MBNA had done enough to make up for
its error either. So she wanted it to pay a further £200 now, bringing the total compensation
up to £300.
Mr J didnt think that was fair. He said the documents included a report from a clinician which
his legal team had told him was the only thing he needed to win his case. So, because he no
longer had this, he said that what our investigator proposed still left him £8,200 short of what
he could have got back through a court case. Mr J wanted MBNA to pay the full amount.
Our investigator didnt change her mind. She commented on Mr Js claim with MBNA, which
I wont discuss here, as that isnt the subject of this complaint. She also said it wouldnt be
fair to ask MBNA to pay £8,500 for destroying documents. And she said that if the report was
what Mr J needed for a successful claim, she thought that the clinician involved would be
able to provide another copy, so Mr J could still bring his case.
MBNA said it would agree to pay an additional £100, as our investigator had suggested,
although she had actually suggested that it should pay £200 more.
Mr J still didnt agree. He said the documents were irreplaceable. He said they couldnt be
replaced without starting again with another clinician, adding additional costs. Mr J still felt
that the consequence of this mistake was a loss of over £8,000 to him, so he still wanted
MBNA to pay that.
My provisional decision
I issued a provisional decision on this complaint and explained why I did not propose to 
uphold it. This is what I said then: 
MBNA accepts that it destroyed Mr Js documents, and didnt take electronic copies, 
as it usually would. Mr J says this is stopping him from taking a court case instead, 
and hes repeatedly said that this results in a very significant loss for him.
I am providing a provisional decision in this case, because I wanted to be clear on 
two key issues in this complaint.
The first issue is that I agree with our investigator that Mr J has been inconvenienced 
and also somewhat distressed by the loss of his documentation. He will no doubt be 
put to some trouble in replacing what has been lost. So I agree that MBNA should 
pay compensation. I also agree with our investigator that £100 isnt enough to 
provide a fair and reasonable outcome here, so I think MBNA should pay £300 in 
compensation to Mr J.
The second issue is about the loss Mr J says hes suffered.
Mr J also says he has a direct loss, of £8,500, resulting from MBNAs actions. So the 
second issue I wish to set out is that I just havent been able to see, on the evidence 
available to me to date, that Mr J is definitely going to incur this loss, or indeed that it 
would be fair and reasonable for me to hold MBNA wholly responsible for that.
So Im afraid that I would have to ask Mr J for more evidence, and more information, 
if thats what he wants me to award. Ill set out what I would need, and why.
As a starting point, Im not clear on why the key document in this case, which Mr J 
says was a report from a clinician, cant just be reproduced by that clinician. Like our 
investigator, Id usually expect that someone who produces this sort of expert report 
would keep a copy, and could send a duplicate to their client if asked. So if thats not 
the case here, then Id need Mr J to explain why, and to show us evidence that this 
report cant just be sent to him again.
Then, Mr J has now said his only option, without this report, is to start again with a 
different clinician, and that will add additional costs. He hasnt told us what those 
costs might be. But it doesnt seem likely that a fresh report, if it is required, would 
cost Mr J as much as his original purchase. And if his case is successful, then he 
may be able to recover the cost of this report from the other side.
So, for me to review my proposed award, it would be very helpful to have from Mr J 
evidence and information to show that 
the missing report really is key to his case, and is, as he put it all he needed 
for a successful claim for the £8,500 he originally paid,
it cannot be recreated by the original expert witness,
what the costs of a fresh report would be, and
why those costs would not also be recoverable as part of the court case he 
intends to take.
With that evidence, I could reconsider my view on this case. But Im afraid there are 
still more hurdles for Mr J to get over, before I could conclude that an award of the 
full amount he paid for the item would be fair.Thats because I would still be unlikely to say that it would be fair to award the full 
amount Mr J spent on this item, unless he could also show me that there was no way 
a fresh expert report could be provided now.
And if that were the case, I would also invite Mr J to comment on why he didnt keep 
a copy when he sent the original of this document to MBNA. I would need to think 
further about that too, before I could fairly and reasonably ask MBNA to pay 
everything he wants.
I do understand that providing the additional evidence Ive suggested, may seem 
somewhat daunting to Mr J. But our service is impartial, and I have a responsibility to 
be fair to both sides. So Ive sought to explain clearly to Mr J what additional 
evidence I would find helpful in this case, and why, for me to consider a higher award 
in this case.
However, as Ive set out, Im satisfied on what Ive seen to date that it would be fair 
and reasonable to ask MBNA to pay Mr J £300 in compensation, for the distress hes 
been caused in finding out that his documents have been destroyed, and the trouble 
hell have to go to, in replacing them. My provisional decision is to award that 
amount.
I invited the parties to make any final points, if they wanted, before issuing my final decision. 
Both parties replied.
  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
MBNA acknowledged my decision, but said it had nothing to add.
Mr J replied to say he didnt think this was fair. He wanted to know how Id come up with the 
figure of £300. He wanted to know what gauge and or system is used to determine an 
acceptable amount of compensation. And he wanted to know if I had just plucked that figure 
out of the air. 
Id like to stress that what Im looking at, in this part of my decision, isnt the financial loss of 
£8,500 that Mr J says hes experienced. Im looking at the impact I think this problem has 
had on Mr J. So the direct loss Mr J has told us about, of £8,500, doesnt govern this award.
And when I decide on an appropriate level of compensation, I apply my own previous 
experience in dealing with cases, and regard to our services overarching approach to 
compensation. Mr J can find more information on the awards our service makes for distress 
and inconvenience on our services website. 
Ill now turn to what Mr J has said about his direct financial loss.
Mr J said he thought hed mentioned this before, but on the initial report, the independent 
clinician used had to travel back home due to something in relation to covid. He said thats 
what hed been able to establish through many calls and emails to different people in the 
profession in the relevant area. 
Mr J said he understood that this wasnt MBNAs fault, but its not his either. He said he may 
not have been clear on how important that original report was.Mr J said MBNA wouldnt look at a claim without original documentation. And he was told the 
report he sent would be returned.
Mr J said that the clinician did a thorough and detailed examination to list a multitude of 
errors, and he said this gave his argument irrefutable strength. Mr J said Id suggested he 
could get another report. But he said that wont work, his legal team had dismissed it straight 
away. The oppositions first argument would be natural change/ degeneration because of the 
amount of time between then and now.
Mr J said he had explored every avenue to solve this problem after MBNAs blunder. He said 
that in his opinion he had a report and didnt need another one, he had what he needed to 
gain a successful claim. And now that cant happen, as a direct result of MBNAs actions. 
Mr J said this had cost him £8,500, and a payment of £300 didnt make up for that. He 
couldnt see how I could justify saying its not fair for MBNA to pay him the compensation, 
and just leave him having to carry on repaying the £8,500 after MBNAs errors.
Mr J is asking me to make MBNA pay him a lot of money. And when this case first came to 
me, I thought that I simply didnt have enough evidence to really show me that MBNAs 
mistake had the impact that Mr J told us about. 
I do understand that Mr J is firmly of the view that theres nothing he can do to rescue the 
situation now, and recover the money hes lost. And thats why he thinks the only fair thing to 
do is to ask MBNA to pay this. But, to uphold this complaint, I would have to see the advice 
and information that Mr J told us hes received, to make him think this. Id have to review all 
of that, and see if I reached the same conclusion. 
So, when I sent my provisional decision to Mr J, I set out what I thought I would need to see, 
to uphold this complaint. 
I said in my provisional decision that, for the points I set out, I would need not just an 
explanation from Mr J, but also evidence to support that. For instance, when I said that Id 
expect that Mr J could get another copy of the report that MBNA hasnt kept, I said that  if 
thats not the case here, then Id need Mr J to explain why, and to show us evidence that this 
report cant just be sent to him again.
Mr J sent us a short reply. He has addressed some of the points I mentioned in my 
provisional decision. But what he hasnt done is offered any evidence to support that. So I 
still have nothing to review, to see if I reach the same conclusion as him. 
I do think that I was clear in my provisional decision that Mr J would need to provide a 
considerable amount of additional evidence and information, for me to reconsider this 
complaint. And unfortunately, I dont think that what Mr J has sent us now gives me enough 
to say that a fair and reasonable outcome here would be for MBNA to make the payment of 
£8,500 that Mr J wants.
So I havent changed my mind. Ill now make the decision I originally proposed.
  My final decision
My final decision is that MBNA Limited must pay Mr J £300.
  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr J to accept or 
reject my decision before 3 December 2021.
 
Esther Absalom-Gough
Ombudsman