DRN-3961892
The complaint
Mr I says Santander UK Plc has treated him unfairly in relation to a transaction on his debit 
card which paid for air quality monitor.
What happened
In December 2021 Mr I used his Santander debit card to pay for an air quality monitor (the 
monitor) with a total cost of just over £280. The monitor was delivered in January 2022. Mr I 
says hes never opened the monitors box because he became aware that there was a 
contractual issue between the monitor supplier with a separate company Ill call Firm P. In 
exchange for data from the monitor, Firm P said it provided tokens that could be redeemed 
to purchase eco-friendly products and services. The tokens Firm P provided could also be 
traded on several exchanges. So there was a potential benefit to be gained from these 
tokens. Mr I says that this dispute between the supplier and Firm P meant he lost out. So Mr 
I tried to return the monitor, but the monitor supplier refused the return and refused to give 
Mr I his money back. So Mr I took his complaint to Santander.
Santander looked into the matter and didnt think it could help. It however did accept the 
customer service it provided him wasnt good enough. So it offered Mr I £50 for how it 
handled matters. But it wasnt willing to refund him the cost of the monitor.  Mr I, still 
unsatisfied, brought his complaint to this service.
Our Investigator felt Santander didnt have to do anymore. She felt that although Santander 
could have done things better, it wouldnt have made a difference as any chargeback didnt 
have a realistic prospect of success. Mr I remains unhappy and so this complaint comes to 
me for a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr Is Santander debit card is part of a card network. And this network has rules which 
includes giving Santander an avenue for card transactions to be disputed with Suppliers, 
namely through the Chargeback process. The Chargeback process is not a right for 
consumers, nor does it provide any guarantee of success. But this service does consider 
raising a chargeback to be good practice if the debit card supplier considers the dispute has 
a reasonable prospect of success.
I should also add at this juncture that this decision is about Santander and whether it did 
what it should have and whether it treated Mr I fairly in relation to its obligations. This 
decision isnt about the monitor supplier or Firm P which arent parties to this decision nor 
within this Services remit. I hope this distinction is clear.
could Santander challenge the transaction through a Chargeback? 
Mr I doesnt dispute that he used his Santander debit card here. Nor does he dispute the 
amount, date, or any other details about the transaction. So I dont think Santander couldve 
challenged the payment on the basis Mr I didnt properly authorise the transaction, given 
what Ive just set out.
Santander is required to consider whether there is a reasonable prospect of success when it 
is considering whether to go through the Chargeback process or not. If it does go through 
the process, then it must do so properly. And it can fairly decide to not proceed at any stage 
if it doesnt think there is a reasonable prospect of success. This is the test here. 
The network rules are very detailed and comprehensive and include time limits with regard 
to the period in which chargebacks can be raised. Ive considered these time limits and note 
the dates of what happened in Mr Is case. Having considered these facts I can see Mr I 
raised his dispute with Santander for the first time just inside the time limits. And I can see 
Santander has said it could have dealt with Mr I better and has offered him £50. So in 
relation to that calls customer service I think the offer Santander made was fair. 
If Santander had done what it should have, would his chargeback have been successful?
Having considered what happened although Santander could have done better I dont think 
Mr I has lost out because of this. I say so for the following reasons.
Mr I doesnt dispute the monitor works. In fact he says its unused and still in the box it was 
delivered in. So it seems clear hes never actually used it for its primary purpose of 
monitoring the air. It seems clear from what Mr I says he was more interested in earning 
tokens from Firm P through the use of the monitor and due to the dispute he says he cant 
earn those tokens. But Im not persuaded by Mr Is reasoning. Firstly Ive seen no persuasive 
evidence from Mr I that there was any guarantee period advertised by the monitor supplier of 
the ability to earn the tokens for a certain time period which has been broken. The 
Chargeback process is a straightforward evidence-based process between Santander and 
the monitor supplier. And I cant see any persuasive evidence of any guarantee regarding 
the link with Firm P. So for these reasons Im not persuaded a chargeback on the basis of 
goods not as described would have had a reasonable prospect of success. I also note that 
Firm P issued (on the day the agreement between it and the monitor supplier ended) a 
workaround so that the data from the monitor could still earn tokens with Firm P. So I think 
had Mr I wanted to earn tokens he could have done so throughout. So Im not persuaded he 
had any relevant guarantee and in any event Im not persuaded hes lost out.
Ultimately the test here is would a chargeback have been successful if it had been taken 
forward properly. I can see Mr I received the goods he paid for, that Mr I hasnt put forward 
any persuasive evidence showing it wasnt as described or that hes lost out in such a 
manner which would make it fair for Santander to refund this transaction. So this complaint 
doesnt succeed.
In the interests of completeness Ill cover off some of Mr Is other comments. Mr I points to 
confirmation by the monitor supplier that there was a disagreement between it and Firm P. 
This isnt in dispute. But for it to be fair that Santander picks up the cost of this transaction it 
needs to be shown that Mr I should have been successful in his chargeback against the 
monitor supplier. And without a guarantee of access to Firm Ps services then I see no 
persuasive reason to conclude that the goods werent as described. Just because something 
later changes doesnt demonstrate it was wrongly sold beforehand.Mr I points to other people being in the same situation. This is true. But it doesnt mean the 
monitor supplier misrepresented the monitor or supplied something different to what was 
advertised. And the onus is on Mr I to demonstrate either of these, and having considered 
what hes put forward Im not persuaded he has done this. So I dont see why Santander 
should refund him the cost of the monitor.
Mr I points to arguments around the chargeback process requiring goods to be returned for a 
successful chargeback to be available. And it is the case that the rules require this. However 
in this case Im not persuaded this is decisive. I think it likely that had Mr I returned the 
monitor it wouldnt have made a difference to the outcome. In any event based on the 
evidence Mr I has put forward I think the chargeback wouldnt have been successful.
I appreciate that this isnt the decision which Mr I wishes to read. And I appreciate that this 
decision will mean Mr Is avenues for recouping these funds spent here will be significantly 
limited. But this does not mean that Santander has to do anymore in relation to this dispute 
between Mr I and monitor supplier. And Im satisfied the offer it made of £50 in relation to 
customer service was fair.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I do not uphold the complaint against Santander UK Plc. It 
has nothing further to do in respect of this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr I to accept or 
reject my decision before 4 April 2023.
 
Rod Glyn-Thomas
Ombudsman