DRN-1631089
The complaint
Mrs D complains about a decision by Bank of Scotland plc, trading as Halifax, to reject a 
claim she made to them under section 75 of the Consumer Credit Act 1974 (section 75).
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again 
here. Instead Ill focus on giving my reasons for my decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so I agree with the investigators opinion: Ill explain why.
Where the information Ive got is incomplete, unclear or contradictory, as some of it is here I 
have to base my decision on the balance of probabilities.
Ive read and considered the whole file, but Ill concentrate my comments on what I think is 
relevant. If I dont comment on any specific point its not because Ive failed to take it on 
board and think about it but because I dont think I need to comment on it in order to reach 
what I think is the right outcome.
When considering a complaint about a financial services provider, Im not determining the 
outcome of a claim that a party might have under section 75. I take section 75 into account 
when I think about whats a fair way to resolve the complaint, but I dont have to reach the 
same view as, for example, a court might reach if Mrs D made a claim through them for 
breach of contract or misrepresentation.
When something goes wrong and the payment was made, in part or whole, with a credit 
card, as is the case here, it might be possible to recover the money paid through a section 
75 claim. This section of the Consumer Credit Act (1974) says that in certain circumstances, 
the borrower under a credit agreement has a like right to claim against the credit provider as 
against the supplier if there's either a breach of contract or misrepresentation by the 
supplier.
One of those circumstances is that there must be a valid debtor (Mrs D), creditor (Halifax), 
supplier (the franchisor) relationship. 
But here there isnt as the contract is in the name of a business and not Mrs D and the chain 
has been broken. Halifax dont have a relevant relationship with that business and would 
therefore be unable to claim any money back on their behalf, regardless of Mrs Ds 
relationship with that business. 
I understand that Mrs D contests that she was told she would be protected by section 75 if 
she went ahead with the franchise purchase. But I dont think it would be fair to suggest 
Halifax were aware the deal would be in a business name and I therefore dont think theyve 
been unreasonable rejecting Mrs Ds claim.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs D to accept or 
reject my decision before 3 September 2020.
 
Phillip McMahon
Ombudsman