DRN-3597541
The complaint
Mr T says HSBC UK Bank Plc has acted unfairly and unreasonably after a transfer he made, 
in sterling, from his euro currency account to a third-party euro account was returned. 
What happened
On 6 April 2022 Mr T set up payment instructions online to transfer money from his euro 
account to another euro account in the UK, but as the money was sent in sterling the funds 
were returned. As a result of the exchange rate conversion, both in and out of his account, 
he received back €1,700.16 less than he sent. Mr T was transferring a large sum, so he had 
done a low value test on 20 December 2021 and saved the payment details. This payment 
went through with no issues. 
Mr T says HSBC incorrectly converted his payment to sterling and so it was rejected. Its 
system allowed him to save the test payment details and he did this to reduce the possibility 
of errors on the large amount. He asks that HSBC reimburse him for the lost €1,700.16.
HSBC said it had made no error, it followed Mr Ts instructions.
Our investigator did not uphold Mr Ts complaint. He said HSBC had evidenced that in April 
2022 Mr T selected GBP, and whilst this was the default option (its system bases this on the 
local currency of the recipient) he could have changed it. He said the bank had explained 
that when payment details are saved only the recipients account details are stored as this 
allows for changes to currency and value, which is reasonable. The screens Mr T would 
have seen confirm the exchange rate, so this was available to Mr T before he went ahead. 
And finally as part of the online process HSBC asks its customers to check all details are 
correct before proceeding, as amends cannot be made later.
Unhappy with this assessment, Mr T asked for an ombudsmans review. In summary, he 
said it is illogical HSBCs system defaults to the currency of the location of the recipient, 
rather than the currency of the account of the recipient. This is unfair, as is the impact of the 
double currency exchange. HSBC has a retail margin on its rate and so has unfairly made a 
profit from his erroneous payment. He never agreed to the incoming exchange rate. HSBC 
did not contact him to advise the payment had been returned and to ask which account he 
wanted it to be credited to (he has a GBP account too). 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so I cannot fairly uphold Mr Ts complaint. I understand that the outcome of this 
failed transfer seems very unfair to him, but what I have to consider is if that is a result of an 
error the bank made, or not.
In essence, Mr T authorised the payment to be sent in sterling. He argues HSBCs 
international payments system is flawed saying the currency should default to the currency 
of the recipients account, not location. But that is not how its system works. And our role is 
to decide if, in the individual circumstances of each case, the bank made a mistake and if so 
how it should put right any detrimental impact  rather than to review the banks processes 
or systems. And I note even though the currency defaulted to sterling, Mr T could have 
changed it to euros. I find it logical that the system would offer to save a payee, as it does, 
but that this would not include the amount or currency. 
Mr T raised a more general concern about the unfavorability of HSBCs exchange rates but 
as part of the instruction he set up he gave agreement to any exchange rate applicable, and 
the exact rate - valid for 40 seconds - was presented for his consent before he went ahead. 
The system also reminded him to carefully check all details before processing the payment. 
So I cant in any way hold HSBC liable for the money being sent in the wrong currency. 
As a result the recipients bank returned the funds. Mr T feels HSBC ought to have 
contracted him before converting it back to euros and crediting his account, but this isnt its 
standard policy, or common industry practice. I cant see anywhere in the account terms and 
conditions that places this obligation on HSBC. And in the final section Mr T would have 
seen online the warning, under the heading Important Information, If this is cancelled by us, 
the payee bank or any other bank used to send the payment and the exchange rate has 
changed you could get back less than the original amount. 
So I can find no grounds for HSBC to make Mr T good for the reduction in funds due to the 
currency conversions. He argues that HSBC has benefited from his error as there is a 
margin on its rates, but I cant instruct it to forgo this as I find it gave fair warning that all 
details should be checked carefully and that any rejected funds may be returned at a 
different rate.
It follows I do not think HSBC made any errors that it needs to put right in the circumstances 
of this case. 
My final decision
I am not upholding Mr Ts complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr T to accept or 
reject my decision before 20 October 2022.
 
Rebecca Connelley
Ombudsman