DRN-3175155
The complaint
Mr M complained that TFS Loans Limited lent to him irresponsibly and provided him with 
loans that were unaffordable.
What happened
Mr M was given loans by TFS as follows:
LoanDate of 
loanLoan 
amountTerm 
(months)Monthly 
repaymentTotal amount 
repayable
1 March 
2015£3,000 36 £145.21 £5,227.56
2 October 
2015£5,000 36 £242.01 £8,712.36
One of our investigators reviewed Mr Ms complaint. He didnt think that TFS shouldve 
provided either of the loans to Mr M and he set out the steps that TFS needed to take to put 
things right.
TFS disagreed with our investigator and asked for the case to be reviewed by an 
ombudsman. It mainly said that:
although our investigator thought proportionate checks would have shown Mr M 
wouldnt have been able to sustain the loan repayments TFS said he was relying only 
on a credit file that TFS would not have seen  and the information on the credit file it 
obtained at the time was different 
there was no dispute Mr M had a negative credit history in terms of missed payments 
and defaults, but this was up to five years before loan 1 and not enough on its own to 
say the loan should not have been approved
Mr M could manage payments to all defaulted accounts using disposable income and 
would still have over £100 disposable income remaining
Mr M wasnt responsible on his own for household income but TFS still applied an 
amount towards this from his income
by loan 2 his pay had gone up and Mr M had around £368 disposable income 
remaining, which would cover any outstanding payments our investigator referred to, 
which were not shown on the credit file TFS obtained.
So the complaint comes to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our approach to unaffordable/irresponsible lending complaints on our website 
and Ive kept this in mind while deciding this complaint. Having done so, I am upholding 
Mr Ms complaint for broadly the same reasons as our investigator. Ill explain my reasons.
There are some general principles I will keep in mind and questions I need to think about 
when deciding whether to uphold Mr Ms complaint. Before agreeing to lend, lenders must 
work out if a borrower can afford the loan repayments alongside other reasonable expenses 
the borrower also has to pay.
This should include more than just checking that the loan payments look affordable on a 
strict pounds and pence calculation. A lender must take reasonable steps to satisfy itself that 
the borrower can sustainably repay the loan  in other words, without needing to borrow 
elsewhere.
The rules dont say what a lender should look at before agreeing to lend. But reasonable and 
proportionate checks should be carried out. For example, when thinking about what a 
borrower has left to spend on a new loan after paying other expenses, as well as taking into  
account the loan amount, the cost of the repayments and how long the loan is for, a 
proportionate check might mean a lender should also find out the borrowers credit history 
and/or take further steps to verify the borrowers overall financial situation.
If reasonable and proportionate checks werent carried out, I need to consider if a loan 
wouldve been approved if the checks had been done. If proportionate checks were done 
and a loan looked affordable, a lender still needed to think about whether there was any 
other reason why it would be irresponsible or unfair to lend. For example, if the lender 
shouldve realised that the loan was likely to lead to more money problems for a borrower 
who is already struggling with debt that cant be repaid in a sustainable way. 
In light of this, I think that a reasonable and proportionate check ought generally to have 
been more thorough:
the lower a customers income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make any 
repayments to credit from a lower level of income)
the higher the amount due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
meet higher repayments from a particular level of income)
the longer the period of time a borrower will be indebted (reflecting the fact that the 
total cost of the credit is likely to be greater and the customer is required to make 
repayments for an extended period).

Ive kept all these things in mind when thinking about this complaint.
When Mr M applied for the loans, TFS asked about his income. After looking at payslip 
details TFS did some calculations and worked out that Mr Ms average monthly income was 
approximately £2,200 when he took out loan 1  it recorded that this figure had gone up to 
around £2,300 by the time he applied for loan 2. 
TFS asked Mr M about his regular expenditure. It also did its own credit checks each time to 
find out about Mr Ms credit history and when assessing affordability it allowed for Mr Ms 
spending on the credit commitments it saw in the credit reports it obtained.
For both loans, TFS worked out that Mr M should still expect to have ample disposable 
income left after making the monthly repayment on its loan.
I've taken into account everything TFS has told me, including comments made in response 
to our investigators view. But I dont think TFS made fair lending decisions when it lent to 
Mr M based on the information it had gathered. I say this because despite recording 
information that appeared to show that Mr M had a reasonable amount of spare cash each 
month, I agree with our investigator that although the loans mightve looked affordable to TFS, this information appeared to be at odds with other information it had gathered showing 
warning signs that Mr M was struggling to manage his finances.
I dont think that anything Mr M said was enough to explain what TFS saw in its credit 
checks. 
Despite its affordability calculation suggesting that Mr M had nearly £180 left each month 
around the time he took out loan 1, TFS was aware that Mr M owed approximately £8,000 in 
respect of two high cost credit loans taken out within the last four months and he was 
overdrawn at the bank by around £621. He also had historic defaulted accounts showing  
which he had told TFS he was in the process of settling when he applied for loan 1.
I think the information TFS gathered raised important questions about why someone in 
Mr Ms circumstances apparently needed to borrow this expensive credit  especially 
bearing in mind that the disposable income TFS thought that Mr M should have wouldve 
been enough to enable him to make at least some repayments towards his various defaulted 
accounts. It didnt however look like Mr M had made any significant inroads into paying this 
old debt  some of it dating back to 2009. And TFS saw that he was still actively borrowing 
expensive credit and adding to his overall indebtedness.
So I think TFS should have carried out more in-depth checks and taken additional steps to 
verify Mr Ms financial situation before agreeing to provide loan 1. TFS hasnt shown me it 
did this. This means I cant fairly say that it carried out a proportionate check before agreeing 
to lend this loan. So I've thought carefully about what TFS is likely to have found out had it 
done a proportionate check  and whether this information was likely to have affected the 
lending decision it made.
I've looked at a credit report provided by Mr M which I think gives a useful insight into 
understanding Mr Ms overall financial situation at the time. Despite what it says about this, 
I think if TFS had done a proportionate check before lending, it wouldve likely seen more 
information showing that there was a real risk that this loan wasnt likely to be sustainably 
affordable over the loan term.
I say this because if TFS had gained a better understanding of Mr Ms finances and his use 
of credit, it would have likely seen that Mr M had taken out a number of further loans within 
the last four months and the monthly repayments he needed to make towards those loans 
effectively wiped out the disposable income TFS thought Mr M had available. 
TFS understood that Mr M intended to spend the money it was providing. So TFS shouldve 
realised, had it done what I consider wouldve been a proportionate check before providing 
loan 1, that it was unlikely Mr M could afford its loan when his monthly repayments towards 
his existing creditors left him with no spare cash to pay for any new borrowing.  
By the time he applied for loan 2, TFS was able to see that Mr Ms overdraft had increased 
and he had also taken out some new credit accounts. 
He had borrowed another £3,000 high cost loan and it was apparent that he had money 
problems more or less straightaway when he had maxed out two new credit cards and fallen 
behind on his payments and run up arrears. 
So TFS could see that Mr M was over-committed financially and clearly struggling to 
manage his payments to creditors. At the very least, I think this shouldve prompted TFS to carry out more in-depth checks 
before providing loan 2  and had it done so, it wouldve most likely discovered more 
evidence of further borrowing that its own limited checks hadnt identified. 
I've taken into account that loan 2 was partly used to repay loan 1, but TFS was aware that 
Mr M had borrowed extra to cover an expense he needed to pay. 
So I think TFS shouldve realised that Mr M was unlikely to be able to sustain repayments at 
the level needed to repay loan 2 on top of meeting other credit commitments that it saw he 
was struggling to afford. 
In these circumstances, TFS ought reasonably to have been aware that taking further, costly 
lending was likely to add unsustainably to Mr Ms overall indebtedness and be detrimental to 
Mr M. 
I think thats borne out by the information I can see on his more recent credit report that 
shows Mr Ms financial difficulties increased leading to payment problems on this loan and 
other accounts and ultimately county court judgements being registered on his record. 
To my mind, if it had done proportionate checking before lending to Mr M, I think TFS 
shouldve realised that he was not in a position to sustainably repay these high-cost loans 
and the money problems that followed were reasonably foreseeable.
So, it follows that I dont think TFS should have agreed to provide either of these loans to 
Mr M.
As Mr M has been further indebted by the cost of lending he shouldnt have been provided 
with, Im satisfied that he has lost out as a result of what TFS did wrong. 
So, I think TFS needs to put things right.
Putting things right
Our investigator didnt recommend that TFS should pay any additional redress. Mr M hasnt 
commented on that and I havent seen anything which makes me think TFS acted unfairly 
towards Mr M in any other way. 
So Im not awarding any additional redress.
And I think it is fair and reasonable for Mr M to repay the capital amount that he borrowed, 
because he had the benefit of that lending. But, in line with this Services approach, Mr M 
shouldnt repay any more than this.
If TFS sold any outstanding debt it should buy this back if able to do so and then take the 
following steps. 
Otherwise, TFS should liaise with the new debt owner to achieve the results outlined below 
and do the following:
add up the total amount of money Mr M received as a result of being given loans 1 
and 2. The payments Mr M made should be deducted from this amount
if this results in Mr M having paid more than he received, then any overpayments 
should be refunded along with 8% simple interest* (calculated from the date the 
overpayments were made until the date of settlement)
if any capital balance remains outstanding, then TFS should attempt to arrange an affordable/suitable payment plan with Mr M bearing in mind the need to treat him 
positively and sympathetically in those discussions.
Whilst its fair that Mr Ms credit file is an accurate reflection of his financial history, 
its unfair that he should be disadvantaged by any adverse information recorded 
about loans unfairly provided. So TFS should remove any negative information 
placed on Mr Ms credit file regarding the loans.
*HM Revenue & Customs requires TFS to take off tax from this interest. TFS must give Mr M 
a certificate showing how much tax it has taken off if he asks for one.
My final decision
I uphold Mr Ms complaint and direct TFS Loans Limited to put things right as set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 9 March 2022.
 
Susan Webb
Ombudsman