DRN-3128950
The complaint
Mr A, on behalf of B, a limited company, complains that DAS Legal Expenses Insurance 
Company Limited (DAS) is declining to make a settlement on a claim it made on a legal 
expenses insurance policy.
What happened
B holds a policy with DAS and has been in a dispute with a group of people who had 
occupied a property. In court proceedings B, and another entity who Ill refer to as Q were 
listed as joint claimants requesting possession of the property. The dispute proceeded to 
court and the occupiers were ordered to vacate the property and return it to B and Q. The 
occupiers were also ordered to pay 80% of B and Qs legal costs.
B approached DAS requesting they make a settlement. Mr A, a director of B (hes also a 
director of Q) said that while he was aware the policy limited legal expenses cover to 
£100,000, he was asking for this amount to be paid by DAS at that time. He said the 
occupiers, whod vacated the property by that point wouldnt be able to pay the 80% theyd 
been ordered to by the court. He also said that his counsel had incorrectly listed both B and 
Q as claimants when the use of the property in question meant that only B should have been 
listed as a claimant, as Q didnt use the part of the property which had been occupied.
DAS declined to make a settlement. It said it would only be liable for half of any 
unrecoverable legal costs as B and Q were joint claimants but it only provided cover for B. It 
also said B would need to exhaust all recovery options against the other party before it could 
consider making any settlement. It also said that in the event of it making any settlement it 
wouldnt pay more than 80% of the half it said it was liable for, in line with the courts ruling 
about costs. 
B complained to DAS. When it rejected his complaint, Mr A referred the complaint to our 
service. Our investigator didnt think DAS had done anything wrong. B didnt agree and 
requested an ombudsmans decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
There are, Im satisfied, three points to address here. Bs position is that the full legal costs 
should be claimable against its policy (up to the limit), rather than being halved due to the 
inclusion of Q in the court proceedings. It also says that the full 100% of any costs should be 
claimable from DAS, not the 80% awarded by the court. And finally it believes DAS should 
make the settlement now, rather than awaiting the conclusion of enforcement or recovery 
proceedings against the other party. Ill consider these separately.
Are DAS potentially liable for half or all of the legal expenses?
Theres no dispute that only B are insured on this policy with DAS. It also isnt disputed that 
Q was included as a claimant in the proceedings.
Bs position is that the part of the property which was the subject of the repossession 
proceedings wasnt used by Q, and that its legal representatives made an error in including 
Q as a claimant on the proceedings. However, its clear from the documents related to the 
court proceedings that both B and Q were listed as claimants seeking repossession of the 
property, and that remained the case throughout the legal proceedings. Its not for me to say 
whether the legal representatives made a mistake when they listed B and Q as claimants.
I dont think its unreasonable for DAS to refer to both B and Q being listed as claimants and 
so conclude that it should only be liable for 50% of any unrecoverable reasonable legal costs 
as it only insures B. Its fair to say that the costs (in the event of there being no insurance or 
costs award by the court) would be expected to be met by B and Q equally when theyre 
both listed as claimants. The cover only exists for Bs share of the costs. 
What proportion of legal costs should be covered by DAS?
It isnt disputed that the court awarded 80% of the costs for the repossession proceedings to 
B and Q. The reason for this was that the court wasnt persuaded that, prior to bringing the 
matter to court, all of the mediation options to avoid court had been exhausted by B and Q. I 
know Mr A doesnt agree with this and says that attempts were made to mediate with the 
other parties but these werent productive. DAS says it would limit any settlement it makes to 
80% of the total of Bs share of the costs because of a number of conditions of the policy 
which say DAS will only be liable for reasonable and necessary costs. It says that the 
judges conclusion that 20% of the costs should be excluded from the costs award means 
that this proportion of the costs was unreasonable
Im not persuaded that I should take a different view to the court and say that all of the costs 
incurred by B and Q were necessary  the court has concluded on the evidence available to 
it that 20% of the costs were, in effect, unreasonable and could have been avoided if further 
attempts at mediation had been made. I think its fair for DAS to rely on the judgment in 
saying that it will only be liable for 80% of Bs legal costs. The policy terms and conditions 
are clear that it will only pay reasonable legal costs, and the judge has concluded that 80% 
of the costs for repossession were reasonable.
Should DAS make a payment now?
B says DAS should make a settlement now, as it has incurred significant debts in paying the 
legal costs itself and also that the other parties to the dispute wont be able to pay the costs 
award its been required to in the judgment.
While Im sympathetic to Bs financial difficulties, Im not persuaded that DAS should be 
required to make a payment until all enforcement and recovery options against the other 
parties have been exhausted. Until that has happened, its still possible that the other parties 
will comply with the judgment and pay the costs that have been awarded. If that happens, 
then DAS will have no liability for the reasons Ive highlighted above. So while that remains 
the case, its not reasonable to expect DAS to make a payment to B. If, at the conclusion of 
enforcement proceedings, the costs arent paid by the other parties, DAS has said it will look 
again at making a settlement to B for its liabilities. Im satisfied thats all it needs to do here.
I understand that DAS has indicated it will consider a claim made by B for a claim made in 
order to carry out enforcement proceedings against the other parties. Im not persuaded it 
should be asked to do any more in this regard.My final decision
Its my final decision not to uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask B to accept or 
reject my decision before 20 December 2021.
 
Ben Williams
Ombudsman