DRN-3944018
The complaint
Mr A complains that Oodle Financial Services Limited, trading as Oodle car finance, 
irresponsibly granted him a hire purchase agreement he couldnt afford to repay. 
What happened
In July 2021, Mr A acquired a used car financed by a hire purchase agreement from Oodle. 
Mr A was required to make a first instalment of £307.88, followed by 58 monthly repayments 
of £257.88, with a final optional payment of £307.99 if he wanted to own the car at the end of 
the agreement. The total repayable under the agreement was £15,572.80.
The agreement is still running. 
Mr A  says that Oodle didnt complete adequate affordability checks. He says if it had, it 
would have seen the agreement wasnt affordable and he now feels trapped in the 
agreement. Oodle didnt agree. It said that it carried out a thorough assessment which 
included carrying out a credit check to ensure Mr A would have enough disposable income 
to be able to meet the monthly repayments. 
Our adjudicator didnt recommend the complaint be upheld. He thought Oodle didnt act 
unfairly or unreasonably by approving the finance agreement.
Mr A didnt agree and so the complaint has been passed to me for a final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Oodle will be familiar with all the rules, regulations and good industry practice we consider 
when looking at a complaint concerning unaffordable and irresponsible lending. So, I dont 
consider it necessary to set all of this out in this decision. Information about our approach to 
these complaints is set out on our website. 
Before granting the finance, I think Oodle gathered a reasonable amount of evidence and 
information from Mr A about his ability to repay. I say this because it used the information 
Mr A provided, including about his annual income, which at that time worked out a net 
monthly income of around £2,000. It also completed a credit check to understand how Mr A 
had managed his existing and previous financial arrangements. This showed that hed had 
three defaulted accounts between 2015 and 2019. I agree with our adjudicator that these 
were old enough to be treated as historical and that Mr A now appeared to be in better 
control of his financial and debt commitments by the time he took out the agreement. The 
credit check showed Mr As credit history and that in terms of other credit, he was operating 
two credit cards as well as having an ongoing agreement in place with communications 
supplier. Other than that, the check showed no other adverse information affecting his credit 
history, such as a county court judgment. Using statistical data, Oodle then calculated that 
Mr A would have enough disposable income to meet his payments under the agreement. 
However, just because I think Oodle carried out proportionate checks, it doesnt 
automatically mean it made a fair lending decision. So, Ive thought about what the evidence 
and information showed. 
Ive reviewed the information and evidence Oodle gathered. Having done so Im satisfied 
that the checks that were completed showed that the agreement was likely to be affordable 
to Mr A. I say this taking into account the level of information Oodle obtained when carrying 
out its credit checks, including the credit report and statistical data it used. 
I agree with our adjudicator that Oodles checks were proportionate. But I have also looked 
at the bank statement information Mr A provided, where I can see his monthly income was 
consistent with what hed told Oodle he was earning. Whilst Ive seen that Mr A was making 
use of his overdraft from time to time, his overall pattern of account use doesnt suggest that 
his financial position was worsening such that he was likely to have been experiencing 
significant financial difficulty at the time he applied for the agreement. So I dont consider the 
statements change the position that the checks carried out by at the time it considered 
Mr A s application were fair and proportionate.
For these reasons, I dont think Oodle acted unfairly when approving Mr A s finance 
application.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above, I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision before 11 April 2023. 
Michael Goldberg
Ombudsman