DRN-2362115
The complaint
Mr H is unhappy Great Lakes Insurance SE has declined his claim under his furniture 
warranty.
What happened
In October 2017, Mr H bought a five-year furniture guard policy alongside a new set of two 
sofas and an armchair. Around two years later, Mr H reported that the leather on the three-
seater sofa was rubbing off. He contacted Great Lakes and it sent out an engineer to 
examine the sofas.
The engineer visited in November 2019 and noted that the leather pigment was fading, 
mostly on the raised sofa seams. The engineer said the sofa had been well maintained, but 
the raised seams did show colour loss. He said that to resolve the issue, the leather pigment 
could be resprayed and lacquered to seal it. He said the leather lacquer had failed to seal to 
the pigment. But that a dry rub test in an inconspicuous area didnt show any pigment fading. 
Off the back of this report, Great Lakes didnt agree to cover the claim. It said that colour 
loss wasnt something that was covered under the policy. Mr H disagreed and said that the 
leather was peeling off the sofa  which was something the policy covered. Great Lakes 
agreed to send a second engineer out for another review.
The second engineer visited in December 2019. He determined there wasnt a 
manufacturing fault with the sofa. His report noted that in the areas the pigment had failed, 
there was a build-up of grease on the sofas and they were sticky. He said the grease had 
attacked the pigment in the leather. He also did dry rub tests in other areas and found no 
colour pigment came off. As this report hadnt found there to be a covered issue with the 
sofa, Great Lakes maintained its decision to decline the claim. It said the damage was 
consistent with the top sealant lifting from the leather  and that this wasnt covered.
Mr H raised a complaint about the claim outcome, but as it didnt change, he brought his 
complaint to our service. Our investigator didnt uphold his complaint, as she said that 
neither engineer had reported the leather hide peeling on their reports, which is what the 
policy did cover. So the issue being reported wasnt covered. Mr H disagreed and asked for 
an ombudsmans decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive reviewed the terms and conditions of Mr Hs policy, alongside the engineers reports and 
his testimony about the damage. While I note Mr H favours the findings of the first engineer, 
in fact both reports state that the issue isnt covered under his policy. The first engineer 
defined the problem as colour loss and so the leather needed respraying. And the second 
engineer also identified a problem with the pigment in the leather and said the damage was 
caused by Mr Hs use and maintenance of the sofa. So Ive looked to see if either, or both, of 
these issues are covered, as per Mr Hs policy terms.
Reviewing this case, the key parts of Mr Hs policy are the section under What Is Covered 
that states:
Structural defects to fabric or leather furniture, mattresses (including mattress 
protectors) following the expiry of the suppliers warranty caused by;
 Separation of seams and stitching;
 Lifting or peeling of the hide on leather furniture;
And under What Is Not Covered where the policy states:
We will not pay the claim costs arising from:
1. Any damage (structural or otherwise), soiling or staining caused:
 by any other cause not specifically mentioned under What is Covered
And
3. Stains & damage that is consistent with wear and tear or anything that happens 
gradually;
Mr H is arguing that the leather on his sofa is peeling  which means it potentially would be 
covered. However neither of the engineers reports stated that the leather was peeling. And, 
without comparable expert evidence from Mr H, Im more persuaded by the findings in these 
reports. This is also because the policy is more specific than simply just stating it covers 
peeling of the leather  it needs to be the hide itself that is peeling, not just a coating or 
sealant on top of the hide. Ive also quoted the term around seams above, as I note this is 
where the main issue is on the sofa. But theres also no evidence that the seams are 
separating in this case, so Mr H wouldnt be covered under this either.
Considering the above, I cant say that the type of issue Mr H is trying to claim for is covered. 
While I accept that hes arguing the colour loss is a structural defect, I cant say that this 
defect has been caused by any of the specific listed reasons. So this means, as per the 
what is not covered section, Great Lakes wont accept a claim for this issue.
Ive quoted the wear and tear term above as I know Great Lakes mentioned this in its 
response to Mr H. And in reply, Mr H said he maintained his sofa well, using the leather 
moisturising kit provided and that he kept the sofa clean. I understand he didnt agree with 
the second engineers findings that the sofa was greasy and sticky. However, even if I was 
to accept that he maintained the sofa well, I still cant say that the issue hes experienced is 
covered under his policy. The engineers dont report the sofas leather hide to be peeling  
which is the only listed cause I can see that this claim could be covered under  so this 
means his claim isnt payable.
I appreciate why Mr H is unhappy that despite buying this cover, he isnt able to claim for this 
damage to his sofa. But I havent seen anything to suggest he was told every eventuality 
would be covered by this policy  and that isnt the way insurance generally works. The cost 
Mr H paid for the policy will reflect what it does cover. And I cant fairly say Great Lakes 
should cover this damage, when it isnt an issue it accepted to cover, as per Mr Hs policy 
terms. 
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I dont uphold Mr Hs complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 19 December 2020. 
Amy Osborne
Ombudsman