DRN-3493117
The complaint
Mr and Mrs S complain that TICORP Limited mis-sold them a Staysure travel insurance 
policy.
Staysure is a trading name of TICORP Limited and so for ease, Ive referred to TICORP 
Limited as Staysure throughout this decision.
What happened
On 8 May 2019, Mrs S called Staysure to renew an annual multi-trip travel insurance policy. 
The policy provided the comprehensive level of cover and was valid between 27 May 2019 
and 26 May 2020. Mr and Mrs S paid £222.21 for the policy.
In February 2020, following a delayed trip abroad, Mr and Mrs S had to make a claim on 
their travel insurance policy. The policy insurer partly settled the claim, but Mr and Mrs S 
were unhappy that their full claim costs hadnt been paid. They said theyd understood the 
policy offered comprehensive cover and that therefore, it would cover every eventuality. So 
they felt Staysure had mis-sold their policy and asked us to look into a complaint about that 
issue. They considered that Staysure should pay the balance of their claim.
Our investigator didnt think Mr and Mrs S complaint should be upheld. He felt the policy 
booklet made it clear that there were some restrictions on cover, so he felt theyd likely been 
aware that there were some limitations on what the insurer would pay. And he said that no 
policy on the market covered every eventuality. So he didnt agree that the policy had been 
mis-sold to Mr and Mrs S. 
Mr and Mrs S disagreed. They said that they felt a comprehensive policy should be just that. 
If I failed to address this issue, then companies would continue to mislead and mis-sell 
products without hesitation. They wanted me to take into account the dictionary definition of 
comprehensive and that in their view (and the views of other lay people), comprehensive 
meant comprehensive.
The complaints been passed to me to decide. I need to make it clear that this complaint only 
concerns the sale of the policy by Staysure. The claims decision by the policy insurer has 
already been decided by another ombudsman at this service. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, whilst Im sorry to disappoint Mr and Mrs S, Ive decided not to uphold their 
complaint and Ill explain why.
First, its important I explain that it isnt my role to tell financial businesses how to market 
their products or to change their systems or processes. Thats because were not the 
industry regulator. My role is to consider individual complaints brought by consumers about a 
financial business we cover, where a consumer believes a business has done something 
wrong which it needs to put right. So I have no power to tell Staysure how to brand or market 
the insurance products it sells.
I havent seen enough evidence to suggest that Staysure advised Mr and Mrs S to take out 
or renew their travel insurance policy. This means it didnt need to check it was suitable for 
them. But it did need to give them enough clear, fair and not misleading information so that 
they could decide if it was right for them.
It's clear how strongly Mr and Mrs S consider that given the common definition of 
comprehensive set out in dictionaries, their policy shouldve covered everything. And I 
appreciate that they feel they were misled as to the extent of the cover they held. However, 
no travel insurance policy available on the market covers every eventuality. In my 
experience, its highly unlikely that they would have been able to find a policy which did 
cover every situation  and particularly at a competitive price.
Mrs S called Staysure to renew the existing policy. Staysure says that following the call, Mr 
and Mrs S wouldve been sent policy paperwork, setting out the policy terms and conditions 
(in addition to the information that wouldve been sent when they originally took out an 
annual policy with Staysure). Due to Staysures data procedures, it no longer has a copy of 
the renewal call available, so Ive looked carefully at the information I do have in making this 
decision.
I can see from Mr and Mrs S policy certificate that they did take out comprehensive cover. 
This means that they took out the highest available level of cover on this policy, which is 
differentiated from the basic level of cover. In essence, comprehensive cover offers 
policyholders higher policy limits; lower excesses and additional sections, such as personal 
accident cover and home country cover (amongst others)  which arent provided by the 
basic level of cover. It also offers policyholders the chance to add on optional extras which 
arent available to policyholders who choose the basic level of cover.
It isnt clear whether Mr and Mrs S received all of the documentation which Staysure says 
wouldve been sent to them after the policy renewed. Staysure says it cant provide evidence 
that all of the relevant documents were sent. But there doesnt seem to be any dispute that 
Mr and Mrs S did receive a copy of the policy terms and conditions. Page two of the policy 
documents sets out a section called Essential Information. Immediately underneath, it says:
It is important that you read this policy document and your Validation Certificate
carefully to ensure that it meets your requirements and so that you understand the extent
of cover provided, what is and is not covered along with any terms, or conditions of cover.
In my view, this information makes it clear not just that policyholders should check the policy 
terms to ensure that the policy is right for them, but it also specifically states that the 
document sets out what is and isnt covered. I think it shouldve been clear to Mr and Mrs S 
then that this policy didnt cover every eventuality and there were things the insurer had 
chosen not to cover. The Essential Information section also set out where to find information 
about the policy cancellation rights and cooling-off period. So I think that if Mr and Mrs S had 
been led to believe that the policy covered every situation, they had enough information here 
to understand that this wasnt the case. And therefore, that they were in a position to cancel 
the contract with Staysure within the policy cooling-off period.
And I think that given the Table of Benefits (which was clearly set out on pages seven and 
eight of the policy) listed a number of additional covers which Mr and Mrs S hadnt opted to 
take up, they ought reasonably to have been aware that the policy didnt cover every 
possible situation as standard. Overall, I think the evidence suggests its most likely that Staysure met its obligation to give 
Mr and Mrs S clear, fair and not misleading information about the policy. And it was open to 
them to check that the policy was right for them. I appreciate they were left out of pocket 
when their full claim wasnt paid by their insurer and I sympathise with their position. But I 
dont find that that was because of any failure of Staysure to provide clear or accurate 
information. So Im not telling Staysure to do anything more.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs S and Mr S to 
accept or reject my decision before 29 July 2022.
 
Lisa Barham
Ombudsman