DRN-1890875
The complaint
Mrs L, represented by Mr L, complained that her insurance company, Admiral Insurance 
Company Ltd (Admiral), decided that she was at fault for a collision with another car. This 
meant she lost some of the no-claims discount on her motor insurance.
What happened
In May 2018 Mrs L was driving her car when the car in front stopped suddenly. Mrs L says 
that she also stopped and did not hit the other car. Mrs L gave the other driver her details 
and also contacted Admiral. Admirals records show that Mrs L told it that she did not know if 
she had hit the other car or not. 
The other driver made a claim on Mrs Ls insurance, saying that Mrs L had hit the back of 
their car and caused damage. Admiral looked into the claim and got an independent 
assessor to look at Mrs Ls car. The other insurer got a 3rd party assessor to look at the other 
drivers car. Admiral decided that these reports showed that Mrs Ls car had hit the back of 
the other car. It accepted Mrs L was at fault for the incident. Admiral therefore paid for the 
damage to the other car, and so Mrs L lost some of the no-claims discount on her insurance.
Mrs L complained to Admiral, saying that she had not hit the other car. Admiral did not 
uphold the complaint, although it did pay Mrs L £65 for the trouble and upset it caused her 
due to delays in responding to her and some lack of communication.
Mrs L was not happy with Admirals response and complained to this service. One of our 
investigators looked into what happened. The investigator did not uphold Mrs Ls complaint. 
She said it was reasonable for Admiral to look into what happened and get the independent 
reports, because when Mrs L first contacted Admiral she wasnt sure if she had hit the other 
car. The investigator felt that Admiral had used all the available evidence to decide what had 
most likely happened. She didnt think that Admirals decision to accept that Mrs L was at 
fault was unreasonable.
Mrs L was not happy with the investigators view, and so the complaint has come to me for a 
final decision.
Mr L, on behalf of Mrs L, says that Mrs L did not hit the other car. He says she wants an 
apology from the head of Admirals complaints department, the claim and her concerns 
correctly addressed, her no-claims discount restored, and financial compensation for the 
higher premiums and the stress caused.
 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
This service doesnt decide whos at fault for an incident. Thats the role of the courts. 
Instead, we look at whether the insurer acted in line with the policy terms and made a fair 
and reasonable decision. Under Mrs Ls policy Admiral is entitled to conduct the defence or 
settlement of any claim on her behalf. That means it might make a decision Mrs L disagrees 
with, but the policy allows it to do so. I can consider whether Admirals decision to do so was 
reasonable. Having done so, I think it was. 
Ive seen copies of the reports into the condition of both cars. Both reports include a number 
of photos. The reports and photos show some damage to the front of Mrs Ls car and the 
back of the other car. The reports are written by two different independent experts. The 
report into Mrs Ls car states - 
The vehicle has suffered light collision/impact damage to the front.
As part of its response to Mrs Ls complaint, Admiral says that its in-house engineer 
reviewed the two reports and concluded that - 
the damage to the third-party vehicle is consistent with the damage the Assessor 
highlighted in his report. 
Mrs L has not provided any independent assessor reports or photos of her own, or any other 
evidence such as dashcam footage or independent witness statements. Mr L says, on her 
behalf, that the damage to the other car must have been caused by a lower car than Mrs Ls. 
Im not an engineer or a claims assessor. My role is to decide whether Admiral acted fairly 
and reasonably in line with what it says in Mrs Ls policy. I think it was reasonable for 
Admiral to accept the view of the independent assessor and the in-house engineer, 
especially as there was no other independent report saying anything different. Mr L says that 
the same independent assessor looked at the car again after another incident later the same 
year, and the reports contradict each other. He says the second report shows more tread on 
one of the tyres than the first report, even though another of the tyres was changed. I can 
see that Mr L believes that the two reports from the independent assessor are contradictory, 
and that this undermines the assessors credibility. However I can only consider what 
happened in the May incident, and not what happened in another incident. The report into 
the May incident was written at the time, and is clear in its conclusions. And I have no 
information about which of the tyres may have been replaced. Mr L also says there was no 
damage to Mrs Ls car. However the independent assessors report, supported by photos, is 
very clear there was some damage to the front of the car.
In its response to Mrs Ls complaint, Admiral said that in her initial call Mrs L was not able to 
say whether the two vehicles touched. Admiral also said Mrs L gave the other driver her 
details, and the damage to the other car was consistent with the damage to her car. For all 
these reasons, Admiral said it was right to deal with the third party claim.
Overall I think that Admirals decision was fair and reasonable and made in line with the 
terms of Mrs Ls policy. So I dont think Admiral did anything wrong by accepting Mrs L was 
liable. That means Im not going to ask Admiral to apologise to Mrs L, restore her no-claims 
discount or pay her any compensation.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs L to accept or 
reject my decision before 1 April 2021.
 
Sarah Baalham
Ombudsman