DRN-1473995
Complaint
Mr P complains that Capital One (Europe) plc trading as Luma (Capital One) acted 
irresponsibly when it agreed to provide him with a credit card facility in 2012. He also says 
that Capital One applied excessive account fees between 2012 and 2015 when the account 
was closed
Background
Mr P says that the card facility should not have been agreed because he already had payday 
loans with other lenders. He occasionally missed his minimum monthly payments and 
exceeded his credit limit and charges were applied. He says that Capital One should have 
realised he was in difficulty and that the charges were excessive adding to his financial 
difficulties and health and wellbeing. 
Mr P would like Capital One to refund him all the charges made to the account.
Capital One says that:
The fees were applied in line with the terms and conditions of the card.
Mr P has not previously complained that the card facility should not have been 
agreed but that because the card was provided more than six years ago we cant 
consider that part of the complaint. 
Our investigator agreed that part of the complaint was time barred. She considered the 
complaint about charges applied in the last six years and concluded that they had been 
applied in line with the account terms and conditions and were not excessive. 
My findings 
Ive considered all the available information, evidence and arguments to decide whats fair 
and reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Having done so, I have reached the 
same conclusions as the investigator and for much the same reasons.
Our rules say, amongst other things, that we cant look at complaints  more than six years 
after the event complained of; or (if later) three years from the date on which the consumer 
became aware (or ought reasonably  to have become aware) that he had cause for 
complaint.
With that in mind I dont think we can consider the complaint about the decision to provide 
Mr P with the card. This took place in 2012 more than six years before the complaint was 
made. 
As far as the three year rule is concerned,  Mr P complained that Capital One should have 
been aware at the time he applied for the credit card he was having financial difficulties. Im 
satisfied this is when he would have been aware of affordability issues. Mr P also received 
regular statements on his credit card giving him several opportunities to raise any complaint. 
Its worth noting that this credit card is designed for those looking to build their credit ratings 
or may have experienced previous credit issues.Ive considered what happened in 2015 but dont think that contact amounted to an 
expression of concern about the lending rather Mr P asked for help after Capital One 
contacted him about the account. Mr P has not told us of any exceptional circumstances 
which prevented him from bringing the complaint at an earlier stage. 
Because of the rules in which we operate, I can only consider the part of Mr Ps complaint of 
the excessive fees charged to his credit card from August 2013 to its closure in 2015, as 
application of these fees falls within the six year rule. 
I have considered if Capital One were unreasonable in applying these fees to Mr Ps Credit 
card. The fees have been charged when Mr P exceeded his borrowing limit or was late in 
making payments. I have seen copies of the statements Mr P received, which point him to 
contact Capital One if he has financial difficulties. When in 2015 Mr P made Capital One 
aware of his financial position and health issues they put the account on a free charge period 
and this is what I would expect here. 
Fees charged to credit cards are subject to industry guidelines - the £12 charged on the 
occasions his limit was exceeded, or payments were late, sit within what this service would 
expect to see. I am satisfied that these are not disproportionate or unreasonable. 
It is also worth mentioning, the fees are in line with the terms and conditions of his credit 
card agreement, a copy of which has been provided to this service. Under the section Key 
Information it details what fees are applicable for late payments and over limit defaults. 
These fees are also detailed in his credit card statements, in a summary box. I am satisfied 
that Mr P had been advised of the level of fees to be charged in the event of late payments 
and his credit limit being exceeded. 
On balance, I am satisfied that Capital One acted fairly when applying the fees here.
I understand that Mr P will be disappointed with my decision but I am bound by the rules 
under which this service operates and it follows, for the reasons I have stated above, I 
cannot ask anymore of Capital One here.
My Final Decision 
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision before 26 June 2020.
Barry White
Ombudsman