DRN-3879108
The complaint
Mrs W has complained TSB Bank plc transferred her overseas payment in euros, rather than 
sterling as she requested.
What happened
Mrs W is represented in her complaint by her son. For ease Ive referred to Mrs W 
throughout.
Mrs W needed to make a payment to a bank overseas to pay for medical treatment. Shed 
not made many if any cross-border payments previously but confirmed she wanted to 
transfer £14,000. TSB presented Mrs W with a form entitled international payment request. 
This confirmed the payment would be made in euros. Mrs W signed the form.
Mrs W wanted to transfer sterling as the money was being paid into an overseas sterling 
account. She was charged for the euro payment being converted back into sterling as it was 
paid into the overseas account. She asked TSB to refund that amount as she believed theyd 
not followed her explicit instruction. 
TSB didnt believe theyd done anything wrong. Mrs W brought her complaint to the 
ombudsman service.
Our investigator felt TSB could rely on the instructions Mrs W had confirmed by signing the 
request form. 
Still unhappy, Mrs W has asked an ombudsman to consider her complaint.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive come to the same outcome as our investigator. Ill explain why.
There is a clear disagreement between what TSB and Mrs W believe happened here. Mrs W 
believes she was explicit in giving TSB an instruction to send £14,000 to an overseas 
account, which was also denominated in sterling. TSB dont believe this was clear at all.
In fact I think both things can be true at the same time. I dont doubt Mrs W asked to make a 
payment of £14,000. After all she didnt, Im sure, ask to make a payment of €14,000. But I 
dont know whether she necessarily specified the overseas account was also in sterling. I 
think the cashier made an assumption that the overseas bank account would be in euros 
(despite that not being the domestic currency of the country where the other bank is).
In the end, however, theres no dispute Mrs W signed the request form which did clearly 
specify the currency for the transfer to be in euros. 
Where there is doubt about who said what, I think its fair to rely on existing written material. I 
have done that here as I believe Mrs W, by signing the request form, agreed to making a 
payment in euros.
Theres been some discussion around how the payment was processed but this has no 
impact on my decision.
I appreciate Mrs W has lost out financially by paying conversion costs that she didnt expect. 
However as she signed the request form, Im satisfied it wouldnt be fair and reasonable to 
ask TSB to refund those.
My final decision
For the reasons given, my final decision is not to uphold Mrs Ws complaint against TSB 
Bank plc.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs W to accept or 
reject my decision before 10 April 2023.
 
Sandra Quinn
Ombudsman