DRN-2294544
The complaint
Mr K complains that The Royal Bank of Scotland Plc refused his claim brought under 
Section 75 of the Consumer Credit Act 1974 (CCA) in relation to the design and supply of a 
kitchen. He wants a full refund and compensation.
What happened
Mr K tells us that he bought a kitchen which was supplied and designed by a company Ill 
refer to as H. He says this was paid for using a RBS credit card. Mr K says that the drawing 
produced by Hs designer wasnt accurate. And that not all the items were supplied on the 
agreed date. He says this caused his fitters to lose time and increased his costs.
RBS told us that it hadnt been supplied with information to show that there had been any 
misrepresentation or breach of contract by H. And that the sales contract didnt specify that it 
included planning /design or any price for this service.
Our investigator didnt recommend that the complaint should be upheld. She said that the 
invoice was for the supply of items only. And this had been fulfilled. She explained that she 
hadnt seen anything to show that H had promised that the components would all be 
delivered at the same time. She concluded that there hadnt been any misrepresentation or 
any breach of contract as the items which had been ordered had being supplied.
Mr K wasnt satisfied with this outcome and asked that an ombudsman make the final 
decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im sorry that Mr K has experienced some problems with the design and fitting of his new 
kitchen. And I understand the disappointment that this might cause.
In summary, Mr Ks complaint is that Hs design of his kitchen was flawed. And that some of 
the items supplied wouldnt fit. He further complains that the items were delivered over 
different days and that this led to increased costs of installation as his fitters were held up.
Im aware that Ive summarised this complaint in far less detail than the parties and Ive done 
so using my own words. Im not responding to every single point made by all the parties 
involved. No discourtesy is intended by this. Instead, Ive concentrated on what I think are 
the key issues here. Our rules allow me to do this.
This reflects the nature of our service as an informal alternative to the courts. If theres 
something Ive not mentioned, it isnt because Ive ignored it. I havent. Im satisfied I dont 
need to comment on every individual argument to be able to reach what I think is the right 
outcome.
I think its important to set out my role here. In considering a complaint about a financial 
services provider, Im not determining the outcome of a claim that a party might have under 
Section 75. Rather, Im deciding whats a fair way to resolve Mr Ks complaint. I have to take 
account of relevant law, amongst other things. Section 75 is relevant law.
In summary, in some limited circumstances, Section 75 gives a consumer an equal claim 
against the provider of finance as they would have against the supplier of the goods or 
services about which complaint is brought. It requires there to have been a 
misrepresentation or breach of contract by the supplier.
Ive been supplied with various documents which include an estimate of costs; list of items to 
be supplied; photos and design measurements. The documents from H containing the layout 
design and measurements indicated that they should be checked with the installer.
I accept that Hs planner visited Mr Ks home and took measurements and later supplied a 
drawing depicting a computerised layout. But theres a substantial difference between 
checking to see what items will fit within the available space and actually being specifically 
made to measure. Ive seen nothing which indicates that there was a separate bespoke 
design agreement. And I find its more probable than not that the contract with H was to 
supply goods only. And that the purpose of the visit and taking of measurements was to 
ensure they were fit for purpose  that is they were suitable for the space available. And that 
once theyd been supplied it was for Mr Ks builder to adapt these items to make the precise 
fitting arrangements.
As to the delays, theres no indication that this was a time is of the essence contract (that is 
where there is a specific contractual obligation regarding when goods or services will be 
supplied). And I also note that some items which werent originally delivered were later 
supplied free of charge. 
As Ive not been supplied with information to show that theres been any breach of contract 
or misrepresentation it follows that there cant be any consequential losses arising from such 
an event. Also Ive not seen anything which shows what amount, if any, of additional costs 
was incurred as a result of the delays.
In summary, I find that RBS has dealt fairly with this complaint. And that based on the 
information available it was entitled to conclude that there had been no misrepresentation or 
breach of contract for which it was liable. Accordingly Im not upholding this complaint.
My final decision
For the reasons given above my final decision is that Im not upholding this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr K to accept or 
reject my decision before 3 February 2021.
 
Stephen Ross
Ombudsman