DRN-2859062
The complaint
Mrs O complains that Covea Insurance plc (Covea) declined a claim on her home
insurance.
What happened
In June 2019, Mrs O spoke to her insurance broker about a potential leak at her property.
Her water pressure had dropped within the property which she believed was caused by a
leak. She was initially passed to her home emergency insurer, who was unable to help at
that time. She then spoke to her home insurance provider, Covea.
Covea explained that, as there was no evidence of an insured event and damaged pipework
wasnt covered under her policy, there wasnt anything it could do at that time. But it advised
her to appoint her own plumber to investigate the issue and call back to let Covea know what
had happened as it may be able to cover the resultant damage.
Mrs O contacted Covea again at the end of August 2019 to discuss the leak, which she 
states is separate to the previous water pressure issues. The home emergency provider 
visited the property and a leak was repaired. As physical damage was now present, Mrs O 
wanted to make a claim on her home insurance.
A loss adjuster visited the property and recommended that the claim was declined as the
leak had been ongoing for a long period of time and therefore the damage was gradual and
not covered under the policy terms. He also commented that the damage caused was 
visible.
Mrs O disagreed with the content of the report. She says she wasnt there at the time of the
visit as her sister had been at the property so disagreed with some of the comments made in
that report.
I issued a provisional decision on 29 August 2020 letting both parties know that I didnt 
intend to uphold the complaint. In it, I said:
There is no dispute that there was a leak in Mrs Os home that caused water damage and
that this happened over a period of time. But Covea says Mrs O didnt take appropriate steps
to mitigate her loss by calling a plumber to repair the damage after she reported the potential
leak.
Our investigator thought the complaint should be upheld as he thought Covea had allowed
Mrs O to believe that she could leave the leak and Covea would cover any damage. But Ive
listened to that call and I dont agree thats the case. The adviser said that Mrs O needed to
get a plumber out on several occasions. The discussion centred around Mrs O calling back
after the plumber had been out and identified the cause of the water pressure failure. The
adviser then said they would be able to advise whether the issue was covered once they
knew what the problem was.
Mrs O did say that she would just leave the damage and the adviser began to explain again
that she must get a plumber out  but Mrs O interrupted and asked her to answer a specific
question about the policy. However, taking the entire conversation into account, I think
Covea made it clear that it was Mrs Os responsibility to arrange a plumber to repair the leak.
During that initial call the issue was discussed, and Mrs O confirmed there was no sign of
damage at that time. I havent seen any evidence that Mrs O arranged for a plumber to visit
the property after that call and there was no further contact with Covea until August 2020, by
which time there was significantly more damage to the surrounding areas of the bathroom.
Mrs Os home insurance policy states that Mrs O needed to take all reasonable steps to
prevent further loss or damage to her property or Covea may not pay the claim. Given the
conversation that took place, I dont think Mrs O took all the reasonable steps that she
needed to or that she followed the advice Covea gave her in June 2019 to appoint a
plumber. At that stage, Mrs O was convinced there was a leak, so I dont think she has taken
reasonable steps to mitigate her losses. Therefore, I dont think Covea has acted 
unreasonably in declining the claim.
Covea replied to say it accepted my provisional decision. Mrs O responded to provide further 
information, including that she hired a plumber after her call with Covea. She also provided 
evidence showing messages between her and a mains plumber. These were forwarded to 
Covea for its consideration, however they didnt change its position. Covea said that the 
messages Mrs O sent were from a plumber investigating an issue with the mains water 
rather than a plumber investigating this particular leak. As the parties didnt agree, the 
complaint has been passed back to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Covea states that the damage was caused gradually, and gradual damage isnt covered 
under her policy. So Ive considered whether the evidence Ive seen suggests the damage 
was caused gradually rather than being from a sudden event. 
Ive seen pictures of the damage caused by the leak in the property. The loss adjuster noted 
that the damage would have happened over a period of time and having seen the pictures of 
the damage caused, it doesnt appear to be consistent with water damage caused suddenly 
to the bathroom  there is significant damage to the plasterboard and the walls appear to be 
damp and have watermarks across several areas. The loss adjuster also noted that there 
was excessive mould/fungus growth and that the skirting boards are rotten. So taking all 
of that into account, Im satisfied that Covea has provided enough evidence to show its likely 
the damage happened over a period of time.
However I must then consider whether Mrs O should have been aware that the damage was 
occurring and whether she tooks steps to mitigate the situation.
Mrs O called Covea in June 2019 and stated that she thought she had a leak as there were 
flies in the property and issues with the water pressure. In addition to this, the damage to the 
area around the leak is significant and appears to have happened over a period of time as 
Ive described above. And ultimately the water from the leak caused part of the wall to 
become crushed. So, as the damage to the area is significant and Mrs O seems to have had 
prior suspicions that there was a leak, I think Mrs O should have been aware the damage 
was occurring. 
Covea gave Mrs O clear guidance during her initial call  that she needed to contact a 
plumber to identify whether there was a leak. Mrs O says she did this so Ive considered the evidence she submitted and the new information she has provided. Mrs O says she 
remembers paying a plumber to investigate the leak but unfortunately, she hasnt been able 
to find a copy of that invoice or provide any evidence that a plumber visited her property and 
investigated the leak. She has provided pictures of conversations had with a mains plumber. 
But those conversation relate to other works Mrs O appears to have been having elsewhere 
in the property, rather than in investigation into the suspected leak in her property.
In addition to this, when Mrs O initially submitted her complaint to this service, she said that 
as there was no evidence leak or damage, she couldnt investigate further after her call with 
Covea. So taking all of this into account, Im not satisfied that Mrs O took steps to mitigate 
the damage to her property when she believed she had a leak.
So while I realise this will come as a disappointment to Mrs O, on balance I dont think 
Covea acted unreasonably in declining her claim on the basis that the damage happened 
gradually  and gradual damage isnt covered under the policy terms.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs O to accept or 
reject my decision before 6 July 2021.
 
Sara Falzon
Ombudsman