DRN-3328206
The complaint
Mr and Mrs P complain that Bank of Scotland plc trading as Halifax has wrongly applied 
interest to their mortgage sub account. Mrs P says theyd like the sub account paid off and 
compensation for being misled and for the time this matter has taken.
What happened
Mr and Mrs P took out a mortgage with another provider. Their mortgage was later 
transferred to Halifax. Mrs P says there were no problems with the mortgage until late 2020 
when they received a letter from Halifax saying thered been some changes to the way the 
mortgage was managed. One of the changes was to the way interest was calculated. As a 
result of the changes, Halifax created a sub account with a balance of about £385. It said 
this was interest free.
Mr and Mrs P raised a complaint in late 2020 about the creation of the sub account, which 
they brought to this service. Our investigator explained that we cant look into the subject 
matter of that complaint again.
In mid-2021 Mr and Mrs P took out a new interest rate product. Later in 2021 they found out 
that Halifax had started to charge interest on the sub account. Mrs P says they werent told 
this would happen. 
Our investigator said Halifax had told Mr and Mrs P that it would apply interest on the sub 
account if they took out a new product. Halifax paid £100 compensation for poor service, 
which our investigator said was fair. 
Mr and Mrs P didnt agree. In summary, Mrs P said they had nothing to do with the changes 
that led to the sub account being created in late 2020. She said they didnt have funds to 
repay the £385 balance before their product expired in mid 2021. She said they had to take 
out a new product given the difference in the rate that would be applied if they were on 
Halifaxs standard variable rate. So they had no choice other than to start paying interest on 
the sub account.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Halifax wrote to Mr and Mrs P in November 2020 saying it had changed the way their 
mortgage was managed. The letter said interest would be calculated differently. The letter 
said that as a result of this change an amount of interest hadnt been paid that month (about 
£385). The letter said this had been put into a sub account and no interest was being 
applied. Mr and Mrs P previously brought a complaint about the sub account to our service, 
which means I cant look into it again here. Ive included this summary of what happened 
only by way of background to this complaint. 
When Mr and Mrs P took out a new product in mid-2021 the sub account balance moved 
onto a repayment basis and interest was applied at the product rate. I think Halifax did make 
Mr and Mrs P aware this would happen:
The November 2020 letter about the changes to the way the mortgage was managed 
said Mr and Mrs P could repay the balance of the sub account. It said if they didnt, and 
they took out a new product, it would become part of the monthly repayments over the 
remaining term. The letter didnt say that interest would be applied.
The final response letter sent to Mr and Mrs P by Halifax in November 2020 said they 
were not paying interest on a balance of [£385] until the next recalculation event. While 
Mr and Mrs P might not have known what was meant by recalculation event, this did 
suggest the sub account wouldnt be interest free indefinitely.
The product offer sent to Mr and Mrs P in May 2021 set out how the new product terms 
would apply to the main mortgage account and the sub account in a table. This set out 
the balance of each account, the interest rate that would apply to each account and said 
each account would be on a repayment basis. Mr and Mrs P agreed to this when they 
accepted the product.
The cover letter for the product offer said new terms and conditions were enclosed and 
would apply to the mortgage when the new product came into effect. Halifax says it sent 
a copy of the terms and conditions with the product offer. These say interest will be 
charged on whats owed, including interest that has been charged but not paid. Mrs P 
says they didnt receive the terms and conditions. If Mrs P would like a copy, she should 
ask Halifax for a copy. But even without the terms and conditions, I think the product 
offer set out sufficiently clearly what would happen with the sub account.
Mrs P says they were put into an unfair position. They couldnt afford to repay the sub 
account balance before their product expired. And they had no choice about taking out a 
new product given the cost of being on Halifaxs variable rate. Essentially, what Mrs P is 
saying is that despite interest being applied to the sub account, it was still much cheaper to 
take out a new preferential interest rate. 
Mrs P says they werent able to repay the sub account balance before their product expired. 
She says this was a difficult time, as they felt the effects of the Covid-19 pandemic and 
socially distancing guidelines. I can understand this. But I think Halifax offered a fair solution 
to this. It said it would keep the sub account interest free during the term of the new product 
(two years) and refund the payments Mr and Mrs P had made (totalling about £4.80) in 
relation to the sub account. Mr and Mrs P declined this. Our investigator asked if theyd like 
her to ask Halifax if the offer is still available, but Mrs P again declined saying it was 
pointless as it wouldnt be interest free for an unlimited time. 
Halifax offered £100 compensation for poor service. It offered to use this to reduce the 
balance of the sub account. Mrs P asked for the £100 to be paid direct to them.
Ultimately, Mr and Mrs P are unhappy about the sub account. I appreciate that they didnt 
ask for  and had no say in  the changes that led to the sub account being created. But this 
was the subject matter of a previous complaint and not something I can look into again here.
I know that Mr and Mrs P will be disappointed, but I dont intend to uphold this complaint. I 
think Halifax made Mr and Mrs P aware that interest would be applied to the sub account 
when they took out a new product. Halifax did initially tell Mr and Mrs P (incorrectly) that 
interest shouldnt have been applied to the sub account, but it corrected this soon after. And 
I think the offer Halifax made in response to Mr and Mrs Ps complaint was fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances.My final decision
My decision is that I do not uphold this complaint as I think that the compensation paid by 
Bank of Scotland plc trading as Halifax is fair and reasonable in the circumstances.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr P and Mrs P to 
accept or reject my decision before 21 April 2022.
 
Ruth Stevenson
Ombudsman