DRN-3193053
The complaint
Ms U has complained Black Horse Limited unfairly recorded a default and wrote off her 
account under a hire purchase agreement after agreeing a payment arrangement.   
What happened
Ms U acquired a car under a hire purchase agreement with Black Horse in 2015. The car 
was involved in an accident in 2018 and after an insurance pay-out Ms U was left owing 
around £6,700. Black Horse told Ms U this would be reduced to around £3,900 if settled, due 
to an interest rebate for early settlement.
Ms U brought a complaint to our service in 2018 because she was unhappy with the service 
she received from Black Horse following the accident. An ombudsman issued a final 
decision in 2019 on that complaint saying they thought Black Horse had done enough to 
resolve things. 
Later on in 2019 Ms U wrote to Black Horse a few times to discuss the debt, but Black Horse 
wanted to speak to her on the phone, and it wanted her to clear the shortfall within a 
reasonable amount of time. Ms U preferred to communicate in writing. 
There was further written communication between Ms U and Black Horse. But Ms U spoke 
to Black Horse in early 2020 to discuss repayment of the outstanding balance. The advisor 
acknowledged there was still an agreement for Ms U to pay the reduced balance and Ms U 
indicated she wanted to clear the debt within two years. Her income went up and down as 
she was self-employed and Black Horse estimated her minimum disposable income at 
around £40 per month. So it calculated this was too low to agree a formal arrangement to 
clear the debt in two years, but it said she could make payments on an informal basis and 
this would prevent further action being taken. Ms U was led to believe she could pay what 
she could afford each month and as long as she didnt go two or three months without 
making payment, Black Horse wouldnt take further action. 
Ms U paid £250 in March 2020 and made payments of £50 in April and June. Later on in 
June Black Horse decided to write off the debt and mark the account in default with a 
balance of around £6,200. Its notes say the default notice expired on 27 September 2018, 
which is when it told her what she owed after the accident. 
Ms U made another payment of £100 in July. But unhappy with what had happened, Ms U 
brought the complaint to our service to consider. Ultimately, she thought she was in a 
payment arrangement and so was unhappy Black Horse had defaulted the account. And she 
was unhappy Black Horse referred to the amount owing as around £6,200 when she thought 
it should be around £3,300. Ms U also explained her finances had been impacted by Covid-
19. She was unhappy Black Horse hadnt provided enough support for that. She requested 
the default be removed, the balance reflected at around £3,300 and for Black Horse to 
accept payments of around £100 per month. 
Our investigator looked into the complaint and upheld it. In summary he thought more could 
have been done to reach an agreement after we issued a final decision on Ms Us earlier 
complaint. But he thought Black Horse should have been much clearer with Ms U when 
discussing the payment arrangement and explaining what steps she needed to take to avoid 
the account defaulting. And he thought Black Horse should have sent a default notice prior 
to applying a default. 
Our investigator thought about what wouldve happened had things gone as he thinks they 
should have done. Despite the mistakes he felt Black Horse had made, he thought the 
payments Ms U was making towards the agreement, and indeed, what she could afford 
going forward wouldnt clear the debt (whether reduced by the earlier rebate or not) within a 
reasonable amount of time. But, to resolve things, he thought Ms U should be given the 
chance to clear the (reduced) balance within a month for the default to be removed. He 
thought this wouldve been in line with the time given on a default notice he thinks shouldve 
been issued. However, he thought that if Ms U was unable to pay off the reduced balance 
within a month then Black Horse would not be required to remove the default. 
Black Horse accepted the view. But Ms U didnt. In summary she said the assessment noted 
Black Horse had provided misleading information. She didnt think she shouldve been 
required to do more to set up a payment arrangement. She did agree with most of the 
assessment but thought that clearing the balance within a month wasnt reasonable. She 
thought she should be given a more reasonable time frame to pay off the debt, and that she 
would attempt to pay more during periods her earnings were higher.
I issued a provisional decision that said:
When considering what is, in my opinion, fair and reasonable, Ive taken into account 
relevant law and regulations; regulators rules, guidance and standards; codes of practice; 
and what I believe to have been good industry practice at the relevant time.  
The debt this complaint relates to stems from a regulated hire purchase agreement, and our 
service is able to consider complaints relating to these sorts of agreements. 
I first want to say that Im sorry to hear Ms U has been negatively impacted by Covid-19. It 
cant have been easy, and I thank her for taking the time and effort to bring her complaint to 
our service. 
I think there are a few key questions for me to decide in this complaint. 
1. Did Black Horse mislead Ms U when she spoke to it about entering into a payment 
arrangement. 
2. Has the default been fairly applied? 
3. If something has gone wrong, what, if anything, does Black Horse need to do to put 
things right?
Turning to the first point, I agree with our investigator that Black Horse could have been 
clearer when it spoke to Ms U in early 2020 about the payment arrangement. The advisor 
was clearly trying to be helpful but, as Ive said above, Ms U was led to believe she could 
effectively pay what she could afford. The advisor indicated that if Ms U went a few months 
without making payment Black Horse might take action like writing off the debt and applying 
a default. But Black Horse seemed happy to accept payments, on an informal basis, based 
on what Ms U could afford each month. Turning to the second point, seeing as I dont think Black Horse was clear enough when 
speaking to Ms U about the payment arrangement, it has to follow that I dont think its fair a 
default was applied as a result of her not making the required payment. I think Ms U was 
legitimately left thinking she could pay what she could afford, and that would stop further 
action from Black Horse. Ms U did pay what she could afford, but Black Horse still defaulted 
her, so that cant be fair. I also note she made payment towards the agreement in June 2020 
 the same month the account was written off and defaulted. Given she was led to believe 
Black Horse wouldnt take action unless she went two or three months without making 
payment, I dont think it was fairly applied. 
Moreover, even putting the phone call to one side, I note Ms U was sent a notice of what she 
needed to pay in September 2018  but the amount required to settle the debt (less the 
interest rebate) is a different amount to what seems to be agreed afterwards. Given 
everything that happened between September 2018, and when the default was actually 
applied, I think it would have been fairer for Black Horse to have issued a more recent up-to-
date warning of the implications of not settling the agreement or adhering to a payment 
arrangement. Although I appreciate I may not have been provided with all the 
documentation.
Ill now turn to the final point. Our investigator has tried to put Ms U back in the position she 
would have been in had the mis-advice in early 2020 not happened. And I think this is a fair 
starting point. But I also think its fair to look at the overall situation before deciding whether 
Black Horse needs to take any action.    
Its not in dispute Ms U fairly owed Black Horse money under the agreement. She found 
herself in an unfortunate position when the car was in an accident in that the whole balance 
became due. And had she settled the agreement shortly after the accident it would have cost 
around £3,900. But the agreement wasnt settled. And I note the agreement was due to end 
in September 2019  over two years ago. So as the agreement has never been settled early, 
I dont think the early settlement rebate is technically due to be applied. Black Horse has 
been willing to accept the reduced settlement figure, and indeed still seems to be. Given 
there have been some communication failings and given Black Horse could arguably have 
helped to resolve things sooner, I think its fair it has offered to do this. But I dont have the 
grounds to ask it to do more with regards to the amount owed. 
Were left in a situation where its over two years after the agreement should have ended, 
and Black Horse is still owed a sizeable sum. Ms U was making payments that she could 
afford, but at that rate it would still take a long time for the debt to be cleared. So I can 
understand why Black Horse wanted to take steps to write off the account and mark it as 
defaulted. Its worth pointing out that, generally speaking, the guidance for firms on applying 
defaults is that where agreements are between 3 and 6 months in arrears, firms should 
consider starting steps to default the account. And its also worth noting that where 
consumers can only afford token payments towards a debt  this is a good indication that the 
account has defaulted. 
But on the other hand, Ms U has not been avoiding the debt. Shes made various attempts to 
communicate with Black Horse to come to an arrangement and shes paid what she could 
afford. And she also tells us her finances were impacted by Covid-19. Black Horse wanted to 
speak to Ms U, but she found it difficult to speak on the phone because of her job. Its not 
unreasonable she wanted to communicate in writing. I dont think applying a blanket 
approach of having to sort out payment arrangements over the phone was absolutely 
necessary. I think this all resulted in delays in getting an arrangement put in place. There seems like there are only a couple of ways to resolve things. First is to direct 
Black Horse to remove the default if Ms U is able to clear the debt within a month, as per our 
investigators recommendations. This would be the simplest way to resolve things. But Ms U 
has indicated this might not be possible. The other option would be to direct Black Horse to 
remove the default and come to a reasonable payment arrangement with Ms U to repay the 
debt. 
The issue with the second option is that were a long way from the natural end date of the 
agreement. And Ms Us financial situation may not have improved to the extent that she can 
afford to pay off the debt within a reasonable amount of time. But as Ive said above, some 
of the delays were as a result of Black Horse not wanting to communicate in writing. 
Black Horse was previously willing to agree a payment arrangement so I dont see why that 
cant be on the table again. Plus, Ms Us situation may have improved. So Im minded to say 
that in addition to the recommendation made by our investigator, Im also going to say Ms U 
should be given 28 days to come to a reasonable payment arrangement with Black Horse. 
But, for the avoidance of doubt, if Ms U cant come to an arrangement (or settle the 
agreement) with Black Horse that is reasonable (i.e., not a token payment) and sustainable 
then I dont think the default needs to be removed. I also appreciate Ms U may want to pay 
what she can afford when she can afford it, but I dont think it would be unfair of Black Horse 
to want to agree something more formal.
Im not going to specify exactly what should be considered a token payment. Im not aware 
of an industry standard for this. But I note that it looks like Black Horse was previously willing 
to accept payments of around £160 (for the reduced amount). Its contact notes and phone 
call recording indicate this. Payments of £160 would clear the reduced debt in less than two 
years. So, for completeness sake, I think any arrangement to be considered reasonable 
would mean the debt is cleared within two years. But if this is the way forward, I also think it 
would be fair for Black Horse to record this as an arrangement to pay with the credit 
reference agencies if it wishes to do so. And if Ms U were to fail to keep to the arrangement, 
Black Horse would be able to take steps to default the account again. 
Ive also thought about whether Black Horse should have offered Ms U more support as a 
result of her financial difficulties because of Covid-19. The Financial Conduct Authority 
(FCA) released guidance in April 2020 for car finance firms for Exceptional and immediate 
support to customers facing payment difficulties due to circumstances arising out of 
coronavirus. The guidance set out that eligible customers should be able to request a 
payment deferral under certain circumstances for a period of up to six months. But the 
guidance also said, Where a customer was in pre-existing financial difficulty, our existing 
forbearance rules and guidance would continue to apply. Given Ms Us inability to settle 
the debt in full pre-dated Covid-19 I dont think the Covid-19 guidance applies here. And, in 
any event, I think my proposals are a fair way forward for everyone.
In summary, I think Ms U should effectively be treated by Black Horse the same as she 
would have been shortly after the accident. I think Black Horses communication could have 
been better at times. But, providing the parties reach agreement, Ms U will be paying a 
significantly reduced debt due to the balance being the same as it would have been had she 
settled the account in 2018. I think, in the round, this is a fair and reasonable outcome, so 
Im not going to direct Black Horse to do anything else. 
Ms U responded to say she accepted the decision. Black Horse hasnt added anything new.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Seeing as Ms U has accepted the decision and Black Horse hasnt provided anything new to 
consider, I see no reason to depart from the conclusions I reached in my provisional 
decision. 
Putting things right
To put thing right, Im directing Black Horse Limited to:
Remove the default from Ms Us credit file if she settles the agreement within 28 days 
of acceptance of this decision; or
Remove the default from Ms Us credit file if she can agree a payment arrangement 
with Black Horse as outlined above within 28 days of acceptance of this decision. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint and direct Black Horse Limited to put things 
right in the way set out above.  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms U to accept or 
reject my decision before 30 December 2021.
 
Simon Wingfield
Ombudsman