DRN-2507911
The complaint
 Miss L is unhappy about National Westminster Bank Plcs decision to close her current 
account and ask her to repay her overdraft. She asks for the overdraft to be written off with 
no default on her credit file.   
What happened
In December 2019, NatWest reviewed Miss Ls account and decided to close it. Miss L says 
that when she spoke to NatWest she was told that if she didnt hear from it, the balance 
would be written off.
NatWest had written to Miss L at her address, but she says she didnt get any letters. Miss L 
called NatWests collections department to discuss a payment arrangement. It explained 
what she needed to do to progress this and that taking action would mean her account 
would not be recorded as defaulted at credit reference agencies. She did what NatWest 
asked, but was later told shed been given incorrect information. NatWest then told her that 
the account was in recoveries. So, she couldnt have a payment arrangement and would 
need to repay the balance in full within three months to stop a default being put on her 
account.  
Miss L complained about NatWest closing the account. NatWest said that it was entitled to 
close the account in line with its terms and conditions. It didnt have to give a reason, and in 
this case said it was not allowed to. It explained that her overdraft must be repaid and 
advised her to contact the collections team.
Miss L complained further that she had been given wrong information. She also felt it wasnt 
reasonable to expect her to be able to pay the balance in that time. NatWest upheld her 
complaint about the information she had been given and apologised. But it said the account 
would have been passed to recoveries in any event, so she hadnt suffered any detriment. 
So NatWest didnt offer any compensation.  
Miss L complained to this service. The investigator noted that NatWest agreed that it had 
made mistakes. But he agreed that the debt was valid so it wouldnt be fair to write it off. 
As to the default, the investigator said that NatWest has an obligation to report to the credit 
reference agencies an accurate reflection of a consumers circumstances. So, following the 
relevant guidelines from the Information Commissioners Office (ICO), if the debt was 
outstanding after three months, a default can be reported.
He commented that in cases where consumers are in financial difficulty, he would expect a 
business to listen to the customer about their situation to discuss what help is appropriate. 
NatWest explained that once an account is closed, it is not possible to have a temporary 
payment arrangement. 
The investigator could see that NatWest were looking into Miss Ls circumstances but had 
not given Miss L correct information about where the conversation would need to happen, 
and how it would affect her credit record.  But as the debt was valid, the default could be 
applied in line with ICO guidelines, he agreed with NatWest that it did not have to do 
anything further.
Miss L was not happy with this and feels that she has not be treated fairly. She asked for the 
decision to be reviewed by an Ombudsman, so the case was passed to me for a decision.
As my findings differed in some respects from our investigators, I issued a provisional 
decision to give both parties the opportunity to consider things further. This is set out below: 
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ill start by saying that in terms of the debt here  this is money that Miss L has clearly 
borrowed from NatWest. Itll generally be the case that where someone has borrowed from a 
business  its fair for it to ask them to pay what they owe back. Thats the situation here and 
I havent seen any reason itd be fair to ask NatWest to write off or stop pursuing the 
amount that is genuinely owed here.
Then in terms of the closure of the account - NatWest was entitled to do this in line with its 
terms and conditions. It did so fairly and so I dont think it did anything wrong in taking this 
action either. But Ive considered what happened around this after Miss L got in touch with 
NatWest.
NatWest sent a default notice, and a formal notice of intention to file a default if repayment in 
full was not received by the time limit in the default notice. The default notice stated that 
repayment in full would be required unless Miss L made an alternative arrangement for 
repayment which was acceptable to the bank. Miss L says she didnt receive these letters, 
but she did contact NatWest within the relevant time limit.
Miss L called NatWests collections department shortly before the date on the default notice. 
It told her that if she completed an income and expenditure assessment in the next two days, 
a default would not be put on the account and the account would be marked as subject to a 
payment arrangement. Miss L completed the assessment in two days and it showed she had 
a surplus of £178 per month. This was after the time limit in the default notice, but within the 
overall time given by NatWest. So I can see why Miss L thought she had done what she 
needed to avoid further action being taken.
But when Miss L later spoke to NatWest about this, it told her that she had been given 
incorrect information. The account was in recoveries and a third party would contact her 
about repayment. She would need to repay the balance in full within three months to stop a 
default being put on her account and would not be able to avoid a default by entering into a 
payment arrangement.
NatWest has explained  that it does not offer arrangements when a customer has been 
exited from the bank or once the account is in recoveries. But I think when Miss L spoke to 
NatWest, it gave her the impression that she was able to avoid a default by agreeing an 
arrangement. It would have been upsetting and frustrating to discover this wasnt the case.
In light of this confusion, Ive looked at what happened after this to see if it is likely that Miss 
L would have avoided a default if NatWest had given her the correct information when she 
spoke to it.
Miss L did not make any repayments until she was contacted by a second debt collection 
agency in September 2020. NatWest didnt take any further steps in relation to the debt until 
May 2020, when it first passed the account to a debt collection agency. But NatWest had given Miss L a specific number to call if she didnt hear anything for 14 days from its final 
response in January. Miss L says she called, but NatWest dont have a record of this.
Given the time that passed until Miss L started to make repayments along with the overall 
amount owed, I think it is more likely than not that Miss L would not have avoided a default in 
any event. I have considered whether the pause in contact from NatWest may have 
contributed to the delay in Miss L starting to make repayments, but I think that Miss L could 
have taken steps to start repayments herself in the meantime.
Because of this, I do not intend to ask Nat West to remove the default. I understand that this 
will be disappointing for Miss L, but I am satisfied that it is fair in all the circumstances. 
Turning to the communications from NatWest, it accepted that it had misled Miss L in the 
early conversations but declined to offer any compensation. But I feel some compensation is 
appropriate. Miss L was given the wrong impression about what she needed to do to avoid a 
default. This will have been stressful for her and was made worse by the inaccurate and 
confusing communications from NatWest. Because of this, I intend to require Nat West to 
pay Miss L £150 to compensate her for the distress and inconvenience caused by these 
issues.
My provisional decision
I intend to uphold Miss Ls complaint in relation to the way that NatWest communicated with 
her.
I intend to require National Westminster Bank Plc to pay Miss L £150 to compensate her for 
the distress and inconvenience caused by the way that it handled the withdrawal of her 
overdraft.
I invited both parties to let me have any further submissions before I reached a final 
decision.  NatWest accepted my decision, but Miss L responded with further comments 
which I have considered in detail in my final decision. In summary, Miss L feels that it is not 
fair for her to be impacted by a default because she offered to enter into a payment 
arrangement with NatWest, and it knew she couldnt pay the full balance within three 
months. She feels there was a lot of mis-communication and that she had taken all 
appropriate steps to deal with the debt.  
 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
 Miss L raised a number of points in her response to my provisional decision. I have dealt 
with the points that I feel need further comment below.
Miss L has said that she was advised in the branch that her overdraft would be written off, 
and later told this wasnt the case, but this issue hasnt been resolved. She referred again to 
the mis-communication that had occurred in relation to the possibility of a payment 
arrangement. I did consider these points in my provisional decision and said I intended to 
ask NatWest to pay Miss L £150 in compensation for these matters. I havent changed my 
mind about this.   
Miss L feels that she was not supported as she should have been when she told NatWest that she couldnt afford to pay off her overdraft within three months to avoid a default. I can 
see that Miss L thinks that she shouldve been able to avoid a default with a repayment plan. 
NatWest initially gave her the impression that she could, but as Miss Ls account had been 
closed, NatWest then clarified this was not the case. It did tell Miss L that a debt collection 
agency would be in touch to discuss repayment options, and that she should get in touch 
with NatWest if she didnt hear anything within 14 days. So, I can see from this that NatWest 
wanted to discuss repayment options with Miss L through debt collection agencies, and that 
this wouldve been a helpful step. 
In my provisional decision, I said that Miss L couldve done more to start making payment 
towards her overdraft, and in the circumstances, I didnt think it likely that Miss L wouldve 
avoided a default in any event.
Miss L responded that she thought she had taken all appropriate steps to deal with the debt. 
She says she was contacted by the debt collection agency originally appointed by NatWest, 
but due to her being furloughed, the account was put on hold, but she started making 
payments when the second debt collection agency contacted her in September 2020.
I do sympathise with the financial difficulties Miss L encountered and can see that the issues 
caused by Covid19 wouldve been beyond Miss Ls control. But on the other hand, theres no 
evidence that she tried to contact NatWest between January 2020 and May 2020 when the 
debt collection agency was appointed, or that she made any payments. So, taking all of this 
into account, I remain of the view that Miss L wouldve been unlikely to have avoided a 
default in any event and dont think it would be fair or reasonable to ask NatWest to remove 
it.   
In summary, Miss Ls response hasnt changed my view and my final decision and reasoning 
remains the same as in my provisional decision. I know Miss L will be disappointed with this, 
but I hope she understands my reasons.  
Putting things right
In line with my provisional decision, I think £150 is a fair amount for NatWest to pay Miss L to 
compensate her for the distress and inconvenience caused by the way that it handled the 
withdrawal of her overdraft, and NatWest has agreed to this.    
My final decision
I uphold Miss Ls complaint in relation to the way that National Westminster Bank Plc 
communicated with her about her account. 
I require National Westminster Bank Plc to pay Miss L £150 to compensate her for the 
distress and inconvenience caused by the way that it handled the withdrawal of her overdraft     
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss L to accept or 
reject my decision before 5 March 2021.
 
Rosemary Campbell
Ombudsman