DRN-3891814
The complaint
Mr and Mrs M complain about the quality of a car they have been financing through an 
agreement with Moneybarn No. 1 Limited (who Ill call Moneybarn).
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again 
here. Instead Ill focus on giving my reasons for my decision.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I was sorry to hear that Mr and Mrs Ms car had been stolen and I know my decision will 
come as a further disappointment to them, but I am not persuaded I have enough evidence 
to suggest the car they were financing was of unsatisfactory quality.
Where the information Ive got is incomplete, unclear, or contradictory, as some of it is here I 
have to base my decision on the balance of probabilities.
Ive read and considered the whole file, but Ill concentrate my comments on what I think is 
relevant. If I dont comment on any specific point its not because Ive failed to take it on 
board and think about it but because I dont think I need to comment on it in order to reach 
what I think is the right outcome.
Mr and Mrs M acquired their car under a regulated consumer credit agreement and as a 
result our service is able to look into complaints about it.  
The Consumer Rights Act (2015) is the relevant legislation. It says that the car should have 
been of satisfactory quality when supplied. If it wasnt then Moneybarn are responsible. The 
relevant law also says the quality of goods is satisfactory if they meet the standard that a 
reasonable person would consider satisfactory taking into account any description of the 
goods, the price and all the other relevant circumstances. 
Mr and Mrs M say the boot lock was faulty on the car and the business notes suggest they 
felt that was the reason it was stolen.
I can see that a mobile mechanic visited Mr and Mrs M to look at a problem with the boot 
locking in November 2021. But the mechanic wasnt able to find a fault with the lock and 
explained that the keyless entry system allowed the boot to be opened without a key when 
the fob was in close proximity.
Ive not seen evidence that Mr and Mrs M complained about the mechanics findings, so I 
think its fair to suggest that probably resolved the issue. It wasnt until the 16 December 
2021that Mr M called Moneybarn to explain the car had been stolen that day, and to raise 
his claim with them. I think had the lock not been working he would have been likely to have 
called them, or the dealership earlier.
Im not therefore persuaded that there is sufficient evidence this car was supplied in an 
unsatisfactory condition.
The terms of the finance agreement said: 
5.9 If the goods are lost, stolen or are considered a total loss by the insurer then the 
following amounts will become immediately payable:
5.9.1 all unpaid payments and any other sums due that you should have paid under this 
Agreement before the total loss;
5.9.2 the rest of the total amount payable under this Agreement less a rebate for early 
settlement as required by law.
So I dont think Moneybarn did anything wrong when they sent a default notice to Mr M and 
Mrs M, when those funds werent paid.
Moneybarn paid Mr and Mrs M £100 to compensate them for the poor service they received 
when the business delayed setting up their complaint. I dont think Mr and Mrs M were 
financially disadvantaged by that delay as I think the outcome would have been the same. In 
all the circumstances I think the business offer was a fair one and Im not asking them to 
pay anymore.
Ultimately, whilst I have a lot of sympathy for the position Mr and Mrs Ms find themselves in, 
Im afraid I dont think Moneybarn need to take any further action.
  
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M and Mrs M to 
accept or reject my decision before 7 April 2023.
 
Phillip McMahon
Ombudsman