DRN-2724203
The complaint
 Miss R says Loans 2 Go Limited lent irresponsibly to her. 
What happened
 Miss R took out three loans from Loans 2 Go, as set out below.
*£250 received by Miss R, the balance settled loan 2
Loan 1 was a logbook loan, so it was given on the basis that Miss R provided Loans 2 Go
with a bill of sale for her car. This meant that if Miss R didnt make her loan repayments,
Loans 2 Go could potentially recover its losses through the sale of the vehicle.
Loans 2 and 3 were unsecured instalment loans.
Miss R complains that the loans were not affordable for her; Loans 2 Go didnt explain how
the interest was applied, and the interest payments were three times the value of each loan.
And it wouldnt set up a repayment plan when she having problems repaying loan 3.
Our adjudicator didnt think Loans 2 Go had completed proportionate checks. Had it done so,
it would have seen Miss R was spending a significant proportion of her income on gambling
when she applied for loans 1 and 2, and in excess of her income by the time she applied for
loan 3. So the adjudicator concluded it was unlikely Miss R would have been able to
sustainably repay her loans and Loans 2 Go was wrong to have given them.
Loans 2 Go disagreed, saying in summary, it completed income and expenditure checks for
each loan verifying the data with third party sources. In each instance it was not wrong to
lend to Miss R as she had sufficient disposable income to afford the repayments. 
I reached the same conclusion as the adjudicator but for slightly different reasons. So I 
issued a provisional decision (and extract follows and forms part of this final decision) to give 
everyone a chance to comment before I issued my final decision. I asked for any comments 
or new evidence by 8 April 2021. Both parties responded ahead of this deadline.
Extract from my provisional decision
Loans 2 Go asked for some information from Miss R before it approved her loans. It 
asked for details of her income, normal monthly living costs (including rent, living and 
travel costs). It noted Miss R lived with her parents. It also checked Miss Rs credit file to 
understand her existing monthly credit commitments and credit history. From these 
checks combined Loans 2 Go concluded Miss R had enough monthly disposable 
income to afford to repay each loan.
For loan 1 Im minded to conclude these checks were proportionate. But I am not 
satisfied Loans 2 Go adequately responded to the information it had gathered. From 
Miss Rs credit file it could see that Miss R had recently set up arrangements to pay on 
six different credit products and had one outstanding payday loan. So I think there were 
clear indications that Miss Rs finances were under pressure as she was already unable 
to meet her contractual repayments on a number of loan and credit card agreements. I 
also think Loans 2 Go ought to have realised it was worth further consideration that Miss 
R was needing to borrow £500 - at a high cost and secured against her car - given it had 
concluded she had a monthly disposable income of over £500. So it wasnt fair for Loans 
2 Go to go ahead and lend on the basis on the information it had.
As our adjudicator set out, any further investigation into Miss R finances would likely 
have shown that she was spending a very high proportion of her income on gambling. 
So it would have realised that she was highly unlikely to be able to make her loan 
repayments without experiencing significant adverse consequences  and this is what it 
was required to do as CONC 5.3.1G states:
1. In making the creditworthiness assessment or the assessment required , a firm
should take into account more than assessing the customer's ability to repay the
credit.
2. The creditworthiness assessment and the assessment required  should include the
firm taking reasonable steps to assess the customer's ability to meet repayments
under a regulated credit agreement in a sustainable manner without the customer
incurring financial difficulties or experiencing significant adverse consequences.
So, in summary, I dont think Loans 2 Go made a fair lending decision using the 
information it had gathered when it gave Miss R her first loan.
For loans 2 and 3 I dont think the checks carried out were proportionate or borrower 
focused. It hasnt shared the results of any credit check that it completed for loan 2 so I 
cant know what that indicated. But Miss R applied for loan 2 whilst she was still 
repaying the first loan (I note she had a repayment declined on loan 1 two months prior), 
and it was for an 18-month term. So although the monthly repayments were quite low as 
a percentage of her income, Loans 2 Go needed to be sure Miss R could sustainably 
make those repayments for that period of time. Overall, I think Loans 2 Go should at this 
stage have made further checks to independently verify Miss Rs overall financial 
situation. The fact there was a variance between the expenses Miss R had declared and 
Loans 2 Gos estimation of the same, particularly for loan 3, further supports this finding.
I have looked at copies of Miss Rs to bank statements to see what better checks would
have shown. Im not saying Loans 2 Go needed to have done this, but its one way to
understand what a fuller financial review might have shown.
As the adjudicator set out in detail, the bank statements showed Miss R was spending a 
very high proportion of her income on gambling at the time she applied for loan 2 and 
was also using high-cost short-term loans, suggesting she was having problems 
managing her money. So I think Loans 2 Go ought to have realised there was a high risk 
Miss R would not be able to make the repayments without having a significant adverse 
impact on her financial situation. Similarly when Miss R applied for loan 3 - to refinance 
loan 2 and extend her borrowing over a further 18 months - better checks would have 
shown Loans 2 Go that by this stage Miss R was spending over twice her monthly income on gambling transactions. And she was still using high-cost short-term loans. So 
I dont see that it can argue, as a responsible lender, that it wasnt wrong to lend to Miss 
R. She went on to have problems with the repayments of loan 3 in the first month of 
borrowing.
It follows I think Miss R has lost out as a result of Loans 2 Gos decisions. In response to 
the adjudicators view Loans 2 Go set out why its affordability checks were sufficient; 
what they showed; how they verified certain data and therefore why they went on to 
lend. But this focuses only on the pounds and pence affordability of the loans, and it was 
obliged to also make sure Miss R could sustainably repay her loans  so without 
borrowing further or suffering any other adverse financial impact. As Ive set out above, I 
dont find it did this and so I am planning to uphold Miss Rs complaint.
Did Loans 2 Go act unfairly or unreasonably towards Miss R in some other way?
I dont find that it did, Ill explain why. Miss R says it didnt explain how the interest would 
be applied, but I can see this was set out in the pre-contract credit information and the 
loan agreements. Miss R also complains that the interest payable was three times the 
amount she borrowed. But Miss R had to actively engage in the application process for 
each loan, so I think its likely that she was aware of what she was agreeing to pay. I 
havent seen anything which makes me think that Loans 2 Go treated Miss R unfairly or 
breached industry practice regarding interest charges. But in any event, the interest and 
charges paid will be refunded as Ive concluded these loans shouldnt have been given.
Miss R also says Loans 2 Go wouldnt agree a repayment plan with her. But its records
show it asked if she could settle half of her arrears on loan 3, and Miss R was due to call
back to confirm one way or the other. I cant see she did this as shed committed to, 
instead submitting her affordability complaint. So I cant fairly find Loans 2 Go did 
anything wrong in this regard.
I then set out what Loans 2 Go would need to do to put things right if I upheld the complaint.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
 Our approach to unaffordable/irresponsible lending complaints is set out on our website and
Ive followed it here.
Loans 2 Go responded to my provisional decision saying it agreed with the conclusion and 
had no information to add. 
Miss R also confirmed she had no more information to provide.
As neither party submitted new evidence or comments it follows I have no reason to change 
the findings or outcome set out in my provisional decision. I am upholding Miss Rs 
complaint and Loans 2 Go must now put things right.
Putting things right
 Its fair and reasonable for Miss R to repay the capital that she borrowed, because she had 
the benefit of that money. But she has paid interest and charges on loans that shouldnt 
have been provided to her.It seems Loans 2 Go hasnt sold the outstanding debt. But if it has it should buy it back if it is
able to do so and then take the following steps. If Loans 2 Go is not able to buy the debt
back, then it should liaise with the new debt owner to achieve the results outlined below.
It should:
For loan 1 remove all interest, fees and charges from the loan and treat all the
payments Miss R made as payments towards the capital. If it hasnt already done so,
Loans 2 Go should revoke the bill of sale and return any vehicle documentation.
For loans 2 and 3, add up the total amount of money Miss R received as a result of
being given both loans and treat all the payments she made as payments towards
the capital.
If reworking Miss Rs loan accounts results in her having effectively made payments
above the original capital borrowed, then Loans 2 Go should refund these
overpayments with 8% simple interest calculated on the overpayments, from the date
the overpayments would have arisen, to the date of settlement*.
If reworking the accounts leaves an amount of capital still to be paid on loan 3, then
Loans 2 Go should work to agree an affordable repayment plan with Miss R, bearing
in mind its obligation to treat her positively and sympathetically in these discussions.
Loans 2 Go should not pursue any outstanding balance made up of capital it has
already written-off.
Remove any adverse information recorded on Miss Rs credit file in relation to
loans 1 and 2, and loan 3 once settled.
*HM Revenue & Customs requires Loans 2 Go to deduct tax from this interest. Loans 2 Go should
give Miss R a certificate showing how much tax its deducted, if she asks for one. 
My final decision
  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss R to accept 
or reject my decision before 26 April 2021.
 
Rebecca Connelley
Ombudsman