DRN-2792727
The complaint
Mr P is unhappy with how National House-Building Council have dealt with a claim he made 
under his Buildmark warranty policy. 
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I will only provide a summary 
of the main issues below.
Mr P purchased a new build property which came with a 10-year warranty. There were some 
issues with it, which he reported to the builder and NHBC. Among other things, the waste 
pipe to the sink in the bathroom wasnt connected properly which caused water to leak into 
the bathroom and down the walls into the room below causing damage.
The builder fixed some of the issues but NHBC later stepped in and took over the builders 
responsibility for the repairs. Mr P and NHBC disagree about what items should be on the 
schedule of works and whether the amount NHBC has attributed to the repairs is sufficient. 
Mr P also wants NHBC to fix additional issues he has noticed with the property. 
This service has already considered a complaint from Mr P under a different reference about 
the level of service he has received from NHBC. Under that complaint Mr P was awarded 
£650 compensation. This complaint concerns issues that happened between the final 
responses issued on 9 September 2019 and 15 November 2019.
My provisional findings 
I issued my provisional findings on this complaint on 16 March 2021. I said I intended to 
uphold the complaint in part, for the following reasons:
I have explained separately to Mr P that in this decision I can only consider issues which 
NHBC listed as requiring action in its resolution report dated 28 February 2019. Im aware 
there are other issues with the property that Mr P and NHBC disagree on whether they need 
fixing and, there are also issues that are still with the builder to put right. However, I will not 
be considering those here.
Having reviewed everything, I intend to uphold this complaint in part. For ease Ill address 
each issue under a separate heading.
What NHBC s required to do
The concerns Mr P has raised are being dealt with under section 2 of the Buildmark policy. 
This covers the first two years after the completion of the property and is called the builder 
warranty period. If the builder is made aware of issues but doesnt take action to put them 
right or repair them, NHBC can take over the builders responsibilities. It will only do this, 
where it finds the builder hasnt complied with NHBCs requirements when building the 
property.
The policy says NHBC will either do the work on behalf of the builder or it will pay what it 
would have cost it to have the work done.
Thermostats 
NHBC has agreed to replace the thermostats and pay for an electrician and plumber to stay 
for two hours to ensure the system is working. I think this is a reasonable proposal.
Wash basin wastewater pipe leak  all related damage to be fixed
- Weeping pipe, NHBC has now agreed to uplift SoW to repair this. I think this is reasonable.
- Tiles in the Bathroom, I can see that NHBC has altered the cost of the SoW to take into 
account the dimensions Mr P provided to it. NHBC proposes to only replace the tiles that 
have been damaged and those needed around to boxing to the pipe.
Mr P has said the tiles are no longer produced and are of a good quality. Therefore, as they 
cant be matched he thinks all of the tiles should be changed. NHBC has offered a 50% 
contribution to the cost of the undamaged tiles if the matter is cash settled.
I understand there is a further issue with the pipework which has been raised with the builder 
which may require further tiles in the bathroom to be removed for it to be fixed. Id 
questioned NHBC previously around this work and whether it would therefore make sense, 
assuming the work is likely needed, that it covers the cost of all of the bathroom tiles now.
NHBC has however explained as the matter is something that is still with the builder and it 
hasnt yet assessed if this is something it will take responsibility for in the future. It wont 
therefore change current position regarding the tiles because of this.
Given as Ive explained previously, I can only consider matters that NHBC have taken 
responsibility for overall, I think NHBCs current position on the bathroom tiles is reasonable.
The amount of tiles required has been based on the dimensions Mr P provided and the cost 
of the tiles is similar to the brand Mr P has at the moment. Where items can no longer be 
matched, we would usually expect an insurer to offer to contribute 50% of the cost of 
replacing the undamaged items. As NHBC is prepared to do this, I dont think it is acting 
unreasonably.
- Bathroom floor, Mr P has said the bathroom floor has started to move. And, while there is 
no visible damage at the moment, he is certain some was caused by the water that leaked
down the wall seeping into the bathroom floor as well. NHBC has said there is no damage to 
the floor and therefore it wont be including any cost to repair that in the SoW.
I havent seen anything further which suggests there is damage to the bathroom floor caused 
by the leak, and I note this was not mentioned in Mr Ps surveyors report. I wont be asking 
NHBC to do anything further here.
- Decoration in kitchen, NHBC has included costs to decorate areas of the kitchen impacted 
by the initial damage and repairs. I wont therefore be asking it to alter this.
- Crack below the window sill in kitchen, NHBC say it is a shrinkage crack that would be
Mr Ps responsibility to repair as it is normal maintenance. Mr P says it is related to the water 
leaking down the wall. Having reviewed the pictures provided by both parties and noting the 
fact NHBC are already proposing to cover the cost of repainting the window sill. I think it is more likely that not, based on its location, that the crack is related to the leak from the 
bathroom and Im therefore intending to ask NHBC to include this in the SoW.
- Kitchen floor, Mr P has said the flooring in the kitchen has started to lift between the joints, 
where the water from the leak pooled on the floor. NHBC has said no mention of this was 
made in the original report and it says the photos its surveyor took originally show the 
flooring the that particular area is continuous.
Ive carefully reviewed the photos that have been provided and taken into account Mr Ps 
surveyors comments on the matter. Mr Ps photos do show that there are joins in the 
flooring where the leak was and that the flooring is lifting slightly. Ive also taken into 
consideration the flooring appears to be in front of the crack which Ive mentioned above.
So, I think it is more likely than not the damage to the flooring is connected to the leak from 
the bathroom and therefore NHBC should fix this. NHBC is required only to fix/replace the 
section of floor that has been damaged. However, if an exact match isnt available to the 
existing floor. I would also expect NHBC to pay a 50% contribution towards the cost of 
replacing the floor in its entirety.
Front door needs adjustment
Mr P has said the front door has been adjusted to its limit and has provided a photo to show 
that is the case. NHBC says this hasnt been mentioned previously and comments Mr Ps 
surveyor suggests the door can be adjusted.
Ive looked at the information that has been provided and Im conscious that what Mr P has 
said may be correct. Should Mr P take a cash settlement and NHBC not have costed for any 
further work required to alter the fitment of the door then Mr P would be at a disadvantage 
and NHBC will not have indemnified him fully.
If Mr P chooses a cash settlement and whomever he gets to undertake the works provides 
evidence additional work was required over and above what NHBC accounted for. NHBC 
should pay to Mr P what it would have cost it, should its contractor have undertaken the 
additional work.
Windows need adjustment and trickle vents need to be changed
NHBC confirms it will undertake work to ease and adjust the windows. It will also arrange for 
surface mounted trickle vents to be installed on the windows.
Mr P is concerned that the cost associated with the trickle vents would not be sufficient to 
cover their cost. NHBC has said it has costed them at £10 per vent which is more than 
reasonable based on what they can be purchased for on the internet. Having looked myself I 
can see vents themselves vary in cost and mainly are under this amount so I think it is more 
likely than not that would be the cost to NHBC to replace and fit them. I understand Mr Ps 
concern that the vents required specifically for his window may cost more than this however I 
havent seen any evidence of this. 
Mr Ps surveyor mentions that some of windows have reached their limit for adjustment and 
hinges and security bolts may now need to be changed to ensure the windows operate as 
intended. Again this leaves a situation similar to the front door where Mr P could be at a 
disadvantage and NHBC not fully indemnifying him. Therefore, I propose the same 
resolution:If Mr P chooses a cash settlement and whomever he gets to undertake the works provides 
evidence additional work was required over and above what NHBC accounted for. NHBC 
should pay to Mr P what it would have cost it, should its contractor have undertaken the 
additional work.
Ensuite door
The door needs to be adjusted and damage to the surround fixed. NHBC has included this in 
the SoW but lists the door as being stained not veneered. 
NHBC has agreed to add £150 to the schedule of work to account for this.
Patio door
This matter was fixed by the builder and is no longer outstanding.
Personnel door to garage 
Mr Ps surveyor comments the work done to the door has not resolved the issue of the 
glazing beads being lose.
NHBC has agreed to add £100 to the SoW to cover this repair.
Additional service issues.
NHBC have offered Mr P a further £100 compensation for incorrectly quoting the cash 
settlement amount and initially missing boxing and tiling from SoW. I appreciate the ongoing 
issues with the property is causing Mr P considerable distress and inconvenience however I 
am mindful that NHBC has already provided Mr P with compensation for this under a 
different complaint reference.
However I do think the fact NHBC asked Mr P to provide three separate quotes when it was 
only ever required to pay what it would cost it to have the work done put Mr P to 
inconvenience which could have been avoided.
Overall, I think a fair and reasonable amount of compensation would be £200. 
Mr P has also had to employ a surveyor to challenge some of the items on the SoW which 
should have been correct initially. I acknowledge some of the things noted by the surveyor in 
the report do not apply to this complaint however, I do think it has added value. Im intending 
to propose that NHBC should reimburse Mr P 50% of the cost of obtaining this report, upon 
receipt of Mr P providing evidence of its cost to NHBC.
Putting things right
In addition to increasing the costs as already agreed, to put things right NHBC should:
Repair the crack in the kitchen wall.
Fix/replace the lifting flooring in the kitchen. If an exact match isnt available to the 
existing flooring, NHBC should provide a 50% contribution to the cost of replacing the 
floor in its entirety.
If Mr P chooses a cash settlement and whomever he gets to undertake the works 
provides evidence additional work was required over and above what NHBC accounted for to adjust the front door and windows. NHBC should pay to Mr P what it would have 
cost it, should its contractor have undertaken the additional work.
Pay Mr P a total amount of £200 compensation.
Pay Mr P 50% of the cost of obtaining his surveyors report on receipt of proof of the 
amount paid
.
Mr P will then need to decide whether he wants NHBCs contractor to undertake all of the 
works or he wishes to receive a cash settlement.
  
Responses to my provisional decision
Both Mr P and NHBC provided further comments for me to consider. For ease Ill address 
these under the same headings as in my provisional decision in my findings below. 
In addition, Mr P has said that his complaint does not concern negotiating a price that is 
acceptable to him, as he understands NHBC is able to cover the work at a lower cost than 
he could privately. However, he is more concerned about agreeing the method in which each 
repair is to be undertaken and the materials to be use as this is a critical factor determining 
the cost and quality of the work done. He believes he has provided sufficient evidence to 
demonstrate that the solutions provided by NHBC in its schedule of work (SoW) has 
underestimated the damages, labour, work, materials and spare parts required. He believes 
the schedule should be more detailed and accurate so that all parties can understand the 
amount of work required and agree the next steps.
Mr P also raises the fact the builder has told him that rectifying the falls to the pipework 
should be included in NHBCs cost to repair the bathroom tiles. 
Hes offered to engage further professionals to provide their opinion on items such as the 
bathroom floor, windows and doors, on the understanding NHBC reimburse the cost if their 
opinion is positive.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, my decision remains this case should be upheld in part. I explained in my 
provisional decision what NHBC is required to do in respect of the warranty policy, so I wont 
repeat that in detail again here. 
My role here isnt to manage the claim moving forward, that is for the parties to work out 
between them so I wont be directing exactly how NHBC should undertake the repairs 
needed nor do I require it to provide me with this precise detail in order for me to make my 
final decision. I appreciate Mr Ps offer to engage further professionals however my role here 
is an informal one and I must look to bring this complaint to a resolution. I feel each party 
has now had sufficient time to provide any further evidence for me to consider and I shall 
now make my final decision based on all the information available to me. 
I set out in my provisional decision what I believe to be the fair and reasonable resolution to 
the complaint made. I have reconsidered all of the information each party has provided, as 
well as any new information, and the reasons for my final decision are detailed below:
ThermostatsNeither party has provided any further comment in relation to this. So my thoughts remain as 
my provisional decision. NHBCs proposal is reasonable. 
Wash basin wastewater pipe leak  all related damage to be fixed
- Weeping pipe,  
Mr P has mentioned that the pipe is weeping as when the builder fixed the original issue with 
the basin, it dislodged the pipe beneath and rotated it. He therefore expects this is to be 
corrected. 
NHBC has agreed to uplift the SoW to take into account the cost of fixing the weep. It would 
seem reasonable to me that if the rotation of the pipe is causing the leak then this would be 
taken into account when the matter is put right. If it is a separate issue, then Mr P and NHBC 
will need to work together to have it addressed.
- Tiles in the Bathroom,
Mr P wants to know the precise tiles NHBC have costed for in its SoW as if these arent like 
for like then it will change the cost of the SoW. He would also like to know the costs of the 
additional materials that will be required to terminate the tiles in the corners. And a 
breakdown of how the tiler proposes to remove and refit the tiling around the various 
sanitaryware in the bathroom. Hes also pointed out the tiles are fixed to plasterboard and 
that is also likely to be damaged in the process of repairing the tiles. 
NHBC have based the schedule of work on what it would cost to get its contractor to 
undertake the required work. It has its own internal rates and method of working out the total 
value which doesnt involve listing each step of the repair or all of the required materials. 
While I appreciate Mr Ps concerns about the cost and content of the SoW I dont think 
NHBC is acting incorrectly here by using its normal method of calculation. 
As mentioned in my provisional decision, where items can no longer be matched, we would 
usually expect an insurer to offer to contribute 50% of the cost of replacing the undamaged 
items. As NHBC is prepared to do this for the tiles in the bathroom, should a match not be 
found, I think its proposed settlement is reasonable.
It is relevant to mention here that further work on the pipework will need to be undertaken 
before the tiles are repaired. Mr P mentions the builder has told him NHBC are undertaking 
this work alongside fixing the tiling. NHBC has said this is something that is logged with it 
under a different reference and is currently with the builder to put right.  It points to the 
resolution report which Im currently considering which says The Homeowner raised a 
separate issue relating to the falls on the pipe work to the toilet as effluent is failing to be 
removed. This is currently outside of the NHBC Resolution Service as it had not been raised 
prior to the visit; however Jarvis have agreed to get the plumber to investigate this issue 
prior to the reinstatement of the tiles, outside of the Resolution Service.
I remain of the opinion that this is a matter which currently falls outside the jurisdiction of this 
service, as Ive previously explained to Mr P. I wont therefore be making any determination 
on this issue in this decision. Apart from saying that I think both NHBC and Mr P should have 
an open dialogue about the progress of this repair and the checking of the pipework as it will 
inevitably hold up the work to the tiling taking place.
- Bathroom floor,
Mr P remains of the opinion the bathroom floor should be replaced. He has provided a photo of the access hole that was cut into the ceiling of the kitchen exposing the boards making up 
the bathroom floor. While not clear he says this photo shows damage to the board. Mr P also 
makes reference to an email from the site manager which confirms the material isnt water 
proof. 
NHBC remains of the opinion the bathroom floor doesnt need to be replaced as there is no 
apparent damage to it. It refers to the same email as Mr P and quotes the following The 
materials used for the walls are brick, block, and plaster. Those for the ceiling are timber, 
rockwool lagging, plasterboard, and plaster skim. Whilst these are not waterproof, 
exposure to water for a limited period such as this, and subsequent drying, is not detrimental 
to their function or longevity. NHBC has said the inspection holes were opened up to 
ascertain the condition of the structure within the ceiling void and this was found to be un-
damaged.
Where there is conflicting evidence such as this, I have to make my decision on the balance 
of probabilities. In this case it means I have to decide what version of events I am more 
persuaded by. 
While I can understand Mr Ps logic and why he would like the bathroom floor to be replaced. 
I am persuaded by the detail provided by NHBC. I think its more likely than not based on the 
evidence available to me the bathroom floor is undamaged and therefore I wont be 
recommending NHBC replace it. 
- Decoration in kitchen 
Mr P has said the sill has been damaged by the water and needs to be replaced. He has 
provided evidence of the sill paintwork cracking where it joins with the wall and areas of the 
sill that have bubbled and have other blemishes. 
NHBC has now agreed to replace the sill as part of the SoW. I think this is reasonable.
As mentioned in my provisional decision NHBC has included in the SoW costs to decorate 
areas of the kitchen impacted by the initial damage and repairs. I remain of the opinion this 
is fair and reasonable.
- Crack below the window sill in kitchen,
No further comments have been made in relation to this, so Im not minded to change the 
findings I set out in my provisional decision. NHBC should include the cost of repairing the 
crack in its SoW.
- Kitchen floor,
NHBC questioned the evidence Mr P provided in relation to his flooring and in response 
Mr P provided further photos.  Having reviewed all of the images I remain persuaded as in 
my provisional decision there is damage to the kitchen floor which NHBC needs to repair. 
NHBC is required only to fix/replace the section of floor that has been damaged. However, if
an exact match isnt available to the existing floor. I would expect NHBC to pay a 50%
contribution towards the cost of replacing the floor. 
Mr P has questioned as he has the same flooring in the hallway and living room if NHBC 
should also pay a 50% contribution towards that. I have let Mr P know that I wouldnt expect 
NHBC to make a further contribution as those areas are too far away from the original 
damage and it wouldnt be reasonable for it to do so.Front door needs adjustment
In relation to the adjustment of the front door Mr P has said my proposal doesnt provide a 
clear solution for him and could result in a further battle with NHBC. He believes his surveyor 
said the front door couldnt be adjusted. 
NHBC has said it is happy with my proposed solution. It has said if Mr P has the work 
undertaken as proposed it its SoW and this does not resolve the issue, he should send it 
evidence from his contractor as to why further repairs are required so that this can assessed 
for further costs to be agreed. 
I appreciate Mr Ps concerns however without adjustments first being tried it isnt possible to 
say with certainty they will be unsuccessful. I see no reason therefore to change the 
proposal I set out in my provisional decision.
Windows need adjustment and trickle vents need to be changed
Mr P has said this issue has been misunderstood. The issue with the trickle vents wont 
solve the issue of the windows being unable to open freely. While a flush trickle vent could 
possibly be installed, would not address the root cause of the issue being that the window 
frames are very thin and the windows hinges are too close to the wall. He has been advised 
that a possible solution is to change the way the windows open. 
NHBC has said it is confident changing the trickle vents will negate the current issue of the 
windows hitting the wall. Based on Mr Ps comments however it has said that should NHBC 
undertake the work and this does not resolve the issue, it will investigate further. Similarly, 
should Mr P have the repairs undertaken and this doesnt resolve the issue, it would need to 
see evidence which specifically explains why the repair scheduled by NHBC was not 
successful/suitable before it will consider paying further costs.
The repair NHBC undertakes should be lasting and effective. At the moment it is unknown if 
replacing the trickle vents will be successful. I appreciate Mr P has put forward an alternative 
suggestion but at this moment I cant say what NHBC has proposed is unreasonable. 
NHBC has said it will include in the SoW the cost of repairing the damage to the wall by the 
window. I think this is reasonable. 
In relation to the window adjustment Mr P has said my proposal doesnt provide a clear 
solution for him and could result in a further battle with NHBC. 
NHBC has said it is happy with my proposed solution. It has said if Mr P has the work 
undertaken as proposed it its SoW and this does not resolve the issue, he should send it 
evidence from his contractor as to why further repairs are required so that this can assessed 
for further costs to be agreed. 
I appreciate Mr Ps concerns however without adjustments first being tried it isnt possible to 
say with certainty they will be unsuccessful. 
Ensuite door
Mr P has said that NHBC should paint the whole wall surrounding the ensuite door. The 
scope of work says, Cut back and fill minor cracking to architrave and wall as a result of the 
door not fitting correctly in preparation for paint finish Based on this Im satisfied that NHBC 
will be completing repairs to the affected part of the wall.  I dont think it is reasonable to 
require NHBC to paint the whole wall in this instance. As mentioned in my provisional decision NHBC has agreed to add £150 to the SoW to 
account for the fact the door is veneered. 
Patio door
Mr P has said the repair to this is still outstanding, however it isnt noted in his surveyors 
report. NHBC has provided an email from the builder that confirmed this has been repaired. 
Had the matter been outstanding I would have expected it to have been covered in the 
surveyors report. As such I think on the balance of probabilities this repair has been 
completed. Based on the evidence available to me, I cant say there is anything further for 
NHBC to do here.
Personnel door to garage
No further comments have been provided in relation to this. I see no reason to change my 
provisional findings that the uplift of £100 to the SoW is fair and reasonable to address this 
issue.
Additional service issues.
In my provisional decision I said that NHBC should pay Mr P compensation of £200 in total 
to reflect the trouble and upset hed been caused. I also said that NHBC should pay 50% of 
the cost of the surveyors report Mr P obtained. Neither party has disputed those findings, so 
I see no reason to alter them. 
Putting things right
In addition to increasing the costs in the schedule of work as already outlined and agreed 
above, to put things right NHBC should:
Repair the crack in the kitchen wall.
Fix/replace the lifting flooring in the kitchen. If an exact match isnt available to the 
existing flooring, NHBC should provide a 50% contribution to the cost of replacing the 
floor.
Replace the window sill.
If Mr P chooses a cash settlement and whomever he gets to undertake the works 
provides evidence additional work was required over and above what NHBC accounted 
for to adjust the front door and windows in the SoW. NHBC should pay to Mr P what it 
would have cost it, should its contractor have undertaken the additional work.
Pay Mr P a total amount of £200 compensation.
Pay Mr P 50% of the cost of obtaining his surveyors report on receipt of proof of the 
amount paid
Mr P will then need to decide whether he wants NHBCs contractor to undertake all of the 
works or he wishes to receive a cash settlement.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold Mr Ps complaint against National House-Building Council. I direct it to put matters right as I have set out in the section above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision before 3 June 2021.
 
Alison Gore
Ombudsman