DRN-2962590
The complaint
Mr R complains that Society of Lloyd's declined his claim against his travel insurance policy.
Reference to Lloyds includes reference to its agents. 
Mr Rs son, Mr R1, is helping Mr R to bring his complaint.
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again 
here in full. In summary, in February 2020, Mr R purchased a single trip travel insurance 
policy for a trip which had intended departure and return dates of 14 March 2020 and
22 March 2020 respectively. Mr R is the only person insured under the policy.
Mr R1s partner booked two weeks accommodation for the trip and Mr R paid for it. Mr R1 
and his partner were at the accommodation for the whole of the two weeks hire period. 
The plan was for Mr R and five other family members to join Mr R1 and his partner for the 
second week.
Shortly before Mr Rs flight departure time, while he was at the airport, he learned that the 
airline had cancelled his flight. Mr R says that the airline cancelled all flights to his 
destination and that he tried to arrange an alternative flight but there werent any suitable 
ones, so he abandoned his trip.
On 14 March 2020, the government of Mr Rs intended destination declared a state of 
national emergency. On 15 March 2020, the Foreign and Commonwealth Office (FCO) 
advised against all but essential travel to Mr Rs destination.
The airline refunded the cost of Mr Rs flights. Mr R made a claim against his policy in 
relation to 6/8th of the accommodation costs. Lloyds declined his claim. It said that the 
circumstances of the claim dont fall within the terms and conditions of the policy. Lloyds 
apologised for some service issues and offered Mr R compensation of £50 in relation to that.
My provisional decision
On 7 July 2021, I sent both parties my provisional decision in this case. I said:
The relevant rules and industry guidance say that Lloyds has a responsibility to handle 
claims promptly and fairly and it shouldnt reject a claim unreasonably.
I intend to uphold Mr Rs complaint and Ill explain why.
Its now common ground that what happened here doesnt come within the insured 
events under the part of the policy entitled Your pre-travel policy - if you are 
unable to go on your trip (Policy A Section 1).
The part of the policy entitled Your travel policy - if your travel plans are disrupted 
(Policy B Section 1), provides cover up to £2,500 for the cancellation of a trip if: 
after 24 hours of delay at the airport [] of your outbound journey from the UK [] 
you abandon the trip
Lloyds says that the event that led to Mr Rs claim was the airlines cancellation of his 
flight and that his flight wasnt delayed, so what happened here doesnt come within 
the terms of the policy. But Mr R was already at the airport (as is required by section 
B1 of the policy) when his flight was cancelled. And, when deciding what we think is 
fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of a case of this nature, wed generally 
consider the ultimate impact of the situation on the consumer. If Mr R was unable to 
arrange an alternative flight within 24 hours of the original flight, then the impact of the 
situation on him is the same as if the original flight was delayed for 24 hours and then 
cancelled.
Ive looked at what happened after the airline cancelled Mr Rs flight. Mr R says that 
the airline offered a flight by another provider from a different airport, but it wasnt 
possible to travel to the other airport in time for that flight. He says that the airline 
moved him to a flight which was to depart the following day - 15 March 2020  and it 
was only when that flight was cancelled, after 24 hours delay at the airport, that he 
decided to abandon his plans to travel abroad.
Based on what Ive seen, its not clear to me that Mr R has shown that he spent 24 
hours at the airport. But I dont think that alters the outcome here. Thats because, 
there was no way Mr R could carry on with his trip, whether he waited at the airport for 
24 hours or not.
For the reasons Ive explained, I think that it would be fair and reasonable for Lloyds 
to deal with Mr Rs claim under the remaining terms of the policy.
Mr R is the only person insured under the policy. Lloyds was right to say that Mr Rs 
policy only covers his loss, not the loss of others. I think its fair and reasonable for 
Lloyds to deal with a successful abandonment claim as a claim for cancellation. The 
policy terms provide cover for the policyholders proportion of costs only. Mr R paid 
for the accommodation as a gift to his family. The policy doesnt cover the element 
of the accommodation costs which relate to other members of Mr Rs family, as they 
are not insured under the policy. So, I think the extent of Mr Rs claim under the 
policy is for 1/8th of the accommodation costs for one week. Lloyds should also pay 
interest on the settlement, from the date of Mr Rs claim to the date of payment.
Mr R1, on Mr Rs behalf, has also expressed concern about how Lloyds handled the 
claim and complaint. Our service can only consider complaints about financial 
services. So, whilst I can consider the points about Lloyds handling of the claim, I 
cant consider the comments about Lloyds handling of the complaint, because it 
isnt a regulated activity. I think that the compensation of £50 Lloyds offered is fair in 
relation to the service issues in handling Mr Rs claim. Its not clear to me whether 
that compensation has now been paid. If it hasnt, Lloyds should make the 
payment.
Responses to my provisional decision
Both Mr R1, on Mr Rs behalf, and Lloyds accepted my provisional decision. What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As neither Mr R nor Lloyds have any further substantive comment, I see no reason to depart 
from the conclusions I reached in my provisional decision. 
For the reasons Ive explained, I think its fair and reasonable for Lloyds to deal with a 
successful abandonment claim as a claim for cancellation in relation to Mr Rs share of the 
accommodation costs. Lloyds should also pay interest on the settlement, from the date of 
Mr Rs claim to the date of payment. And if it hasnt already paid Mr R the compensation of 
£50 it has already offered, it should now do so. 
Putting things right
To put things right, Lloyd's should deal with Mr Rs claim under the remaining terms of the 
policy. It should also pay interest on the amount of any settlement at the simple rate of 8% 
per year, from the date Mr R made the claim, to the date it makes the payment.
Lloyds should also pay Mr R the compensation of £50 it has already offered, if its not
already done so.
My final decision
 
My final decision is that I uphold Mr Rs complaint. I now require Society of Lloyd's to take 
the steps set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision before 3 September 2021. 
Louise Povey
Ombudsman