DRN-2662154
The complaint
X complains HSBC UK Bank plc (HSBC) rejected his credit card application. 
What happened
X says he applied for a World Elite credit card with HSBC but on realising the card carried 
fees, he decided to change the application to a Premier credit card. X says he was told his 
application had been rejected and discovered this was due to him not having sufficient credit 
history in the UK. X says he has a credit card in Canada and was told by HSBC to get his 
credit history from HSBC in Canada to enable him to apply for the Premier credit card. X 
says his application was then rejected and was told he should reapply some months later. X 
fails to understand why HSBC have refused his application given his credit history in 
Canada.  
HSBC says X didnt meet the criteria for the credit card and he failed their credit score, which 
may have been due to the length of time X has resided in the UK and the lack of any credit 
history here.
X wasnt happy with HSBCs response and feels he should be entitled to a credit card with 
HSBC, so he referred the matter to this service. 
The investigator looked at all the available information including telephone recordings but 
didnt uphold Xs complaint. The investigator says HSBC acted fairly and made a commercial 
decision not to approve the credit card facility at that time. The investigator says Xs 
Canadian credit history wouldnt apply to his application in the UK and HSBC havent done 
anything wrong when declining his application for the reasons they have given. 
X wasnt happy with the investigators view and asked for the matter to be referred to an 
ombudsman for a final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I have come to the same outcome as the investigator and I will explain how 
I have come to my decision. 
I can understand it would be frustrating and upsetting for X to have his credit card application 
with HSBC rejected, despite the fact he has similar facilities in Canada with them. When 
looking at this complaint I have considered if HSBC acted fairly when rejecting Xs 
application for the World Elite (WE) and Premier (P) credit cards accounts. 
X says he telephoned HSBC asking they change his original credit card application from WE 
to P and was told at that point his application had been declined. X says he spoke to HSBCs 
credit underwriting team who suggested he got in touch with his HSBC Canadian contact, 
where he held an account, to send on his credit history, to assist with his application for a UK 
credit card. X also says despite this his application was declined and he would need to wait 
a number of months before he could reapply, and that would make things difficult for him.  X 
feels theres nothing to suggest from HSBCs application process, he needed to have a UK 
credit history before he could be accepted for a credit card with them. X says he feels he 
deserves to have a credit card and was of the view if he could prove his credit history in 
Canada, that should have been acceptable when reapplying for the UK credit card. 
I understand what X is saying here and I do have some sympathy with the situation he finds 
himself in, given he has only resided in the UK for a short period of time. Its worth saying, I 
have listened to the phone calls both to HSBCs credit underwriters and when he was initially 
told his application had been declined. I am satisfied after listening to the calls with the credit 
underwriting staff, there may have been a misunderstanding as the advice given to him was 
to speak to HSBC in Canada to see if the Canadian side of the business could do anything 
for him. While X may not agree, from listening to the telephone call I am satisfied HSBC 
werent saying, as he believed, he needed to provide his Canadian credit history to HSBC in 
the UK and by doing that, enable his application to be approved in the UK. 
What is clear from that conversation is HSBC say, they do not have access to other 
countries customers credit history, nor can they rely on this for applications in the UK. During 
the call the member of HSBC staff mentioned X would need to reapply after he had built up a 
credit history in the UK and this was also emphasised when the card was initially declined 
with another member of HSBCs team. So, I cant say HSBC had said his Canadian credit 
history could be used to support and approve his application for a credit card in the UK. 
Its important to say the conditions applying to credit card applications with HSBC in the UK 
may be different to those in Canada for various reasons. HSBC, like all banks in the UK, 
would undertake credit reference checks before approving any customer applications for 
credit. While it is unfortunate X only lived and worked in the UK for a short time, when he 
applied for the credit card, this would impact his credit rating. I am satisfied this is a 
justifiable reason for HSBC to decline an application for a credit card, even if X doesnt think 
so. I should say it is not my role to tell HSBC who they must do business with, when they 
have made a commercial decision under their normal credit criteria. 
Its also worth mentioning even if someone is eligible to apply for a credit card thats not to 
say an application would be automatically approved, even if X believed his credentials and 
overseas credit background justified this.
While X says HSBCs website doesnt reference the need for a credit score, as the 
investigator points out their website says, Credit is subject to status, affordability and 
applicable terms and conditions.  Unfortunately, in this case, Xs status didnt meet HSBCs 
criteria here for the reasons already explained. 
It follows, while X will be disappointed with my decision, I wont be asking anymore of HSBC 
here. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask X to accept or 
reject my decision before 15 April 2021.
 
Barry White
Ombudsman