DRN-2545792
The complaint
Mr N complains that Clydesdale Bank PLC t/a Yorkshire Bank (Yorkshire Bank) blocked his 
account for three months, without telling him why.
What happened
On 12 September 2019, Yorkshire Bank blocked Mr Ns account. It didnt tell him why it had 
done so, and kept his account blocked until 18 December 2019. Throughout that time, Mr N 
had no access to the money in his account.
Mr N complained, saying he needed to transfer the money in his account to a friend. But 
Yorkshire Bank declined to unblock his account, so Mr N brought his complaint to our 
service. Six weeks after he did so, Yorkshire Bank removed the block and allowed Mr N 
access to his funds. 
Mr N maintained Yorkshire Bank had treated him unfairly and said he should be 
compensated for being without his account for so long. Hed been unable to pay bills while 
his account was blocked, which had caused him distress and inconvenience.
Our investigator looked at the evidence provided by both parties and said it wouldnt be 
appropriate to uphold Mr Ns complaint, because Yorkshire Bank had acted in line with its 
legal and regulatory obligations when it blocked the account. Mr N didnt agree and asked an 
ombudsman to consider the matter afresh.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Firstly, I recognise how frustrating Mr N found this whole experience. He was only told 
limited information by Yorkshire Bank and it didnt commit to firm timescales as to when it 
would complete its investigation. 
With that being said, Im sorry to say that I cant say Yorkshire Bank treated Mr N unfairly by 
blocking his account. All banks in the UK are strictly regulated and must take certain actions 
in order to meet their legal and regulatory obligations. That sometimes means they need to 
restrict customers accounts while they carry out a review. 
And, having looked at the evidence provided by Yorkshire Bank to explain why it froze Mr 
Ns account, Im satisfied it acted in line with those obligations when it did so. And that it was 
entitled to do so under the account terms and conditions that govern the relationship 
between Yorkshire Bank and Mr N. So, I cant say Yorkshire Bank was wrong to block Mr 
Ns account and carry out an investigation.
Ive also reviewed the timeline to see if Yorkshire Bank could have completed its 
investigation and removed the block more quickly. But having done so, I can see that its 
investigation was completed on 18 December 2019 and that it unblocked Mr Ns account on 
the same day. And Im satisfied, based on the information Yorkshire Bank has provided me, 
that it was entitled to keep Mr Ns account blocked throughout this time.
So, while I recognise Mr Ns account was blocked for almost three months, and that he 
wouldve been inconvenienced by the block, Im satisfied Yorkshire Bank was entitled to 
keep the account blocked throughout that period.
For the reasons Ive set out above, I see no basis on which I might make an award in favour 
of Mr N. So, I wont be upholding his complaint.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr N to accept or 
reject my decision before 15 March 2021.
 
Ombudsman