DRN-2544878
The complaint
Mrs K is unhappy Quickly Finance Limited, trading as Fast Track Reclaim (FTR) is charging 
her a fee for a mis-sold payment protection insurance (PPI) claim.
What happened
In August 2019 Mrs K said she was looking to see whether shed been mis-sold PPI. She 
first checked a free service Ill call R but couldnt locate a particular lender. She found that 
the store card shed been looking into had been taken over by another lender, and on 9 
August 2019, R provided a link for her to register a claim., which she said she did.
Mrs K said she received several emails from FTR which she didnt open and binned as she 
said she didnt recognise the business and considered them as being marketing emails.
In November 2019, Mrs Ks lender told her that she had been mis-sold PPI and the 
compensation offered. Since then she said shed been contacted by FTR to pay their fee for 
her successful claim. And asked to complete further forms to pursue her claim through the 
Financial Ombudsman Service. She said she thinks this was to get her to sign their letter of 
authority (LoA) to substantiate they could claim their fee. And believes they have hijacked 
her details from her contact with R. She complained to FTR.
FTR said Mrs K agreed in August 2019 to use their services. And on 1 August 2019 had 
signed a LoA authorising them to act on her behalf to pursue mis-sold PPI claims with her 
lenders. FTR said theyd emailed and messaged Mrs K keeping her updated about her 
claims. Theyd also asked her to complete a PPI questionnaire (PPIQ). Mrs K hadnt 
completed the PPIQ, but her lender had investigated her claim based on the LoA submitted 
by FTR, so the PPIQ wasnt needed for her lender to determine PPI had been mis-sold. And 
in November 2019, Mrs Ks lender had told both her and FTR that her mis-sold PPI claim 
was successful. As the claim was successful FTR said their fee was justified.
The same lender, in January 2020 told both Mrs K and FTR that another of her claims hadnt 
been mis-sold but that she was entitled to redress under Plevin for the commission theyd 
received. FTR had asked Mrs K if she wanted to pursue the lenders decision that the PPI 
hadnt been mis-sold with the Financial Ombudsman Service. 
Mrs K wasnt happy with FTRs response and referred her complaint to us.
 
Our investigator said, on balance, Mrs K had authorised FTR to pursue her mis-sold PPI 
claim. And he said FTR had acted fairly and in line with their terms and conditions. 
Mrs K didnt agree and has asked for an ombudsman to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so Im not upholding this complaint. Ill explain why.
It isnt our role to consider whether a signature is genuine or not, we are not handwriting 
experts and alleged forgery would be for a criminal court to decide. Were an informal 
dispute resolution service, acting as an alternative to the courts. This means were impartial 
and look at both sides of the story. We dont place more weight on one sides story because 
of who they are. We ask questions and weigh up all the information were given. Where 
there is a different version of events as is the case here, I base my decision on what I 
consider most likely happened. 
I can understand Mrs Ks frustration as she is adamant, she never signed the LoA asking 
FTR to pursue her claim. And strongly feels that theyd used her contact with R to obtain 
her details. In reaching my decision I need to determine whether I think its more likely than 
not Mrs K authorised FTR to act on her behalf, and whether FTR has acted fairly and 
reasonably in their actions with her.
Mrs K has shown she contacted R about mis-sold PPI and acted to find details about one 
of her lenders. It was during this time that FTR said Mrs K made her online application with 
them. FTR has shown an online application was made about mis-sold PPI with them on
1 August 2019. Mrs K said she hadnt made any application with FTR, so Ive looked at the 
web journey process for making an application for FTR to pursue a PPI claim.
FTR  has shown the screens they say Mrs K would have gone through. The screen shows a 
statement that says:
Isnt it time you checked for PPI. * Free PPI check
And below is a box that says, How it works. And includes the wording:
 *Free PPI check. Once PPI is identified, the Free PPI Check Period ends and we will 
continue to work on preparing, submitting and negotiating your Claim(s). Our fee of 24% 
inclusive of VAT will be payable on all successful claims  as per the Terms of Engagement. 
The *Free PPI check in this wording was bolded in red and the asterisk linked it to the 
headline statement. The screen also had a link to the Terms of Engagement.
The next screens asked for information from Mrs K about her personal details and lenders. 
The personal details in the application FTR has for Mrs K include date of birth, current 
address, previous address, mobile telephone number, email address and previous known 
names. And correlate with personal details Mrs K has given to us. The personal information 
is specific to Mrs K, and I dont think would be something FTR would have known. So, Im 
satisfied it more likely that Mrs K would have completed this stage of the journey. 
On completing the application, FTR said a LoA would have been generated, populated with 
this information. I know Mrs K thinks the information FTR had was obtained through her 
contact with R but Ive not seen any evidence to support this. FTR has shown an audit trail 
of the time the application was made and the details that were provided. And as Mrs K didnt 
claim with R till 9 August 2019, Ive no reason to doubt she completed the FTR application. 
FTR has said the LoA couldnt be submitted without the insertion of a signature, as I think 
the application was completed by Mrs K, on balance, I think she added her signature.
As outlined above FTRs terms and conditions were also available to see. And in signing the 
LoA Mrs K had agreed to them. FTRs terms and conditions say:Once PPI is identified, the Free PPI Check Period ends and You authorise FTR to
continue to provide You with the Claims Services.
And go on to say:
You may cancel Your Claimis) at any time within 14 days from the date you sign the
Letter of Authority  Cooling-off Period') at no cost to you, unless you or FTR have received 
a reasonable offer of Compensation within the Cooling-off Period.
I can see from FTRs records that in September 2019, they advised Mrs K that PPI had been 
found. At this point the free PPI check period would have ended and Mrs K would have 
authorised FTR to provide their claims service. 
In finding PPI had been sold doesnt automatically mean that a PPI claim will be successful, 
as the claim needs to show the PPI policy was mis-sold.  So, FTR asked Mrs K to complete 
the PPIQ, as this could provide information to strengthen her claim. The message FTRs 
sent says, You HAVE Paid PPI. And provides a link for a PPIQ to be completed. The 
message also gave Mrs K a customer number. This message was followed by several 
similar messages through September 2019 and October 2019. And in November 2019 FTR 
sent an update to Mrs K explaining that PPI claims were taking longer to resolve due to the 
high volumes received by lenders. 
Mrs K didnt complete the PPIQ, but in 2019, leading up to the August PPI deadline many 
claims management companies amended their terms and conditions in recognition of the 
expected high volume of claims. And reflected that lenders could investigate any claim 
based on a data subject request, as happened here. FTR has said that their fee is justified 
because Mrs Ks lender auto converted, which means they investigated Mrs Ks claim 
based on the details they sent in the LoA. I can see form the messages sent by FTR that the 
success of any mis-sold claim wasnt reliant on the completion of the PPIQ, as they say you 
may be unable to claim PPI refund unless you have completed the PPI questionnaire.
I think if Mrs K was certain she hadnt asked FTR to work for her, by receiving regular emails 
from them she could have  taken the  opportunity to question FTR about their involvement. I 
know Mrs K has said she didnt read the emails, but I cant hold  FTR responsible for Mrs Ks 
choice, not to read them. The claim may not have been formalised according to Mrs K, but 
its not enough that she simply disengaged from the process to consider this as her 
cancelling the agreement she had with FTR. I cant see any evidence that despite 
opportunities for Mrs K to speak to or get in touch with FTR, it wasnt until after her claim 
was successful that she questioned their involvement. 
In November 2019, both Mrs K and FTR were told by her lender her mis-sold PPI claim for a 
loan shed with them was successful. I think this shows Mrs Ks lender recognised FTR as 
being her representative in making her PPI claim.  I can also see they told both Mrs K and 
FTR in January 2020 that her mis-sold PPI claim for a credit card hadnt been upheld. But 
they did offer redress to Mrs K under Plevin. This is where the lender had received 
commission for the sale of PPI and had a duty to disclose the commission, as it created an 
unfair relationship. I can see FTR in asking Mrs K to sign another LoA was for them to have 
authority to refer her claim for the PPI being mis-sold element to the Financial Ombudsman 
Service to consider if the outcome reached by her lender was fair and reasonable. It wasnt 
FTR retrospectively attempting to get Mrs K to sign the LoA for the initial PPI claim from 
August 2019.
Its clear from the lenders response about the credit card claim that further information had 
been provided by Mrs K direct to them. But by them informing both Mrs K and FTR of the outcome I think shows they didnt consider the PPI claim had been brought directly to them 
by Mrs K, so they werent solely dealing with her. So, Im satisfied Mrs K authorised FTR to 
pursue any PPI claims on her behalf.
The agreement Mrs K had with FTR was on a No win No fee basis. This means
FTR charged a percentage success fee, not a fee based upon the amount of work they did.
This meant any work done on any unsuccessful claims would be done for free. Where a
claim was successful, FTRs fee maybe more or less than the value of the work they actually
did. This is the risk taken by all parties in this type of agreement. 
I know Mrs K will be disappointed with my decision. But I think shed authorised FTR to act 
on her behalf and she hadnt cancelled that agreement before her claim was successful. So,  
think FTRs fees are justified.
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs K to accept or 
reject my decision before 15 July 2021.
 
Anne Scarr
Ombudsman