DRN-3387157
The complaint
Mrs G complained that she was mis-sold a mortgage payment protection insurance (PPI) 
policy by Bank of Scotland plc, trading as Halifax (Bank of Scotland).
What happened
Mrs G took out her mortgage in 1994, and the PPI policy started at the same time. She told 
us that she applied for her mortgage in a meeting at a branch of the bank, but had no 
recollection of PPI being mentioned and didnt ask for it or need it. Bank of Scotland couldnt 
confirm whether the sale took place in a branch, but had considered the complaint on the 
basis that it had, and that it had recommended the policy for Mrs G. 
The policy provided accident, sickness and unemployment cover for Mrs G at a monthly cost 
of £31.05. The monthly benefit was £450.00. If she had made a successful claim, the policy 
couldve paid out for up to 12 months per claim for unemployment and 24 months for 
accident or sickness.
Our adjudicator didnt uphold the complaint. Mrs G disagreed, and asked that it be referred 
to an ombudsman for review.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding Mrs Gs case.
Ive decided not to uphold Mrs Gs complaint. Ill explain why.
Mrs G complained that she wasnt aware of the PPI being added to her mortgage. Bank of 
Scotland couldnt provide copies of any documentation from the point of sale, although this is 
not surprising as the mortgage was taken out in 1994 and repaid in 2001  over 21 years 
ago  and businesses are not required to keep records indefinitely. However, it was able to 
send us a copy of its computer records of Mrs Gs mortgage account (and the PPI), including 
an extract from the list of transactions on the account. I can see from the computer record 
that the PPI policy is shown as having been cancelled in April 1997. 
As neither Mrs G nor Bank of Scotland has been able to tell us much about what happened 
when Mrs G applied for her mortgage, Ive also taken into account what we know about 
other Bank of Scotland PPI sales alongside mortgage applications at around the same time. 
But I havent seen problems with PPI being added without consent in other, similar Bank of 
Scotland sales.
Ive thought carefully about what Mrs G said, but on balance, I dont think I can fairly say its 
most likely that the PPI was added without Mrs Gs knowledge and consent, which is what 
Id have to do to be able to uphold the complaint on this point  I simply dont have enough 
evidence that this is what happened.
Ive considered this complaint on the basis that Bank of Scotland advised Mrs G to take out 
the policy  which holds it to a higher standard in that it shouldve made sure it was suitable 
for her. I think it was.
I cant know how the adviser explained the PPI policy details - especially the things not 
covered. But I cant see that Mrs G wouldve been affected by any of these. Its not clear how 
the cost of the PPI was explained to Mrs G, although I dont think shed have agreed to take 
it without some idea of the cost. And Ive no evidence to suggest the premium was 
unaffordable for her.
Mrs G said that she wouldve been entitled to sick pay from her employer of 12 months pay. 
Bank of Scotland told us that in a conversation with Mrs G she had said this wouldve been 
six months at full pay followed by six months at half pay, and based on the nature of Mrs Gs 
employment at the time I think this is right. Mrs G also said she wouldve been entitled to 
redundancy pay, and that she had savings she couldve relied on, but its not clear how 
much these wouldve amounted to  I dont have consistent information on this point.
I accept that Mrs G said she had good employee benefits, but Ive kept in mind that the 
policy couldve paid out for up to 24 months in the event of a successful accident or sickness 
claim  much longer than Mrs Gs sick pay wouldve lasted  and 12 months in the event of 
redundancy. And the PPI wouldve allowed Mrs G to use her savings for her everyday living 
expenses. I also think Mrs G could reasonably have wanted to protect an important 
commitment that was secured on her home. So I think that the PPI was a reasonable 
recommendation for Bank of Scotland to make alongside Mrs Gs mortgage application. 
I appreciate that Mrs G feels strongly about this  and I am sorry to see that she has had a 
difficult time over recent years. But on balance, although I cant know whether Bank of 
Scotland clearly explained all of the policy details, I think Mrs G would still have bought the 
policy in 1994 if it had. It couldve provided useful protection if Mrs G couldnt work. This 
means I cant fairly say that the PPI was mis-sold.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, Ive decided not to uphold Mrs Gs complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs G to accept or 
reject my decision before 12 July 2022.
 
Jan Ferrari
Ombudsman