DRN-4376028
The complaint
Mr W has complained that Avivas approved repairers took a significant length of time to 
repair his car under his motor policy following an accident.  
What happened
Mr W was involved in an accident on 23 February 2023. His car was then taken to a garage 
and the repairs started. Mr W didnt get his car back fully and properly repaired until 8 
August 2023. 
Throughout that time Avivas approved repairers via its agents who were managing Mr Ws 
claim initially, constantly said they needed further parts to repair his car, or the parts ordered 
were wrong. Then the approved repairers returned his car when there were still faults, more 
than once. Mr W was given of total six different courtesy cars throughout this period. 
Eventually Avivas engineer sent Mr Ws car to another repairer and finally Mr Ws car was 
fixed. 
Mr W said the entire experience was incredibly stressful to the extent he needed to see his 
doctor and was prescribed medication. He has provided evidence that he made a total 
number of 41 calls to the approved repairers or Aviva and that excludes any calls to 0800 
numbers for both the repairers and Aviva and its agents which he also made in addition. 
Aviva accepted his experience was well below the standard he should have received and 
apologised. And it paid him £500 compensation. At that time Mr W still hadnt had his car 
returned so he brought his complaint to us. 
The investigator ultimately suggested once the car was fully repaired and back with Mr W 
that Aviva should pay a further £200 making the total £700 compensation. Aviva agreed with 
this, but Mr W didnt think it was sufficient. So, Mr Ws complaint has been passed to me to 
decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so Im upholding this complaint along the same lines as those of the 
investigator. Ill now explain why. 
First, I do appreciate Mr W will be very disappointed with my decision and I do understand 
that.
 
Mr W has also now raised issues concerning his difficulties in getting a better priced 
premium for his car insurance which he said he couldnt avail of because his car was still 
being repaired and he obviously couldnt switch insurers. This matter has not been brought 
up before so in this decision I cant deal with it. I do understand this will be frustrating for Mr 
W but under the rules by which Im permitted to operate, I cant adjudicate on any issue the 
business hasnt already considered first. And this is one of those. If this matter remains an 
issue for Mr W, then he needs to raise it with Aviva first and if he remains dissatisfied with its 
response on the matter, he can bring that complaint back to us.
 
Now turning to the matters that I can consider in this decision, there is no dispute that the 
service and experience which Mr W had in making his claim to have his car repaired 
following an accident was exceptionally poor. Aviva itself has acknowledged this to Mr W. It 
said the following on 16 June 2023:
Thank you for the call today, and I am so terribly sorry for all the issues youve had 
during this time. Its quite unbelievable. Im sorry I have not communicated sooner, 
typically I would get involved towards the end of a repair/claim, if I had known sooner 
you were facing these diabolical issues, I would have stepped in. Saying that Im 
happy to hear that they are relatively close to having the car completed and handed 
back. At least they are being more open about it all. I will personally be taking the 
issues you have had back to [Avivas agents who dealt with the approved repairer] 
and the garage, as to be honest if a garage asks this way do we really want them to 
be ultimately representing us. As for [Avivas agents who dealt with the approved 
repairer] I will reach out to them and discuss. If in your spare time you could email 
me back perhaps in writing the issues you have faced, I could add that to the file and 
it would help, but if you feel that it may be too hard, I would totally understand. Also, I 
have added my name to the subject bar so when you respond I can find it easier. 
Speak on Monday!
It still took some time for Mr W to get his car back fully repaired, as he didnt get it back until 
8 August 2023. But at this stage its clear to me that Aviva could see his experience fell well 
short of what he should have experienced. The final response letter was issued on 19 June 
2023 where it included the payment of £500 compensation for Mr Ws experience but only 
up to this point in time. 
I consider this amount of compensation at this stage in Mr Ws claim to be about right, and 
very much in line with our stance on this issue, which can be read in more detail on our 
website. Compensation is not about fining businesses when things go wrong, its about 
compensating consumers for bad service. 
Aviva did manage to keep Mr W in a courtesy car throughout. I appreciate he had six 
different cars due to the fact the approved repairers said his car was ready, when it wasnt, 
and so the courtesy car got taken back and that one car was unsuitable given his health 
issues so that had to be changed. But it remains very significant that nonetheless Mr W was 
kept mobile in a car. Therefore, there was no loss of a car throughout his experience. This 
does lessen Mr Ws inconvenience substantially. 
 
So, I consider this £500 compensation to be in the right ballpark figure and its very likely had 
Aviva not paid this compensation at this stage of Mr Ws experience, I would have judged 
the figure to be around £500 here too. Aviva isnt to blame for the accident occurring, which 
is always stressful, upsetting and distressing and its often hard to separate the stress and 
inconvenience of that as against the claims experience, even a claims experience as difficult 
as Mr Ws has been.
However, Mr Ws claims experience didnt end in June 2023, it went on to 8 August 2023. 
The investigator suggested a further £200 compensation for this time-period, which again I 
consider is in line with our stance. It means Mr W will end up having a total of £700 
compensation for this very poor claims experience. Our stance on compensation as detailed on our website indicates that an award of over £300 and up to around £750 might be fair 
where the impact of a mistake has caused considerable distress, upset and worry  and/or 
significant inconvenience and disruption that needs a lot of extra effort to sort out. All the 
calls Mr W had to make plus all the different courtesy cars being changed when the 
approved repairers kept saying his car was fixed when it wasnt, does amount to a 
considerable distress, upset, and worry. And it required a lot of extra effort to sort out. 
Therefore, I consider this amount of compensation is at about the right level. And Aviva has 
agreed to this. Ive also taken note of the fact that Mr W said he had to attend is doctor given 
the stress of all this and that some medication was prescribed. Whilst I dont have any 
evidence of this, the fact that Mr W said it happened is taken into account in my assessment 
and Mr W should not feel its been ignored. 
My final decision
So, for these reasons, its my final decision that I uphold this complaint for further 
compensation only. 
I now require Aviva Insurance Limited to pay Mr W a further £200 compensation in addition 
to the £500 already paid ensuring that Mr W receives a total of £700 compensation. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision before 21 November 2023.
 
Rona Doyle
Ombudsman