DRN-1809679
The complaint
Miss R, represented by Mr J, complains that the car she acquired through a conditional sale 
agreement with PSA Finance UK Limited wasnt of satisfactory quality. She says she agreed 
with the dealer that she would have repairs undertaken but when she provided the invoice 
the dealer refused to cover the full cost of the repairs.
What happened
Miss R entered into a conditional sale agreement in January 2019 to acquire a used car. She 
says that the car was advertised as being in perfect condition and that it should have had a 
full years MOT. However, after collecting the car she noticed that the door locks werent 
working and the paintwork by the locks was damaged and hadnt been repaired as she had 
expected. She contacted the dealer about the issues  noting that the paintwork should have 
been addressed before delivery - and says it was agreed that she would have the repairs 
carried out.
 
Miss R provided a copy of the invoice for the repairs to the dealer. The total cost was just 
over £1,000. She says that the dealer wouldnt refund the full cost and instead said it would 
only refund £150.
The dealer says that Miss R collected the car in January 2019 and raised her concerns on 
27 February 2019. It says she explained there was an issue with the door lock and that she 
could get this repaired for £150. It says that it didnt want to cause Miss R inconvenience and 
so it agreed that she would go ahead with the repair. However, it then received an invoice for 
over £1,000. It says it only agreed to the repair to the door lock and paying £150 and so this 
was what it offered to refund.
Miss R raised her complaint with PSA Finance. It contacted the dealer and said that the 
dealer had agreed to the repair costing £150. It partially upheld Miss Rs complaint regarding 
the fault with the door locks but as the dealer had offered to reimburse the £150 it had 
agreed, it didnt accept that it was liable for the remainder of the invoice cost as this hadnt 
been agreed with the dealer.
Miss R didnt agree with PSA Finance response and raised her complaint with this service. 
Our investigator considered the issues raised. In his initial view he noted that the dealer had 
agreed to the door lock repair at a cost of £150 and said that as two locks needed to be 
repaired, it was reasonable that it paid £300 to cover this. He then issued a second view 
saying that there had also been discussion about the paintwork being repaired and so he 
thought it reasonable that the cost of this was also covered. 
Our investigator acknowledged that Miss R hadnt provided the dealer with a quote before 
the work was undertaken and that this should have happened. He thought if the quote had 
been provided, the dealer could have undertaken the work itself which may have reduced 
the costs. Therefore, he didnt think the full cost of the repairs needed to be refunded and 
recommended a refund of 75% of the invoice total.
PSA initially agreed to the refund of £300 but didnt agreed to the increase in the refund 
amount to 75 % of the invoice total.
During the investigation, Miss R also said that she had expected the car to be provided with 
a years MOT, but this wasnt the case. Although this doesnt form part of the original 
complaint raised, I note the dealer agreed to refund her the cost of the MOT.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so I have reached the same conclusion as that reached by our investigator for 
the following reasons:
Miss R acquired a used car through a conditional sale agreement. Under the 
regulations, specifically the Consumer Rights Act 2015 (CRA 2015), PSA Finance 
can be held liable if the car wasnt of satisfactory quality at the point of supply. 
Satisfactory quality takes into account factors such as the age and mileage of the car 
and what a reasonable person would expect taking into account all the 
circumstances.
In this case the car was almost four years old and had been driven just under 50,000 
miles at the point of acquisition. Given this some wear and tear would be expected. 
However, Miss R contacted the dealer about the door locks not working within a 
month of acquiring the car. Based on the discussion it appears the locks were 
accepted as being faulty. When Miss R contacted the dealer about the issues with 
the door locks, she also said that she had been told the door paintwork would be 
fixed before delivery. Given the paintwork wasnt repaired before delivery and Miss R 
noted this along with raising the issue with the door locks within a month of acquiring 
the car, I find the car wasnt of satisfactory quality at the point of supply. 
There are different remedies available when a car is provided that isnt of satisfactory 
quality. Given when the faults were identified it could have been reasonable for 
rejection to have been considered. But it appears that Miss R agreed that repairs 
would take place and this a reasonable remedy. 
There is dispute about whether the dealer agreed to the paint work being repaired. 
The call isnt available, but the notes appear to ask if the dealer will agree to the 
repairs after both the issue with the locks and paintwork is raised. Even if this wasnt 
the case, as it appears Miss R was told the paintwork would be repaired before the 
car was collected and that didnt happen, I find it reasonable that both the issue of 
the faulty locks and the damaged paintwork needed to be remedied.
Miss R had the repairs carried out and the total cost of these came to over £1,000. 
The dealer only agreed to refund £150. I have looked through the information 
available and the notes from the call say that Miss R could get the locks repaired 
herself for £150 as she had a contact in the motor trade. Based on this I can 
understand why the dealer challenged the invoice for over £1,000.
However, my role is to consider what is reasonable given the circumstances of this 
complaint. In this case the car wasnt of satisfactory quality and I find it reasonable 
that repairs were undertaken to the locks and the paintwork. The invoice shows that two door locks were repaired. I accept that the repairs would 
have only taken place as needed and given it was accepted that the door lock should 
be repaired, I find it reasonable that Miss R went ahead with the repair to both locks. 
The other repairs listed relate to the paintwork and the associated labour costs.
While I accept that the repairs should have been undertaken and these would usually 
be expected to take place at no cost to the consumer, this case is slightly different. 
Miss R had provided an estimated cost of £150. I understand this was for one lock 
and PSA Finance agreed to this being doubled to reflect the repairs to the two locks. 
However, the actual invoice was for a much higher amount and had Miss R provided 
an accurate quote for the works then it is more likely than not that the dealer would 
have taken further steps before agreeing to this  maybe asking for further quotes or 
completing the work itself - which could have reduced the cost.
Based on the specific circumstances of this complaint  that is that Miss R believed 
she was told to get the repairs carried out and feels she only repaired what had been 
needed and agreed. Whereas the dealer believed it had only agreed to £150 for the 
lock repair and that the reminder of the invoice hadnt been authorised. I agree with 
our investigator that a proportion of the invoice should be refunded. As I think the 
repairs were reasonable given the car wasnt of satisfactory quality at acquisition, I 
think the recommendation of a refund of 75% of the invoiced cost along with interest 
is reasonable.
Putting things right
PSA Finance UK Limited should refund Miss R 75% of the invoice provided (a refund of 
£812.70) along with 8% simple a year on from the date of payment to the date of settlement.
If PSA Finance considers that its required by HM Revenue & Customs to withhold income 
tax from that interest, it should tell Miss R how much its taken off. It should also give Miss R 
a tax deduction certificate if he asks for one, so she can reclaim the tax from HM Revenue & 
Customs if appropriate.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint in part. PSA Finance UK Limited should take 
the actions set out above to settle this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss R to accept 
or reject my decision before 15 December 2020.
 
Jane Archer
Ombudsman