DRN-1168750
The complaint
Ms B complains that Legal and General Assurance Society Limited ("L&G") failed to 
correctly calculate the compensation that was due to her under the industry pensions review 
exercise in July 2001 
What happened
In 1991, following some advice from L&G,  Ms B agreed to the transfer of some pension 
savings from an occupational scheme into a personal pension. 
Around 1999 L&G wrote to Ms B to advise her that it was required by its regulator to offer 
her a review of the advice it provided. This formed part of an industry wide exercise that 
became known as the Pensions Review. Ms B was contacted by L&G in May 2001 to inform 
her that the review had identified that she had lost out as a result of the transfer. So following 
a complex formula set out by the regulator L&G offered to increase the value of Ms B's 
pension plan by £5,280.03. Ms B accepted that offer in full and final settlement of any claims 
relating to the advice L&G had provided to her in 1991.
Recently Ms B has come across some paperwork confirming that her occupational pension 
benefits included, in part, benefits related to a Guaranteed Minimum Pension (GMP). She 
says she wasn't aware of that at the time of the review so didn't provide that information to 
L&G. So Ms B complained that the redress had been incorrectly calculated in 2001 and 
should be increased. Ms B has recently put her pension savings into payment by taking an 
annuity. That annuity was worth significantly less than her occupational pension would have 
been.
Ms B's complaint has been assessed by one of our investigators. He thought that L&G had 
taken all the required information into account when calculating the compensation due to Ms 
B in 2001. He thought the calculations had been performed in line with the regulator's 
guidance. So he didn't think the complaint should be upheld.
Ms B didn't agree with that assessment. So, as the complaint hasn't been resolved 
informally, it has been passed to me, an ombudsman, to decide. This is the last stage of our 
process.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Ive also taken into account the law, any 
relevant regulatory rules and good industry practice at the time.
In deciding this complaint I have taken account of the submissions that have been made by 
Ms B and by L&G. Where the evidence is unclear, or there are conflicts, I have made my 
decision based on the balance of probabilities. In other words I have looked at what 
evidence we do have, and the surrounding circumstances, to help me decide what I think is 
more likely to, or should, have happened.The Pensions Review exercise started in late 1994, looking at transfers that took place 
between April 1988 and June 1994. Between 1995 and 1997 it considered, as phase 1, the 
highest priority cases - typically those where pensions were already in payment, or would be 
shortly. The second phase followed in 1999, and it was in this phase that L&G wrote to Ms 
B. The exercise was intended to draw a line under issues that had happened a number of 
years before, and were prevalent across large parts of the industry.
The regulator at the time set out a series of assumptions on which the calculations should be 
performed. Those calculations were complex, and needed to take into account a significant 
number of factors including information about the consumer, and about the pension scheme 
from which they had transferred. With the benefit of hindsight some of the assumptions that 
the regulator used, such as for future investment returns, have not proved to be realistic. But 
that in itself isn't a reason to conclude that the calculations performed were incorrect.
L&G has provided us with copies of the information it used to calculate the compensation 
that was due to Ms B. Whilst the calculations themselves were complex, and often required 
the input of actuaries, I am confident that L&G performed them in line with the regulator's 
requirements. This was something that was monitored closely by the regulator at the time. 
But of course the outcome of those calculations would only be correct if the input data about 
the consumer and their occupational scheme was also correct.
I can see that the information L&G held for Ms B at the time appears to be correct, both in 
terms of her personal circumstances, and the benefits she had given up from her 
occupational scheme. And for the avoidance of doubt I can confirm that information did 
contain details of Ms B's entitlement to a GMP benefit. And L&G has also shown us that it 
held copies of the scheme rules for the occupational scheme that Ms B had left. So it could 
fairly assess how Ms B's benefits might have grown in the future. It doesn't seem to me that 
there are any grounds to conclude that the compensation L&G paid to Ms B in 2001 was 
incorrect.
I appreciate that the annuity Ms B has been able to recently purchase with the proceeds of 
her pension plan is much less than the pension she would have received from her 
occupational scheme. But that doesn't mean L&G performed the pension review exercise 
incorrectly. I understand how disappointing this will be for Ms B. And that she would clearly 
have been better off if she hadn't transferred her benefits from the occupational scheme. But 
in 2001 she accepted the offer made by L&G, in line with the regulator's expectations, to 
correct the estimated loss from the advice she'd received in 1991. It isn't fair or reasonable 
for me to ask L&G to redo that calculation. 
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I dont uphold the complaint or make any award against 
Legal and General Assurance Society Limited. Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman 
Service, Im required to ask Ms B to accept or reject my decision before 1 June 2020.
Paul Reilly
Ombudsman