DRN-1555153
complaint
Mr N says Lloyds Bank PLC mis-sold him a payment protection insurance (PPI) policy.
Our adjudicator didnt think the complaint should be upheld. Mr N disagreed, so the
complaint was passed to me  an ombudsman - to look into afresh and issue a final 
decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account here.
Having done so, Ive decided not to uphold Mr Ns complaint. Ill explain why.
When selling the PPI to Mr N, Lloyds shouldve made it clear the policy was optional. It also 
shouldve got Mr Ns agreement to take it out. Mr N says he wasnt told the policy was 
optional. Lloyds hasnt been able to tell us how the PPI was sold. Mr N says it was either on 
the phone or over the internet. In any event, I have limited information about the sale. And in 
cases where I have limited information about a sale, I have to decide what I think is more 
likely to have happened based on the information and evidence I have seen.
Lloyds has looked at Mr Ns complaint as though the PPI was taken out when the credit card 
began in October 1995. This seems reasonable given there is limited information. Lloyds 
also hasnt got any paperwork from the time of sale. This is unfortunate, but unsurprising 
given how long ago the credit card and PPI were taken out. It has however provided us with 
a sample application form which it says is similar, if not the same as the one that would have 
been completed when Mr N was sold the PPI. Within this application I can see there is a 
separate section called TSB Credit Card Payments Insurance and within this there is a 
statement about the PPI. The customer can tick a box if they wish to proceed with the cover 
or leave it blank. I wouldve expected Mr N to read over this form and raise any questions he 
had at the time before signing it.
So based on the evidence Ive been provided, I think its most likely Mr N knew at the time
that the PPI was optional and that he decided to take it. But I can understand why he might 
not recall this now, as the sale took place many years ago.
Ive looked at Mr Ns case on the basis that Lloyds advised him to take out the policy. This 
places a greater responsibility on Lloyds as it shouldve made sure the policy was right for 
him. Based on what Ive seen of Mr Ns circumstances at the time the PPI was sold,
I think it was. I say this because:
Mr N appears to have been eligible for the policy.
Based on what Mr Ns told us about his circumstances at the time of sale he
wouldnt have been affected by any of the things the policy didnt cover  like known
health issues or unusual employment arrangements. So there was nothing to stop
him claiming the full benefit of the policy if hed needed to.
Mr N says he wouldve received employer benefits at the time. The PPI couldve
been of use to Mr N as it wouldve paid 10% of the outstanding balance on the card
for up to 12 months if he couldnt work due to illness or if he was made redundant.
This wouldve been on top of any employer benefits he may have got, meaning he
wouldve been able to use this for other everyday living expenses.
I havent seen anything to suggest the PPI wasnt affordable to Mr N. And as the
premium was paid monthly, he could have cancelled the policy at any time if
anything in his circumstances changed.
As well as checking the policy was suitable for Mr N, Lloyds also shouldve given
him clear information about the policy so that he could make a proper choice about whether
or not to take it out. I can see Mr N says he wasnt told about the terms and conditions of the 
PPI. I dont know what steps Lloyds took to explain things and its possible some things 
werent explained as clearly as they shouldve been. But I dont think clearer information 
wouldve changed Mr Ns decision. I think hed still have bought it. I say this for the same 
reasons I think the policy was suitable for him.
Ive thought about everything Mr N has said, but these points dont change my decision 
and for the reasons set out above, I dont think the policy was mis-sold. I know this will be
disappointing for Mr N, but I hope my decision clearly sets out my reasons.
my final decision
For the reasons Ive given, I dont uphold this complaint against Lloyds Bank Plc.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr N to accept or 
reject my decision before 23 September 2020.
 
Chandni Green
Ombudsman