DRN-3974289
The complaint
Mr C complains about the names recorded on his accounts with HSBC UK Bank Plc and a 
branch decision not to deposit a cheque.
 
What happened
Mr C has two sole named accounts with HSBC and previously held a joint account as well. 
In 2017, Mr C changed his name and sent HSBC a deed poll document that confirmed his 
new legal name. HSBC amended the name on Mr Cs joint account and customer profile. 
But the name on Mr Cs bank statements and cards wasnt changed on all his accounts. 
Last year, Mr C presented a cheque in branch for deposit. The payee was completed in 
Mr Cs previous name and the counter staff refused to pay it into his account. The counter 
staff said they could only deposit a cheque that included Mr Cs full name in the payee 
section. 
Mr C complained to HSBC and it sent him a final response. HSBC didnt agree it had acted 
unfairly or made a mistake. 
An investigator at this service looked at Mr Cs case. They thought HSBC had dealt with 
Mr Cs complaint fairly and didnt ask it to take further action. Mr C asked to appeal and said 
HSBC had created ambiguity by agreeing to leave some of his accounts in his previous 
name despite updating his customer profile to reflect his new name. Mr C also said the 
cheque he tried to pay in was in the same name as the account that he intended to use for 
the deposit. As Mr C asked to appeal, his complaint has been passed to me to make a 
decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im aware Ive summarised the events surrounding this complaint in less detail than the 
parties involved. No discourtesy is intended by my approach which reflects the informal 
nature of this service. I want to ensure all parties Ive read and considered everything on file. 
Im satisfied I dont need to comment on every point raised to fairly reach my decision. And if 
I dont comment on something, its not because I havent considered it. Its because Ive 
focused on what I think are the key issues. My approach is in line with the rules we operate 
under. 
HSBC says it amended Mr Cs name in 2017 after it was legally changed by deed poll. 
HSBC claims it amended the profile name for Mr Cs accounts to reflect his new legal name. 
When Mr C attempted to deposit the cheque last year, he intended to deposit it into an 
account ending 09. HSBC has provided bank statements for this account going back to 
2016. I can see that in early 2017 the account name at the top of the statements was 
changed to Mr Cs new legal name. And thats reflected in the systems information HSBC 
has forwarded as well. HSBCs systems information shows it updated his customer profile to 
reflect his new name at the time. 
I can see that Mr Cs other account statements continued to show the original format of his 
name. And I understand Mr C feels HSBCs approach caused ambiguity in terms of how a 
cheque should be made out. But Im satisfied the information on file shows the account Mr C 
attempted to use for the deposit was updated to reflect his new legal name in 2017. Im not 
persuaded it was unreasonable for HSBC to require a cheque made out in that name.  
HSBC has confirmed its branch staff have some discretion concerning whether to proceed 
with a cheque that isnt made out in line with the account name. But here, the counter staff 
used that discretion and took the decision not to proceed. Given the cheque wasnt made out 
in line with the name on Mr Cs customer profile with HSBC or the account he was seeking 
to use for the deposit, I havent been persuaded the decision to reject it was unfair. 
Mr Cs told us hes now unsure what name should be used for cheques going forward. But 
HSBCs final response explains that its expectation is that Mr C will use his updated legal 
name for future payments of this nature. So Im unable to agree that HSBC has failed to 
confirm what name Mr C should use. HSBCs final response also recommended all Mr Cs 
accounts be amended so bank statements and cards all reflect his legal name and invited Mr 
C to confirm how hed like to proceed. If Mr C hasnt done so already and would like to bring 
all his accounts in line he can contact HSBC to request that step be taken. 
I understand the situation did cause Mr C some inconvenience. But I havent been 
persuaded that HSBC made a mistake or treated him unfairly when it declined to deposit his 
cheque. As Im satisfied HSBC dealt with Mr Cs complaint fairly, Im not telling it to do 
anything else. 
My final decision
My decision is that I dont uphold Mr Cs complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 24 March 2023.
 
Marco Manente
Ombudsman