DRN-2070250
The complaint
Mrs D complains that the premiums for a life assurance policy she took out, on the life of 
Mr L, have increased since Old Mutual Wealth Life Assurance Limited (OMW) found out 
Mr L is a smoker.
What happened
Mrs D took out a reviewable whole-of-life policy in 2002 to cover the life of Mr L. OMW 
administers this policy. In 2018 Mrs D missed some of the premiums and the policy became 
paid up. Mrs D contacted OMW and it agreed to reinstate the policy subject to a health 
questionnaire being completed by Mr L.
On receipt of this questionnaire it was noted that Mr L was a smoker. OMW reinstated the 
policy and Mrs D continued to pay the premiums. In the review OMW explained that the 
premiums would have to increase to maintain the sum assured for the next five years. Mrs D 
found that the increase in the cost of life cover was due to Mr Ls status being changed to 
smoker when previously hed been listed as a non-smoker. Mrs D explained hed always 
been a smoker and that this was declared in the original application.
OMW said that it had Mr L as a pipe smoker on its system and explained this was viewed 
differently to cigarette smokers so it hadnt made an error. However, as Mr L declared he 
smoked rolled up cigarettes it was right to apply smoker status to the reinstated policy.
Our investigator didnt uphold this complaint. She explained that although OMW had logged 
Mr L as a non-smoker incorrectly, Mrs D had paid lower premiums for the first 16 years of 
the policy. And as OMW wasnt seeking to recover any missing premiums, she didnt think it 
had acted unfairly. 
Mrs D disagreed. Her representative explained that she may not have taken the policy in the 
first place had the premiums been higher. They said if Mrs D hadnt missed the premiums 
shed still be paying the lower amount so she feels she has lost out. Mrs D would like a 
refund of premiums as she didnt know the premiums could be increased because of Mr Ls 
smoking status. As no agreement has been reached, the complaint has been passed to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Its clear than an error had occurred originally when Mrs D took out this policy. The 
application forms say that Mr L smoked rolled up cigarettes and explained how many 
packets of tobacco he used in a week. But OMW has shown us that the advisor made a note 
to say he was a pipe smoker. Its unclear where this note came from, but I think its likely it 
came from the advisor that sold Mrs D the policy. OMW has explained that it viewed pipe 
smokers as non-smokers at that time, so it was right to charge for premiums based on this 
status. Its unclear who caused the error, but Ive looked to see whether Mrs D has been 
negatively affected by it, and I dont think she has. 
Mrs D missed some premiums which caused this policy to become paid up  that is the 
policy would carry on as long as the underlying investment would support it. Mrs D asked for 
the policy to be reinstated and paid the missing premiums. OMW reinstated the policy based 
on an up to date health questionnaire from Mr L  as the policy covers his life. It was based 
on his answers to this that it changed the policy to smoker status. 
I can understand why Mrs D was confused, given Mr Ls smoking status hadnt changed 
throughout the policy. But I dont think Mrs D has suffered any loss because of this. Its likely 
the premiums wouldve been higher had Mr Ls smoker status been recorded correctly at the 
outset. As such, shes had the benefit of the life cover for a lower cost for around 16 years. 
OMW hasnt sought to recover the costs and I think this is fair  it wasnt Mrs Ds fault that it 
was recorded incorrectly. But I do think its reasonable for OMW to now charge premiums 
based on Mr Ls correct smoking status.
Mrs D has complained about the significant increase in premiums. I can see that the cost of 
life cover has increased but that Mrs D is still paying the same premiums that she was 
before it was reinstated. In the review, OMW explained the premiums would be enough to 
support the cover for around four years but would need to increase to support the sum 
assured for the next five years, or she may need to reduce the sum assured. I understand 
this must be frustrating for Mrs D but I dont think OMW has done anything wrong. The error 
here was caused by an advisor note in 2002 saying Mr L smoked a pipe, rather than 
cigarettes. Had this error not occurred, Mrs D wouldve been paying higher premiums earlier. 
So, shes had the benefit of the life cover for a smaller cost up to the point it was reinstated.
Mrs D has said shed like a refund of the premiums, but I dont think this would be fair. Its 
clear Mrs Ds intentions were to take out a life insurance policy on the life of Mr L, and shes 
had the benefit of that life cover for a lower cost. Ive not seen anything to suggest Mrs D 
wouldve done anything differently at the start of the policy. So, I think its likely she wouldve 
still taken this policy out if the error hadnt occurred.
As I think Mrs D has benefitted from lower premiums over the course of the policy, I dont 
think shes lost out financially. And, as explained above, its unclear whether the error was 
caused by the advisor or OMW, as the administrator of the policy. So, Im not upholding this 
complaint.
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs D to accept or 
reject my decision before 4 November 2020.
 
Charlotte Wilson
Ombudsman