DRN-4086795
The complaint
Mr C complains that RCI Financial Services Limited, who Ill call RCI, shouldnt have 
terminated his finance agreement and made a mistake when they cancelled his direct debit 
instruction. He says they were rude on the phone when dealing with the issue.
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again 
here. Instead, Ill focus on giving my reasons for my decision.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I was sorry to hear about Mr Cs partners illness and I know my decision will disappoint him, 
but I dont think RCI have done anything wrong here, and Im not upholding his complaint. 
Where the information Ive got is incomplete, unclear, or contradictory, as some of it is here I 
have to base my decision on the balance of probabilities.
Ive read and considered the whole file, but Ill concentrate my comments on what I think is 
relevant. If I dont comment on any specific point its not because Ive failed to take it on 
board and think about it but because I dont think I need to comment on it in order to reach 
what I think is the right outcome.
Mr C acquired his car under a regulated consumer credit agreement and as a result our 
service is able to look into complaints about it.  
Guidance for creditors on what to do when consumers are experiencing financial difficulties 
is provided in various sources including in the Consumer Credit Sourcebook (CONC) 
Section 7, the Lending Standards Boards Standards of lending Practice, and in the Finance 
and Leasing Associations (FLAs) lending code.
Put simply a lender should treat a consumer in financial difficulties fairly.
Wed expect a lender to listen to a borrower, get an understanding of their individual 
circumstances and discuss what help is appropriate. Lenders should deal with cases of 
financial difficulty sympathetically and positively and should do what they can to help 
borrowers pay what they owe. 
I think RCI have done that here. I can see that Mr Cs account with them has been in 
significant arrears for a considerable amount of time. RCI have agreed to payment plans and 
deferred payments on occasions. I think theyve shown sufficient forbearance, but I think the 
evidence they had suggested Mr C was unable to sustainably afford to repay the credit.
The Information Commissioners Office (ICO) guidance says when a consumer is at least 
three months behind with their payments then a default may be registered. And it would 
expect a default to be registered by the time the consumer is six months behind with their 
payments. Mr C was about four months in arrears by the time the notice of default was 
issued and as thats in line with the ICO guidance, and as no payment was received, I think 
RCIs decision to terminate the agreement was a fair one.
Mr C says RCI cancelled his direct debit but RCI dispute that. I dont think its likely RCI 
would cancel a direct debit that was in their interest to receive. It was Mr Cs responsibility to 
ensure that payments were made on time.
Ive reviewed RCIs call notes, but I cant find details of the call Mr C says he had where RCI 
were rude about his wife. RCI have explained that if Mr C can provide the date of the call 
theyll look further, but in the absence of the call record I dont think it would be fair for me to 
suggest RCI have done anything wrong.
Ultimately, whilst I have a great deal of sympathy with the situation Mr C and his wife find 
themselves in, I dont think RCI have done anything wrong here and Im not asking them to 
take any further action. They may therefore seek to terminate the agreement and recover 
sums due, but Id expect them to show continued forbearance and to agree an affordable 
payment plan with Mr C. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 14 June 2023.
 
Phillip McMahon
Ombudsman