DRN-4401281
The complaint
Mrs C complains about damage to her home caused by British Gas Insurance Limited when 
they carried out repairs after she made a claim under her home insurance policy.
What happened
The background to this complaint is well known to both parties, so Ill provide only a brief 
summary here.
Mrs C has brought this complaint to us primarily through a representative. For convenience, 
Ill refer below to any comments made through the representative as being from Mrs C.
Mrs C has a HomeCare policy underwritten by British Gas Insurance Limited (BG) which 
covers her boiler and central heating, amongst other things.
She made a claim and BG sent out an engineer. Whilst he was at the property, he caused a 
leak from a radiator which damaged the flooring in Mrs Cs lounge. In short, BG agreed that 
their agents should repair the damage.
They replaced the flooring in the lounge. Mrs C also agreed that they should replace the 
flooring in the hall and other adjacent rooms so that it would be an exact match. Mrs C paid 
the agent £1,800 for the flooring in the hall and adjacent rooms.
In replacing the flooring, the agent had to remove and later reinstate a fireplace in the 
lounge. Mrs C says this resulted in damage to her wallpaper at the side of the fireplace. 
There were other snagging issues which remained unresolved.
Mrs C complained to BG. She wanted them to pay for the flooring in the hallway and 
adjacent rooms, fix the damage to the wallpaper and deal with the other snagging issues.
BG said they wouldnt pay for the non-lounge flooring because it hadnt been damaged. 
They also said the wallpaper damage wasnt caused by their agents.
They said their agents would continue to work with Mrs C to try to resolve the other issues. 
They admitted the service provided had been poor and have eventually offered £260 in 
compensation for Mrs Cs trouble and upset.
Mrs C wasnt happy with this outcome and brought her complaint to us. Our investigator 
looked into it and thought the complaint should be upheld.
He said BG should reimburse Mrs C the costs of the additional flooring (£1,800), repair the 
damage to the wallpaper, complete the rest of the work to deal with the snagging items on 
Mrs Cs list promptly, and pay Mrs C £1,500 in compensation for her trouble and upset.
BG didnt agree and asked for a final decision from an ombudsman.
I agreed with our investigator that Mrs Cs complaint should be upheld. But I disagreed about 
what BG should do to put things right. So, I issued a provisional decision. That allowed both 
BG and Mrs C a chance to provide further information or evidence and/or to comment on my 
thinking before I issued my final decision on this complaint. 
My provisional decision 
In my provisional decision, I said:
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The remaining snagging issues
There cant be any real argument in this case about the fact that BG should ensure 
their agent completes any outstanding agreed snagging within a reasonable 
timeframe. Im assuming thats a given and that BG accept their responsibilities in 
that respect.
The wallpaper
BG have said they havent been given evidence that Mrs Cs wallpaper was in good 
order before the fireplace was removed. So, they dont; think their agents can be held 
responsible for the damage, which may have been pre-existing.
Mrs C says the damage was caused when the fireplace was removed and reinstated. 
I have no reason at all to disbelieve her. It isnt in the least bit surprising that she has 
no evidence  photographic or otherwise  to prove that to BG.
And, in fact, Id have expected that if there was such noticeable damage when BGs 
agents turned up to remove the fireplace, theyd have made absolutely sure that they 
had evidence of the pre-existing damage before they began work.
So, whilst I cant absolutely prove that the damage was caused by BGs agents, Im 
satisfied its overwhelmingly likely that is in fact the case. And, unless I get further 
information in response to this provisional decision which changes my mind, Im 
going to require BG to ensure the damage is repaired.
The flooring
Its Mrs Cs argument that the flooring in her lounge forms a matching set with the 
flooring in the hall and other adjacent rooms. And that therefore BG should pay to 
replace all of it, given that none of it would have needed to be replaced if their 
engineer hadnt caused the damage in the first place.
In principle, I agree entirely with Mrs Cs point of view. Our approach on matching 
sets is as follows.
If an item which is part of matching set is damaged by an insured event, the insurer 
should pay to replace that specific item and should cover 50% of the cost of replacing 
the remaining items in the set.
However, where the damage was caused by the insurer or their agent (rather than by 
an insured event), they should replace the damaged item and cover 100% of the cost 
of the remaining parts of the set.
So, if I thought Mrs Cs floors  in her lounge, hall and adjacent rooms - were all part of a matching set, Id say BG should pay the full cost of replacing all of them.
However, when it comes to carpets and other flooring, we say that theyre usually 
part of a matching set if theyre laid in an open plan area with no dividers between 
the rooms. But - whether or not they are the same colour, style or brand and/or were 
laid at the same time  if they are in separate rooms which are clearly divided than 
they usually are not part of a matching set.
The photographs Ive seen of Mrs Cs home clearly show that the lounge is 
separated from the hall (and so from the other rooms adjacent to the hall) by a 
doorway and a door bar on the floor.
So, unless I get further information or evidence in response to this provisional 
decision which changes my mind, Im not intending to require BG to pay the £1,800 
costs for the flooring in the hall and adjacent rooms.
The compensation
BG have admitted the service they and/or their agents have provided has been poor. 
They are absolutely correct.
BG have asked agents to deal with the problem and have shown no interest in 
ensuring those agents do a good job. Communication has been poor. Mrs C and her 
representative have had to chase progress with BG and their agents and have often 
not received timely or satisfactory replies.
This should have been a relatively simple set of repairs to the damage caused by 
BGs engineer. Instead, it has gone on for far too long  and resulted in further 
damage being done to Mrs Cs home.
Mrs C has health problems which are exacerbated by stress and upset. BG knew this 
from an early stage but allowed the repair work to drag on in a very unsatisfactory 
manner  and failed to ensure their agents were on top of things and/or 
communicating with Mrs C and her representative.
On that basis, unless I receive further evidence or information to change my mind, I 
am minded to agree with our investigator that £1,500 is fair and reasonable 
compensation for Mrs Cs considerable trouble and upset in this case.
In summary, I said in my provisional decision that unless I received further information or 
evidence to change my mind, I was minded to require BG to pay for the repairs to the 
wallpaper around Mrs Cs fireplace, pay Mrs C £1,500 in compensation for her trouble and 
upset and ensure the remaining agreed repairs were carried out as soon as practically 
possible. 
The responses to my provisional decision
Mrs C initially responded to my provisional decision to say she accepted it, but to ask also 
that I put some definite time limit on BG completing the remaining agreed repairs.
BG responded to say they accepted they should pay £1,500 in compensation to Mrs C and 
carry out the remaining repairs.
However, they didnt agree they should carry out repairs to the wallpaper around the 
fireplace. They provided further photographic evidence to show the state of the fireplace and surround after it had been removed and reinstated.
They said this showed that the ridges in the wallpaper around the fireplace werent in fact 
caused by their agents but had been due to the original fitting of the fireplace. 
They pointed out that the wallpaper wasnt detached from the wall itself, as one might expect 
if it had lifted during the removal of the fireplace. On the contrary, it appeared to be strongly 
bonded with adhesive to the wall beneath. And it was the wall itself which was ridged  
which was not damage that could have been caused when the fireplace was removed.
BG also pointed out that the photographs showed chips in the skirting board near the 
disputed damage which had been painted over. And a large hole in the skirting which had 
been filled and also painted over. This was nothing to do with the work their agents carried 
out. And, they implied, showed that the fireplace wasnt fitted perfectly in the first place.  
We asked Mrs C to comment on the photographs BG had provided and their explanation 
about the damage around the fireplace.
She replied to say some of the damage shown in the photographs  the damage to the 
skirting - was pre-existing, but she hadnt asked or expected BG to address that.
In terms of the ridging in the wall / wallpaper, she said that had been caused before the 
actual removal of the fireplace, when BGs agents had attended to inspect and prepare for 
the job to be carried out. 
She implies, although she doesnt say this directly, that the wallpaper was lifted and 
damaged during those earlier visits  and had been glued back in place by BGs agents.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Neither BG nor Mrs C have any remaining issue with the compensation weve suggested BG 
pay to Mrs C. And theres no dispute that BG should carry out the remaining repairs  in fact, 
I understand that since I issues my provisional decision, BGs agents have been back to the 
house to do he necessary work.
Mrs C has also accepted that BG do not need to pay for the replacement flooring in her hall 
and adjacent rooms (other than the lounge).
The remaining issue then is about the damage to the wall and/or wallpaper and whether this 
was caused by BGs agents when they removed the fireplace.
As I said in my provisional decision, there is no photographic evidence of the state of the 
walls and wallpaper prior to the removal of the fireplace. That means I cant be absolutely 
certain that the damage was pre-existing or that it was caused by BGs agents. 
The evidence BG provided in response to my provisional decision  and their explanation of 
the nature of the damage  is reasonably convincing. Thats why we gave Mrs C a further 
chance to provide more evidence and/or comments in light of BGs response to my 
provisional decision.I dont think theres any real dispute that the photographs provided by BG appear to show 
the wallpaper adhering tightly to the wall beneath. Mrs C says thats because BGs agents 
glued it down before they removed the fireplace, having damaged it during their inspection 
and/or preparatory work.
Its not entirely clear to me why Mrs C didnt tell us all of that in the first place. I can accept 
that Mrs C might not have felt the need to say precisely when and how the damage 
occurred, but if it had been beforehand  and BGs agents had attempted some kind of 
botched repair with glue  I would have thought that might have been significant enough to 
be mentioned at the outset.
Leaving that aside, the photographs do show, as BG suggest, that the ridges and ripples in 
the surface are in fact because of ridging and rippling in the wall underneath the wallpaper. 
The wallpaper is tight to the wall underneath  and its clearly the wall (plaster presumably) 
that is ridged and rippled.
It's very difficult to see how that ridging and rippling in the fabric of the wall itself could 
conceivably have been caused by the removal and/or reinstatement of the fireplace. The 
plaster isnt cracked, crumbling or detaching from the wall beneath.
So, on balance, I think its more likely that the damage was not caused by BGs agents when 
they removed and reinstated the fireplace. That means I am changing my mind in response 
to the new evidence and comments provided by BG and I wont now be asking them to 
repair the walls and/or wallpaper around the fireplace.
We asked for Mrs Cs further comments after we received BGs response to my provisional 
decision  and warned her that I was intending to change my mind on this aspect of her 
complaint unless she had more information or comments to persuade me not to do so. So, 
its not necessary for me to issue a further provisional decision now. 
Putting things right
I have no reason to change my mind about the compensation to be paid to Mrs C in this 
case. For the reasons set out in my provisional decision, Im going to require BG to pay 
Mrs C £1,500 in total.
Just to be absolutely clear, BG tell us they sent a cheque to Mrs C for the £260 
compensation they originally offered. Mrs C says she rejected BGs offer. I take her to mean 
that she didnt cash that original cheque.
If that is the case, BG should cancel that cheque (or ask Mrs C to return it if she still has it) 
and now pay Mrs C £1,500. If BG are aware that the original cheque was in fact cashed, 
they should pay Mrs C a further £1,240 now.
I also have no reason to change my mind about the further minor repairs it was agreed BG 
should carry out. I assume they have now been completed, but if not, BG should carry them 
out as soon as possible  and at the latest within a month of Mrs Cs acceptance of this final 
decision.
As Ive explained above, I will not now be asking BG to carry out repairs to the walls / 
wallpaper around the fireplace. And I remain of the view  set out in my provisional decision 
- that BG should not be required to pay for the replacement flooring outside of Mrs Cs 
lounge.
Ive taken Mrs Cs point about putting a timeframe around the remaining repairs  if indeed there are any that havent yet been carried out. And thats reflected in my final decision 
below.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I uphold Mrs Cs complaint in part.
British Gas Insurance Limited must:
pay Mrs C £1,500 for her trouble and upset; and
ensure that their agents bring the remaining agreed repairs to a conclusion as soon 
as practically possible  and at the latest within a month of Mrs Cs acceptance of 
this decision  if they have not already done so.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs C to accept or 
reject my decision before 16 November 2023.
 
Neil Marshall
Ombudsman