DRN-1239152
The complaint
Mr P is unhappy about the payment he received from Aviva Life & Pensions UK Limited 
(Aviva) under his critical illness policy. Hes also unhappy with the customer service. 
What happened
In 2018 Mr P was unfortunately diagnosed with a pituitary tumour and acromegaly. In 
February 2019 he made a claim on his critical illness policy. Aviva didnt accept Mr Ps claim 
as it said pituitary tumours are specifically excluded under the policy. But under an additional 
benefit for non-malignant pituitary adenoma, Aviva paid Mr P £9,727.82.
Mr P thought Aviva should pay him more  in line with the terms and conditions of his policy. 
He also thought Aviva took too long to review his claim. Aviva accepted it couldve handled 
Mr Ps claim better. But was satisfied the payment hed received was correct. 
Mr P didnt agree and referred his complaint to our service. One of our investigators 
considered the complaint and thought the payment made by Aviva was calculated correctly. 
But she thought Aviva had taken too long to consider Mr Ps claim and asked it to consider
compensation for the trouble and upset this caused Mr P. Aviva agreed to pay £200 which 
our investigator thought was fair. 
Mr P didnt accept the investigators view and so his complaint has been passed to me for a 
final decision. Mr P said the terms and conditions of the policy were vague and misleading. 
He said hed been left with a life changing condition that he thought should be fully covered 
by his critical illness policy. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im upholding it for largely the same reasons as the investigator. 
Ive read and considered the whole file, but Ill concentrate my comments on what I think is 
relevant. If I dont mention any specific point, its not because Ive failed to take it on board 
and think about it, but because I dont think I need to comment on it to reach what I think is 
the right outcome.
I know this will be very disappointing for Mr P as this has been a difficult time for him. But Id 
like to take some time to explain how Ive reached my decision.  
Payment
I can see from the terms and conditions of Mr Ps policy that tumours in the pituitary gland 
arent covered under the critical illness benefit section of the policy. But Aviva was satisfied 
Mr Ps specific condition, and the treatment hed received, did warrant a payment under the 
additional benefits section of the policy. The relevant term says: "Non-malignant pituitary adenoma - with specified treatment
We will pay the lower of 12.5 percent of the benefit and £12,500 if a member is 
diagnosed with a non-malignant pituitary tumour requiring radiotherapy or surgical removal.
Non-malignant tumours of the pituitary gland treated by other methods are 
specifically excluded.
This benefit is payable in addition to the benefit you have under your membership. We 
will only pay this benefit once for each member regardless of the number of memberships 
held."
Aviva paid Mr P £9,727.82. That being 12.5% of the sum assured at the time. The policy 
terms say Aviva will pay the lower of  12.5% and £12,500. £9,727.82 is lower than 
£12,500. I think the policy term is clear and that Aviva has correctly calculated Mr Ps 
payment. 
Mr P also thought the part of the term that said this benefit is payable in addition to the 
benefit you have under the membership  was misleading. And gave the impression he 
would receive the full benefit, as well as the £9,727.82 payment. I dont agree. I take this to 
mean the additional benefit payment wont impact on any future claims Mr P might make on 
the policy. 
I appreciate Mr Ps had a very difficult time and that his medical condition is causing him 
ongoing problems. But Im satisfied the payment he received from Aviva was calculated 
correctly, and in line with the policy terms and conditions. If Mr Ps medical situation 
changes, then he could make a new claim to Aviva before the policy ends.    
Customer service
Aviva accepts it took longer than it should to review Mr Ps claim. It needed to see medical 
evidence to make sure the policy definition was met. But Aviva accepts this took too long, 
particularly as Mr P had chased it for updates. Aviva accepted our investigators 
recommendation to pay Mr P compensation, and offered £200 to recognise the trouble and 
upset its delays caused. Overall, I think this amount is fair in the circumstances and in line 
with what Id expect to see in cases like this, so I wont be asking Aviva to pay any more 
than this. 
Putting things right
For the reasons I've given above, I believe Aviva should pay Mr P £200 to resolve this 
complaint. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint. I require Aviva Life & Pensions UK Limited to 
pay Mr P £200. 
 
 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision before 16 January 2020.Anna Jackson
Ombudsman