DRN-4305860
The complaint
Ms G complains that National Westminster Bank Plc put a stop on her account and closed it 
down.
What happened
Ms G says she received a letter from NatWest asking her to contact them by 25 August 2022 
to discuss her banking. The letter referred to transactions normally expected from business 
customers. Ms G contacted NatWest and she says she was asked questions about deposits 
into her account, and there were references to her account not being operated in a normal 
way. Ms G says after the call she received a letter dated 31 August 2022 which incorrectly 
stated they had told her to move her business transactions, and if she didnt do this by the 
date in previous letters a stop would be placed on her account and steps would be taken to 
close it, as they were not comfortable with the conduct of her account. 
Ms G contacted NatWest and informed them she was not happy with their decision and had 
no notice of the stop being placed on her account as she was unable to pay her bills. In the 
event she had missed a letter, she asked the call handler what further letters had been sent 
to her advising her what to do, but he confirmed there were no further letters sent. Ms G was 
granted a 24 hour lifting of the stop, in which she made payments out of the account, but 
three payments were not made. Ms G says she received a letter on 16 November 2022 
informing her that her account was closed, and they enclosed a cheque. Ms G made a 
complaint to NatWest and requested transcripts of her calls.
NatWest did not uphold Ms Gs complaint. They said they spoke to their remediation team, 
and they confirmed they sent Ms G a letter on 25 May 2022 and further reminder letters 
were sent on both 30 and 60 days. They said their remediation team would be in touch 
shortly to explain the next steps regarding her personal account. They referred to section 1.2 
of their terms and conditions in that her personal account is not to be used for business 
purposes. Ms G brought her complaint to our service. 
Our investigator did not uphold Ms Gs complaint. He said although Ms G refutes the 
suggestion that shes using her account for business purposes and said NatWest shouldve 
talked to her, and notified her, about their decision before taking the step of closing her 
account, the account terms dont say NatWest has to discuss a decision to close an account 
with their customer, and they explained their reasons in detail to Ms G in their 
correspondence with her.
Ms G asked for an ombudsman to review her complaint. She made a number of points. In 
summary, she said NatWests letters contained incorrect information, and she did not 
receive any chaser letters as confirmed by the call handler she spoke to in August 2022. She 
said the first two paragraphs of the closure letter clearly shows that it was part of NatWests 
procedures to issue guidance on corrective action required and a timescale for compliance, 
and that they were saying this had been followed in her case. She says this had clearly not 
been done, either by phone or in writing, and this is the crux of her complaint.
As my findings differed in some respects from our investigators, I issued a provisional 
decision to give both parties the opportunity to consider things further. This is set out below:
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ms G has made a number of points to this service and Ive considered and read everything 
shes said and sent us. But, in line with this services role as a quick and informal body Ill be 
focusing on the crux of her complaint in deciding whats fair and reasonable here. 
Ive looked at the letter that Ms G was sent dated 25 May 2022. This informed Ms G that 
We have reviewed your account and have identified transactions similar to those wed 
normally expect to see in the accounts of our business banking customers. We need your 
help to understand how you are using your account. Our personal accounts are not designed 
for business use. The letter told Ms G to ring them by 23 August 2022 as without further 
information they may have to put a stop on her account. Ms G rang NatWest and discussed 
the account.
I asked NatWest for a copy of this call. But they have been unable to locate this. I have been 
provided evidence of screenshots of their call recording system showing three different 
telephone numbers that Ms G says she could have rung from (the system does not show call 
recordings from withheld telephone numbers). And there is no call recording. This does not 
mean that Ms G didnt speak to NatWest prior to the date she was given  I believe from 
what she has said that she did speak with NatWest about her transactions on her account. 
And in the absence of any call recording or call notes on NatWests systems, then Im 
persuaded she would have been told the decision whether to close her account or not would 
be passed to a decision making team and the call handler would pass the information Ms G 
had given him to this team. 
Ive considered what has been said regarding the 30 day and 60 day chaser letters. Both 
parties do not agree with what happened here. NatWest say these were sent and Ms G says 
she was told by the call handler there were no further letters sent and she didnt receive 
these chaser letters. When it comes to complaints where its one word against another, I 
have to consider the evidence available to me. I then have to weigh the evidence against the 
balance of probabilities, that is, whats more likely to have happened in the circumstances.
Based on NatWest having no evidence to support their claims they sent the letters (apart 
from saying they would have sent the letters), then Im not persuaded that they did send any 
chaser letters. But Im also persuaded that this would have no impact on what happened 
here (apart from the frustration Ms G would have knowing she was not sent any further 
letters despite NatWest saying she was). These letters would have only been chasing up the 
25 May 2022 letter, for Ms G to ring NatWest  which she did, so I dont think these made a 
difference here regardless of whether they were sent or not.
So as Ms G had spoken to NatWest, and on the balance of probabilities she was told that 
the information would be passed to a decision making team, then it would have come as a 
surprise the letter that she received dated 31 August 2022. Im persuaded the contents of 
this letter could have been clearer to Ms G and Ill explain why.
The letter says We recently asked you to move your business transactions from your 
personal account as it goes against our terms and conditions. We also explained, if this 
business activity wasnt moved from your account by the date given in your previous letters, 
a stop would be placed on your account. Wed then start the process of closing your 
account. But Ive been provided no evidence that Ms G had been told to move any 
transactions. The letter dated 25 May 2022 states they need to know how Ms G was using her account 
and to ring them  which she did. The original letter does not ask her to move any 
transactions, and in the absence of the phone call or call notes, then I cant say Ms G was 
told to move any transactions on the phone. It would be unlikely she was told to move any 
transactions on the phone as the call handler was gathering information to pass onto the 
decision team. So as Ms G did not consider any transactions to be business related, she 
was waiting on the outcome from the decision making team.
It is only in the following paragraph which NatWest set out their stance. They acknowledge 
her call as they say Our records show you have made contact with us regarding your 
transactions. However, weve investigated further and were still not comfortable your 
personal account is being used in the right way. So NatWest made a decision despite the 
information Ms G gave them, that they werent comfortable in how Ms G was using her 
account. And they are entitled to make a commercial decision on this basis, which our 
service is unable to interfere with.
The letter said that they would put a stop on her account on 5 September 2022. While it may 
be NatWests procedure to put a stop on the account. There are times where a strict 
application of their policies may lead to an unfair outcome for their customer. Given that the 
letter was dated on Wednesday 31 August 2022, to place a stop on the account on Monday 
5 September 2022, its possible that Ms G would have not received the letter in time to take 
any action in the five days NatWest allowed her to take action (as they didnt apply a stop 
immediately). Especially in light of non-working days during this timeframe and it appears 
there was a postal strike on one of these days also. 
This led to Ms G having to contact NatWest to try and access her funds in the account to pay 
her bills as a stop was on her account when she received the letter. I was pleased to see 
that NatWest did allow the stop to be lifted, albeit for only 24 hours. Im unable to comment 
on what happened with her unpaid bills as part of this complaint as this was part of a 
separate complaint brought to our service. 
Ive considered whether NatWest gave the required notice for Ms Gs account to be closed. 
The letter dated 31 August 2022 says From Wednesday 5th October 2022 well begin the 
process of closing your account. Well write to you to let you know this is happening. I asked 
NatWest if they could provide any further letters they sent. But they directed me to a 
template they send a customer when they send a cheque for the closing balance. NatWests 
terms and conditions show that there are certain instances where they can close an account 
immediately (such as using a personal account for business purposes) and We can also 
close any other account by giving you at least 60 days notice. 
With NatWest saying that from 5 October 2022 theyll begin the closure of the account, this 
doesnt mean the account would be closed on 5 October, which would be 35 days after the 
letter was dated. The letter was not clear when the account would be actually closed (and 
therefore when Ms G would receive the cheque with her account balance). It wasnt clear 
whether the reason for the account closure fell under the immediate reason to close the 
account or the 60 days notice required. But while I dont think the closure notice was clear, 
Im not persuaded that this made much of a difference. I say this because NatWest closed 
the account on 9 November 2022, which was over 60 days from when they told her they 
would be closing her account. 
NatWest told Ms G on 8 September 2022 that their remediation team would be in touch with 
Ms G shortly by letter explaining the next steps regarding her personal account. I asked 
NatWest to provide the letter that they sent to Ms G regarding this. They told me that due to 
the passage of time thats passed they had been unable to get clarity on this. But Ive seen 
no evidence at any point of my investigation that the remediation team got in touch with Ms G after 8 September 2022. It may be that the letter dated 31 August was the letter they were 
referring to, although I note this wasnt addressed from NatWests remediation team (and 
was sent prior to 8 September when NatWest said they would be in touch) . So on the 
balance of probabilities, Im not persuaded that NatWests remediation team did send Ms G 
another letter explaining the next steps for her account, which would have caused distress to 
her when she didnt receive anything further after the letter dated 8 September 2022 until 
she received the closing cheque.
Ms G also asked NatWest for transcripts of her calls she made to them in August and 
September 2022. But I cant see that they provided these to Ms G. This is likely because 
there was no call recordings or system notes. But I would expect NatWest to let Ms G know 
why this wouldnt be possible. I can see she emailed the complaint handler again on 21 
September 2022 informing them she hadnt received the transcripts and raised another 
request, but there doesnt appear to have been a response. I asked NatWest about this and 
they said that as the account is now closed and due to the passage of time this has not been 
able to be located. So based on Ms G saying she hadnt received a response and NatWest 
not being able to prove otherwise, Im persuaded that she didnt receive a response here.
So Ive considered what would be a fair outcome for this complaint. It would not be 
proportionate for me to ask NatWest to reopen Ms Gs account when they are not satisfied 
with how she ran this account previously, and Im aware that Ms G has been able to open an 
account elsewhere. But I do think there has been a number of occasions throughout this 
process where NatWest havent been clear in their communications with Ms G which has led 
to distress and inconvenience for her.
She was told additional letters had been sent to her, when the evidence suggests they 
werent. She was given the impression on the closure letter that she could have taken 
actions to avoid the closure, whereas in reality she couldnt have changed their decision (as 
explained later in the letter). NatWest did not take into account postal issues when placing 
the stop on her account which led to Ms G being inconvenienced to have to ring NatWest 
and arrange a temporary lift of the stop. And an expectation was set that she would hear 
from their remediation team in a letter after her final response, but theres no evidence to 
suggest they did send Ms G a letter. I can see that Ms G asked for transcripts of calls, but it 
doesnt appear that NatWest acknowledged her requests either or told her the reason why 
they were unable to fulfil her requests.
So Im persuaded that NatWest should pay Ms G £125 for the impact their errors had on Ms 
G. Im satisfied that this reflects the distress and inconvenience Ms G suffered as a result of 
the issues highlighted in the previous paragraph. So it follows I intend to ask NatWest to put 
things right for Ms G.
I invited both parties to let me have any further submissions before I reached a final 
decision. NatWest accepted the provisional decision. Ms G responded to the provisional 
decision. She said there were two areas she would like to comment on. 
The first area was regarding whether the decision by NatWest to close her account could 
have been changed by anything. Ms G said in NatWest's letter to her on 31 August, there is 
a clear indication that prior to the decision being made, there had been a chance for her to 
take an action that could have meant the decision to close the account would not have been 
taken. She said the conduct of her account could have been brought into line with NatWest's 
expectations, and therefore they would not have needed to take the decision to close her 
account, so she said the closure of the account was not inevitable. She said their failure to 
send her the correspondence that they referred to meant she was denied the opportunity to 
understand and be compliant with their requirements, and to take actions that could have 
meant the decision to close her account would not have been made.The second area Ms G wanted to comment on was her history and relationship with 
NatWest and the voluntary and charity work that she does. To protect her identity, I wont 
repeat what Ms G has said here, but I can assure her Ive read everything shes said about 
this. Ms G commented on her relationship with the branch staff, who she has known for 
many years, but she feels anxious that they will know that her account was closed because 
of perceived misconduct. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive considered what Ms G has said about the first area she wanted to comment on. But I 
addressed this in my provisional decision. I said it would have come as a surprise the letter 
that she received dated 31 August 2022. Im persuaded the contents of this letter could have 
been clearer to Ms G and Ill explain why.
The letter says We recently asked you to move your business transactions from your 
personal account as it goes against our terms and conditions. We also explained, if this 
business activity wasnt moved from your account by the date given in your previous letters, 
a stop would be placed on your account. Wed then start the process of closing your 
account. But Ive been provided no evidence that Ms G had been told to move any 
transactions. 
The letter dated 25 May 2022 states they need to know how Ms G was using her account 
and to ring them  which she did. The original letter does not ask her to move any 
transactions, and in the absence of the phone call or call notes, then I cant say Ms G was 
told to move any transactions on the phone. It would be unlikely she was told to move any 
transactions on the phone as the call handler was gathering information to pass onto the 
decision team. So as Ms G did not consider any transactions to be business related, she 
was waiting on the outcome from the decision making team.
It is only in the following paragraph which NatWest set out their stance. They acknowledge 
her call as they say Our records show you have made contact with us regarding your 
transactions. However, weve investigated further and were still not comfortable your 
personal account is being used in the right way. So NatWest made a decision despite the 
information Ms G gave them, that they werent comfortable in how Ms G was using her 
account. And they are entitled to make a commercial decision on this basis, which our 
service is unable to interfere with. So here, I acknowledged the letter they sent her could 
have been worded clearer and that there was no evidence that Ms G had been told to move 
any transactions. 
I also acknowledged it was only in a later paragraph which NatWest set out their stance with 
Ms G as they show she contacted them, and that they investigated further, but they werent 
comfortable with how she was using her personal account. There was no further 
correspondence that they could send her apart from the 30 and 60 day chaser letters  but 
she called them before the deadline given, so these chaser letters would have made no 
difference to the outcome here. And the call handler Ms G had spoken to also confirmed 
there were no further letters sent. So while I understand the letter Ms G received on 31 
August 2022 indicates they asked her to do something  they didnt actually ask her to move 
business transactions over the phone or by letter. 
So I cant agree that Ms G could have done anything differently to change the decision 
NatWest made  after their further investigation (based on the phone call she had with them) as shown in the 31 August letter. Im persuaded this letter was a templated letter which the 
initial paragraphs hadnt been personalised to reflect what happened with Ms G.
I can sympathise with what Ms G has said about her relationship with NatWest and the 
anxiety that she feels about visiting a branch now. As NatWest have made their decision 
which is a commercial one, and one we cant interfere with, theres not much I can say about 
this area. But its possible the staff wont even be aware of why her personal account has 
been closed. The letters NatWest sent would be to Ms G and not to the branch staff. But if 
Ms G experiences poor customer service as a result of staffs perception to the closure, then 
she should make a complaint to NatWest if she is impacted with any staff behaviour.  
In summary, Ms Gs response hasnt changed my view and my final decision and reasoning 
remains the same as in my provisional decision. If Ms G is disappointed, I hope she 
understands my reasons. 
Putting things right
In my provisional decision I said I intend to uphold this complaint in part. I said I intend to ask 
National Westminster Bank Plc to pay Ms G £125 for distress and inconvenience. Im still 
satisfied this is a fair outcome for the reasons given previously.
My final decision
I uphold this complaint in part. National Westminster Bank Plc should pay Ms G £125 for 
distress and inconvenience.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms G to accept or 
reject my decision before 14 September 2023.
 
Gregory Sloanes
Ombudsman