DRN-1705358
 
The complaint
Ms E says Barclays Bank UK PLC (now trading as Barclaycard but then trading as Egg) 
mis-sold her a payment protection insurance (PPI) policy in connection with a credit card in 
2003.
What happened 
Egg was an internet based account. Ms E applied online for her credit card with PPI via the 
Egg website.
Our adjudicator didnt uphold the complaint. Ms E disagreed with the adjudicators opinion. 
Ms E is mainly concerned that her sick pay entitlement at work meant she didn't need PPI. 
And shes concerned that as there was an incorrect address recorded for her, this casts 
doubt on whether the PPI was legitimately sold to her. 
What I've decided - and why 
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. 
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding this case. 
Ive decided not to uphold Ms Es complaint. 
I think Egg made Ms E aware that the PPI was optional and she chose to take it. I say this 
because on the online application form Ms E completed she wouldve had to select the Yes 
option in order to include PPI. There was an option to say No and her application wouldve 
continued without PPI being included if shed done that. 
On balance, I think Ms E would've been able to see at the time that she had a choice about 
protecting her repayments and the PPI was added to her account when she indicated she 
wanted it. 
As Ms E applied for her credit card and the PPI over the internet, Egg didnt personally 
recommend the PPI to Ms E. So it didnt have to check if it was suitable for her. But it still 
shouldve given Ms E enough information to make a proper decision about whether PPI was 
right for her. And if it didnt do this, I have to decide if this made any overall difference to 
Ms E. 
Ive taken into account what Ms E has told us about her financial circumstances. The policy 
wouldve protected her if shed lost her job as well as paying out if she was disabled or too 
sick to work. It wouldve paid out on top of her sick pay and in full for longer than shes 
mentioned she couldve depended on getting pay from her employer if she was off sick  up 
to 12 months per claim. It wouldve cleared her card balance if shed been off work for 12 months in a row. So I think the PPI couldve given her a useful benefit at what mightve 
been a difficult time  especially if she had extra costs as a result of being off work sick. 
Ms E told us she had no other way of making the monthly repayments if she wasnt able to 
work. 
So I think Ms E couldve benefitted from having the policy.  
It doesnt look like Ms E wouldve been caught by any of the conditions which limited the 
policys cover for some people. So, I dont think that knowing more about things the policy 
didnt cover wouldve made any difference to Ms Es decision to take it out. 
Next to where Ms E was asked to decide about the PPI on the application she completed, 
the purpose of the cover was broadly described, the cost is set out and theres some 
information about the benefits it offers. The policy provided Ms E with the protection broadly 
described on the website which shed indicated she was willing to pay for. Ive seen nothing 
to suggest the policy was unaffordable for her.
Overall its possible there may have been some failings in the way this policy was sold. But 
I think Ms E still wouldve decided to buy the policy if shed been better informed as PPI gave 
her useful protection in her particular situation.
This means Barclays doesnt have to pay back all of the cost of the PPI to Ms E.
But Barclays has paid back some of the cost of the PPI to Ms E because: 
Barclays got a high level of commission and profit share (more than 50% of the PPI 
premium) - so it should have told Ms E about that. Because Barclays didnt tell Ms E, 
that was unfair. 
 
To put that right, Barclays has paid back the amount of commission and profit share 
that was above 50% of the PPI premium - and I think that is fair in this case.
 
In coming to my decision I've taken into account everything Ms E has said  including her 
comments sent in response to our adjudicators view. I dont know why information about her 
address appears to have been incorrectly recorded. But details would've been collected from 
the information she inputted online when she was completing her application and its an 
address she does recognise. It wouldnt be reasonable for me to say that this means the PPI 
was mis-sold to her. For the reasons I've explained, I dont think it was.  
My final decision
The PPI policy wasnt mis-sold  so Barclays Bank UK PLC does not have to pay back all of 
the cost of the PPI to Ms E.
But Barclays Bank UK PLC does have to pay back to Ms E any commission and profit share 
it got that was more than 50% of the PPI premium. I understand it has already done this, so 
I dont award any further compensation.  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms E to accept or 
reject my decision before 30 April 2020.
Susan WebbOmbudsman