DRN-4212906
The complaint
Miss R complains about U K Insurance Limited (UKI) handling of her claim under her 
breakdown cover. 
Any reference to UKI in this final decision includes its respective agents unless specified 
otherwise.
What happened
The background of this complaint is known in detail to the parties involved, so Ill summarise 
what Ive found to be the key points.
Miss R made a claim under her UKI policy after breaking down on a busy motorway 
while in her vehicle with her nine-month-old baby and puppy. 
The breakdown happened late morning and UKI were taking longer than expected to 
attend. So Miss R called the police who sent someone to sit with her while she 
waited, as she was fearful being at the side of a busy road with her baby and puppy. 
When the recovery agent arrived, they couldnt fix the vehicle, so they took Miss R to 
a service station and contacted UKI. Under the policy if the vehicle cant be fixed 
locally the same day (as in this case), UKI will take the driver, their passengers and 
vehicle to a single destination of their choice, anywhere in the UK.
Miss Rs destination of choice was her home address. But after waiting several hours 
at the service station for UKI to take her there, it told her this wasnt possible due to 
its workloads. Instead, it offered to provide her with a hire car, but the only availability 
was located an hour in the opposite direction from Miss Rs travel. UKI said it would 
recover her vehicle to her home address the following day.
UKI arranged a taxi to take Miss R to the hire car location, by which point it was late 
in the evening, shed been at a service station for most of the day and had run out of 
food and basic amenities for her baby. So she arranged to stay with a family member 
who lived nearby until she could travel back to her home the following morning. 
As she was getting in a taxi, Miss R left larger items such as her babys buggy in her 
vehicle on the understanding she would have it again the following day. The hire car 
had no fuel, so Miss R had to pay to fill this up.
When Miss R contacted UKI the following day to check what time her vehicle would 
be dropped off, she was told it would be delivered to her within five working days and 
that she would have to return the hire car.
Miss R complained to UKI about its handling of her claim. She said shed been 
misinformed about when her car would be returned to her resulting in her being left 
without her babys buggy for longer than expected. She thought it handled her claim 
poorly by leaving her and her young baby for an excessive period of time without 
recovery and when it did get her back on the road, this wasnt to her destination of 
choice, and she incurred petrol costs she shouldnt have had to pay.
UKI accepted thered been a delay in recovery and apologised, but said its provision 
of the hire car (which she wasnt entitled to under the policy) fairly addressed this, 
along with an offer of £40 compensation for the upset caused.
Miss R brought her complaint to this Service. The Investigator upheld the complaint 
and concluded that UKI should increase its offer of compensation to £250 and 
reimburse Miss Rs petrol costs, which she said came to £70. Miss R accepted this.
UKI agreed to pay the increased compensation but said it wouldnt pay the petrol 
costs as the amount seemed excessive and in any case fuel costs for hire cars arent 
covered under the policy. The case was passed to me to make a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
UKI accepted the investigators findings about increasing the compensation it offered. 
I agree £250 is a fair amount to recognise the distress and inconvenience caused to 
Miss R for broadly the same reasons as have already been explained to the parties. 
UKI should therefore pay this amount to Miss R if it hasnt done so already.
That leaves the dispute regarding the petrol costs Miss R says she incurred. From 
what Ive seen, UKIs provision of the hire car was done so outside of the policy 
terms. So I dont think the exclusion its pointed to reasonably applies in this case.
In any case, Im persuaded that had UKI done what it shouldve done under the 
policy and taken Miss R to a single destination of her choice  which she says 
wouldve been her home  there would have been no need for a hire car and as a 
result no need for Miss R to pay for any fuel. Instead, this wouldve been included in 
whichever recovery vehicle UKI appointed to take her home.
From what Ive seen, the reason Miss R had to pay for fuel is because UKI couldnt 
take her home because of its workload on the day she broke down. So, she felt her 
only choice was to accept the hire car, which she then needed to fuel, so that she 
could at least get herself, her young baby and puppy somewhere safe for the night. 
But Miss R shouldnt be out of pocket for costs she should never reasonably have 
incurred under the policy. Therefore, its fair that UKI reimburses her for the fuel. 
Miss R said the fuel cost her £70. On balance I dont think this is excessive. Ive seen 
evidence that the hire car fuel was empty on collection. And £70 is broadly in line 
with what Id expect it to cost to fill the tank. And given Miss R was using the hire car 
to complete a long journey it doesnt seem unreasonable that she would do this.
Miss R has provided evidence in the form of a bank transfer which she says shows 
money she borrowed from a family member to cover these costs on the day. On 
balance of everything Ive seen in this case and considering whats fair and 
reasonable in all the circumstances, Im persuaded this is sufficient in this case to 
show the costs Miss R most likely incurred.
UKI should therefore reimburse Miss R the £70 plus 8% simple interest from the date 
she paid it, to the date it reimburses her.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, my final decision is that I uphold this complaint. 
U K Insurance Limited must:
Pay Miss R a total of £250 compensation.* It can deduct from this figure the £40 already offered to Miss R if this has already been paid to her.
Pay Miss R £70* as reimbursement of fuel costs. It should add 8% a year simple 
interest** to this amount from the date Miss R paid for the petrol to the date it 
reimburses her.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss R to accept 
or reject my decision before 27 July 2023.
*U K Insurance Limited must pay the compensation within 28 days of the date on which we 
tell it Miss R accepts my final decision. If it pays later than this, it must also pay interest on 
the compensation from the deadline date for settlement to the date of payment at 8% a year 
simple.
** If U K Insurance Limited considers that its required by HMRC to take off income tax from 
the interest, it should tell Miss R how much its taken off. It should also give Miss R a 
certificate showing this if she asks for one, so she can reclaim the tax from HMRC if 
appropriate.
 
Rosie Osuji
Ombudsman