DRN-3239752
The complaint
Mr A and Miss B are unhappy that Admiral Insurance (Gibraltar) Limited declined a claim 
under a home insurance policy for theft and cancelled the policy for fraud.
What happened
In March 2019 Miss B took out a home insurance policy with Admiral which covered her 
and Mr A. In the course of her application she told Admiral about a claim made in 
February 2018 for personal possessions worth £8,000 stolen abroad. She also had 
listed on the policy two luxury watches. The policy covered the loss of these items away 
from home.
In June 2019 Miss B reported the theft of one of the watches from holiday accommodation 
abroad.
After investigating the claim Admiral said it had a number of concerns about discrepancies 
in the information it had been given. Its main concerns were about where Mr A stayed 
when there was a break in the relationship, what happened to the watch documents, how 
long Mr A had lived at the insured address and who was living or not living at a different 
address linked to Mr A (property 2). Mr A and Miss B said property 2 belonged to Mr As 
family and was being sold. They also said Mr A had moved out of the insured property for 
a short time before the holiday while their relationship had temporarily broken up.
Miss B complained to Admiral about the way it had handled the claim. Admiral didnt 
uphold most of her complaint. In September 2019 it told her the claim was being declined 
because Admiral didnt think theyd shown that Mr A was a permanent resident of the 
insured property at the time of the theft. But it agreed that it should have notified Miss B 
that the claim had been declined. It offered £50 compensation for this error and a further 
£25 for delays. 
In August 2019 Miss B cancelled the policy. After Miss B made a further complaint, Admiral 
paid £100 additional compensation for delays. It didnt change its decision regarding the 
claim as it didnt believe Mr A lived at the insured property at the relevant time. It later said it 
was cancelling the policy with effect from the date of the claim as it considered the claim was 
a fraudulent act.
Mr A and Miss B brought their complaint to this service. Initially I was minded to uphold the 
complaint. But then Admiral provided a recording of a telephone call made by Miss B to the 
local authority, advising them of the date that Mr A had moved into the insured address 
which was after the date of the loss. It thought the wrongful claiming of single occupancy 
benefit raised issues about the credibility of Mr A and Miss B. It pointed out there were 
numerous pieces of evidence linking Mr A to property 2 as opposed to limited evidence that 
he was living at the insured address at the relevant time. 
We asked Miss B why shed told the local authority Mr A had moved into the insured address 
on 28 August 2019. She said shed given the date of 28 August 2019 as she and Mr A had 
been paying council tax on the two properties and she didnt think she could backdate the 
change.
I issued a further provisional decision. In it I explained that for Admiral to decline the claim 
and cancel the policy for fraud it must show that there was a dishonest attempt by Mr A and 
Miss B to deceive it into paying for something they werent entitled to. When looking at fraud 
cases I bear in mind that fraud is a serious matter. So if thats what the business thinks has 
happened, it has to evidence that very clearly. Theres no need for the insurer to prove its 
case beyond reasonable doubt. But it does need to show strong and persuasive proof that 
its more likely than not that the consumers claim is fraudulent. For the avoidance of doubt, 
its not our role to decide whether or not a customers claim is fraudulent. What we look at is 
whether a business reached a reasonable decision about this. 
I looked at the main concerns Admiral had in relation to the claim. Having done so, 
I wasnt persuaded that it would be fair and reasonable to say that Admiral shouldnt have 
cancelled the policy for fraud. I explained why.
the lack of evidence linking Mr A to the insured address and Mr As links to property 2
Property 2 was listed as Mr As address on the electoral roll, on his driving licence, in 
respect of his bank accounts, at Companies House for his business, when he made a 
claim under a motor policy in October 2018, when applying for a credit card in 2018 and 
on the watch valuation document dated May 2018. 
I agreed this was much more than the evidence linking Mr A to the insured address  a 
letter dated 6 April 2019 from HMRC and him being named by Miss B as a joint 
policyholder on a previous home insurance policy taken out in May 2018. 
Having listened to the phone call in which Miss B told the local authority that Mr A had 
moved into the insured address on 28 August 2019, I could see why Admiral had placed 
some weight on the council tax position. Ultimately if what Mr A and Miss B told Admiral 
was correct, they were wrongly claiming a single person council tax discount for both the 
insured address and property 2. If what Miss B told the council was correct, Mr A cant 
have been a permanent resident of the insured address at the time of the loss. The two 
statements were hard to reconcile. It was difficult to understand how their recollection of 
the date Mr A moved into the property would vary between speaking to the loss adjuster 
and the local authority within a relatively short time unless one or other account was not 
entirely truthful particularly when the consumers had been made aware that the date was 
critical to their claim. I accepted that did cast some doubt on the credibility of what they 
had told Admiral.
Taking into account the new evidence, I thought Admiral acted reasonably in saying it hadnt 
been satisfactorily shown that Mr A was permanently resident at the insured address. As the 
policy only provided cover to those who permanently live at the insured address, it followed 
that I thought Admirals decision to cancel the policy for fraud and not to pay the claim was 
fair. 
inconsistent information provided in support of the claim
In the initial call with Admirals agent Miss B said the documentation for the watch had been 
lost because theyd moved (which Admiral took to mean Miss B and Mr A). In Mr As 
recorded telephone interview on 19 July 2019, he said hed moved back into his ex-partners 
house for a short time after he and Miss B had split up temporarily and taken these things 
with him, which hed then left behind when he moved back to the insured address. But he 
couldnt remember the address of his ex-partner and assumed theyd have been disposed of by her. Later Miss B said shed taken them to Mr A at property 2 when hed moved out for a 
short time. She also said that it had been a stressful time for them both when theyd split up 
and that would explain why Mr A hadnt remembered properly.
I agreed there were some inconsistencies in the information given about the watch 
documentation. Although such inconsistencies arent usually enough in themselves to 
warrant an insurer not paying a claim, in this case I thought there was already enough 
evidence to justify Admiral cancelling the policy for fraud. 
In summary Miss B made the following points in response:
She and Mr A had always made it clear that they hadnt updated the utility bills or 
council tax to include Mr A and that theyd wrongly been claiming a single persons 
council tax discount for the insured address.
They didnt realise at the time that Mr A wouldnt be considered a permanent resident 
of the insured address unless he was a party to the bills and listed as resident for 
council tax purposes. The policy doesnt say this is required.
When they called the council, they werent aware they could have backdated the 
change in Mr As residency.
She and Mr A had been paying 75% council tax on two properties rather than 100% 
council tax on one. There was no financial gain to them. They were only trying to help 
Mr As parents.
They hadnt concealed any information from Admiral.
The estate agent selling property 2 had confirmed that an elderly couple (presumed to 
be Mr As parents) were living at property 2 and that the estate agent had never dealt 
with Mr A in connection with the sale.
Admiral had never asked their permission to obtain their mobile phone records which 
would have shown Mr As location. She and Mr A would have agreed to this if theyd 
known about it. These records are no longer available as theyre only kept for a certain 
period of time.
Mr A had made a significant financial contribution to the insured property, including 
having a home office built in the garden.
Theyd like to understand why my decision had changed when clearly there is no new 
evidence from Admiral and the phone recording only confirmed what theyd been 
saying throughout the claim.
Miss B also provided evidence that Mr A had bought a replacement watch for £13,000 
in August 2019. The receipt showed his address as the insured property.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The policy doesnt state that someone must be listed on the electoral roll or utility bills to 
be considered a permanent resident at an insured address. But its up to a policyholder to 
show that they have a valid claim and this is one way (but not the only way) of proving 
permanent residency.
I think the process Admiral followed in the circumstances was fair. It carried out 
reasonable checks and as these didnt support the claim that Mr A had been a permanent 
resident at the insured address at the relevant time, it fairly asked for some additional 
proof.I appreciate that together Miss B and Mr A might have been paying more council tax than 
they needed to by paying council tax on two properties but it seems to me likely that 
somehow the council was losing out by this because otherwise I cant see why they would 
have done it. Ive listened to the call in which Miss B told the council that Mr A had moved 
in with her in August 2019. She didnt give the impression of being under any pressure to 
state any particular date and could easily have asked the council tax officer whether the 
change could have been backdated. As mentioned above, I can understand why Admiral 
thought that cast some doubt on the credibility of what theyd told Admiral. 
I havent considered whether Miss B and Mr A concealed any information from Admiral but 
ultimately its the fact that there was a lot more evidence linking Mr A to property 2 as 
opposed to the insured address at the date of the loss that persuaded me that it wasnt 
unreasonable for Admiral to say that Mr A hadnt been living at the property at the relevant 
time.
It was August 2019 that the estate agent selling property 2 told Admiral that the property 
was occupied by an elderly couple. That indicates that Mr A had moved out by that point 
and it follows that he was then likely to be resident at the insured address. It doesnt 
however confirm that Mr A was permanently resident at the insured address at the time of 
the loss. 
It's a shame Miss B and Mr As mobile phone records are no longer available. But at the 
end of the day I can only decide this complaint on the basis of the evidence that is 
available and not what might have been. And Miss B and Mr A knew for quite some time 
what Admirals view was  they were at liberty to gather and present the records to 
evidence their position if they had wanted to.
Unfortunately for Miss B and Mr A the documentation theyve provided in relation to the 
home office in the garden of the insured address is dated after the date of the loss claimed 
for and so doesnt show that Mr A was living at the insured address at the relevant time.
The recording of Miss Bs call to the council tax department was new evidence so far as 
I was concerned. Hearing Miss B state quite categorically that Mr A had moved into her 
home on 28 August 2019 persuaded me that it was reasonable for Admiral to say that he 
hadnt been living at the property at the time of the loss in June 2019. In my view it didnt 
confirm what Miss B and Mr A had been saying throughout the whole claim. In fact Id say 
the opposite is true  it contradicted what theyd previously told Admiral.
I accept that Mr A bought a replacement watch. However, this doesnt overcome the 
issues with his residency referred to above.
My final decision
For the reasons outlined above I do not uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A and Miss B to 
accept or reject my decision before 8 February 2022.
 
Elizabeth Grant
Ombudsman