DRN-3039119
The complaint
Ms D complains about the poor service she received from Royal and Sun Alliance Insurance 
PLC (RSA), following a claim under her home emergency policy. 
What happened
Ms D owned a property that she rented out to tenants. The boiler broke down and RSA were 
contacted as she had a home emergency policy with them. It sent an engineer who advised 
that the pump had failed. But due to the costings to repair the boiler, RSA felt that it would be 
better for the boiler manufacturer (BM) to attend to assess the boiler. The BM attended and 
managed to fix the boiler. But soon after he had left, it broke down again. 
Ms D contacted RSA again as she said that the boiler was leaking. But given the time of day, 
RSA were unable to send an engineer, so it said it would contact the BM in the morning. 
RSA contacted the BM who advised that the boiler had several failing parts and was deemed 
beyond economic repair (BER). RSA told Ms D, who raised a complaint based on the lack of 
information that she received from RSA as to why the boiler was deemed BER, delays and 
lack of updates.  
Following this complaint, RSA sent the report from the BM to Ms D, which detailed why the 
boiler had been deemed BER. Soon after this, Ms D told RSA that she had instructed an 
independent engineer who had fixed the issues with the boiler having paid £252 for the 
repair. She also sent a report to RSA from the independent engineer that concluded that the 
boiler was in a good state and that parts were replaced which got the boiler working again. 
RSA considered this report with the BM and concluded that the BM was the most 
knowledgeable about its boilers therefore their advice would be the best option for the long- 
term resolution of the boiler. RSA also found that Ms Ds boiler hadnt been serviced and 
asked for proof of service which wasnt provided. 
RSA accepted that its level of service wasnt up to its usual standard (regarding the delay 
and lack of updates) and for this it reimbursed Ms Ds costs of £252, that she paid for the 
independent engineers repair of the boiler. Ms D wasnt happy by this outcome as RSA also 
told her that it could no longer offer cover for the boiler. So, she referred a complaint to this 
service. 
One of our investigators considered the complaint and concluded that the boiler appeared to 
have been repaired by a third party, and she didnt think it was fair for RSA to deny any 
future call outs that Ms D might have. She also said that she wouldnt be asking RSA to pay 
any further compensation, as it had covered the costs of the independent engineer. 
Ms D agreed with our investigators view. RSA did not. It said that although the
third-party engineer completed repairs there was no evidence to confirm these were 
completed safely and in line with the BMs instruction or fitted the boiler with original parts. 
Also, it hadnt seen any service documentation or confirmation that this has been completed. 
Consequently, there was no evidence of the condition of the boiler and whether it was up to 
the BMs standard. And it was unfair that RSA should be held liable for a boiler that was 
potentially unsafe and could break down again. So, it asked for a decision from an 
ombudsman. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
My provisional decision
I considered the complaint and I thought the complaint shouldnt be upheld. I issued a 
provisional decision on 9 August 2021 and asked both parties to send me anything else by 8 
September 2021. In my provisional decision I said:
I have considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of the complaint.
Having done so, Im minded not to uphold this complaint. I realise this will be a 
disappointment to Ms D, but I hope my findings go some way in explaining why Ive reached 
this decision.
I think there are two main aspects to this complaint. First, that the repair carried out by Ms 
Ds engineer was done in accordance with the BMs instruction and that original parts were 
used in the repair. Second, Ms D hasnt provided any evidence of the condition of the boiler 
such as a service report. 
RSA accepted that there had been some poor standards of service regarding the delay and 
not fully updating Ms D. For this it offered to reimburse Ms Ds cost of the third-party 
engineer.  RSA said that at times Ms D had called before it had had a chance to call her to 
provide updates. And I can see that there were attempts made to try and update. 
In addition, RSA said that it had experienced an increase in calls over the recent weeks and 
the knock-on effect meant that there were delays caused. It recognised that this was an 
issue and I am satisfied that its offer of £252 is fair and in line with what I wouldve directed, 
had the offer not already been made. So, I wont be recommending further compensation for 
this. But RSA should confirm that this has been paid, if it has not then it ought to do so on 
production of the invoice from Ms D. 
I have next looked at the whether the repair carried out by the third-party engineer was done 
in accordance with the BMs instructions, using the original parts. 
RSA said that although it didnt dispute that the engineer Ms D used was reputable, there 
was no information that the repair was carried out in accordance with the BMs instructions. I 
have considered the report from that engineer and there is no indication within it that the 
repair was carried out according to the BMs instructions. 
In the policy exclusions, it confirms that boilers or any system equipment will be excluded 
from cover if it hasnt been properly maintained, serviced or repaired in accordance with the 
manufacturers instructions.  If Ms D is able to provide a detailed expert report that confirms 
that the repair was carried out in accordance with the BMs instructions, then I will consider 
this. But as the evidence currently stands, there is no information that supports this. Consequently, I dont think RSA were unreasonable to refuse to carry out future repairs 
without this information.  
RSA said that Ms D confirmed that she had not had the boiler serviced and this was 
endorsed by the BM who noticed that the boiler hadnt been recently serviced. So, Im not 
satisfied that it was unreasonable for RSA to rely upon the exclusion clause, when it 
concluded that it was unable to continue to cover the boiler under the policy. 
Finally, RSA instructed the BM for a second opinion. It said it did this to ensure that the 
works were completed within a time and cost-effective manner and most importantly in line 
with the BMs instruction.  The BM concluded that it wasnt possible to carry out a repair, due 
to the condition of the boiler and the costs to repair it to meet the installation requirements.
Im satisfied that the BM are experts and of course the manufacturers of the boiler, so it is 
best placed to provide expert evidence regarding its assessment that the boiler was BER. I 
appreciate that the third- party engineer got the boiler working. But I dont think its fair that 
RSA should be responsible for a potentially unsafe boiler that the BM deemed BER, with no 
evidence from Ms D that the parts replaced were sufficiently fitted to the BMs instructions or 
that the boiler itself had been serviced. For these reasons, Im persuaded that RSA shouldnt 
provide cover for the boiler, in the absence of this evidence. 
Responses to my provisional decision
Ms D responded and said that:
Her boiler had been serviced every year and our service should contact her letting agents to 
obtain the certificates of service.
She didnt think it was fair that our service hadnt made contact to the independent 
engineer that she instructed to repair her boiler. So, she felt that our service was taking the 
side of the BM and RSA.
RSA made no attempt to contact Ms D and she was always contacting RSA.
I hadnt recommended any further compensation from RSA and so she was only getting back 
what she had paid out. Especially as she felt that RSAs engineers were too lazy to repair her 
boiler. 
She concluded that her boiler shouldnt be excluded from cover. 
RSA had no further comment to make regarding the provisional decision. 
I have further considered Ms Ds responses. I should point out that we look at the evidence 
provided by both parties, to give an answer to the complaint, that is both fair and impartial. 
Ms D was invited to provide any further evidence that she wished to be considered, which 
would include (but not limited to) proof of service of the boiler and a report from the 
independent engineer who she instructed to repair her boiler. Ms D has not provided any 
further evidence to support her complaint. 
As I mentioned in the provisional decision, I am satisfied that the BM are experts and of 
course the manufacturer of the boiler. So, I think it is best placed to provide expert evidence 
of its assessment of the boiler. Ms D has said that the boiler is now working. But she has not 
provided any expert evidence that could refute what the BM had said.  In the circumstances, 
I dont think its fair that RSA should be held responsible to cover a boiler, that the BM had 
deemed BER. 
I am also satisfied that RSAs recognised the poor service that Ms D experienced relating to 
the delays and its offer of £252 compensation was fair. I accept that the compensation effectively reimbursed Ms Ds costs that she incurred to repair the boiler. Nonetheless, the 
amount wouldve been in line with what I wouldve directed (had the offer not already been 
made) and I wont be asking RSA to increase the compensation. 
Taking everything into account, whilst I understand how disappointed Ms D will be, Im not 
satisfied that RSA acted unreasonably by not providing cover for the boiler. And I think the 
£252 compensation that RSA paid for the inconvenience it caused is fair. So, I wont be 
asking RSA to do anything more to resolve this complaint. 
My final decision
For the reasons I explained, I think the compensation of £252 that Royal and Sun Alliance 
Insurance has already paid, for the inconvenience it caused, is fair and reasonable.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms D to accept or 
reject my decision before 7 October 2021.
 
Ayisha Savage
Ombudsman