DRN-3843277
The complaint
A company, which Ill refer to as S, complains that Chubb European Group SE (Chubb) 
didnt settle its travel delay claim in full.  
Mr B, a director of S, has brought the complaint on the companys behalf. 
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties so I wont repeat them at length 
here. 
Briefly, in 2021 S took out an Accident and Health Business Class Bespoke Injury & Travel 
Insurance policy with Chubb for the benefit of its directors and employees. In February 2022 
three of S directors were due to fly from Barcelona to London however their flight was 
delayed by approximately 67 hours. 
S made a claim against its policy. When reviewing the travel delay claim, Chubb said that 
after the first four hours of delay the policy provides compensation at £50 per hour for each 
individual with a maximum £500 limit per person. It therefore arranged to pay S £1,500 for 
the travel delay claim. 
S was dissatisfied with the amount Chubb paid in settlement of its delay claim. S said the 
schedule it received had no mention of a limit per person. The only limit stated on there was 
an aggregate limit of £250,000 for the disruption section of the policy. S was therefore 
expecting a payment of around £10,500  this was on the basis of £50 per hour for three 
passengers.  
Chubb said the schedule which had been issued to S via its broker at inception of the policy 
contained an error. The delay section was missing altogether. Chubb apologised for the 
error and provided a copy of the correct schedule. In light of the error Chubb paid S £200 for 
any inconvenience caused but they explained that there is a limit per person which cant be 
ignored as it was their intention to pay a maximum of £500 per person in the event of a 
delay. Chubb therefore honoured the claim on this basis.  
Unhappy with Chubbs response, S brought its complaint to our service. Our investigator 
didnt think S complaint should be upheld. In summary, she said that there was clearly an 
error with the schedule, but the correct schedule had now been issued and Chubb paid out 
accordingly which was fair and reasonable in the circumstances.
S didnt accept our investigators opinion so the complaint has been passed to me to decide 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Both parties have provided detailed submissions to support their position. I want to assure
them Ive read and carefully considered everything theyve said. However, my findings focus
on what I consider to be the central issues, and not all the points raised. The purpose of my
decision isnt to address every single point that the parties have raised. My role is to
consider the evidence presented by S, and by Chubb, to reach what I think is a fair and
reasonable decision based on the facts of the case.
The crux of this complaint centres on Chubbs decision to apply a maximum limit of £500 per 
person when settling S travel delay claim.  
The policy term most relevant to S claim states: 
Section B4  Disruption
If during the Period of Insurance a Journey is delayed, cancelled, altered or curtailed, 
or the Insured Person has to be replaced, all as a direct result of any cause outside 
of the Policyholders or Insured Persons control the Insurer will pay the Policyholder 
for reasonable and necessary expenses incurred up to the amount shown in the 
Schedule of Benefits for any one Journey for..
5. Travel Delay
If the outward or return departure of the aircraft, sea vessel or publicly licensed
conveyance (including pre-booked connecting publicly licensed transportation) in 
which the Insured Person has arranged to travel as part of a Journey is delayed for at 
least four hours from the departure time indicated by the carrier due to strike, 
industrial action, adverse weather conditions, mechanical breakdown or structural 
defect affecting that aircraft, sea vessel or publicly licensed conveyance, the Insurer 
will pay the amounts shown in the Schedule of Benefits. If there is more than one leg 
to the outward or return Journey the benefit will only apply to the first leg of the 
Journey which is delayed.
The policy terms refer the policyholder to the insurance schedule for further detail on how 
much Chubb will pay in the event of a travel delay. 
Chubb has said the schedule which was sent to S at inception in 2021 contained an error 
because there was no mention of delay in the disruption part of the schedule and it was 
accidently left blank. 
Ive reviewed the schedule which was sent to S at inception and that Chubb says was 
incorrect, alongside the version which was later sent to S as the correct version. Its clear 
that there is something missing from the first schedule under category B4 Disruption. There 
is a blank space corresponding to £50 per hour but it doesnt say which benefit this relates 
to. There is no mention of travel delay however I would expect to see it listed here as the 
policy terms refer to the schedule for details on how much Chubb will pay. 
In the schedule which was sent by Chubb to S after the claim was made, travel delay is 
listed in place of the blank space and a limit is specified. This schedule states after the first 
four hours of delay Chubb will pay £50 per hour up to a maximum limit of £500 per person. 
From the evidence I have seen, I am satisfied that there was a mistake in the schedule 
which was sent to S at inception and I am persuaded that the correct version did specify a 
maximum limit per person for travel delay. What I now need to decide is whether Chubb has 
done enough to put things right.
Chubb have accepted that there was a mistake and in light of this they have paid £200 
compensation for the inconvenience caused. Had the error not happened, S wouldve received the correct schedule which specified all the limits, including that for travel delay and 
S wouldve been paid a maximum of £500 per person. As Chubb has settled the claim at this 
amount, Im satisfied that S has received the amount it wouldve received had the error not 
occurred. So, although its unfortunate that a mistake has been made with the schedule, I 
believe S has been paid what its entitled to.
Mr B said when S took out the policy it was looking for cover which included medical cover, 
loss of baggage and delay. The policy taken out by S is a comprehensive policy which 
covers a number of situations including the areas it was looking to cover. I dont think the 
limit on the travel delay section would have been the turning point on this policy, I say this 
because most policies have a limit of this sort for travel delay. Im therefore satisfied that 
Mr B wouldnt have done anything differently had he known about the limit for the travel 
delay section at inception. 
Since bringing S complaint to this service, Mr B has said he has found policies with a higher 
limit for travel delay. He said he reviewed Chubbs policy at the time of loss and expected a 
payment without a limit in accordance with the documents he had received at inception and 
this was needed because the policy for S covered the absence of its managing director 
which had a financial impact on the business. While it may be the case that Mr B has now 
discovered policies with a higher limit for travel delay, Ive not seen any evidence to 
persuade me that Mr B was looking for a policy with a specific amount for travel delay at 
inception and therefore, as Ive said above, Im not satisfied that Mr B wouldve done 
anything differently if he had received the correct schedule at inception stating all the limits.
In the circumstances, I feel that Chubbs offer of £200 compensation for the inconvenience 
caused as a result of their error with the schedule and the payment of £1,500 for the travel 
delay claim, is fair and reasonable. 
My final decision
My final decision is I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask S to accept or 
reject my decision before 6 April 2023.
 
Ankita Patel
Ombudsman