DRN-4166768
The complaint
Mr M complains about how Liverpool Victoria Insurance Company Limited (LV) dealt with 
two claims made on his motor insurance policy. He wants it to reimburse one policy excess. 
What happened
Mr M was involved in two separate incidents within a few days. He made claims on his policy 
and LV arranged repairs. But Mr M was unhappy as LV charged him two policy excesses 
even though the damage from the incidents was in the same area and needed just one 
repair job to fix it. 
Our Investigator didnt recommend that the complaint should be upheld. She thought there 
had been two separate incidents that had caused two areas of damage. And so two claims 
were made. And she thought LV correctly recorded this and charged two policy excess 
amounts in keeping with the policys terms and conditions. 
Mr M replied asking for an Ombudsmans review, so the complaint has come to me for a 
final decision. He thought it wasnt reasonable that he was expected to pay twice for one 
repair. He thought the repairs made for the second incident also repaired the damage 
caused in the first incident.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I can understand that Mr M feels frustrated that he had to pay his policy excess twice. I can 
see that he is an experienced motorist and I have noted his arguments for why he thought 
this was unreasonable. Our approach in cases like this is to consider whether the insurers 
acted in line with the terms and conditions of the policy and fairly and reasonably.
In the first incident, another driver hit the rear bumper of Mr Ms car. The damage, which I 
dont think is in dispute, was to the drivers side of the rear bumper. In the second incident, a 
cyclist collided with the rear of Mr Ms car. The damage this time was to the passenger side 
rear tailgate and bumper. 
Mr M made two claims. LV said these were two separate incidents and it recorded them as 
two claims and it asked for payment of two policy excesses. There were two separate 
incidents and the damage caused was in different areas, so I think LV reasonably recorded 
two separate claims in keeping with its responsibility to record accurate information. 
The policy requires the policy excess to be paid as the first part of any claim. And so LV 
asked Mr M to pay his £250 policy excess twice. I think thats in keeping with the policys 
terms and conditions. So Ive then considered whether that was fair and reasonable. 
Mr M said when LV repaired the damage from the second incident it would also have had to 
repair the damage to the bumper from the first incident. But LVs engineer disagreed. He 
said the damage to the bumper from the second incident could have been polished out by 
the repairer, but the tailgate needed repair. And the bumper was repaired, not replaced, by 
the repairer. So the two areas of damage would have required separate repairs. From what I 
can see, LVs repairer used its discretion and then repainted the whole bumper.  
Mr M said, from his experience, the damage to the bumper from the second incident couldnt 
have been polished out. But, as our Investigator explained, were not engineers. We dont 
assess whether or how damage to a vehicle would be caused as this is a matter for the 
experts in these situations, the insurance companies and engineers. Our role in these 
complaints is to determine whether an insurance company has considered all the available 
evidence and whether it can justify its decision about repairs.
I can understand that Mr M feels his opinion on the repairs should have equal weight as an 
engineers. But I think its reasonable for LV to rely on its qualified engineers expert opinion. 
I can see that LV reviewed its decision in light of Mr Ms views and photographs. I cant see 
that theres any further evidence that it should have considered. So Im satisfied that LV has 
justified its decision to treat the two incidents as separate claims and so request two policy 
excesses.
So I think LV has acted fairly and reasonably, and in keeping with the policys terms and 
conditions. And I dont require it to do anything further.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 20 September 2023.
 
Phillip Berechree
Ombudsman