DRN-1649601
The complaint
Mr F complains that National Westminster Bank Plc failed to do enough to protect his 
account from fraud, and gave him poor customer service.
What happened
On five occasions during 2019 fraudsters tried to access Mr Fs account with NatWest. The 
fraudsters were unsuccessful, but Mr F complained that NatWest had not done enough to 
inform him about these attempts or to prevent them from happening again. He said that after 
the first attempt, NatWest should have changed his account number, cancelled his card or 
reset his online banking. He complained that NatWest had failed to tell him about the third 
and fourth attempts, and that its call handlers were rude and unhelpful on the phone. After 
the fifth time it happened he was unable to access his current account, and he was forced to 
rely on his credit card while he was on holiday. He said the matter took hours of his time to 
resolve, on the phone and in visits to his local branch. A new debit card which had been 
ordered had to be re-ordered, causing a delay.
NatWest accepted that some things had not gone well  specifically, not telling Mr F about 
all of the fraud attempts, failing to order a new debit card promptly, and poor customer 
service on the phone calls. It apologised and paid him £232, consisting of £200 of 
compensation for his trouble and £32 to cover the cost of his phone calls. But NatWest also 
pointed out that it had protected Mr Fs account and he had not lost any money, and that if 
his time had been wasted then this was mostly the result of the fraudsters actions, for which 
the bank was not responsible. It declined to pay Mr F any more compensation, and so he 
brought this complaint to our Service. He asked us to take into account what he is paid for 
his time at work when assessing how much compensation he should receive for his wasted 
time.
Our investigator did not uphold this complaint. She thought that NatWest had paid enough 
compensation. Mr F asked for an ombudsman to consider his case.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Much of the inconvenience caused to Mr F is really the result of the fraudsters actions, 
rather than being the banks fault. But it is still true that the bank could have provided Mr F 
with better service. It is not in dispute that the call handlers did not treat Mr F with the 
courtesy and professionalism to which he is undeniably entitled, and I appreciate that this 
must have been extremely frustrating for him, especially considering the reason for the 
phone calls. There was also an avoidable delay of about two weeks when a card which was 
supposed to have been sent to Mr F was not sent and had to be ordered again.
However, it is not my role to punish the bank by fining it. Rather, I may only award 
compensation for inconvenience or distress. While I recognise that Mr F feels strongly that 
what happened to him should be worth more than £200, I think that amount is in line with the 
level of award this Service would typically make in these circumstances, and is fair.
I do not uphold Mr Fs complaint about NatWest not doing enough to protect his account. 
The fraudsters failed to steal Mr Fs money, and so NatWests security measures worked. 
Its not for me to dictate precisely what measures a bank must take to protect their 
customers accounts, so long as they are effective.
My final decision
My decision is that I do not uphold this complaint. That is not to say that NatWest did nothing 
wrong; rather that I think NatWest has done enough to make up for it.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr F to accept or 
reject my decision before 14 December 2020. But if we do not hear from him then we will 
presume that he rejects it.
 
Richard Wood
Ombudsman