DRN-3558387
The complaint
Mr R says he suffered a loss because Interactive Investor Services Limited (Interactive) 
gave incomplete and inaccurate information when he placed an order to sell US shares held 
within his ISA.
What happened
Mr R placed his order to sell the shares. It was a limit order, so Mr R set a minimum share 
price he wanted for the sale and Interactive would try to fill the order only if the shares were 
trading above this price or when this price was reached. The price Mr R set was in dollars as 
the shares traded in dollars. 
The receipt for the order, provided to Mr R after his order but before it was filled, gave a 
figure for the orders value in dollars. That value should have been at least the dollar share 
price he set multiplied by the number of shares. But the receipt showed a much lower figure. 
Mr R says he tried to cancel the order as a result. For limit orders, a lot of time might pass 
before the conditions are met and the order is filled. Here the price Mr R set was reached 
less than a minute after hed placed his order, so his shares were sold. Theres no 
suggestion Interactive was at fault for the order being filled before it could be cancelled.
It is accepted that the figure on the receipt was the value of the trade if its dollar value (which 
was a minimum of the limit price times the number of shares) were converted into sterling at 
Interactives exchange rate at that time. The receipt incorrectly stated it as a dollar figure. 
The currency the ISA could hold was sterling. So the dollar proceeds from the sale were 
converted by Interactive into sterling at that point. Mr R has told us the shares he sold were 
shares hed bought an hour earlier. I dont have details of that trade, but Ive assumed Mr R 
bought them in his ISA. He hasnt said he didnt. That being the case, Interactive will have 
converted sterling from his ISA into dollars when he bought them. Mr R hasnt said anything 
went wrong when he bought the shares. His complaint arises from his order to sell them.
Mr R says he sold the shares at a profit  that is, the dollar share price rose and he sold at a 
higher price than hed bought  but he says he lost a substantial sum as a result of the sale. 
He says the exchange rate remained constant. He says the source of his loss is Interactives 
exchange rate spread. 
In general terms, exchange rate spread refers to the difference between the buying and 
selling price of a currency. A broker will sell a currency to customers for a higher price than it 
will buy it from them. The difference is effectively a charge made by the broker.
Interactives terms of service, in the charges section, says it will exchange currencies based 
on the bid or offer exchange rates to which we apply a spread and it says the spread (that 
is, the charge added by Interactive to the buying and selling rates) is detailed in its Rates 
and Charges. This says the spread or margin rate applied to exchange rates are fixed 
percentages, varying with the value of the transaction, and it sets out the percentage rates.
Mr R says the trade preview screen for his sale order, shown before he placed his order, 
didnt show an indicative dollar sterling exchange rate. Interactive thinks one was shown. In 
any case it is agreed an exchange rate is usually shown on that screen.
Mr R hasnt got a screenshot of the preview screen of his trade. But in support of what he 
says about an indicative exchange rate not being shown, he has sent screenshots of an 
order he previewed two days later. Like his order receipt, this gives a figure for the value of 
the trade and states this as a dollar value when in fact the figure must be a sterling value. 
Also there is no indicative exchange rate given. A screenshot he took months later for the 
same sort of trade shows the value correctly as a sterling value and gives an indicative 
exchange rate. Mr R says this shows the error was later corrected by Interactive.
Mr R says if an indicative exchange rate - and/or a sterling value for the trade  had been 
shown correctly, it wouldve given him an indication of what he was set to gain or lose from 
the trade, which wouldve helped him make an informed decision. He says his loss was due 
to the exchange rate spread and he was unaware of this large spread because the screen 
didn't show an indicative exchange rate. He says the lack of complete information caused 
his loss and Interactive should reimburse him. 
Interactive acknowledges Mr Rs receipt gives a figure for the value of the trade stated as a 
dollar figure when it is actually a sterling one. But it thinks an indicative exchange rate will 
have been shown on the preview screen as it hasnt knowledge of anyone else having this 
problem at the time. It says the absence of an indicative exchange rate from the preview 
screenshot Mr R has sent is because it shows a trade settling in dollars. But the screenshot 
has the same error as the receipt, with a sterling figure shown as a dollar one. Interactive 
didnt comment on this or on why, if the figure given indicates the settlement currency was 
sterling not dollars, an indicative exchange rate wasnt showing.
I issued my provisional decision in May 2022. I agreed Mr R was most likely not shown an 
indicative exchange rate like he normally wouldve been. But I didnt think this meant he 
didnt know about the spread. Interactives terms made clear a spread was applied and its 
rates and charges set out the rates. The spread applied on this trade was in line with these 
rates and so not unexpectedly large. If Mr R wished to set a selling price that, allowing for 
the spread, would get back what he paid for the shares, he had information available to 
enable him to do this (assuming there was also a stable exchange rate).
Interactive replied and didnt raise any new points. Mr R replied and didnt agree with my 
conclusion that Interactive didnt need to compensate him. Ive considered all his points. In 
brief summary, these included:
Interactive is bound by the FCA code of conduct but decided to ride roughshod over 
these rules. The provisional decision condones this and ignores the regulations. It fails to 
hold Interactive to account for ignoring both the regulations and his evidence. 
Interactive was required under Conduct of Business Rule COBS 6.1.9 to provide an 
indication of the currency involved and the applicable currency conversion rates and 
costs. It did not do this, and this breach of rules was the ultimate cause of his loss. 
Correct and complete information at the point of a trade is what one would expect to 
ensure trades are far, avoid doubt and meet the regulatory requirements of the sector.
Interactives position was to ignore his clear evidence and say an indicative exchange 
rate had been shown, and then say he had failed to review the rate. So Interactive did 
expect customers to review the rate. Providing the rate wasnt a matter of convenience. What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive arrived at the same conclusion as I did in my provisional decision and 
for broadly the same reasons. Ill explain my reasons.
Interactive offered a share trading facility. Mr R has said hed been happily using it for many 
years. Interactive didnt undertake to advise Mr R on his trades. 
The shares Mr R sold were traded in dollars. Due to the shares being in his ISA, when they 
were sold the dollar proceeds would be exchanged to sterling. Mr R has said he understood 
this would happen. Also he hasnt suggested that he wasnt aware there would be a spread. 
I dont think an indicative exchange rate was shown on the preview screen for Mr Rs sell 
order. He says it wasnt. Interactive says it hasnt anything to show it wasnt, but it also says 
it has no record of any errors and Mr Rs receipt clearly shows there were errors. Also I think 
the example screenshot Mr R has sent supports his case, as it shows a dollar transaction to 
be settled in sterling but with no indicative exchange rate given and with what seems to be 
the same error that appeared on Mr Rs own order receipt.
The indicative exchange rate would combine the market exchange rate and Interactives 
spread. But the rate would be indicative as, amongst other things, exchange rates could 
change between the order being placed and it being filled. Mr Rs was a limit order so the 
time between placing it and it being carried out was potentially open ended, as it wouldnt be 
carried out unless and until the price he specified was reached.
According to Interactives usual practice, an indicative exchange rate ought to have been 
shown on the preview screen for the sale order. So there was a failing here. The usual 
information, if shown, wouldve helped Mr R to know or work out the likely net sterling result 
of his trade. I say this because although it was a limit order it was apparent it might be filled 
quickly  like it actually was. I think Mr R had that possibility in mind when he placed it. So, 
although the rate actually used could vary from any indicative rate, current exchange rate 
information was still relevant to the decision Mr R was taking to place his order.
Mr R has said that due to the indicative exchange rate missing from the preview screen, he 
didnt know about the large spread that would be applied or know that the sale would result 
in a loss in sterling terms. But Interactives terms of service made it clear any exchange of 
currencies would be based on exchange rates adjusted for Interactives spread. It also 
directed Mr R to its rates and charges where the spread rates were clearly set out. 
So Interactive did tell Mr R about its exchange rate spread and the rates that would be 
charged for this, which would vary according to the size of the fill. So, he was aware there 
would be this charge, and I dont agree that he wasnt made aware of its scale.
That information together with knowledge of the market exchange rate gave Mr R enough to 
be able to anticipate the net sterling result of his order at the time he placed it  like an 
indicative exchange rate would have. For example, exchanging the dollar proceeds of the 
sale at the rate Mr R has said was current at the time and then deducting the spread set out 
in the rates and charges gives a result in line with the result on Mr Rs receipt.
So I think the spread applied was in line with the rates disclosed to Mr R in the rates and 
charges. I dont agree the result couldnt have been anticipated by Mr R due to Interactive 
imposing an unexpectedly large spread  which was the essence of his complaint. The net sterling result of the trade was calculable with knowledge of market exchange rates and the 
spread. Mr R appears at the time to have been monitoring the applicable exchange rate.
Mr R needed to decide himself whether a trade was right for him and whether he knew 
enough about it before doing it. If he considered an indicative exchange rate essential to his 
trade, he couldve queried its absence from the preview screen and sought help or 
information about this from Interactive rather than proceeding without it. With this in mind, I 
dont agree that the absence of that information was the ultimate cause of his loss.
Ive considered carefully what Mr R has said about Interactives error also being a breach of 
the regulatory rules. But I dont think this or the rule he has quoted changes what is fair and 
reasonable in all the circumstances of this complaint. He knew the currencies involved, the 
market exchange rate and had been made aware of the spread. It wasnt possible to give the 
actual exchange rate or sterling value of the transaction or the amount of the spread (rather 
than just its rate), as the value of the trade and exchange rate applicable wouldnt be known 
until the order was filled. But Interactive had indicated to Mr R the basis on which this would 
be calculated, including the rates of the spread that would be deducted.
It is accepted that the order receipt issued afterwards had incorrect information, showing a 
dollar value when the figure shown was actually the sterling value. Mr R had already placed 
his order when he got the receipt and his request to cancel the order after getting the receipt 
wasnt successful. So the error on the receipt made no difference to the order he placed or 
to what he got back as a result of that order.
In conclusion, I think its likely the sell order preview screen didnt show Mr R everything it 
shouldve. But given the information and options Mr R still had available, I dont think it would 
be fair and reasonable for Interactive rather than Mr R to bear responsibility for the results of 
his sell trade  and I dont think Interactive was responsible for the loss he made as a result 
of the pair of trades that concluded when that sell order was filled.
In light of this and all Ive said above, I dont uphold Mr Rs complaint. Im grateful to Mr R for 
his courtesy throughout and for all his points and the time he has taken to provide these. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision before 22 July 2022.
 
Richard Sheridan
Ombudsman