DRN-4497307
The complaint
Mr U has complained about the handling of a claim under his central heating insurance
policy with British Gas Insurance Limited.
What happened
Mr U held a central heating insurance policy with British Gas. In 2017, British Gas fitted a
new water pump as he had reported that his radiators were not heating up. Mr U says he
had to pay £99 for this.
When British Gas attended in September 2022 to do the annual boiler check, it diagnosed a
fault. British Gas came back out in October 2022 and said it needed to replace the heat
exchanger, as it had been damaged by sludge in the system. British Gas said that it had
advised Mr U to have a powerflush carried out in 2017, which he had not done, so
replacement of the heat exchanger would not be covered under the policy and he would
have to pay for it. Mr U paid for the replacement heat exchanger and this was fitted on 27
October 2022.
However, on 4 November 2022 Mr U says his boiler stopped working. He contacted British
Gas and an engineer attended the next day. The engineer said a powerflush was needed
and would cost Mr U approximately £950.
Mr U was unhappy with this, so he arranged for an independent plumber to attend. He
diagnosed that the only part of the water pump had been replaced in 2017, not the complete
unit, and found the pipework next to the pump and the air separator was blocked. Mr Us
plumber drained the system, stripped out the blocked pipe and fitted a new pump. Mr U says
his plumber said a powerflush would not have cleared this blockage and this would have
been ongoing since 2017.
Mr U says British Gas was trying to upsell him new radiators and an expensive power flush
which are not needed. His plumber diagnosed and fixed the problem in the same day, taking
3-4 hours, whereas British Gas was trying to charge him for an unnecessary and expensive
powerflush. Mr U also says British Gas made multiple visits, which were not necessary.
Mr U wants the cost of the water pump and the heat exchanger refunded. He also wants his
excess and the last three years premiums reimbursed, as he says the central heating
system would not have been working at its best due to British Gas not dealing with the issue
in 2017 properly and he has not received expected levels of service. On 8 November 2022,
Mr U also asked British Gas to cancel his contract but it didnt do so and took four more
monthly payments.
British Gas says it is not always necessary to replace the whole pump; the pump worked
satisfactorily for five years and Mr U did not report any other issues since then until 2022. Its
engineer identified sludge in the system when doing the annual boiler check and clearly
there was a blockage but this was the result of sludge in the system, which it had been
advising Mr U about since 2017. British Gas says it would not cut out sections of pipe to
remove blocked areas, if a power flush is required to remove sludge. British Gas also says
that its engineer found Mr Us plumber had fitted the pump upside down and with no RCD
line, so he corrected that in April 2023. (Mr U denies they did anything to the pump that day.)
However, British Gas offered £65 compensation and refunded the premiums back to the
date Mr U asked it to cancel the policy. British Gas also confirmed Mr U was charged £99 for
the pump in 2017 but said it should not have charged him for this and should only have
charged the £50 policy claim excess.
One of our Investigators looked into the matter. He did not think British Gas had been
incorrect in not covering the cost of the heat exchanger, or that it should have done anything
differently, as he said there was no evidence the powerflush would not have worked and so
he thought it was a reasonable recommendation to make in 2017. The Investigator did
however conclude that British Gas should reimburse the £49 charge for the pump, plus
interest, and pay total compensation of £100.
British Gas confirmed it accepts the investigators assessment.
Mr U did not accept the Investigators assessment, so the matter was passed to me. I issued 
a provisional decision on this matter in November 2023. I have set out my provisional 
findings below: 
Central heating insurance policies such as Mr Us do not provide cover for every 
eventuality and are not intended to operate as maintenance contracts. As such, the 
level of cover provided is limited by the terms, conditions and exclusions set out in 
the policy. In particular, Mr Us policy excludes:
Damage caused by limescale, sludge or other debris if weve told you before 
that you need to carry out repairs, improvements or a British Gas Powerflush, 
or a similar Process, but you havent done so.
The policy also states:
British Gas Powerflush 
Over time, gas central heating systems build up sludge that can block or 
narrow your pipes, radiators and boiler parts. British Gas Powerflush is our 
way of removing that sludge from your system. Well tell you if your system 
needs a Powerflush to work properly. Youll need to pay for it separately  it 
isnt included in your cover.
Therefore, if Mr U had been informed previously that his central heating system 
required a powerflush and this had not been carried out, British Gas would not 
provide cover for subsequent repairs caused by sludge damage.
If British Gas is seeking to rely on the above exclusion for any damage caused by 
sludge, then it is required to establish, on the balance of probabilities, that the 
exclusion applies. In this case therefore it has to establish that Mr U was told 
previously that he needed to have a powerflush done and that the damage to the 
heat exchanger was caused by sludge (which would otherwise have been removed 
by the powerflush). As the above exclusion has a significant impact on the cover 
provided under the policy, I think it would also be reasonable to expect British Gas to 
explain clearly the impact on cover, if the policyholder did not act on any instruction 
to have a powerflush done.
British Gas says it has been advising Mr U since 2017 that a powerflush procedure 
was necessary.The notes of 11 November 2017 attendance say possible powerflush required? / 
cust to monitor. I have seen no other mention of a powerflush being discussed with 
Mr U.
Mr U accepts a powerflush was suggested and even says that British Gas was 
pushing this to upsell him products.
However, British Gass notes only stated that a powerflush was possibly required, 
with a question mark. I cant see that this amounts to an actual diagnosis that a 
powerflush was  required to rectify a problem in the central heating system. There 
are no water test results or other evidence on file to support this. I dont think that 
saying a powerflush was possibly required, or even that it was advisable, amounts to 
an instruction to Mr U that he must get a powerflush done and that if he didnt do so, 
any future claims might not be covered. It seems to me  especially given there was 
a question mark on the job record  that this was speculative only.
By contrast in 2023 when advising that a powerflush was needed British Gas did 
attend to take water samples to help support this diagnosis.
British Gas says it attended on 28 November 2017 to advise again that a power flush 
was needed. However, its notes of this date say that it carried out the annual service 
of the boiler and replaced some leaking parts; they also say that there was an issue 
with the pump speed and circulation and a restriction on pipework
I have seen a picture of the old pump, which clearly shows a newer part at the front 
fitted to an older part, showing a lot of rust and corrosion, at the back. Ive also seem 
a photo of the pipe that was cut out by Mr Us plumber, which shows an almost solid 
and complete blockage. British Gass notes of the work done in 2017 say that it 
replaced the pump. It does not say it replaced part of the pump and no explanation 
has been provided as to how replacing the front part would have solved any problem. 
I think it is misleading to state it has replaced a pump, when it has not done so and it 
did not provide the service expected.
I also agree that there was no need for Mr U to have paid privately for the pump in 
2017 and that the amount he paid for this (less the excess) should be reimbursed.
Given what Mr Us plumber has said, and the photos provided, it seems possible 
there was a restriction on the pipe connected to the pump going back to 2017. If it 
was then it is difficult to see how a powerflush would have resolved this. But again, 
even if it would have done, there is no record of clear information being provided to 
Mr U that a powerflush was needed and that it would affect his cover if he did not 
have one done.
It also seems to me that if the pump had been replaced, as British Gas had said it 
had, this may have resolved the issue; or this blockage would have been seen and 
could have been manually cleared in 2017.
British Gas says it does not resolve blockages this way, preferring to do 
powerflushes instead. However, Ive not seen any persuasive evidence that this 
would have cleared that blockage in any case, or that manually removing it, as        
Mr Us plumber has done is not the appropriate or reasonable method.
Theres also no evidence that a powerflush five years earlier would have prevented 
the issue in 2022. Having considered all the evidence available to me, I do not therefore consider that 
British Gas is entitled to rely on the above exclusion. Given this, I think the cost of the 
heat exchanger should be reimbursed to Mr U, as this should have been covered 
under the policy.
After British Gas replaced the heat exchanger, the boiler stopped working. Mr U had 
to call his own plumber to deal with this. I can understand why he did so, given that 
British Gas was charging him privately for work that should rightly have been covered 
under the policy.
Mr Us plumber says that the whole pump should have been replaced and that if it 
had been then the blockage he cleared would have been seen. Mr U had also been 
[led]  to believe British Gas had provided a replacement pump in 2017. Given this, I 
think it reasonable that British Gas reimburse the cost of the pump that Mr Us own 
plumber installed, and the other work he did, as this should not have been 
necessary. Mr U has provided an invoice which shows this cost him £600.
Mr U says that this boiler will not have been working as effectively as it should since 
2017 but it appears that he has not made any claims in that time to British Gas. While 
I think British Gas should have done more in 2017 (in particular replaced the whole 
pump as it had told Mr U that it had) it is difficult to say for sure what impact this has 
had on the way Mr Us heating has operated. There is also no record of any other call 
out due to this until 2022.
I do however consider that some additional compensation is warranted for the trouble
caused to Mr U, including having to arrange his own repairs. Having taken everything 
into consideration, I think a total of £250 compensation is appropriate. This is to 
include the £65 already offered by British Gas.
My provisional decision
I intend to uphold this complaint and require British Gas Insurance Limited to do the
following:
1. Reimburse Mr U the amount he paid for the pump in 2017 (apart from the 
policy excess), together with interest at 8% simple per annum, from the 
date he paid this to the date of reimbursement.
2. Reimburse Mr U the amount he paid for the replacement of the heat 
exchanger, together with interest at 8% simple per annum, from the date 
he paid this to the date of reimbursement. 
3. Reimburse the amount Mr U paid his plumber to replace the pump and to        
clear the blockage, together with interest at 8% simple per annum, from 
the date he paid this to the date of reimbursement. 
4. Pay Mr U the sum of £250 compensation for the distress and 
inconvenience caused by its handling of this matter. This is in addition to 
the £65 already offered by British Gas.
Responses to my provisional decision
I invited both parties to respond to my provisional decision with any further information or 
evidence they want considered. 
British Gas has confirmed it has nothing further to add. Mr U has confirmed he accepts my provisional decision in the main. However, he says the 
compensation proposed does not adequately reflect the trouble caused to him by British 
Gas. Mr U says he has spent days attending site visits as well as making phone calls and 
writing long letters pursuing this; he has also had years of his central heating system not 
working as optimally as possible. Mr U also says he paid over £800 for the cover with British 
Gas over three years, so he says that £800 compensation would be justified.
Mr U also said he wanted to highlight the following:
he was not told by British Gas that the heat exchanger needed to be replaced 
because it was damaged by sludge. 
British Gas says the pump worked for five years without problem but this is not true, 
as his heating did not work properly for years. 
British Gas said it would not cut out pipework to remove blocked areas, but if the 
whole pump had been replaced in 2017, the blockage would have been clear and he 
could have paid to have it remedied then if necessary. Instead, British Gas hid the 
issue, misled him and tried to upsell him products and services he did not need. 
His contractor was so confident of his diagnosis of the problem, that he offered to 
cover the cost of the work himself if the blockage was not found by the pump. He was 
right because as soon as he replaced the pump, it immediately exposed the 
blockage.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In my provisional decision, I set out the arguments made by each party. This included that 
British Gas asserted that the pump had worked without problem for several years and that it 
would not cut out pipework to resolve blockages and so was right to say that a powerflush 
was necessary. I also set out Mr Us position on these points.
I provisionally concluded that although British Gas prefers to do powerflushes, rather than 
manually remove blockages, there was no persuasive evidence that this would have cleared 
the blockage, or that manually removing it, as Mr Us plumber did, was not the appropriate or 
reasonable method. I also concluded that if British Gas had replaced the whole pump, as it 
said it had in 2017, this might have resolved the issue or the blockage would likely have 
been seen then and could have been removed.
As neither party has provided any further arguments or evidence about these matters, I see 
no reason to change my provisional findings about this, including that British Gas should 
reimburse the amount Mr U paid his own contractor to replace the pump and remove the 
blockage. 
The reason that Mr U was told hed be charged for the heat exchanger was because British 
Gas thought it was caused by sludge and it was seeking to rely on the policy term which 
excludes cover for sludge related issues, if it has previously advised a powerflush was 
necessary. I provisionally decided British Gas could not rely on this term. Neither party has 
provided any further argument about that and so again I remain of the opinion British Gas 
was not entitled to rely on that exclusion and Mr U should not have been charged for 
replacing the heat exchanger.  
With regard to the compensation I proposed to award, I can understand this was a frustrating 
and drawn out process for Mr U. I do not think it is appropriate to level compensation with 
the amount he paid for the policy with British Gas. Instead we consider the impact of what went wrong. I explained in my provisional decision that while I think British Gas should have 
done more in 2017, it is difficult to say for sure the impact this had on the way Mr Us heating 
worked. There were no other call outs between then and 2022 and no convincing evidence 
of any additional cost incurred for heating his property. I did not therefore consider that any 
additional compensation, in addition to paying the cost of rectifying this, was appropriate for 
this. Ive not been provided with anything that has caused me to change my opinion on this 
point. I did however consider some additional compensation was warranted for the trouble 
caused to Mr U by this matter, to include the time involved in getting his own contractor to 
carry out the repairs. We do not usually award compensation for having to pursue a 
complaint, as this is not a regulated activity and therefore not something we can consider in 
its own right. 
I provisionally decided that the sum of £250, in addition to £65 already paid by British Gas, 
was appropriate in the circumstances. This is in line with awards made in similar cases. I 
remain of the opinion that this is fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of this 
complaint. 
My final decision
I uphold this complaint and require British Gas Insurance Limited to do the following:
1. Reimburse Mr U the amount he paid for the pump in 2017 (apart from the policy 
excess), together with interest at 8% simple per annum, from the date he paid this to 
the date of reimbursement. 
2. Reimburse Mr U any amount he has paid for the replacement of the heat exchanger, 
together with interest at 8% simple per annum, from the date he paid this to the date 
of reimbursement.
3. Reimburse the amount Mr U paid his plumber to replace the pump and to clear the 
blockage, together with interest at 8% simple per annum, from the date he paid this 
to the date of reimbursement.
4. Pay Mr U the sum of £250 compensation for the distress and inconvenience caused 
by its handling of this matter. This is in addition to the £65 already offered by British 
Gas.
I understand British Gas may have already made some payment towards these amounts. If
so, any payments it has already been made can be taken into account and it only needs to
pay the remaining outstanding amounts.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr U to accept or 
reject my decision before 4 January 2024. 
Harriet McCarthy
Ombudsman