DRN-3061917
The complaint
Mr W complains that Ocaso SA, Compania de Seguros y Reaseguros unfairly declined his 
subsidence claim and cancelled his home insurance policy.
Mr W is represented by his mother, Mrs W.
  
What happened
Mr W owns a flat in a block. In October 2016, he took out a buildings and contents insurance 
policy with Ocaso, via a broker. 
In March 2017, Mr W made a subsidence claim. Ocaso declined the claim on the basis the 
subsidence had been ongoing before the policy started, and the property had undergone 
repairs for subsidence previously. Ocaso also said, when taking the policy out, Mr W 
confirmed the property hadnt previously suffered from subsidence. 
In April 2020, Mrs W complained about the claim decision on behalf of her son. Mrs W noted 
that the previous repairs were due to damage thought to have been caused by a water leak, 
not subsidence. She also explained that, since 2017, Mr W had been unable to obtain 
insurance due to the ongoing subsidence and having a cancelled policy. 
Ocaso maintained its previous claim decision, so Mrs W contacted our service. Mrs W told 
us she wanted Ocaso to cover the internal repairs to Mr Ws flat, and his share of the 
investigations and repairs to the block. Mrs W also said she wanted Mr Ws policy to 
continue with Ocaso.
Ocaso told our service it didnt void the policy in 2017. It explained it made enquiries with the 
broker that sold the policy, so it could determine whether the cover could be maintained, and 
if so, on what terms. Ocaso says it didnt receive a response from the broker and the policy 
lapsed. Ocaso says the broker has recently confirmed the policy was cancelled at renewal, 
on the instruction of Mrs W. However, Mrs W disputes she or Mr W cancelled the policy.
Ocaso went on to explain that, due to the lack of response from the broker, it didnt have the 
opportunity to void the policy before it lapsed. However, had the policy not lapsed, it would 
have been voided. It said the voidance reasons would have included the property being 
tenanted, in addition to the pre-inception subsidence damage.
Ocaso explained that, in 2017, its loss adjuster identified the property had been tenanted 
since 2014. However, when Mr W took out the policy, he said the property was his main 
residence and it wasnt let. Ocaso wouldnt have offered cover has Mr W confirmed the 
property was let.
During the loss adjusters visit to the property in 2017, only Mr Ws fiance (now wife) was 
present. Mrs W says Mr Ws wife simply told the loss adjuster she was renting the flat for 
ease, and English isnt her first language. Mrs W also says that when Mr W told the loss 
adjuster the property was rented, this was just a loose use of the term. Mrs W says they 
havent previously corrected Ocasos understanding because its not been of any 
significance until now. 
Mrs W says both Mr W and his wife were living at the property from 2014. Whilst Mr W was 
working away in the week, he returned at weekends. Mr Ws wife was a student at the time, 
she contributed a small amount to the mortgage, and there wasnt a lease. Mrs W also 
explained that, in her earlier correspondence to our service, she simply referred to the 
property as being let to avoid having to explain her sons personal arrangements. 
Mrs W says the property was only formerly let from mid-2017, when Mr Ws wife no longer 
needed to be in that location for her studies. Mr W and his wife then relocated to his work 
location.
One of our investigators considered the complaint. He set out the relevant law that applies to 
this case, in respect of misrepresentation. He also explained industry guidance that applies 
to subsidence claims. To summarise, our investigator wasnt persuaded the policy could be 
voided, and he thought Ocaso should consider Mr Ws claim and pay £150 compensation. 
However, he didnt think Ocaso had to offer Mr W a new policy.
Mrs W agreed with our investigators outcome. Ocaso asked for a final decision from an 
ombudsman, so the complaint has been passed to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The Consumer Insurance (Disclosure and Representations) Act 2012 (CIDRA) is the law 
relevant to this case. This requires consumers to take reasonable care not to make a 
misrepresentation when taking out an insurance policy.
If a consumer fails to take reasonable care, the insurer has certain remedies, provided the 
misrepresentation is  what CIDRA describes as  a qualifying misrepresentation. For a 
misrepresentation to be qualifying, the insurer has to show that if the misrepresentation 
hadnt been made, it would have offered the policy on different terms or not at all.
CIDRA sets out a number of considerations for deciding whether the consumer failed to take 
reasonable care; and the remedy available to the insurer under CIDRA depends on whether 
the qualifying misrepresentation was deliberate or reckless, or careless.
There are three alleged instances of misrepresentation here. The first instance relates to the 
property being let; the second relates to the number of occupants living at the property; and 
the third relates to pre-existing subsidence damage. Ill address these in turn.
Property let
Mrs W consistently referred to the property as being let, until Ocaso raised this as an issue. 
The loss adjuster also reported that Mr W had said he lived in the property until 2014, and 
since then its been let to a student. As such, I can understand Ocasos concerns.However, we have seen information that shows Mr Ws wife was attending university in the 
location of the flat, and living at the flat, shortly after the policy was taken out; and the loss 
adjusters description of the tenant matches Mr Ws wife. So, Im persuaded Mr Ws wife 
was living at the property when the policy was taken out and at the time of the claim.
I find it unusual that Mr W and Mrs W didnt accurately describe the situation in either 2017 
or when contacting our service. However, we have seen Mr W and his wife got married in 
June 2017. So, I consider it likely that they were engaged in March 2017, and at least a 
couple when the policy was taken out in October 2016.
In the circumstances, I consider it unlikely that Mr W was formerly renting his flat to his wife 
when he took the policy out. I accept Mrs Ws explanation that, in October 2016, Mr W and 
his wife were already engaged and living as a family unit, sharing costs. I also accept that 
although Mr W was working at a different location in the week and staying with family, he 
returned home to his flat (his main residence) at weekends to be with his wife.
Therefore, on balance, Im not persuaded that Mr W made a misrepresentation about the 
property not being let, when taking the policy out.
Number of occupants
Ocaso has also raised the point that Mr W said the property was being occupied by a single 
occupant, which isnt the case if both Mr W and his wife were living there. However, Ocaso 
needs to show that, if a misrepresentation about the number of adults living at the property 
hadnt been made, it would have offered the policy on different terms or not at all. Ocaso 
hasnt provided such evidence or made those arguments.
Therefore, even if I were to accept Mr W failed to take reasonable care when answering the 
question about occupants, Im not persuaded that misrepresentation would be qualifying. 
So, I dont consider it would be fair, or in-line with CIDRA, to void the policy based on the 
number of adults living at the property.
Pre-existing subsidence damage
Mr W and Mrs W have been consistent in their submissions about the pre-inception damage. 
They say that whilst there was previous crack damage, Mr W understood this to have been 
caused by a long-term water leak within the block. Mrs W has provided evidence of the 
repair Mr W was asked to contribute to, and theres no mention of subsidence. Mrs W 
explained that a plasterer repaired the internal damage in Mr Ws flat.
Mrs W has explained that, only when the cracks reappeared after the policy had been taken 
out, did they understand the damage might not have been due to the water leak. Overall, 
I find her explanation persuasive.
Ocaso has pointed towards Mr W and Mrs W referring to earlier subsidence. However, they 
only used the term subsidence after they became aware the previous damage might have 
been caused by subsidence, rather than the water leak. Simply because they now use the 
term subsidence to describe the previous damage, isnt evidence they were aware there 
was subsidence when taking the policy out. Ocaso has acknowledged that Mr W, as a 
layman, might not have associated the cracking with subsidence.
In the circumstances, Im not persuaded Mr W was aware there was subsidence at the 
building when he took the policy out. This means, Im not persuaded he failed to take 
reasonable care when answering questions about this during the policy application.This also means, Im not persuaded Mr W made a misrepresentation about the pre-existing 
subsidence damage. So, I dont consider it would be fair, or in-line with CIDRA, to void the 
policy based on that damage.
Whether or not the policy is voided, Ocaso has also made the argument that the damage 
isnt covered because it was ongoing long before the policy started. As such, Ive also 
considered whether I can reasonably direct Ocaso to deal with the claim, in those 
circumstances.
Theres an industry agreement, published by the Association of British Insurers (ABI), which 
provides guidelines for how subsidence claims should be dealt with. The guidance explains 
that when a claim is notified more than eight weeks after the current policy started, as is the 
case here, the claim shall be accepted and dealt with by that insurer. If the claim has been 
notified within a year of the policy starting, the insurer can seek a contribution from the 
previous insurer, but thats a matter between the insurers. 
The guidance is also clear that late notification of the claim doesnt prevent the agreements 
operation. When determining which insurer is responsible, the important date is the date the 
claim was made, not the date the damage was discovered. Im also not persuaded Mr W 
failed to mitigate his loss or act reasonably, by not claiming sooner, given he thought the 
source of the damage had been rectified, i.e. the water leak.
Ocaso is a signatory of the ABI agreement, and I see no fair reason why the principles of the 
agreement shouldnt apply. A subsidence claim was made more than eight weeks after the 
Ocaso policy incepted, and because Im not persuaded Mr W made a misrepresentation 
when taking the policy out, it follows that Ocaso should deal with the claim.
Putting matters right
Ocaso should now deal with the subsidence claim, and consider Mr Ws claimed repair 
costs, subject to the remaining policy terms. If a dispute later arises about the claim 
settlement, a separate complaint can be made about that matter.
In terms of ongoing cover, the ABI has published guidance that explains an insurer should, 
where possible, continue to provide cover for domestic properties following a successful 
subsidence claim. However, theres been a change in risk here. Mr Ws property is now 
being let, and Ocaso has provided evidence to show it doesnt insure let properties. 
Therefore, I cant reasonably direct Ocaso to offer Mr W a new policy.
I havent seen anything that shows Ocaso voided the policy and it says it hasnt recorded 
such information on any internal or external databases. So, I dont require Ocaso to do 
anything in respect of how the policy ended and the information it recorded.
Im not persuaded Ocaso reached a fair and reasonable outcome when assessing Mr Ws 
claim in 2017. However, he didnt follow up for three years, and Ocaso dealt with matters 
promptly when Mrs W made contact. I can also understand some of Ocasos concerns, 
given the inconsistent testimony about the property being let. In the circumstances, Im 
satisfied the £150 compensation recommended by our investigator is fair.
  
My final decision
For the reasons Ive set out above, I uphold this complaint. My final decision is Ocaso SA, Compania de Seguros y Reaseguros should:
- settle the claim, subject to the remaining policy terms and conditions; and
- pay Mr W £150 compensation 
  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision before 3 November 2021.
 
Vince Martin
Ombudsman