DRN-3624386
The complaint
Mr A has complained about Liverpool Victoria Insurance Company Limited (LV)s decision to 
cancel his van insurance policy with it.
What happened
Mr A bought a van insurance policy with LV. He made a claim as his van was damaged. LV 
sent an engineer to Mr As home address to inspect his car. 
LV said it wasnt economical to repair Mr As car and as the excess at £350 was more than 
the market value of £250, there was no settlement to pay. 
LV received feedback from the hire car company and the engineer about Mr As conduct. 
The car hire company said it wouldnt provide Mr A with a hire car. 
As a result of the feedback from both parties, LV gave Mr A seven days notice to cancel his 
policy. 
Mr A complained to LV but it said its decision was correct. So Mr A asked us to look at his 
complaint. 
Our Investigator thought LV hadnt done anything wrong. On balance, based on the 
accounts provided by both the car hire company and the engineer about Mr As behaviour, 
he thought LV had acted reasonably in deciding to cancel the policy. 
In response to the Investigators view, Mr A provided CCTV footage of the inspection outside 
his home when the engineer attended. 
On reviewing the CCTV footage the Investigator recommended the complaint should be 
upheld as it didnt show some of the key things the engineer had said happened. So he 
didnt think LV could rely on the engineers account as a reason to cancel the policy. The 
Investigator thought that LV was unlikely to have cancelled the policy if the only information 
was from the hire car company and their refusal to provide a hire car to Mr A. 
The Investigator recommended the complaint should be upheld. For the distress and 
inconvenience caused to Mr A he recommended LV pay £350 compensation and removed 
any cancellation marker against his record. 
The Investigator sent LV a copy of the CCTV footage. On review, LV accepted the 
Investigators recommendations. It explained that it had asked Mr A to provide any CCTV 
footage if available, but he hadnt. If Mr A had provided it when available, LV said it would 
have changed the outcome. 
LV said it made an internal record of the cancellation of Mr As policy only. 
Mr A didnt agree. He says the compensation isnt enough to reflect his financial loss. The 
Investigator asked Mr A to provide details about his financial loss for the ombudsman to 
consider. 
As the time to provide further information has now passed, the case has been passed to me 
to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I understand Mr A made a Subject Access request to LV and has been provided with 
relevant call recordings. 
LV has provided a call recording of the discussion between it and Mr A when he received 
notice of LVs intention to cancel his policy. In this call Mr A was unhappy with LVs decision 
and felt it had taken the engineers word over his. He said he would try and obtain CCTV 
footage of the incident. He asked what would happen if the footage showed what the 
engineer had said was wrong. LV said it would review the footage but the agent said she 
wouldnt be able to confirm an outcome. Toward the end of the call Mr A said that if he could 
get footage he will forward it to LV. The agent said she will put a note on the file confirming 
this. 
Its not clear to me why Mr A was prevented from sending the CCTV footage to LV  or to us 
sooner. From listening to the call, I think LV made it clear that its decision was final based 
on the information it had. I cant hold LV at fault for relying on the available evidence. Two 
separate parties told LV that Mr As behaviour was of concern. I think it was reasonable for 
LV to rely on this and give this more weight over one account from Mr A. LV explained to Mr 
A that it is very rare to receive a complaint from a field engineer. 
LV offered Mr A £100 as a goodwill gesture before it investigated the complaint for the 
inconvenience of Mr A not being able to have a hire car. I dont think there was anything 
wrong with LVs approach here. 
I can completely understand why Mr A was upset when he was made aware of the 
engineers account as it wasnt truthful. Key sections from the CCTV footage show that  
contrary to the engineers account  Mr A didnt make physical contact with him. The footage 
shows that toward the end, Mr A beckoned the engineer while in his car. The engineer 
opened his car door to continue a conversation with Mr A. The footage shows Mr A shut the 
engineers car door. The engineer said Mr A had kicked his car door shut. There is no audio 
to the footage so it isnt possible to hear what was discussed. Both parties say there was a 
disagreement and both are unhappy with what the other person said. 
LV says the footage shows Mr A aggressively slam the engineers car door shut and this 
isnt acceptable behaviour. 
With the benefit of the CCTV footage, I think LVs decision to cancel Mr As policy was 
unfair. While LV doesnt completely agree that the footage shows what the Investigator 
viewed, it agrees and accepts the recommendations made by the Investigator. LV has 
confirmed that the cancellation was recorded only on its internal records.
Mr A says he incurred financial losses far in excess of £350. And so we asked Mr A to 
provide details of why he didnt agree with the recommended award in order to consider this 
issue further for him. As Mr A hasnt provided any further details, I havent considered any 
financial loss Mr A says he incurred as a result of LVs decision to cancel his policy.
So based on everything Ive seen, I think a fair outcome is for LV to pay Mr A £350 
compensation for the distress and inconvenience caused by its decision to cancel his policy..
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint. I require Liverpool Victoria Insurance 
Company Limited to pay Mr A £350 compensation for the distress and inconvenience it 
caused him. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A to accept or reject my decision before 2 September 2022.
 
Geraldine Newbold
Ombudsman