DRN-3519002
The complaint
Mr S complains Ageas Insurance Limited has turned down a claim for a replacement device 
under a kit and possessions insurance policy. 
What happened
The details of the complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again 
here. Instead Ill provide my reasons for my decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the conclusions reached by the investigator for the following 
reasons:
Given the age of the device and the time that has passed, I dont think it is 
unreasonable Mr S can no longer provide proof of purchase. And, it may have been 
the case that at the time initial checks were undertaken the device was locked, 
however I understand Mr S has now taken steps which should allow Ageas to obtain 
information from the device manufacturer to verify ownership of it.  But, while this 
may overcome the proof of ownership concerns Ageas has, I dont think this will 
make a difference to the claim outcome. 
Insurers are entitled to use specialist companies to undertake investigations on their 
behalf. We would normally say an insurer is entitled to rely on the opinion of such an 
expert, unless it can see for itself that opinion is obviously wrong.  
The specialist company Ageas used concluded that on this occasion, the level of 
damage to the device was not consistent with a singular incident. Ageas therefore 
declined Mr Ss claim as it did not believe the damage occurred in the way Mr S had 
described and so it couldnt verify the damage was caused by an insured event.
Ive looked at the report from the specialist and I can see it provides reasons for the 
conclusions drawn. Without evidence of similar standing to the contrary, I cant say 
that conclusion is obviously wrong.  
Having reviewed everything, I think Ageas has dealt with the claim fairly and in line 
with the terms and conditions of the policy.
For the reasons above, I do not uphold this complaint.
My final decision
My final decision is that I reject Mr Ss complaint against Ageas Insurance Limited.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 12 July 2022.
 
Alison Gore
Ombudsman