DRN-2845514
The complaint
Mr G complains about a credit card account given by Capital One (Europe) plc. Mr G took 
out the credit card in 2017.
Mr G has said the credit card was unaffordable for him so Capital One shouldnt have lent to 
him.
What happened
Mr G applied for a credit card with Capital One in October 2017. Capital One accepted his 
application and offered a credit limit of £200. 
Our investigator looked into Mr Gs complaint. They found Capital One carried out 
proportionate checks before deciding to lend to Mr G, so they didnt find it had lent 
irresponsibly.
Mr G doesnt agree. He says the checks Capital One carried out didnt take into account the 
defaults on his credit file and multiple payday loans. Mr G says he wasnt asked for this 
information when he applied for the credit card. And he says that even though this was the 
first application with Capital One it doesnt give them the right to not conduct more thorough 
checks or not take into account his previous credit history.
The complaint has now been passed to me to make a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I have also taken into account the law, any relevant regulatory rules and good industry 
practice at the time of Mr Gs application.
Capital One was required to lend responsibly. It needed to check that Mr G could afford to 
make his credit card repayments sustainably. There was no set list of checks Capital One 
needed to do, but the checks shouldve been proportional to Mr Gs circumstances when he 
applied for the credit card. This might include considerations about the amount borrowed, Mr 
Gs borrowing history and so on.
Our service considers it reasonable for a lenders checks to be less thorough  in terms of 
how much information it gathers and what it does to verify it  in the early stages of a lending 
relationship. 
But we might think it needed to do more if, for example, a borrowers income was low or the 
amount lent was high. And the longer a lending relationship goes on, the greater the risk of it 
becoming unsustainable and the borrower experiencing financial difficulty. So wed expect a 
lender to be able to show that it didnt continue to lend to a customer irresponsibly. 
In making my decision, Ive first considered whether Capital One did everything it should 
when assessing Mr Gs credit card application. And Ive also gone on to consider whether or 
not there were any assessment failings which resulted in Capital One agreeing to lend to    
Mr G when it should have known that it would be difficult for him to repay.
Having done so, I think Capital Ones checks were thorough enough to give Mr G the credit 
card. Ill explain why below.
The checks Capital One completed
Capital One has provided details of Mr Gs application. I can see it asked for details of        
Mr Gs income and his employment status. Mr G told Capital One his income was £22,000 
per year and that he was employed. 
Ive also looked the results of Mr Gs credit check that Capital One carried out. I can see 
Capital One has acknowledged the default which is shown here. Capital One has said it 
places more weight on credit activity within the last 12 months, Mr Gs default was before 
that and had a reducing balance. Capital One has also shown it considered the overall 
amount of debt on Mr Gs credit report which was relatively low compared to his stated 
income. So with this information, given the relatively small amount of borrowing, it looked like 
this credit card was affordable for him.
From looking at the account statement information the minimum monthly repayment on this 
account would have been around £7.00. But Ive taken into account that Capital One needed 
to ensure Mr G could realistically repay the capital debt in a reasonable amount of time 
without simply servicing the interest on the card. So it needed to be reasonably shown Mr G 
could maintain a monthly repayment of around £10.00 - £20.00 in order to stay out of 
persistent debt. And overall I think Capital Ones checks did show this.
So considering all these factors against the relatively small amount of borrowing, I think 
Capital Ones checks went far enough in taking Mr Gs circumstances into account. And I 
dont think there was anything within the checks which should have prompted it to ask further 
questions about Mr Gs ability to repay the credit card or show it was unaffordable. 
I appreciate Mr G is unhappy that Capital One didnt take into account that he was repaying 
a payday loan at the same time he applied for the credit card. But as Ive set out above, this 
was an initial lending application for a credit card which had a relatively small credit limit and 
relatively low repayment amounts. So I dont think it wouldve been proportionate for Capital 
One to do more thorough checks or further verify the information Mr G provided. 
Therefore as I think Capital One reasonably relied on the information provided and given the 
amount of repayments appear to have been affordable, I dont think it was unreasonable for 
it to have provided this credit card.
For these reasons, Im not upholding Mr Gs complaint and I appreciate he will be 
disappointed by my decision. But I hope he feels that my decision addresses the concerns 
he raised.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint about Capital One (Europe) plc.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision before 20 July 2021.
 
Dan Prevett
Ombudsman