DRN-3593063
The complaint
Miss G and Mr L complain that the switch of their current account from another lender to 
Bank of Scotland plc trading as Halifax wasnt managed properly which led to them missing 
a direct debit payment causing a late payment marker on Miss Gs loan account.
What happened
Miss G had a personal loan with Halifax. The repayments of £39.72 were collected by direct 
debit each month on 24th of that month. Miss G and Mr L decided to move their current 
account to Halifax on 18 August 2020 which would have allowed plenty of time for the DD to 
be collected from this account on 24 August. But Halifax didnt collect the DD on the loan 
and confirmed that to Miss G by letter saying that it would now collect the money on 1 
September 2020. Because Halifax hadnt collected the DD for the month in August it 
informed the credit reference agencies that the August payment hadnt been made and this 
caused a late payment marker to appear on Miss Gs loan account. 
Miss G only became aware of the late payment marker when later Miss G and Mr L made a 
mortgage application. Miss G and Mr L raised a complaint about the effect they believed this 
had on their mortgage application which is the subject of a separate complaint dealt with by 
this service. Halifaxs explanation was that its loans service only became aware on 21 
August 2020 (a Friday) about the change in bank accounts and says that this was too soon 
before the DD collection date which was on the following Monday. Halifax organised for the 
late payment marker to be removed and paid Miss G £100. Our investigator felt that Halifax 
should have adhered to the Current Account Switch Guarantee to ensure that the DD was 
met. But his view was that Halifax had then taken action to remove the late payment marker 
and paid compensation of £100 which was fair. Miss G and Mr L disagree and asked for a 
review. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
This complaint relates to the administration of a current account which switched to Halifax 
and where Miss G and Mr L say that Halifax should have ensured that the payment to Miss 
Gs loan account should have been met. Halifax operated a Current Account Switch Service 
with a Current Account Switch Guarantee the object of which appears to be the smooth 
switching of bank accounts and to avoid the situation as here where a direct debit wasnt 
paid because of the switch. Indeed, the guarantee says that Halifax would take care of 
moving all Miss Gs payments out including her direct debits. 
As that didnt happen and as there was enough in the accounts to cover the direct debit, I 
believe that Halifax is at fault. The question then is what the level of compensation should 
be. Halifax alerted Miss G at the time that the direct debit hadnt been collected in August, 
but it would be collected at the beginning of September which indeed occurred. That would 
be a minor inconvenience except for the fact that Halifax reported it as a late payment. This 
came to light when Miss G and Mr L applied for a mortgage and the effect of that error on 
the mortgage application has been dealt with in another complaint. As I understand it, the 
late payment marker had no effect on other credit applications and has now been removed 
from the account. 
I appreciate that the failure to collect the direct debit is something that shouldnt have 
happened and that it caused some distress and inconvenience and Im sure disappointment 
for Miss G and Mr L. But Halifax collected the direct debit shortly afterwards and there 
appears to be no financial loss associated with this, and the credit reporting has been 
rectified. I believe that the amount offered by Halifax is fair compensation for its error. As this 
has already been paid, I wont require Halifax to make any further payment and I cant fairly 
uphold this complaint.
My final decision
My decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss G and Mr L to 
accept or reject my decision before 9 November 2022.
 
Gerard McManus
Ombudsman