DRN-1632284
 
Complaint
Mr M says Capital One (Europe) plc mis-sold him a payment protection insurance (PPI) 
policy. 
What happened
Mr M bought the policy in 2003, at the same time as taking out a credit card by post. It 
covered him in case he was off work sick or lost his job.
I sent Mr M and Capital One a provisional decision on 18 February 2020, to explain why 
I didnt think the complaint should be upheld. In that decision, I said:
Mr Ms credit card application had a section for PPI. It gave a brief overview of what the 
policy was for and what it cost, then had two boxes to choose from: one to buy PPI and one 
to turn it down. Mr M ticked the box to take PPI and signed the application to confirm his 
choices. Mr M says he was pressured into taking PPI on the phone, but he applied for this 
card by post, not by phone. Ive not seen any evidence of a phone call here. Mr M was able 
to complete his application in his own time and without the involvement of staff members. 
Further, Ive not seen any wider problems with Capital Ones sales process from the time, 
nor any evidence showing that they misled Mr M or otherwise unfairly pressured him here. It 
looks like Mr M was offered a fair choice about buying PPI, and chose to take it at the time  
though I can understand if he no longer remembers doing so after so many years.
Capital One didnt recommend the PPI to Mr M, so they didnt have to check if it was right for 
him. They did have to give Mr M enough information to decide if the PPI was right for him.
Its possible that the information Capital One gave Mr M about PPI wasnt as clear as it 
shouldve been. The question, then, is whether I think better information was likely to have 
changed his mind. Here, Mr M chose to take out the policy, which indicates he wanted this 
type of cover. Based on what Ive seen of his circumstances, it looks like he was eligible for 
the cover and wasnt affected by any of its main exclusions or limitations. The policy 
wouldve paid out on top of Mr Ms work benefits and covered him for far longer, and he only 
had very limited savings otherwise, which this policy would help protect. So the policy could 
have been useful for Mr M in case something went wrong. And the PPI was paid on a rolling 
monthly basis, so Mr M could cancel it at any time without a penalty. Overall, I dont think 
better information about the PPI was likely to have put him off taking it out.
I said Id consider anything else anyone wanted to give me  so long as I received it by 
3 March 2020. But both sides said they had nothing further to add.
What Ive decided and why
Ive reconsidered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.Neither side have sent me any new evidence or arguments. So having reconsidered the 
case, Ive come to the same conclusion as before  that I dont think the PPI was mis-sold.
My final decision
I dont uphold Mr Ms complaint about Capital One (Europe) plc, for the reasons set out.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 31 March 2020.
Adam Charles
Ombudsman