DRN-3619505
The complaint
Mrs L complains about her motor insurer, LV Insurance Company Limited (LV) holding her 
at fault for a collision between her vehicle and a motorcycle. 
In referring to LV, I include their agents and representatives.
What happened
In January 2022 Mrs Ls car was involved in an accident, when her vehicle collided with a 
motorcycle. At the time, Mrs L was changing lanes from the right-hand lane to the middle 
lane, in slow-moving traffic. The motorcycle was weaving between lanes and came up on the 
inside of Mrs Ls vehicle.
 
Mrs L contacted LV to notify them of the accident. She also provided rear-facing footage 
from her dashcam, which she said showed the motorcycle coming up the inside at speed. 
So, Mrs L maintained she wasnt at fault for the collision. 
However, after considering the circumstances of the accident (including the dashcam 
footage) LV decided Mrs L was at fault for the collision. This meant they would settle the 
third-party claim, as they thought there were no prospects of pursuing a claim against the 
third-party or disputing their claim. LV also requested a legal opinion on the circumstances of 
the collision, including the dashcam footage. The legal opinion was also that Mrs L would be 
considered at fault for the collision, particularly as she was the party changing lanes and so it 
was her responsibility to ensure it was safe to do so. The legal opinion also cited specific 
provisions of the Highway Code that covered changing lanes and where traffic was slow-
moving (and cycles and motorcycles filtering between traffic and passing on either side).
Mrs L then complained to LV, maintaining her view she wasnt at fault for the collision and 
that the motorcycle was approaching at speed. But LV didnt uphold the complaint. They 
again referred to Mrs L being the party changing lanes and her responsibility to do so safely. 
They also referred to sections of the Highway Code and to the legal opinion theyd have no 
prospects of success in pursuing the cost of the claim or disputing any third-party claim.
Unhappy at LVs decision, Mrs L complained to this service. The main elements of her 
complaint were that LV had unfairly held her responsible for the collision, when she 
maintained shed adhered to the Highway Code and despite the dashcam footage from her 
vehicle that she said showed the motorcycle approaching at speed. She wanted LV to 
acknowledge shed followed the Highway Code and the collision was due to the motorcycle 
speeding. She also wanted the excess to be a maximum of £300.
Our investigator didnt uphold Mrs Ls complaint, concluding LV hadnt acted unfairly. He 
thought LV were entitled to decide how to settle the claim, including the question of liability 
or fault. He also thought LV assessed the claim reasonably given the information and 
evidence available, including Mrs Ls version of events and the dashcam footage. He also 
thought it reasonable for LV to seek a legal opinion, given their experience and expertise in 
determining liability. While the investigator understood why Mrs L felt she hadnt had the 
opportunity to make a statement about the incident, but noted her summary of the incident 
was noted by LV when the claim was first lodged by Mrs L. And that she subsequently had a 
detailed discussion of the incident with LV. Where liability was contested by the parties 
involved in an accident, it was reasonable for LV (drawing on their legal opinion) to 
determine where fault should lie. 
While Mrs L was told there might be a possibility of shared fault (liability) that would have led 
to the deduction of a £300 excess, in holding Mrs L at fault for the collision, LV had applied 
the excess in accordance with the policy terms and conditions (although they did waive, as a 
goodwill gesture, an additional £200 excess that would have applied for Mrs L using a non-
approved repairer).
Mrs L disagreed with the investigators view and requested an ombudsman review the 
complaint. She said she didnt accept liability for the collision and that shed shown the 
motorcycle was speeding at the time of the accident. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I appreciate Mrs L feels very strongly shes been unfairly held to be at fault by LV for the 
collision when - as she sees it - the collision was caused by the speed of the approaching 
motorcycle. And the dashcam footage proves it. However, my role isnt to determine the 
question of fault or liability  its to decide whether LV have acted reasonably towards Mrs L.
The central issue in Mrs Ls complaint is that LV have unfairly held her at fault for the 
collision, given her view the collision was caused by the motorcycle speeding (shown by the 
dashcam footage). She also says she always uses her mirrors to check before changing 
lanes. LV say the circumstances of the accident, taken with the provisions of the Highway 
Code, mean Mrs L was at fault for the collision. And having reviewed the dashcam footage 
and asked for a legal opinion, theyve acted fairly and reasonably taking account of the 
circumstances, concluding theyd have no prospects of success in pursuing the cost of the 
claim or disputing any third-party claim.
Ive considered both views carefully, together with all the evidence available. That includes 
what Mrs L has told us and associated information and evidence. It also includes LVs 
contact notes and their legal opinion. Having considered all these things, Ive concluded LV 
have acted fairly and reasonably in deciding to hold Mrs L at fault for the accident. I know 
this will be disappointing to Mrs L, so Ill set out the key reasons why Ive come to this 
conclusion.
First, Ive considered the nature of the collision, together with the provisions of the Highway 
Code cited by LV in support of their decision. From what Ive seen, Mrs L was changing 
lanes from the right-hand lane to the middle lane, where she collided with the motorcycle 
coming up on the inside. The traffic was slow-moving and the motorcycle was filtering 
between the traffic. In the circumstances, as set out in their final response, LV refer to three 
provisions (rules) of the Highway Code:
Rule 88 (for motorcycles) Manoeuvring. You should be aware of what is behind and 
to the sides before manoeuvringWhen in traffic queues look out for 
vehicleschanging lanesAdditionally, when filtering in slow-moving traffic, take 
care and keep your speed low.
Rule 133 (for all drivers and riders) If you need to change lane, first use your mirrors 
and if necessary take a quick sideways glance to make sure you will not force 
another road user to change course or speed. When it is safe to do so, signal to 
indicate your intentions to other road users and when clear, move over.Rule 151 (for all drivers and riders) In slow-moving traffic. You should
Be aware of cyclists and motorcyclists who may be passing on either side.
I think it was reasonable for LV to conclude that, as the party changing lanes, it was Mrs Ls 
responsibility to ensure it was safe to do so. Its also clear from email exchanges between 
Mrs L and LV and from LVs contact notes that LV took account of what Mrs L told them 
about the circumstances of the collision when she notified them of the accident. LV also 
requested the dashcam footage of the collision taken from her vehicle, which she provided to 
them. As the footage was rear-facing, it would have shown the motorcycle approaching and 
then (it would seem) the collision. It would also (as Mrs L maintains) given an indication of 
the approach of the motorcycle and its speed. I think it reasonable for LV to have considered 
what Mrs L told them and the dashcam footage in deciding whether they could contest 
liability for the collision (and whether to hold Mrs L at fault). The contact notes also record a 
lengthy discussion between LV and Mrs L after shed provided the dashcam footage. The 
notes also indicate LV considered Mrs Ls point about the speed of the motorcycle. Again, I 
think thats reasonable.
Ive also considered the legal opinion LV obtained, when it became clear she didnt agree 
with their initial decision that they would have no reasonable prospect of pursuing the third 
party for the claim costs (that is, Mrs L would be deemed at fault for the collision). The 
dashcam footage was provided to the legal advisor to inform their consideration, along with 
the circumstances of the collision. The legal opinion cites the three Highway Code rules set 
out above together with other circumstances of the collision, coming to a clear view that Mrs 
L would be liable for the collision. As a legal view, Im persuaded it was fair and reasonable 
for LV to have sought a view and to accept it (as confirmation of their initial decision).
The policy terms and conditions also enable LV to conduct, defend and settle any claim. 
This is a standard feature of insurance policies, so LV acted in line with the policy terms 
when exercising their right to settle the claim, including the third-party claim from the insurer 
of the motorcycle. 
Taking all these points into account, Ive concluded LV acted fairly and reasonably when 
considering the circumstances, evidence and information about the collision and deciding to 
settle the claim (including the third-party claim) and to deem Mrs L at fault for the collision.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, its my final decision not to uphold Mrs Ls complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs L to accept or 
reject my decision before 20 September 2022.
 
Paul King
Ombudsman