DRN-2511772
The complaint
Mr and Mrs H complain that ReAssure Life Limited will apply unacceptable increases to their 
whole-of-life policy premiums in the future. They say this makes their policy unfit for purpose 
and it wasnt explained to them that this could happen.
What happened
Mr and Mrs H were sold their whole-of-life policy in 1983 by an independent financial advisor 
(IFA). Their policy was put in place to pay out a sum assured on death. The sum assured 
could be increased each year by using the indexation option. The policy was reviewable 
after ten years and every five years thereafter. It was placed in trust with Mr and Mrs H being 
the trustees. The policy was originally administered by a different company but that has 
since been taken over by ReAssure. Ill refer to ReAssure throughout when talking about the 
way this policy has been administered.
Mr and Mrs H increased their sum assured and premium a few times during the early years 
of the policy. They then continued to pay £45 per month for £90,000 worth of cover. Their 
policy also has an underlying fund. 
In 2019, they received their review from ReAssure which said the premium was still sufficient 
to maintain the cover for the next five years. However, this review also included a table to 
show the potential increases in premiums as Mr and Mrs H get older. It was this table that 
led to Mr and Mrs H complaining. The table shows that their premium could increase to 
£507.83 in 2027. Mr and Mrs H say this wasnt something that was explained, and had they 
known about this at the start they wouldnt have taken this policy out.
Our investigator didnt feel the complaint should be upheld. She explained that ReAssure 
didnt sell this policy to Mr and Mrs H. So, it was up to their IFA to have ensured the policy 
was appropriate at the time for their needs. She also said that the policy has been 
administered in line with the terms which were set out at the start. She didnt think ReAssure 
had done anything wrong.
Mr and Mrs H disagreed. They said they hadnt received reviews for many years and they 
feel this new review means theres been a change in their terms which makes the policy unfit 
for purpose. They asked for an ombudsman to review the complaint.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr and Mrs H were sold their policy by an IFA in 1983. What this means is that any 
complaint they have relating to the policy being right for them would have to go to their IFA. 
This is because it was the IFAs responsibility to ensure the recommendation was 
appropriate for Mr and Mrs H. ReAssure administer the policy  this means that its 
responsible for ensuring the policy runs in line with the terms set out, and the reviews are 
carried out at the relevant times.
When Mr and Mrs H were sold this policy they were provided with the guide to the policy. 
This says:
The amount will be that which [previous business] guarantees will be sustained for 10 years 
from the time cover commences under a policy. After that time, if the contribution level is 
insufficient to maintain the level of cover chosen, either contributions must be increased or 
the level of cover reduced.
This makes it clear that the policy Mr and Mrs H have is reviewable. This means that the 
sum assured they chose at the beginning is guaranteed for 10 years. At which point 
ReAssure will review the cover to ensure the premiums Mr and Mrs H are paying are enough 
to support the life cover. At the start of the policy, when Mr and Mrs H were younger, often 
the premiums will pay for the life cover and there will be an amount left over which builds up 
the fund. As the cost of life cover gets more expensive over time, this fund will supplement 
the premiums to ensure Mr and Mrs H can continue with the same sum assured and 
premiums for as long as possible. At some stage, that fund may run out, and its at this point 
when the premiums would usually have to increase to support the life cover, or the sum 
assured would have to decrease. It was the duty of Mr and Mrs Hs IFA to explain this to 
them at the time the policy was sold. But Ive also seen ReAssures policy documents 
explain that the policy will be reviewable and the cost of premiums could increase.
ReAssure has sent us evidence to show that reviews were carried out at the five yearly 
intervals, after the initial ten year review. And its clear that the policy passed the reviews 
each time, which is why Mr and Mrs H are still paying the same premium for the same level 
of life cover. There wasnt an obligation on ReAssure to send any review letters out where 
no action had to be taken. Whilst it appears ReAssure did send some letters out up to 2011, 
Mr and Mrs H have said this wasnt the case. But as there wasnt an obligation to do this, I 
dont think its relevant as to whether Mr and Mrs H received these letters.
More recently, regulations have changed and this has led ReAssure to sending out more 
detailed review letters. I can see that a letter was sent in 2019. This explained that the policy 
had been reviewed, and that Mr and Mrs Hs premiums were sufficient to maintain the sum 
assured. However, for clarity, ReAssure also included a table which showed how much the 
premiums may increase starting from 2027 and at five yearly intervals after that. I can also 
see it sent out a letter in 2020 giving Mr and Mrs H options to increase their premium earlier 
if they wanted to.
From what I can see, ReAssure hasnt done anything wrong. It has reviewed Mr and Mrs Hs 
policy at the times it was supposed to and, more recently, has given them details to prepare 
them for the future of the policy. I cant see anything to suggest that it hasnt administered 
the policy in line with the terms and conditions. I do understand why Mr and Mrs H are upset 
about how much it may cost for cover in the future. And I can see why they feel their plan 
wont be fit for purpose. But I hope Ive explained why it wasnt ReAssures responsibility to 
ensure that it was fit for their needs in the first place. ReAssure has also confirmed that any 
claim made by Mr and Mrs H over the life of the policy wouldve been paid. They have paid 
for the level of cover they have, and this cover remains in place. But due to the cost of life 
cover increasing as people get older, its likely that their premiums will have to increase in 
the future. And Im pleased ReAssure has confirmed that this may be in about six years so 
Mr and Mrs H are able to make an informed decision going forward.
I know Mr and Mrs H will be disappointed in this decision, but I hope Ive explained why 
ReAssure hasnt done anything wrong here.
My final decisionFor the reasons Ive explained, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs H and Mr H to 
accept or reject my decision before 23 February 2021.
 
Charlotte Wilson
Ombudsman