DRN-3634263
The complaint
Mr L is unhappy with Legal and General Assurance Society Limiteds handling of his claim. 
What happened
Mr L had income protection cover with L&G. He had two policies, one with a 26-week 
deferred period and the other with a 52-week deferred period. Mr L was diagnosed with a 
pineal cyst and was off work from March 2021. He submitted his claim in August 2021, 
however in October that year, L&G said it wouldnt pay him the full benefit due under his 
policies because Mr L had misrepresented details about his occupation, which meant it had 
under-charged him for both policies. Instead, it offered to pay a reduced, proportionate 
benefit.
Mr L said this was unfair because there wasnt an appropriate choice for his occupation. Mr 
L works in a health-and-safety-focussed role, where he regularly drives to locations and 
inspects a chosen site. He also said L&G took too long to handle his claim and that its 
decision not to pay the full amount of benefit seriously affected him as he had to borrow 
money from family members in order to pay his bills. 
After Mr L brought his complaint to this service, but before our investigator issued his 
findings, L&G reviewed Mr Ls claim and decided itd made a mistake. It said there hadnt 
been a misrepresentation made and to pay his claim in full, backdating the settlement and 
applying 8% simple interest on that amount. L&G increased its offer of £325 compensation 
for the delays, to £850, plus a further £200 for making the reduced benefit payment in April 
2022 (totalling £1,050 compensation for the trouble and upset caused).
Our investigator thought this was a fair offer, but Mr L didnt and so asked for an 
ombudsmans final decision. In summary, Mr L said the compensation awarded isnt enough 
to fairly acknowledge the overall trouble and upset caused. He said L&Gs handling of his 
claim caused unnecessary pain, distress and hurt at a time when his health was severely 
impacted. He also said L&Gs incorrect decision to pay only a proportionate amount of 
benefit undoubtedly made his health worse because the added pressure caused by the 
mistake. He added that he could have lost his home and found himself in serious financial 
hardship had he not been supported by his family at that time. And so, its now for me to 
decide.     
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive decided to uphold it and mainly for the same reasons given by our investigator. Its not in 
dispute that L&G made a mistake by only paying proportionate benefit, and so I dont need 
to make any findings on that argument, rather, I must decide whether the compensation 
offered is fair.  which I think it is. Ill explain why.
Mr Ls claim was accepted in October 2021, despite submitting his claim in August, I note 
there were delays with L&G assessing notes from Mr Ls doctors. However, it wasnt until 
June 2022 that it realised itd made a mistake re: the alleged misrepresentation  meaning 
that Mr L was without full benefit for around 10 months. The first policy should have begun 
paying benefit in September 2021 and the second in March 2022. Mr L had to rely on his 
family to help pay his bills and I accept this wouldve caused him substantial distress, upset 
and worry over that period. 
Mr L made arguments that he couldve lost his home during that time, as well as found 
himself in serous money problems as a result of L&Gs mistake. Whilst I cannot compensate 
Mr L for what might have happened, Ive considered the impact it had on him personally and 
I agree he was fortunate to be able to rely on his family members during that time. Ive not 
seen any persuasive medical evidence that supports Mr Ls testimony that his health was 
directly impacted by L&Gs mistake and so I make no additional award here. Mr L was still 
able to access treatment and there were no delays caused by the error. 
Although I accept the impact of this was substantial, I dont consider it extreme  which Id 
have to in order to fairly compensate Mr L to the tune of £5,000. Our investigator sign-posted 
Mr L to our compensation guidelines, which gives examples of the level of upset caused and 
the expected range of redress. I agree with our investigator that this falls within the 
substantial range of redress awards because Mr L was impacted for around 10 months by 
unnecessary delays with his claim, promised call backs not happening, not receiving the full 
amount of benefit from the outset and the continued money worries and embarrassment 
caused by having to borrow money from family. Although thats a distilled version of events, 
Ive considered everything in the round and I think this satisfies our substantial impact 
criteria, which is why I feel the compensation offered is fair, because it falls within the 
envelope of fairness in these particular circumstances.  
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold Mr Ls complaint and Legal and General Assurance Limited 
must now pay him £1,050 compensation for the overall trouble and upset caused. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr L to accept or 
reject my decision before 8 November 2022.
 
Scott Slade
Ombudsman