DRN-2800993
The complaint
X and Mr K complain Shawbrook Bank Limited (Shawbrook) refused to accept an 
overpayment to their buy to let mortgage and delayed returning the funds to them. 
What happened
X and Mr K have a joint buy to let mortgage (BTL) with Shawbrook and in early October 
2020 Mr K telephoned them to advise he was making an overpayment. X then called 
Shawbrook a week later to check the funds had been received and Shawbrook advised they 
required evidence showing the source of the funds of the overpayment and X says this was 
provided the following day. X says despite various phone calls it wasnt until late November 
2020 he was informed the information he provided wasnt sufficient and at that point asked 
for the monies to be returned.
X and Mr K says it took another four weeks until the overpayment was returned. X and Mr K 
says they would like Shawbrook, going forward, to accept their overpayments in line with 
their terms and conditions and compensate them for both the extra interest they have had to 
pay on their BTL and for the inconvenience this matter has caused them. 
Shawbrook says they have a duty to carry out checks on any overpayments made to X and 
Mr Ks BTL as part of their anti-money laundering procedures. Shawbrook say they have 
apologised to X and Mr K for the time it took to return the overpayment back to them and 
paid £20 for the distress and inconvenience that caused. 
X and Mr K werent happy with Shawbrooks response and referred the matter to this 
service. 
The investigator looked at all the available information but didnt uphold the complaint. He 
felt Shawbrook were entitled to carry out their checks and it wasnt for this service to tell 
them how their processes must work. The investigator says while Shawbrook took some 
time to return the funds back to X and Mr K he didnt think it to be an unreasonable length of 
time and the compensation paid was sufficient.
X and Mr K didnt agree with the investigators view and asked for the matter to be referred 
to an ombudsman for a final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I have come to the same outcome as the investigator and I will explain how 
I have come to my decision.
I can understand that it would be frustrating for X and Mr K to have to provide evidence of 
the source of funds when making an overpayment to their BTL. When looking at this 
complaint, I will consider if Shawbrook acted unreasonably when requesting further 
information from X and Mr K before allowing an overpayment to be made to their BTL, and 
whether they took an excessive amount of time before returning the monies back to them.
The first thing to say here is, I can see from the information provided to this service by 
Shawbrook, this isnt the first occasion X and Mr K have complained to them about the 
requirement to provide evidence each time they wish to make an overpayment to their BTL. 
Its fair to say X and Mr K were previously made aware by Shawbrook, certain procedures 
needed to be followed before overpayments could be made.
I understand X and Mr Ks point that Shawbrook shouldnt need to continue to ask them for 
evidence of the source of funds whenever they wish to make an overpayment to their BTL. 
While I can understand there may be some inconvenience to X and Mr K when providing the 
information Shawbrook require, I am satisfied this forms part of their process and procedures 
to ensure they meet their responsibilities in relation to anti money laundering regulations, 
and its not for me to tell Shawbrook how these procedures should be adopted. With this in 
mind, I cant see Shawbrook have been unreasonable in asking for further evidence of 
source of funds, given that each overpayment would need to be considered on an individual 
basis. 
Its also reasonable to say, given X and Mr K had previous discussions with Shawbrook on 
this subject, they would have been aware further information was likely to be needed here. 
To avoid this being an ongoing issue for X and Mr K, perhaps a sensible way forward might 
be for them to ask Shawbrook, prior to making any proposed overpayments in the future, 
what information they would require, to enable such payments to be actioned.
The second part of  X and Mr Ks complaint centres around the time it took Shawbrook to 
return the overpayment to them. From the information I have seen, once it was established 
in late November 2020 that further information was required before the overpayment would 
be accepted, X and Mr K requested the overpayment be returned to them. X and Mr K feel 
its unacceptable that it took a further four weeks before the overpayment was returned to 
them. 
Shawbrook have provided me with information to show they were still looking into the 
request until 9th December 2020 and it took them a further two weeks to action the refund of 
the overpayment. While X and Mr K may not agree, its fair to say when issues are raised 
over requests that may trigger anti money laundering procedures, this can take time to 
consider. So, while Shawbrook have taken a little longer to return the money than perhaps I 
would ideally like to see here, they have apologised for this and I cant say a further 
compensation payment is warranted, above what they have already paid to X and Mr K. 
While X and Mr K will be disappointed with my decision, I wont be asking any more of 
Shawbrook.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask X and Mr K to 
accept or reject my decision before 9 November 2021.
 
Barry White
Ombudsman