DRN-3732917
The complaint
A limited liability partnership and a sole trader, which Ill refer to as L and Mr G respectively, 
complain that The Royal Bank of Scotland Plc acted unfairly when their accounts were 
managed by the banks Global Restructuring Group (GRG). They say the banks failures 
caused them consequential losses.
What happened
L and Mr G jointly raised multiple complaint points with RBS which were investigated as part 
of the banks GRG review scheme. Two of the complaint points were upheld:
In May 2009, the bank hadnt authorised the release of funds from Ls account in 
good time on one occasion, with the result that a payment was delayed for several 
days. 
In July 2009, the bank had incorrectly issued a notice of default against Mr G.
The parties reached a full and final settlement on those points in February 2020. The 
settlement left it open to L and Mr G to make a claim for consequential losses. They went on 
to submit a claim for the following:
As a result of the delayed payment being made from Ls account, L lost a valuable 
client and future earnings from that client up to 2014, in the amount of £297,566.
Mr G wasted management time in dealing with the incorrect default notice, in the 
amount of £99,690.
L and Mr G incurred professional costs in bringing their complaint, in the amount of 
£21,178.
RBS didnt uphold the claim for consequential losses. Following consideration by the 
Independent Third Party, which was the appeal stage of the GRG review process, the bank 
confirmed that the outcome was unchanged. L and Mr G then brought their complaint to this 
service.
The late payment in May 2009 was a commission payment to one of Ls members, who Ill 
call Mr S. Hed been placed in the offices of another company, which Ill refer to as B, to 
which L provided services. The instruction was issued on 5 May, but the payment wasnt 
released until 9 May. The complainants say that Bs chief executive, on hearing of this delay 
in Mr Ss payment, lost trust in L and decided B would give no new business to L. Although 
Bs chief executive continued to use L for smaller value personal work, the complainants say 
he couldnt use L for new work for B as he needed to rely on payments to be made 
seamlessly on its behalf.
In October 2020, Bs chief executive provided a witness statement stating that in 2009, B 
stopped giving work to L solely because of the delayed payment.
The incorrect notice of default against Mr G was issued on 6 July 2009. RBS corrected the 
error on 15 July and notified Mr G of the correction on 30 July. He read this on 3 August.
Our investigator considered the available evidence and arguments but didnt recommend 
that the consequential loss claim should be upheld. She gave these reasons, in summary:
Loss of client resulting from the delayed payment
The payment was to an individual, who remained with L, and didnt affect any 
transactions that B was involved with.
B had already started using other firms for work concerning its developing business 
from 2007 onwards  this supports the banks contention that its move away from L 
wasnt a sharp change due to the late payment in May 2009. Moreover, the new 
suppliers were larger, international firms, further supporting that the move was 
related to Bs changing business model, rather than concern over a delayed 
payment.
The witness statement from Bs chief executive was 11 years after the event. While 
the investigator didnt doubt the sincerity of his recollection, there was no 
contemporaneous evidence that the late payment was the reason for the change. 
After the passage of so much time, this limited the weight she could attach to the 
witness statement.
B only stopped giving new work to L. It continued existing work with L. If there had 
been such a sudden and total loss of trust, the investigator would expect that B would 
have moved all the work away from L.
For these reasons, the investigator wasnt convinced the loss of Bs business was 
caused by the delayed payment. 
Wasted management time caused by the incorrect notice of default
The consequential losses claimed were for Mr Gs professional time spent correcting 
the incorrect notice. Mr G has provided a schedule of the fees charged from 16 
December 2008 to 26 April 2012.
The investigator wasnt convinced that the incorrect issuing of a notice of default in 
July 2009 caused these fees from December 2008, seven months prior to the event, 
or after 3 August 2009, by which point Mr G was aware that the notice of default had 
been corrected.
The investigator appreciated that between 6 July and 3 August, Mr G would have 
been concerned about the notice and would wish to challenge it, but she wasnt 
convinced the matter required professional representation. She thought that Mr G 
was well equipped to contact the bank himself and explain there was a mistake, 
which was corrected shortly after. The notice of default would naturally cause Mr G 
distress for that short period, but she thought the banks apology was enough and 
that no further redress was warranted.
Professional costs to bring the complaint
While customers in the GRG review could instruct professional representation, this 
was at their own discretion and wasnt a requirement, as the scheme was designed to be used by lay people. Similarly, customers dont need a solicitor in order to bring 
a complaint to our service. 
For these reasons, we wouldnt generally require RBS to reimburse customers for 
their professional costs when bringing a complaint following the GRG review scheme.  
The investigator hadnt seen any evidence in this case that the upheld aspects of the 
direct loss complaint were particularly complex, such that it required professional 
representation, or that the complainants required representation because of any 
vulnerability.
The investigator therefore didnt think RBS should be required to reimburse L or Mr G 
for any professional costs.
L and Mr G disagreed with the investigators conclusions. They and their representative 
made the following points, in summary:
Insufficient weight has been given to the statement of Bs chief executive, and no 
weight has been given to the statement of one of Ls members, who is now Ls 
representative. Its also wrong to assume that there would have been any 
contemporaneous evidence of Bs decision in 2009, given that Bs chief executive 
and Mr G didnt communicate by email.
Even if the bank were only negligent, the calculation of loss regarding Bs business is 
analogous to a loss of opportunity/loss of chance claim. Damages should be 
calculated in proportion to the chance that the delayed payment resulted in the lost 
business. 
Its unreasonable not to allow any of Mr Gs time. Even taking the timescale of 6 July 
to 30 July 2009, Mr G incurred £5,000 of time. 
The claims couldnt have been brought against the bank without legal representation. 
Ls and Mr Gs complaint concerned a complex matrix of events and both senior and 
junior counsel were instructed to prepare the consequential loss claim. 
The investigators view regarding management time and legal representation doesnt 
follow the GRG reviews consequential loss principles.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im sorry to disappoint L and Mr G, but Ive reached the same conclusions as the investigator 
and for largely the same reasons.
Loss of client resulting from the delayed payment
In May 2009, RBS delayed Mr Ss payment by four days. It wasnt a payment to B, and it 
didnt affect Bs business. Such banking delays are not unheard of, and Im not persuaded 
that B would have been so alarmed as to withdraw all its future commercial business from L. 
Ive seen no contemporaneous evidence that B withdrew its commercial business for that 
reason. In my view, the fact that Bs chief executive, who was a friend of Mr G, continued to 
give personal business to L makes it even less likely to have been the reason. Even taking into account the differences between commercial and private work by L, I believe it wouldnt 
have made sense to regard the risks of staying with L so differently.
Like the investigator, Ive no reason to doubt the sincerity of Bs chief executive or Ls 
representative in their recollections. But they both made their statements in 2020, about 
events in 2009, and I have to allow for the passage of so much time. Ls representative says 
that Mr G and Bs chief executive didnt communicate by email, but that in itself isnt 
evidence of any reason for Bs decision. Given the absence of any supporting evidence from 
2009, I cant reasonably conclude from their 2020 statements alone that B took such drastic 
action regarding L for such an insubstantial reason.
I dont think it would be fair or reasonable to make a proportional award for lost business 
from B. Ls business from B did decline, but Im satisfied, for the reasons given above, that 
the decline wasnt caused by the delayed payment to Mr S. 
For the above reasons, including the points made by the investigator, I dont find that RBS 
caused Ls loss of business from B. 
Wasted management time caused by the incorrect notice of default
I agree with the investigator that Mr G would have been concerned about the default notice 
in July 2009, but I also agree that the matter didnt require professional representation. I 
think the problem would have required Mr G to contact the bank to query the default, but I 
dont believe that doing so would have caused any financial loss. The bank didnt charge 
default interest, nor did it recall the borrowing. The bank corrected the matter within a 
fortnight and Mr G became aware of the correction within a month of the original notice. For 
these reasons, I find that the banks apology was enough to settle this part of the complaint. 
As regards the GRG reviews consequential loss principles, I should make it clear that they 
were part of RBSs arrangements for its review scheme. The Financial Ombudsman Service 
isnt part of the GRG review scheme, and it isnt my role to apply the procedures or criteria of 
that scheme, or to hold the bank to compliance with its complaint handling arrangements. My 
role is to determine the substantive complaint by reference to what is, in my opinion, fair and 
reasonable in all the circumstances of the case, and thats what Ive done here.
Professional costs to bring the complaint
I can only consider consequential loss claims flowing from the complaint points that were 
upheld in the GRG review and included in the settlement between the parties in February 
2020.
L and Mr G were of course entitled to take professional advice and to be represented, but I 
wouldnt require RBS to reimburse the costs unless I believed the customers would have 
found it too difficult to complain about the upheld points without professional help. I dont 
believe that the complaint points upheld in the GRG review  the delayed payment to Mr S 
and the wrongly-issued default notice  were so complex that they required professional 
representation. I think L and Mr G would have been able, unaided, to complain to the bank 
about those matters, and to go on to make a consequential loss claim about them. Similarly, 
their complaint could have been brought to this service without professional help. In any 
event, I couldnt reasonably award professional costs for the complainants pursuit of their 
consequential loss claims which I havent upheld.
Again, it isnt my role to apply the procedures or criteria of the GRG review, or to hold the 
bank to compliance with any of its arrangements for that review.For the above reasons, I dont require RBS to reimburse L and Mr G for professional costs 
incurred in bringing their complaints.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont require The Royal Bank of Scotland Plc to do anything 
further.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask L and Mr G to 
accept or reject my decision before 22 June 2023.
 
Colin Brown
Ombudsman