DRN-3014557
The complaint
Mr M complains that U K Insurance Limited (trading as Direct Line) mishandled his claim on
a motor insurance policy.
What happened
The subject matter of this complaint is a saloon car first registered in 2013. For the year from
early March 2020, Mr M had the car insured on a comprehensive policy with Direct Line.
In early February 2021, Mr Ms car was damaged in an accident. So he made a claim to
Direct Line. It provided a hire car for a limited time.
Direct Line said Mr Ms car was a total loss. It initially gave a pre-accident valuation of
£3,500.00. Direct Line increased its valuation to £4,200.00.
Mr M complained to Direct Line. In early March 2021, Direct Line wrote a final response
dealing with several points of complaint. It upheld parts of his complaint that related to
telephone conversations - and offered Mr M £150.00 which he didnt accept.
A few days later Mr M brought to us that part of his complaint that said that Direct Line
should provide a replacement car.
our investigators opinion
Our investigator didnt recommend that the complaint should be upheld. She didnt think that
Direct Line had provided an unfair settlement, or that it didnt do all it could to help source a
vehicle.
my provisional decision
After considering all the evidence, I issued a provisional decision on this complaint to Mr M 
and to Direct Line on 4 August 2021. I summarise my findings:
I wouldnt find it fair and reasonable  keeping in mind the policy terms - to direct 
Direct Line to provide a replacement vehicle.
But the statements on the website caused Mr M some extra distress and 
inconvenience at an already difficult time for him.
Direct Line should pay Mr M its valuation of £4,200.00 less the policy excess of 
£300.00 and - if Mr M wishes to keep the damaged vehicle - Direct Line may also 
deduct a reasonable salvage payment. 
As Mr M says he tore up the earlier cheque, I wasnt minded to direct Direct Line to 
pay interest.
Subject to any further information from Mr M or from Direct Line, my provisional decision was 
that I upheld this complaint in part. I intended to direct UK Insurance Limited (trading as 
Direct Line) to pay Mr M:
1. in addition to the £150.00 offered in its final response - a further £100.00 for 
distress and inconvenience; and
2. £4,200.00 less the policy excess of £300.00 (and if Mr M wishes to keep the 
damaged vehicle Direct Line may also deduct a reasonable salvage payment).
Mr M disagreed with the provisional decision. He says, in summary, that:
Another UKI brand quoted him about £813.00 without the replacement car scheme.
When he bought the insurance, he saw the information on the website and looked up 
the information on the introduction of the scheme. This was the main selling point for 
him.
When giving its initial valuation of £3,500.00, Direct Line said there should be no 
trouble finding a similar vehicle for that value.
He rejected this and asked for a replacement vehicle, quoting the information from 
the website.
He received the cheque for £3,200.00 which Direct Line instructed him to destroy.
He received no further payment after Direct Line increased its valuation.
He doesnt dispute the valuation of £4,200.00. His complaint is that Direct Line has 
purposefully left the scheme out of their terms and conditions so that they can 
advertise it and not actually offer it.
The details he originally sent us included the following from Direct Lines website:
"Direct Line car insurance customers will be able to choose to have a 
replacement car sourced on their behalf rather than a cash settlement in the 
event of their car being written offthe customer can opt to revert to a cash 
settlement at any point."
That is the only information about the scheme apart from the other information we 
have quoted.
An exact match of vehicle would be of the same specification, age, colour and 
mileage. He is only requesting a vehicle of the same specification.
He asks for reference to any precedents set by us regarding advertising a product 
then ignoring it. 
He told Direct Line it had no right to sell his car. He has the car in his possession.Direct Line disagreed with the provisional decision. It says, in summary, that:
The website makes it clear that the replacement car service is subject to Mr M 
availability. A car was not available, so it had no choice but to settle the claim by 
sending a total loss payment. So it shouldnt be asked to make a further 
compensation payment.
It did keep Mr M in hire beyond the policy limit of 21 days. In total Mr M had 29 days 
hire when the policy limit was 21. This came at an extra cost of £24.89 per day, a 
total of just under £200.00. (Total hire cost was £721.80 / 29 = £24.89 per day).  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I have to take into account the relevant law (including part of the Consumer Rights Act),
regulation and good practice. Above all I have to decide whats fair and reasonable.
The Financial Ombudsman Service deals with a consumer complaint against one insurance
company or other regulated financial firm at a time. In our final decision, we name that firm,
but we dont identify any other party. 
Final decisions are published on our website. Each of them is decided on its own facts. Im 
deciding Mr Ms complaint against Direct Line on its own facts. I dont find it helpful to review 
or refer to final decisions on other individual complaints.
We often receive complaints about vehicle valuations. Our usual approach is set out on our
website. We consider whether the insurer has treated the policyholder fairly. We expect
insurers to use retail prices from the trade guides.
I have no reason to doubt Mr Ms statement that another UKI brand quoted a lower premium.
Direct Lines policy terms included the following:
Section B Damage to your car
4 What is covered
If your car is damaged, we have the option to:
 pay to repair the damage or repair the damage ourselves;
 replace what is lost or damaged, if this is more cost-effective than repairing it; or
 settle your claim by sending you a cheque or by bank transfer.
The most we will pay
We will not pay more than the market value of your car at the time of the loss (less
any excess that may apply).
So (in addition to the option to repair a damaged vehicle) Direct Line had the options to
replace a damaged vehicle or to send a payment. Each option was subject to a cap of the
cars pre-accident market value less the policy excess.
In response to the provisional decision, Mr M has given us a description of what he saw 
online when he bought the policy. That includes the following:
"Direct Line car insurance customers will be able to choose to have a replacement
car sourced on their behalf rather than a cash settlement in the event of their car
being writtenoffthe customer can opt to revert to a cash settlement at any point."That shows that the choice to have a replacement car was the policyholders rather than 
Direct Lines. But Mr M says he found that information through a search engine rather than 
on Direct Lines website. And I see that is archived from 2013. 
Mr M told us that he had referred to that information when he first complained to us. But he 
first complained to us in early March 2021 and our file shows that he first referred to that 
archived information in late April 2021. So I consider that he is mistaken that he relied on it 
when he bought the policy in March 2020.
Because of that mistake, I find that Mr M is mistaken in his description of what he saw online 
when he bought the policy.  
I accept that Direct Lines website included the following:
Used Car Replacement
A choice between a replacement car like yours, a cash settlement or you can pay the
difference for an upgrade, if your car is written off due to an accident, vandalism, fire
or flood.
A minimum car purchase of £3,500 applies. An exact match may not be possible and
is subject to availability. Excludes theft claims.
That doesnt say the choice would be Direct Lines rather than the policyholders. And it
doesnt say that replacement is subject to availability  it says that an exact match is subject
to availability.
I dont condone that information on the website. But Ive found that Mr M is mistaken in his 
description of what he saw online when he bought the policy.  So Im not persuaded that he 
read the information about Used Car Replacement or took it into account when he
bought the policy. I find it more likely that he read the information after he made his claim.
So I dont regard the information as binding under Consumer Rights Act about the services
to be delivered under the insurance contract. So I dont find any breach under that Act.
I dont consider that the information on the website could change the policy terms. And I find 
it likely that Direct Line referred Mr M to the policy terms when he bought the policy. 
Ive noted the make, model, age, specification, condition and recorded mileage of Mr Ms
car. For a vehicle like Mr Ms at the time of the accident, the trade guides show retail prices
as follows:
CAP: £3,975.00
Cazana: £4,006.00
Glass: £4,340.00
I consider that these figures are within quite a narrow range. So I wont disregard either the
highest or the lowest as being out of line with the others.
I dont condone Direct Lines initial valuation of £3,500.00 or the consequent cheque (after 
deduction of the excess) for £3,200.00. And Direct Line agreed that Mr M should destroy that 
cheque.
But Mr M had made clear that he didnt want to accept that cheque. And Direct Lines final 
offer of £4,200.00 is within the range  and above the average - of the three trade guide 
figures. So I dont find that Direct Line treated Mr M unfairly by its valuation of £4,200.00.The website didnt suggest that Direct Line would pay more than the cars pre-accident 
market value less the policy excess. And Direct Line has offered Mr M that amount.
For those reasons I dont share Mr Ms view that Direct Line was obliged to follow a process
to source a replacement car, negotiate the price, pay for it and deliver it to him.  Even if the 
information on the website did give rise to an obligation under the Consumer Rights Act, I 
wouldnt find it fair and reasonable  keeping in mind the policy terms and its offer - to direct 
Direct Line to provide a replacement vehicle.
But I accept that the information on the website caused Mr M some extra distress and
inconvenience at an already difficult time for him. I accept that the extended hire period was 
an extra benefit for Mr M.  
Putting things right
Overall, I still find it fair and reasonable to direct Direct Line to pay Mr M  in addition to its 
final response offer of £150.00  a further £100.00 for distress and inconvenience.
As Ive said, the subject matter of this complaint is Mr Ms car. Mr M tore up Direct Lines 
cheque and stopped Direct Line from selling the car. Mr M still has the car  I think in a 
damaged condition. Ive thought about what ought to happen with the claim.
I conclude that Direct Line should pay Mr M its valuation of £4,200.00 less the excess of 
£300.00 and - if Mr M wishes to keep the vehicle - Direct Line may also deduct a reasonable 
salvage payment. As Mr M has kept the car and resisted a settlement by payment of its pre-
accident market value, I dont find it fair and reasonable to direct Direct Line to pay interest.
  
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, my final decision is that I uphold this complaint in part. I 
direct UK Insurance Limited (trading as Direct Line) to pay Mr M:
1. in addition to the £150.00 offered in its final response - a further £100.00 for 
distress and inconvenience; and
2. £4,200.00 less the policy excess of £300.00 (and if Mr M wishes to keep the 
damaged vehicle Direct Line may also deduct a reasonable salvage 
payment).  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 22 September 2021.  
Christopher Gilbert
Ombudsman