DRN-1819966
The complaint
Mr and Mrs L disagree with the target sum expected on maturity of their joint endowment 
policy with Legal and General Assurance Society Limited. 
What happened
Mr and Mrs L took out an endowment policy in December 1982. They say at the time of 
taking out their policy they opted to pay a higher premium in return for a higher pay out upon 
maturity. They say as a result they were expecting to achieve double the target sum which 
they estimated to be £48,000. Mr and Mrs L are unhappy that Legal and General say its 
unaware of such an option and has no records from the time of sale despite their policy still 
being in force. 
Legal and General say the gross premium was set at £17.59 at the outset of the policy and 
has been level premium since with the intention of meeting the policy target of £24,070 on 
maturity. It says there was no option to enhance the premium on Mr and Mrs Ls endowment 
policy. Given the amount of time that has passed since the policy was taken out it says it 
doesnt hold any documentation from the time of sale. Legal and General invited Mr and Mrs 
L to provide any further evidence for it to consider. 
Mr and Mrs L were unhappy with Legal and Generals response so they brought their 
complaint to us. One of our investigators looked into the complaint, but she didnt uphold it. 
She thought it wasnt unreasonable for Legal and General to no longer hold any 
documentation from the time of sale given the length of time that had passed. She said 
based on the information she has seen, Legal and General were administering the policy on 
the correct start date, end date, premium and target. 
Mr and Mrs L disagreed. They say its unreasonable for Legal and General to not keep 
records of a policy which hasnt yet matured. They also say there was no illustration or 
discussion about growth rates at the time of taking out the policy and the term target sum 
was not used at the outset. Mr and Mrs L say paying the higher premium many years ago 
was a hardship to them so they feel strongly about receiving the higher return on maturity of 
the policy. 
As no agreement could be reached, the matter has been referred to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided not to uphold Mr and Mrs Ls complaint. I understand this will 
come as a disappointment to them, but Ill explain my reasons why.
Mr and Mrs L havent been able to provide any documentation from the time of sale, nor has 
Legal and General. Mr and Mrs L are unhappy that Legal and General hasnt retained copies 
particularly as their policy is still in force and yet to mature. This has clearly caused Mr and Mrs L upset, but I dont think its surprising that Legal and General doesnt have any copies 
given how long ago everything happened  over 37 years ago. 
Mr and Mrs L took out a joint endowment policy that Legal and General say had a target sum 
on maturity and sum assured on claim in the event of death amount of £24,070 (with a basic 
sum assured amount of £5,244). It had a maturity date of 38 years and it cost them £17.59 
per month from the outset and remained the same. Mr and Mrs Ls monthly premium was 
invested in with-profits funds. 
Mr and Mrs L are unhappy as they say they opted to pay a higher premium with the 
expectation that theyd receive a higher pay out on maturity of around £48,000. Legal and 
General say its not possible to pay an enhanced premium on this endowment policy. 
Where the evidence is missing, incomplete or contradictory, as it is here, Im required to 
decide matters on the balance of probabilities - in other words, on what I consider most likely 
to have happened.
Based on the limited information available, Im not persuaded that Legal and General should 
pay out more on maturity of Mr and Mrs Ls endowment policy. I say this because Legal and 
General has provided us with a screenshot of its system which shows the target sum was 
£24,070 on maturity. I dont think its likely Legal and General wouldve incorrectly recorded 
the target sum if it was £48,000, and I accept what it says about it not being possible to pay 
an enhanced premium on this endowment policy. Legal and General say the only option for 
Mr and Mrs L if they wanted to pay extra to enable them to achieve a higher target sum on 
maturity would be to take out another plan. 
I note Mr and Mrs L feel strongly about this as their recollections from the time of sale are 
different and I appreciate this will come as a disappointment to them. But I must take into 
account the length of time that has passed since the sale took place and that memories do 
fade over time. Based on the limited information available Im not persuaded that Legal and 
Generals target sum on maturity of their endowment policy was incorrect. Nonetheless as 
Mr and Mrs L acknowledge the target sum on maturity isnt guaranteed anyway. So taking 
everything into account I cant fairly tell Legal and General to do anything more. 
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, my final decision is that I do not uphold Mr and Mrs Ls 
complaint.  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr L and Mrs L to 
accept or reject my decision before 29 June 2020.
Asia Khanam
Ombudsman