DRN-3580527
The complaint
Ms S complains that Aviva Insurance Limited is responsible for her damaged veneers and 
cats death, after it carried out work in her property following three home insurance claims. 
She also complains that food bills remain unpaid.
What happened
Ms S brought a complaint to our service in December 2020, about various issues relating to 
the claims. Under a different case reference, I issued a final decision for most of those 
issues. However, I explained the following three issues arent in our jurisdiction, via a 
jurisdiction decision, because they had been brought to our service too late:
- Damage to Ms Ss veneers.
- Ms Ss cats death.
- Unpaid food bills.
Ms S went on to provide us with further information. In view of that information, I issued a 
further jurisdiction decision, under this case reference, explaining I now considered the 
above three issues to be within our jurisdiction. 
I went on to issue a provisional decision about those three complaint points. In my 
provisional decision, I said:
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. 
Where evidence is inconclusive, incomplete, or contradictory, Ive reached my decision on 
the balance of probabilities. This means Ive determined what I consider is more likely to 
have happened, based on all the evidence that is available and the wider surrounding 
circumstances.
Damaged veneers
Ms S says she tripped over debris left on the floor by Avivas contractors, which caused 
damage to her veneers.
Ive not seen anything that shows Ms Ss veneers were damaged. However, even if I were to 
accept what Ms S says about her fall and veneers, based on the information presented, Im 
not persuaded I can reasonably hold Aviva responsible. Ive not seen anything that shows 
Aviva had left the property in an unsafe condition at the time of the incident or that it was 
responsible for Ms Ss accident. 
Cats death
Ms Ss cat died in July 2019. She says his illness was caused by mould, which remained in 
her bedroom for over two years following the first claim. Ms S says his food bowl was two 
feet from where mould spread on the wall. So, she considers it more likely than not, his 
illness was caused by that mould.
Ms S has provided two veterinary reports. The first report is from May 2018. The results from 
the initial investigations were compatible with a destructive infection of the nasal cavities by 
a fungus, likely Aspergillus. However, biopsies were taken which showed a nonspecific 
rhinitis; no fungal organisms were seen. Nonetheless, the May 2018 report noted that 
based on the CT scan and previous findings, a fungal rhinitis is still possible and an 
antifungal medication was prescribed.
The second veterinary report is from July 2019. It explains Ms Ss cat had been euthanised, 
due to his health deteriorating. The report states Ms S had reporteda notable bloody 
nasal discharge suspected to be related to his reported diagnosis of fungal rhinitis.
I understand Ms Ss cats illness and death remains very distressing for her. However, the 
information presented doesnt, on balance, persuade me her cat became ill, or had to be 
euthanised, due to mould or mould that Aviva is responsible for. The two reports confirm
the possibility of fungal rhinitis, but they arent conclusive. The reports also dont link his 
illness to mould in Ms Ss bedroom. I note he was nearly 15 years old when he died.
In the circumstances, Im not persuaded Aviva can reasonably be held responsible for 
Ms Ss cats illness or death.
Unpaid food bills
I understand that Ms S considers £1,300 to be outstanding for food bills from a previous 
claim, and she also wishes to claim for food bills for her latest claim.
In Avivas April 2019 final response letter, it explained it couldnt identify any outstanding 
costs in relation to the previous two claims. Aviva also explained it wouldnt be covering 
Ms Ss food bills during her latest claim because she would have had to buy food 
irrespective of the claim.
The first two claims were made in 2014 and 2015. Avivas work for the second claim ended 
in 2017. Ive not seen anything that shows agreed food bill payments are outstanding from 
the first two claims. In any event, as explained in my other final decision, in my view, Ms S 
ought reasonably to have pursued any outstanding matters for the first two claims, soon 
after Avivas work had ended in 2017.
In respect of the latest claim, Ive not seen that Aviva agreed to pay for food, and as noted 
by Aviva, Ms S would have had food bills irrespective of the claim. As such, Im not 
persuaded Aviva needs to cover those claimed costs.
Ms S stayed in her home during the latest claim and works. I understand Ms S feels strongly 
that shes owed a disturbance allowance for her latest claim, due to the disruption and 
increased living costs. However, I wont be commenting on the disturbance allowance 
further, as it was addressed by my other final decision.
Aviva hasnt provided any further comments in response to my provisional decision. Ms S 
explained she was unable to respond in full due to her personal circumstances. However, 
she set out the following about her teeth and veneers:- Ms S stumbled on a few pieces of grit which had been left on a concrete floor by 
Avivas contractors. She lost her balance and knocked herself out on a wall. 
- The accident led to the loss of Ms Ss front tooth and three veneers. Ms S provided a 
photo which showed a missing tooth and a missing veneer.
- Ms Ss carer saw debris on the ground the next day, where Ms S had tripped. Her 
carer can provide an affidavit that debris was left by Avivas contractors.
Ms S also explained she would try to phone our investigator to add further information, but 
we havent received any further contact from her. It should be noted that the three-week 
deadline for responding to my provisional decision was extended by two weeks, and a 
further two weeks have since passed.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Whilst I appreciate Ms S has some difficult personal circumstances, I cant continue to leave 
this complaint open indefinitely. Im satisfied both parties have had a fair opportunity to 
provide information.
No further submissions have been made in relation to Ms Ss cats death or the unpaid food 
bills. Having reconsidered the arguments and information previously presented, my final 
decision remains the same as my provisional decision, for the same reasons.
In respect of Ms Ss tooth and veneers, whilst I acknowledge the photo shes provided and 
further comments, they dont change what I said in my provisional decision. Ive not seen 
anything that shows Aviva had left the property in an unsafe condition at the time of the 
incident or that it was responsible for Ms Ss accident. 
Even if Ms S did trip on some grit or debris left by Avivas contractors, that doesnt lead me 
to believe Aviva had left the property in an unsafe condition. Work was taking place in the 
property, so some debris is to be expected. In the circumstances presented, Im not 
persuaded I can reasonably hold Aviva responsible for the accident. 
My final decision
Im sorry to disappoint Ms S, but for the reasons Ive set out above and in my provisional 
decision, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms S to accept or 
reject my decision before 3 August 2022.
 
Vince Martin
Ombudsman