DRN-2906766
The complaint
Mr E and Ms P complain about the additional premiums that AXA Insurance UK Plc charged 
Mr E to cover his existing medical conditions.
What happened
Mr E and Ms P had travel insurance as a benefit of their packaged bank account.
Mr E has two medical conditions. From 2016 onwards, he contacted AXAs medical 
screening line to declare these conditions. AXA agreed to cover his medical conditions and 
charged Mr E an additional premium to do so. Mr E continued to pay an additional premium 
each year to make sure his conditions would be covered.
However, in late 2019, Mr E learned that another insurer would cover his existing medical 
conditions for no additional premium. He felt that itd been unfair for AXA to charge him to 
insure his conditions when other insurers didnt. So he cancelled the policy and he and Ms P 
asked us to look into this complaint.
Our investigator didnt think Mr E and Ms Ps complaint should be upheld. He explained AXA 
had demonstrated that itd followed its own underwriting criteria when it calculated the price 
itd charged Mr E. And he said that insurers follow their own underwriting processes when 
assessing risk. So while he understood why Mr E was frustrated, he didnt think AXA had 
done anything wrong.
Mr E and Ms P disagreed. Ive summarised their response. They considered that the fact 
another insurer would provide cover at no extra charge showed that AXA hadnt treated 
them fairly or reasonably. They felt it wasnt fair for AXA to charge an additional premium 
without valid medical justification. They said Mr Es conditions were well-controlled and he 
lives an active life. They considered AXA was acting unlawfully.
The complaints been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, while Im sorry to disappoint Mr E and Ms P, I think AXA has treated them 
fairly. Ill explain why.
It might be helpful if I explain how we look at complaints like these. Were not the industry 
regulator and so we cant tell financial businesses to change their processes or procedures.  
We dont generally tell insurers what risks they should insure, how they should calculate risk 
or what risk factors they can take into account. And we dont generally tell them what price 
they should charge to cover those risks. AXA was entitled to decide whether or not it wanted 
to provide cover for Mr Es medical conditions after it reassessed the risk of a claim at each 
annual medical screening. And, if it did, what price it needed to charge him to cover the risk. 
But what I have been able to check for Mr E is whether or not AXA worked out the additional 
premium fairly. I also need to be satisfied that AXAs treated Mr E and Ms P in the same way 
as any other policyholder AXA insures in the same circumstances and hasnt singled them 
out in any way.
In common with most travel insurance policies on the market, AXAs terms and conditions 
require policyholders to tell it about any pre-existing medical conditions they may have. 
Thats to allow it to decide whether or not it wants to offer cover and if so, at what price. 
AXAs given us underwriting evidence to show us how it calculated Mr Es additional 
premiums. Ive looked carefully at this and I do think its calculated the additional premiums 
Mr E paid between 2016 and 2019 fairly. Im sorry that I cant share this evidence with Mr E 
and Ms P. But this information is commercially sensitive to AXAs business and so its 
confidential. I hope it reassures Mr E and Ms P though to know that Ive checked it carefully. 
And based on the evidence Ive seen, Im satisfied that AXA wouldve treated any other 
policyholder in the same circumstances as Mr E in the same way. So I dont think hes been 
unfairly singled out.
I can understand why Mr E and Ms P may consider that AXAs treated them unfairly. After 
all, Mr E hasnt been charged any additional premium to cover his medical conditions by his 
new insurer. But insurers are entitled to use their commercial discretion to decide how to 
assess risk and what factors they wish to take into account, so long as they dont unfairly 
single out policyholders in any way. Insurers may take different views of risk and their prices 
will usually reflect that. Just because the new insurer may have been prepared to insure Mr 
Es conditions at no additional cost doesnt mean that AXA was wrong to charge an 
additional price. 
Overall, while Im sorry to disappoint Mr E and Ms P, I dont think AXA has done anything 
wrong and Im not telling AXA to refund any of the additional premiums Mr E paid for medical 
cover. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr E and Ms P to 
accept or reject my decision before 25 October 2021.
 
Lisa Barham
Ombudsman