DRN-3624471
The complaint
Miss J has complained about her property insurer U K Insurance Limited (UKI) in respect of 
a claim she made to it in 2012 for a water leak.
What happened
Miss J had a leak at her home in 2012. UKI undertook repairs, and did some further work in 
2019. Miss J remained unhappy as once her items were returned from storage damage was 
noted. UKI said it would pay for replacements of various items including curtains, a fridge 
freezer, a dining table and chairs. But Miss J wanted UKI to replace everything, rather than 
giving her cash.
Miss J also told UKI in 2021 that the leak, fixed by UKI more than once already, had 
returned. UKI sent a leak expert to Miss Js home. The expert concluded there was no 
current leak, only a faulty flush mechanism on the toilet cistern, causing the cistern to empty 
and re-fill. The expert said damp in the lounge was caused by rainwater. 
UKI fixed the flush mechanism. UKI also said it would replace window and door locks at the 
property because the keys had been lost during its work. And it said it would also replace the 
kitchen tap. Shortly after the locks and tap were replaced, Miss J noted issues with them. 
UKI refused to do anything further. It also said that it wouldnt replace the two leather sofas 
and a chair (suite).
Our Investigator explained that he could only look at the current issues in question  not 
anything which had happened previously, including anything previously considered by this 
service or since UKIs final response letter dated 26 May 2021. But in those respects he felt 
the complaint should be upheld in part. He said UKI was allowed to settle the claim in cash. 
And that there was no sign of a current, reoccurring leak. But he felt it should be inspecting 
and, if needed, repairing the tap and locks, and also refurbishing or replacing as necessary 
Miss Js suite. As well as paying Miss J £100 compensation.
Miss J felt the problems at her home went further than these limited issues. She said theres 
been further leaks, the toilet isnt the right one, she still has no curtains, so many things have 
been broken, theres real problems with the garden and the house was left a dusty mess 
after works were done. Miss J said this is all very stressful and affecting her health.
Aviva said it would pay the £100 compensation and agreed to inspect the locks. But it said it 
wouldnt replace the tap as it had only fitted a tap Miss Js son had bought  and that was a 
goodwill gesture. Regarding the suite it said its last inspection of it suggested its cushions 
had recovered (from having items stored on them) so it wouldnt pay anything in this respect.
Aviva told us it had been out to look at the locks and been told they were working fine. 
Miss J told us she was still having issues with the locks. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Cash settlement
I realise that it is upsetting for Miss J to have to think about trying to buy replacement items. 
But UKI is entitled, if it wants to, to settle for the items in cash. I cant fairly and reasonably 
require it to replace the items damaged.
Leak
I know Miss J feels that UKI had failed her again regarding previous repairs because the 
leak had reoccurred. But Im satisfied that the water she could hear was a different and 
separate issue unrelated to the previous leak. The expert that assessed the property found 
no water escaping from the toilet, water and heating systems. He checked moisture levels 
and found only one damp area in the sitting room which he tested. He found that damp was 
not being caused by household or ground water, rather rainwater. I think UKI acted 
reasonably to try and assist Miss J be replacing the flush mechanism on the toilet to resolve 
the problem.  
Sofa 
UKI had an expert assess the sofa. He said he wasnt sure the cushions would recover. But 
he also noted the suite was scuffed. It was a few months later when UKIs assessor saw the 
sofa and decided it had recovered. But Im not persuaded that is a reliable opinion as he was 
not the expert who had noted it was damaged. If UKI had wanted to check if the suite had 
recovered, it should have sent the expert to reassess it. I think UKI needs to refurbish or 
replace Miss Js suite.
Locks
UKI replaced door and window locks at the home. It said this was a goodwill gesture. But it 
seems it was necessary because the keys became lost whilst it was repairing the home. So 
I think it was only reasonable for it to replace the locks Miss J could no longer open. But after 
the locks were replaced Miss J began having trouble with them. Shes told us she is still 
having trouble with them. UKI agreed with our Investigators view to reassess the locks and 
says its contractor attended and was told there was no issue with the locks. I still think UKI 
needs to go out and look at the locks again though, I say that as it isnt clear that UKIs 
contractor got agreement from Miss J that there is no problem with the door and window 
locks it replaced and Miss J has told us there is still a problem. 
Tap
UKI says it fitted a tap chosen by Miss Js son so it has no liability for it now not working. Im 
not persuaded that is fair. Even if it fitted the tap as a goodwill gesture, it would still be liable 
for the work it did in that respect. But UKI hasnt even opted to inspect the tap at this time to 
determine whether the problem Miss J is experiencing  notified shortly after the fitting  
comes from the fitting or the item itself. And, actually, from what Ive seen, Im not persuaded 
UKI could reasonably say it only fitted this tap as a goodwill gesture and, therefore, might 
have no liability for it. Its report certainly shows the one in place was constantly dripping. And 
its notes dont suggest it was clear with her that it was acting this way regarding the tap. 
I think UKI reasonably has to inspect the tap and, if it or the fitting are faulty, it will have to 
resolve that. 
CompensationIt has clearly been a difficult time for Miss J. I understand she has been through an awful lot 
since the leak in 2012. And that she feels that some issues are still unresolved. However, 
I cant take all of that into account here where Im looking at activity which occurred and 
issues which arose during a few months in early 2021. In that respect I know Miss J was 
having trouble with her health which she attributed, albeit following consultation with her 
doctor, to damp in the house caused by UKIs faulty work (because the leak had reoccurred). 
But UKI checked that and found it had not. And, as Ive explained above, Im satisfied that 
UKIs answer in that respect is reasonable. I think UKI could, and if Miss J accepts my 
decision, will now have to, do more regarding the locks, taps and suite. For the upset Im 
satisfied Miss J was caused in respect of these items, Im satisfied that £100 is fair and 
reasonable compensation.  
  
Putting things right
I require UKI to:
Refurbish or replace, as necessary, Miss Js suite.
Inspect and, if necessary, repair the door and window locks previously replaced by it.
Inspect and, if faulty (fitting or item itself), resolve the tap.
Pay Miss J £100 compensation.
My final decision
I uphold this complaint. I require U K Insurance Limited to provide the redress set out above 
at Putting things right.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss J to accept or 
reject my decision before 16 September 2022.
 
Fiona Robinson
Ombudsman