DRN-2687104
The complaint
Mr F complains about the service that Lloyds Bank PLC provided when he made a number 
of data subject access requests to them.
What happened
The background to this complaint concerns data subject access requests (DSARs) made by 
Mr F to Lloyds in January 2020, March 2020 and June 2020.
Mr F is unhappy with the overall service received, delays to receiving the information 
requests, receiving incorrect or incomplete information and the overall impact that he says 
Lloyds handling of his requests have had on him.
Mr F complained to Lloyds about how theyd handled his DSARs. In their final response 
letter they apologised and provided some context for why there were delays in Mr F 
receiving the information requested. They also offered Mr F £50 for how theyd dealt with 
things, including when responding to his complaints. Mr F remained unhappy and referred 
his complaint our service. Hes told us that he suffered financial losses, long-term distress, 
inconvenience and embarrassment. 
Our investigator considered the complaint. Lloyds also offered another £50 to Mr F during 
the course of our investigation. Our investigator found that there had been delays caused by 
Lloyds, but ultimately she didnt recommend that Lloyds needed to do anything further to 
compensate Mr F. 
Mr F didnt accept our investigators findings and responded requesting a specifically worded 
apology from Lloyds and said hed be content to close the complaint if he received it. Our 
investigator put this proposal to Lloyds but they didnt accept it. The complaint has now been 
passed to me for a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Where theres a dispute about what happened, Ive based my decision on what I thinks 
more likely than not to have happened in light of the evidence.
Although a number of issues have been raised, this decision only addresses those issues 
I consider to be materially relevant to this complaint. However, Ive given careful 
consideration to all of the submissions made before arriving at my decision.
Mr F has previously had decisions related to earlier information requests. I wont comment 
on them or the findings the ombudsman reached. This decision concerns the service Mr F 
received when he made DSARs to Lloyds in January, March and June 2020. 
Its also important to explain that were an informal dispute resolution service and its not my 
role to determine if there has been a data breach by a company or to punish businesses. 
That would be better suited to the Information Commissioners Office (ICO). I appreciate 
that Mr F has framed this complaint as one about the overall service he received from 
Lloyds, but in my opinion, the core issues here regard the DSARs made and the actions 
taken by Lloyds when actioning those requests. I have however carefully noted Mr Fs 
correspondence with the ICO - and their findings - when coming to my decision.
Ive considered all of the evidence impartially, fairly and reasonably before coming to my 
decision. Having done so, I have to tell Mr F that I think the investigator has reached a fair 
outcome here. 
When coming to my decision, the key findings I need to make are: 
Have Lloyds treated Mr F fairly and reasonably when dealing with his DSARs?
If not, what has been the impact on Mr F? 
oAnd, if there has been an impact, what - if anything, needs to take place to 
put things right here?
Have Lloyds treated Mr F fairly and reasonably when dealing with his DSARs?
Its not in dispute that there were failings by Lloyds when handling the DSARs. I say this 
based on Mr Fs account of what has taken place, but also Lloyds own admission in their 
final response letter where they refer to not meeting the timescales and their errors resulting 
in Mr F having to contact them multiple times 
The earliest service provided related to a DSAR Im looking at was made in January - prior to 
the COVID-19 pandemic. Lloyds have said:
 .The second request that you made in January 2020 was a more complex request and 
so it can take up to 90 days for this information to be sent to you. The DSAR team have 
confirmed that they didnt provide you with the information within the 90 day timescale and 
this was because of a bank error.
Its positive that theyve accepted responsibility for their failings.
However, I also have to be fair to both parties and cant ignore that the ongoing COVID-19 
pandemic has caused unprecedented challenges for businesses when trying to continue to 
offer their services during very difficult times  this includes when responding to DSARs. In 
March 2020 the ICO said: .we will tell people through our own communications channels 
that they may experience understandable delays when making information rights requests 
during the pandemic. So, although frustrating for Mr F, the delays experienced will have 
affected many customers and many businesses around the time he made the requests in 
March and June 2020.
Overall, even allowing for the impact COVID-19 may have had on Lloyds operations, I still 
find that there were failings in the service provided by Lloyds when dealing with the DSARs 
and, in turn, I find that they havent treated Mr F fairly and reasonably.
What has been the impact on Mr F?
As already explained I wont comment on the other complaints Mr Fs had 
separate decisions on or the HMRC related issues that he says Lloyds actions caused. This is because I cant revisit complaints that our service has already issued a decision on. 
Mr F has described his alleged financial losses. To summarise (as the details of Mr Fs 
losses are well known to both parties involved in this complaint): hundreds of hours of his 
time trying to resolve these issues, a mobile phone operator charge and a charge by a 
finance provider. Mr F has also described suffering emotional distress and general 
inconvenience.
Mr F has my sympathy for everything hes told us about, particularly the trouble and upset 
that this whole experience may have caused him. However, in my opinion, he also hasnt 
provided clear and persuasive evidence that shows the service provided by Lloyds actions 
in handling his requests caused his financial losses.  
For example, Mr F has provided a phone bill to evidence a financial loss where the dates 
been partially redacted on, and another summary of the calls to Lloyds which total much less 
than the overall time hes claimed to have spent trying to resolve these issues. But I accept 
that Mr F has spent a fair amount of time trying to resolve some of these issues with Lloyds. 
In order to direct Lloyds to compensate Mr F further, Id have to be reasonably satisfied that 
the financial losses described by Mr F were caused by the service Lloyds provided when 
dealing with his DSARs. But based on what Ive seen and heard, Im not persuaded that the 
charges Mr F has described to us have arisen solely because of how Lloyds dealt with his 
DSARs and therefore I wont be directing Lloyds to compensate Mr F further here. 
Ultimately, Lloyds couldve handled things better. For example, they couldve updated Mr F 
on what was happening more regularly and this may well have meant that Mr F didnt need 
to contact them so proactively for updates. But Ive also noted that when issues were 
brought to their attention, Lloyds dealt with them in a fair and reasonable manner. For 
example, when Mr Fs accessibility needs were fully and clearly brought to their attention, 
they adapted and provided the information he needed in an alternative format. Lloyds also 
later agreed to pay Mr F an additional £50 compensation for any misunderstanding. I 
consider that fair and reasonable. 
Ive also noted what Mr F has said about the impact of Lloyds service on complaints hed 
had with our service. But each complaint our service handles is considered on its own 
merits. I cant comment on what impact there may or may not have been - as they are 
separate to, and independent of, this complaint that Im considering.
When weighing up the overall impact of Lloyds actions on Mr F Ive noted that after our 
investigators assessment, Mr F recently said: 
I find it extremely hard to believe that you think £50 and an Apology Letter is a fair 
resolution of this Complaint.
But shortly before this, Mr F had been prepared to close this complaint with our service in 
return for Lloyds providing the following specifically worded apology statement: 
"Lloyds Bank apologise and accept full responsibility for their Failings, Delays, 
Breaches and Loss of Data and Information, along with the affects that their actions 
have had on my Financial Ombudsman Service Cases: [references redacted], Bank 
Charges, HM Revenue and Customs Tax Tribunal Error Correction, Reimbursement 
Claim, Investigation and Department of Work and Pensions complaint."Mr F has already received an apology from Lloyds in their final response letter. Lloyds didnt 
agree to this proposed statement and also referred to potential ongoing legal action.
Summary 
I find that the service provided by Lloyds in the course of responding to Mr Fs DSARs in 
January 2020, March 2020 and June 2020 couldve been better. However, Im not 
sufficiently persuaded that the service provided was responsible for the financial losses Mr F 
has described or that it was poor to the extent that I require Lloyds to pay further 
compensation - in addition to the £100 already offered to Mr F for any trouble and upset 
caused. 
Ultimately, its not within the remit of our service to punish or fine businesses for potential 
data protection breaches/failings
I know Mr F will naturally be disappointed with this outcome. But my decision brings to an 
end what we  in trying to informally resolve his dispute with Lloyds  can do for him. 
Putting things right
I consider the £100 total offered a fair and reasonable offer - proportionate to Lloyds actions 
and the overall impact on Mr F. If Lloyds Bank PLC havent already paid the offers, Mr F can 
get in contact with them to arrange payment. If they have paid the offers, I dont require 
Lloyds Bank PLC to do anything further. 
My final decision
 My final decision is that the £100 total offer Lloyds Bank PLC have made is fair and 
reasonable.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr F to accept or 
reject my decision before 24 May 2021.
 
Daniel O'Shea
Ombudsman