DRN-3541043
The complaint
Mr W complains about issues with Experian Limited when trying to access his credit report.
What happened
My understanding is Mr W is unhappy:
A passkey he was sent didnt work when he tried to use it
His address showed incorrectly when he received his statutory report
In a later request for a statutory report, Experian asked for identification documents 
to be sent in the post.
Mr W raised two separate complaints.
In August 2021 Experian said they have a system that monitors when passkeys are entered 
on their website  they said theyd checked this system and it showed no attempts to use the 
passkey sent to Mr W. They explained it could be that the web browser or device Mr W used 
to access the website had issues, but thatd be outside of their control. 
In respect of the statutory report, theyd looked into their records and said theyd seen hed 
applied for it during June 2021. They said when customers apply online for the report, they 
must complete the address online. And, for the address to show as it did, then it can only 
mean thats how he entered it. They said theyd asked their internal team to update the 
address and had arranged to send a new passkey for Mr W to use online. Once received, 
they asked Mr W to use a completely different web browser / device when trying to access 
the report and if he had any problems to let them know. 
In January 2022 Experian said they understood Mr W was unhappy about having to provide 
identification when requesting a statutory report. They said each request for a statutory 
report was treated as a one-off application, so other applications arent taken into account. 
Because of that, they do ask Mr W to send the information asked for. 
Overall, Experian didnt uphold Mr Ws complaints, so he asked us to look into things. One of 
our Investigators did so but didnt think Experian had done anything wrong.
Mr W didnt accept this, in summary he said:
Experian require him to enter all variations of his address
Varying information regarding passkeys have been provided with Experian saying 
they would send one, and then not doing so
No other Credit Reference Agency (CRA) has this issue
Identification can be done digitally so they dont need him to send documents through 
the post
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I think its important I explain at the start of this section I cant change Experians processes. 
I can only consider whether theyd applied them fairly in Mr Ws case. If I find they have, then 
Id say theyve done nothing wrong  if they havent, then Id need to consider what impact 
this had on Mr W. 
Passkey issues
My understanding is Mr W has two concerns regarding passkeys  the first being that when 
they sent him one in the post it didnt work, and the second being that hes asked for 
passkey which they said theyd send but then didnt.
In respect of the first issue Ive seen Experians explanation for why the passkey may not 
have worked. I cant know for certain Experians explanation is definitely what happened, so 
I need to decide what I think is more likely than not.
Here I find Experians explanation to be persuasive. It sounds quite plausible to me that the 
issues Mr W experienced wasnt as a result of their systems, but instead something to do 
with the way in which it was attempted to be used. So, I think its likely Experian havent 
done anything wrong here.
Looking at the second issue I can see Mr W was in contact with Experian and told them 
theyd said theyd send a second passkey but havent. Our Investigator reviewed all the 
evidence provided by both parties and found there was nothing to suggest Experian had told 
Mr W they would send him a passkey at this point. Although Mr W has disputed this, hes not 
provided any emails for our service to consider which show this is what he was told by 
Experian.
Ive reviewed the evidence we have, and like our Investigator, Ive found nothing to support 
Mr Ws comments. So, based on the evidence provided, I find Experian havent done 
anything wrong here.
Incorrect information on credit report
My understanding on this section is this mainly relates to addresses being incorrect  but as 
part of their evidence to us, Experian also provided lots of emails of Mr W disputing entries 
on his credit file.In relation to the address information Experian have explained the reason the address was 
incorrect was due to Mr Ws typing this in. Again, I cant know for certain if this is accurate, 
as to know this Id have needed to be present when Mr W applied for this statutory credit 
report and I wasnt.
But, again, I find their explanation for why this happened plausible. Even if I didnt though, Id 
need to consider the impact on Mr W. Here, in response to his complaint, Experian have 
said theyve updated his report to show the correct address. Ive not seen anything to 
suggest this would have had an impact on any attempted application from Mr W  as all 
credit applications are made by the individual, so hed have needed to input his address on 
that application with the lender. So, Ive seen no reason to say this would have had an 
impact on him.
Ive seen Mr W is also concerned about having to enter multiple variations of his address to 
get all of the information available. Experian have said the reason for this is because lenders 
will report Mr Ws address differently  and gave four examples of how itd been recorded. I 
can completely understand this would be very frustrating for Mr W, but in line with my 
comments at the start of this section I cant change Experians processes. While it would 
clearly be better if Experians systems were able to recognise and resolve these 
discrepancies, and I note Mr Ws comments that this isnt an issue with other CRAs, that 
isnt something I can require them to do. Instead, it seems Experian offer the option to enter 
variations of addresses in order for customers to get as much information as possible about 
the data held. Overall, I dont think Experian have done anything wrong here.
Separate to this, as I mentioned I can see Mr W has asked Experian on multiple occasions 
to dispute data on his behalf. Ive not seen anything to suggest they didnt  and as I can see 
has been explained to Mr W  if he thinks the data is wrong usually hell need to contact the 
lender directly. Thats because theyre the ones who own the data being reported to 
Experian.
Requirement for identification documents
Mr W thinks it shouldnt be necessary for identification documents to be sent  both because 
he can be verified digitally, and because theyve previously sent him copies of his statutory 
report.
Experian have said its their process that, at times, theyll need to verify people to prevent 
sending out very sensitive data to the wrong party.
I can see Mr Ws point here. Previously, Experian have sent him a copy of his report, without 
him having to send identification documents so why do they need them now.
Again though, this aspect comes back to Experians processes. They have said they treat 
each request for a statutory report as a new application. This means although they may 
previously have sent reports out without needed identification, they can ask for it if theyd like 
to. This isnt something I can interfere with, as this is something only Experian can decide.Similarly, regarding the online verification Mr W has mentioned, Ive seen hes given over 
information he says only he could know so that should be enough. But, Experian says its 
not. While I can see why Mr W is frustrated, I dont think Experian taking appropriate steps to 
prevent sharing information with the wrong parties is inappropriate, and Ive seen nothing to 
suggest theyve treated Mr W unfairly in their requests.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained above I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision before 11 October 2022.
 
Jon Pearce
Ombudsman