DRN-3518257
The complaint
Mr and Mrs J are unhappy HSBC UK Bank Plc hasnt reimbursed the money they lost to two 
scam investment firms, who they believed were investment recovery firms.
What happened
Mr J lost money to investment scams in 2016 and 2017. In late 2017, he was contacted by 
firm X saying they could recover his lost funds if he deposited a bond with them. So he sent 
over funds, but he says he was assured this wouldnt be used in trading. Mr J sent around
£13,500 to X between November 2017 and January 2018. He then thought his funds had 
been traded without his permission and his money had been lost. But he later realised hed 
been the victim of another scam.
In September 2018, Mr J was contacted by another firm I who said they could help him 
recover the funds lost to the previous scams. He sent them just over £7,000. However Mr J 
then realised hed again been scammed, and this money was also lost. He complained to 
HSBC that it should assist him in getting the money back.
HSBC said it wasnt able to get his funds back through chargeback, as Mr J didnt have the 
evidence VISA required for this to be successful. And it didnt agree it had made any 
mistakes in allowing the payments to be processed. So it didnt reimburse Mr J for any of the 
amounts sent.
Mr and Mrs J brought their complaint to our service. They didnt agree HSBC had correctly 
handled their complaint and felt they were due compensation or a reimbursement. Our 
investigator partially upheld their complaint as they considered HSBC shouldve intervened 
on the third payment Mr J sent to X and this wouldve stopped him dealing with X and then I. 
HSBC disagreed and asked for an ombudsman to review the complaint.
I issued a provisional decision on this complaint in early June 2022. My findings were as 
follows:
Our investigator set out to Mr J why HSBC didnt act unfairly in not pursuing a 
chargeback claim for the payments he made to X and I. Im in agreement with them 
on this point. I understand Mr J deposited the money as bonds to X to receive a 
refund. But the paperwork he completed with X was for an investment opportunity. 
And it seems this was the same with I. What we have to look at is what he agreed to 
with the firms, which was investing. And VISA has very specific rules on what must 
be supplied in order to successfully claim money back from an investment through 
chargeback. Mr J doesnt have this evidence, so HSBC wasnt unfair in not pursuing 
claims for him. It doesnt have discretion over VISAs rules.
Ive then looked at Mr Js statements to see the history on this account and the 
transactions between October 2016 until September 2018. In December 2016, Mr 
and Mrs Js account shows payments to international investments. And in January 
2017, they send over £15,000 in one day to a binary options trader. And a few days 
later send £10,000 to a company reported to be involved in cryptocurrency. In April 
2017, £2,000 is sent to another binary options firm. So by the time Mr J pays the 
recovery firms from November 2017, theres been a lot of payments to investment 
firms on the account. And these have been for high values, some much higher than 
he sent X or I.
Considering the above, I cant say that the payments Mr J made to X ought to have 
triggered an intervention from HSBC. His previous investing meant this type of 
transaction wasnt unusual or uncharacteristic. And the fact he previously sent 
£15,000 in one day means that, even when adding the first three payments to X 
together  as they were sent on one day, I still dont think they ought to have flagged 
on HSBCs system. This type of payment is, by this time, normal for this account. 
And theres no warnings about X at the time of payment to alert HSBC this wasnt a 
genuine firm. HSBC has a duty to execute the payments Mr J requested. And we 
cant fairly expect it to block lower value payments a customer makes that arent 
uncharacteristic/unusual, just in case they are to do with fraud or a scam.
Ive then looked at the payments Mr J sent to I, but these are of much lower value 
than the payments he sent to X. The total sent also isnt unusual for transactions on 
this account. And again there are no warnings about I at the time Mr J sent the 
money. So I dont agree that any of these payments shouldve triggered an 
intervention by HSBC either.
As I dont consider HSBC shouldve contacted Mr J and intervened in any of the 
payments, I cant say it missed an opportunity to prevent him making the payments 
and losing money to these scams. And as he didnt hold the required paperwork, 
chargeback wasnt a viable option for recovery of the funds either. So while I accept 
Mr and Mrs J have lost a large sum due to these recovery scams, I cant say HSBC 
needs to reimburse them for any of the sums theyve lost.
Mr and Mrs J responded to my provisional decision rejecting it.
Mr J said that this was the first time hed heard of cashback/chargeback (he used these 
terms interchangeably). And he said that HSBC shouldve made it clear to him at the time 
what was required for a claim. But hes also said there was some information on chargeback 
on a form he returned to HSBC and he sent all the information he had at the time. He didnt 
have everything that was required as the scammers prevented him from accessing what was 
required.
Mr J also said that he accepted the transactions wouldve looked normal on his account. But 
he thinks HSBC shouldve looked at how the amounts were sent  so for example the 
fraudsters got him to sent smaller amounts in succession rather than one large sum. He also 
complained about HSBCs handling of his claim and delays in this.
HSBC accepted my provisional decision and said he had nothing further to add. So the 
complaint has been passed back to me for review and a final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In relation to chargeback, as Mr J has also said himself, this was raised with him at the time 
by HSBC. Ive seen a response he wrote to HSBC which explains he cant show hes made 
a withdrawal request as his account balance has been wiped. So Im satisfied this was 
raised with him at the appropriate time and he didnt have the information needed. I do appreciate Mr Js comments that once a scammer realises the consumer is getting 
suspicious/concerned then they do prevent them getting the information needed. But HSBC 
also wasnt involved until Mr J considered something had gone wrong. So I cant see it 
missed an earlier opportunity for him to get the information needed. And our service cant 
require it to have set wording or set warnings like the Police do, as hes suggested, to pass 
on all chargeback information in a set way or at an earlier time.
I dont think HSBC has made a mistake in when it discussed chargeback with Mr J. And as 
per my provisional decision, I dont agree it needed to intervene during the time he was 
making payments. Hes suggested that there was a delay of a few weeks due to 
communication issues between him and the bank  when he did report the scam. But I 
havent seen evidence from him that it going through this process with him at any 
(reasonable) earlier opportunity wouldve changed the outcome in this case. As above, we 
do know that fraudsters tend to manipulate peoples accounts once they realise the 
consumer has concerns. And its usually not until someone is concerned that they reach out 
to their bank, so by then its already too late to get the evidence needed. 
I did consider the timescales and frequency of payments when I first looked at Mr Js 
account activity. As above, I considered adding the first set of payments together and 
whether this ought to have triggered an intervention. But I still dont agree it should have. I 
think it is generally unusual to send multiple payments to the same firm in one day, but Mr J 
didnt seemingly question why he was asked to do this at the time. And for HSBCs 
purposes, he had done this before with other investments, so it wasnt unusual activity on his 
specific account. This means it wouldnt flag up to an automated system (if there was one in 
place for this). And I dont expect HSBC to have manually checked for these sorts of 
payments. 
I accept that there are many more fraud warnings on accounts and much more information 
available to people now. But just because HSBC is now doing more, doesnt mean that it 
didnt do enough on this case at the time. Im in agreement with Mr J that the transactions 
wouldve looked normal, so therefore HSBC didnt have an obligation to intervene and 
contact him about them during the earlier stages of the scam. Mr J also used his debit card 
to make the payments, so these transactions werent sent as bank transfers from his joint 
bank account, a situation which, under newer regulations, now does require the bank to 
show an effective warning.
I understand Mr Js frustration as he and Mrs J have lost a large sum to two scams. And in 
hindsight it is possible to consider what might have happened if HSBC had treated him and 
his account differently. But I havent seen persuasive evidence that HSBC did make any 
mistakes in this case, so Im still not upholding it. Our service cant uphold a complaint 
because, had a business done something different, a consumer might not be in the situation 
theyre now in. We need to be confident the business did something wrong and that mistake 
or error is what led to the detriment. And I cant say thats the case here.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I dont uphold Mr and Mrs Js complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs J and Mr J to 
accept or reject my decision before 13 July 2022.
 
Amy Osborne
Ombudsman