DRN-1706976
 
The complaint
Mrs D is unhappy that she had to pay an early repayment charge (ERC) when she repaid 
her mortgage. She is asking Barclays Bank UK Plc to reimburse this as a gesture of 
goodwill, given her circumstances.
What happened
At the time of the events complained of, Mrs D had a mortgage with Barclays, taken out in 
2016. The mortgage was in two parts, with an ERC which applied on the first part until 20 
June 2021 and on the second part until 30 June 2025.
Mrs D  has told us that in 2018 she spoke to a financial adviser. The financial adviser, a 
friend of Mrs Ds father, said that, based on what Mrs D had told him, the bank he works for 
would refund the ERC. 
In April 2018 Mrs D approached Barclays. Mrs D explained that one of her children has 
special needs, and requires significant support. In addition, due to noise issues arising out of 
the childs disabilities, complaints had been made by a neighbour. Mrs D decided to sell her 
property and move in with her parents, who could provide her with additional support. 
Barclays asked Mrs D for further information about her circumstances which Mrs D provided.  
Barclays considered this and looked at Mrs Ds situation but said that she didnt meet its 
criteria for an exception to be made.
In April 2019 Mrs D sold her house and was charged an ERC of £4,510.42. Mrs D 
acknowledges that the mortgage contract requires her to pay an ERC, but says that 
exceptional circumstances meant she had to sell her property. Mrs D think that, given this, 
Barclays should waive the ERC.
In its final response letter, Barclays explained that all the reasons Mrs D had given for selling 
her property had been taken into consideration, but Barclays wasnt able to waive the ERC.
Mrs D brought her complaint to us, where it was considered by an investigator. After giving 
careful consideration to everything Mrs D and Barclays said, he wasnt able to uphold the 
complaint. He was satisfied Barclays had given fair consideration to Mrs Ds circumstances 
and, having done so, the banks decision not to waive the ERC was not something he could 
interfere with.
In response, Mrs D has made some further comments, which I summarise. Mrs D accepts 
that Barclays has a policy in relation to ERCs, and shes not asking the bank to change this. 
Instead, Mrs D wants Barclays to refund the ERC as a gesture of goodwill, given her 
circumstances. What angers her most is that when she first spoke to Barclays in April 2018, 
the bank asked her to send in evidence of her circumstances. This took up her time, as well 
as that of her GP.
Mrs D has explained that the stress of the neighbours complaints was having a negative 
effect on her own health, and the stress was affecting the children. To compensate Mrs D 
began to overspend on the children, and got into debt. Barclays refused to increase the 
mortgage to consolidate the debt, so Mrs D had to seek help from StepChange. Mrs D says 
that this was a very unhappy time for her, but she is now in a much more secure situation, 
living with her parents and debt-free. 
Mrs D says that what shed like us to do is to have an actual conversation with Barclays to 
see if the bank will waive the ERC out of goodwill, rather than just looking at whether 
Barclays has applied its policy.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I confirm Ive taken everything Mrs D and Barclays have told us into consideration. Ive 
listened to all the phone calls and looked at Barclays policy in relation to waiver of ERCs. 
Having done so, Im afraid Ive some disappointing news for Mrs D; Im not upholding her 
complaint. These are my reasons.
First, I fully sympathise with Mrs Ds circumstances, and I appreciate she has had a difficult 
time. But I must emphasise that the Financial Ombudsman Service is impartial and 
independent. We dont represent the interests either of consumers or the businesses theyre 
complaining about. 
So although I understand Mrs D would like us to speak to Barclays on her behalf, but its not 
appropriate for us to argue a case on behalf of a consumer. If we were to do so, it would 
compromise our independence.
Ive reviewed Barclays policy on ERCs and taken note of the circumstances in which 
Barclays will consider waiving an ERC, which is at the banks discretion. Mrs D doesnt fall 
within any of the categories of customer to which an exception can be applied.
It was reasonable for Barclays to ask Mrs D to provide further information, and Im sorry if 
this gave Mrs D the impression that Barclays would grant her request. But Ive seen nothing 
to suggest Barclays misled Mrs D into believing the ERC would be refunded. 
Im satisfied that, in declining her request for a refund of the ERC, Barclays took into account 
all Mrs Ds circumstances and gave fair consideration to her request.  The bank escalated 
the request to senior level before declining the waive the ERC.  
I know this isnt the outcome Mrs D was hoping for, and Im sorry if my decision causes her 
any distress. But Im satisfied that, in all the circumstances of this case, Barclays was 
entitled to charge the ERC and theres no basis on which it would be fair or reasonable for 
me to order Barclays to refund it.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs D to accept or 
reject my decision before 30 July 2020.
 Jan O'Leary
Ombudsman