DRN-1122754
 
The complaint
Miss P complains that AXA PP Healthcare Limited unfairly declined her private medical 
insurance claim. 
What happened
Miss P has private medical insurance with AXA. In 2019, she submitted a claim for DIEP flap 
reconstruction; because an implant shed received in 2012, following treatment for breast 
cancer, had ruptured.
AXA declined Miss Ps claim. They said her policy didn't cover treatment connected to 
previous reconstructive surgery. But Miss P said that was unfair, as AXA hadn't bought that 
particular term to her attention when theyd sold her the policy in 2016. Miss P also said 
AXA's term breached the Consumer Rights Act 2015. 
AXA maintained their decision to decline Miss Ps claim. They also said their sales agents 
couldn't cover everything a policy may (or may not) cover during their sales calls. And they 
said they'd sent Miss P a policy handbook detailing all the cover her policy provided 
following the sale, and shed been given a 14 day cooling off period.
Unhappy with what had happened, Miss P brought her complaint to our service. An 
investigator considered the complaint, but didn't think AXA had declined the claim unfairly 
and, in summary, said that:
The DIEP flap reconstruction was connected to previous reconstructive surgery 
which wasn't covered under Miss Ps policy;
AXA wouldn't have been expected to list every policy term or exclusion when selling 
a policy, and the applicable term was listed in the policy documentation that Miss P 
had been given;
Miss P had made a previous claim in 2015, for treatment connected to a revision of 
breast reconstruction, and AXA had also told her then that connected treatment was 
not covered.
Miss P accepted our investigators findings; both in relation to the declining of her claim and 
the term not being brought to her attention. But she remained concerned that the term was 
unfair, and referred to the Consumer Rights Act again. 
Our investigator explained why he didn't think the term was unfair, but Miss P wanted an 
ombudsman to decide that matter. So the complaint was passed to me.
 What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.The arguments surrounding both the decline of Miss Ps claim and the term not being 
mentioned during the sale are no longer in dispute. However, for completeness and the 
avoidance of doubt Ill briefly set out my findings on those matters below.
In line with the relevant rules and industry guidelines, AXA are required to consider claims 
promptly and fairly, and mustn't reject them unreasonably. Miss Ps policy says AXA:
 will cover your first reconstructive surgery following an accident or surgery for a medical 
condition that was covered by your membership. 
The policy says that:
in the case of breast cancer the first reconstructive surgery means:
one planned surgery to reconstruct the diseased breast
one further planned surgery to the other breast, when it has not been operated on, to 
improve symmetry
nipple tattooing, up to two sessions.
But Miss Ps policy also explains that AXA do not cover treatment that is connected to 
previous reconstructive surgery or any cosmetic operation to a reconstructed breast.
Miss Ps DIEP flap reconstruction claim stemmed from her implant rupturing. And that 
implant had been used as a way of reconstructing her breast following a cancer diagnosis 
and subsequent treatment. So I don't think it was unreasonable of AXA to conclude it was 
connected to previous reconstructive surgery, or decline Miss P's claim.
In relation to the term not being mentioned during the sale of the policy, Miss Ps policy was 
sold on a non-advised basis. That means AXA needed to provide enough information for 
Miss P to make an informed choice about whether the policy was suitable for her. 
AXAs sales call isn't available, so I cant listen to what was said at that time. But Miss P's 
told this service she doesn't think she specifically asked about the cover surrounding her 
implant during that call. At the time of the sale, neither Miss P nor AXA could have 
known that her implant would go on to rupture. Nor that shed need further treatment in 
connection to it either.
Looking at the term itself, I don't think it is unusual or unclear. And as our investigator 
explained, without a direct question about connected treatment, I wouldn't have necessarily 
expected AXA to draw attention to it during the call. I would, however, have expected it to be 
set out clearly within the policy documentation. And looking at the terms and conditions in 
this case, I can see that it was. 
I appreciate that Miss P is disappointed with what that term means for her current situation. 
But in this case, I'm not persuaded that AXA needed to bring it to her attention during the 
sales call.
As I set out above though, the focus of Miss Ps complaint now centres on her concerns 
about the term being unfair. However, I'm not persuaded that it is and will explain why.
As an insurer, AXA are entitled to decide what risks they are and aren't prepared to 
cover, and have said they aren't prepared to cover treatment connected to previous 
reconstructive surgery. Miss Ps said she finds that "galling" given the cost of her policy and 
the rupture being unavoidable. And that she thinks the term might be in breach of the 
Consumer Rights Act. But private medical insurance isn't designed to cover every eventuality. And, there will 
always be terms within policies that exclude or restrict the amount of cover 
available, regardless of the root cause or need for the treatment being claimed. So although 
I accept Miss P's treatment may be considered necessary and the rupture wasn't expected, 
that in itself doesn't mean that the term is unfair. 
The term that Miss P is concerned about isn't hidden and is set out clearly within the terms 
and conditions of her policy. It doesn't restrict or limit her legal rights either. Both of which 
are aspects of unfair terms that the Consumer Rights Act sets out. I accept Miss P is 
disappointed that she isn't eligible for treatment under the policy on this occasion. But for the 
reasons given above and in the circumstances of this case, I don't think the term is unfair 
and I won't be asking AXA to re-consider her claim. 
My final decision
 My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss P to accept 
or reject my decision before 17 April 2020.
Jade Alexander
Ombudsman