DRN-3652379
The complaint
Mr W complains that Clydesdale Financial Services Limited trading as Barclays Partner 
Finance (BPF) defaulted his loan account.
What happened
In October 2016, Mr W took a loan of £4,921.70 from BPF. It was arranged through a retailer 
for the purchase of a kitchen. With interest added, the total payable was £9,374.40. 
Payments were £156.24 over 72 months. If the loan was repaid within the first 12 months, no 
interest was payable. It wasnt, and Mr W became liable for the interest. Between 2017 and 
2019, some payments were missed or were late but were made up. In 2020, two payments 
were missed so that in April 2020, the arrears were two months (£312.48). In May 2020, 
BPF sent Mr W a Notice of Default  which said the arrears (then £468.72  three months) 
must be paid by 1 July 2020 to avoid default.
In June 2020, Mr W asked for a three-month payment holiday under the FCAs support 
scheme, and BPF agreed to this. No more payments were made after the payment holiday 
ended. A default was registered on Mr Ws credit file in September 2020. The loan was 
passed to a debt collection agency. In February 2022, the balance was the same as when it 
was defaulted (£5,155.92) and the arrears had increased to £3,124.80.
Mr W had made a complaint to BPF which said that he was mis sold the loan. He said that 
the retailers salesman had misrepresented the product  and said it was interest free. BPF 
responded to that complaint in November 2020 and said that Mr had signed the loan 
agreement and its terms were clear. They said his complaint should be made to the retailer. 
On this aspect, our investigator said BPF dealt with Mr Ws complaint fairly and agreed with 
BPF. Mr W accepted that. So  this decision doesnt look at that part of Mr Ws complaint.
But  Mr W complained that he spoke to BPF during his initial complaint; and they agreed 
that he didnt have to make any payments to the loan while his complaint to this service was 
ongoing. Neither would his loan be defaulted because of that. This decision looks at this 
complaint. Mr W said he spoke to BPF on several occasions, but it was clear that the call 
handlers were working from home and he wasnt surprised that his calls werent recorded. 
Mr W wants the default to be removed from his credit file.
BPF said they had no record of such a conversation. They said the last payment to Mr Ws 
loan was in February 2020. He had a payment holiday which covered the months of June 
2020 to August 2020, but since then no further payments had been made. Arrears had 
therefore increased and a default marker was applied to Mr Ws credit file on 29 September 
2020. BPF apologised for not dealing with Mr Ws complaint in a timely way and for that, 
offered compensation of £100.
Mr W rejected BPFs offer and brought his complaint to us. Our investigators said they 
couldnt see that Mr W had contacted BPF in the way he said, and there wasnt any record 
that a default wouldnt be applied. But  she said that because Mr W was already in arrears 
at the time of the payment holiday, he shouldnt have been given it  as that wasnt part of 
the schemes rules. That meant hed been charged interest for three months, when he was 
in financial difficulty. She said BPF shouldve agreed a solution with him which involved an 
interest-free period. She said the interest for the PH should be refunded, and the date of 
default changed to July 2020  as she thought it was unlikely that he wouldve brought the 
account up to date by then. 
Mr W didnt agree. He maintained he had spoken to BPF and theyd agreed to not default his 
loan. He asked that an ombudsman look at his complaint.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Where the information Ive got is incomplete, unclear, or contradictory (as some of it is here) 
I must base my decision on the balance of probabilities. That is  whats more likely than not 
to have happened in all of the circumstances here, based on the available evidence. I say 
that because Mr W says he did contact BPF in the way he says; whereas BPF have no such 
record of that.
We asked BPF for a copy of all call recordings they had. They gave us two calls in October 
2021 and then in February 2022  but neither of those were relevant to the outcome of Mr 
Ws complaint. On each one  Mr W said he was awaiting the outcome of his complaint to 
our service. On the first call, Mr W did say that BPF had agreed to not default this loan while 
his complaint was being considered  but BPFs call handler didnt respond to his comment.
BPF agreed that not all calls were recorded for a period  because of the effect of the 
pandemic and the need for staff to work from home. But they also told us that a stamp was 
automatically recorded on Mr Ws file if a call was made  and there wasnt any such marker 
for the period between January 2020 and October 2020. So  there wasnt any such contact 
from Mr W. I looked through the contact notes in BPFs records and they showed the same 
thing  there wasnt any contact from Mr W. Mr W has shown us an email he sent to BPF on 
19 November 2020  in which he asked that his payments were suspended while his 
complaint was being looked at. But theres no record in BPFs files of this, or a reply. 
We noticed that BPFs notes mentioned hold points  and I wondered if these showed 
theyd agreed payments could be suspended. But they told us they were simply to hold off 
contacting Mr W about payments as he had indicated he was in financial difficulty. This 
wouldve been common practice.
I also thought about whether such an agreement wouldve been probable  and I have to say 
it wouldve been very unusual for BPF to agree to defer default action because of a 
complaint  especially as by September 2020, there were four months arrears. On 1 
September 2020, BPF wrote to Mr W to ask him to contact them to resume payments, and 
re-establish a direct debit  but I cant see from BPFs records that he did so.
And so  on the balance of evidence that Ive seen, I cant conclude that there was an 
agreement by BPF not to default Mr Ws loan.
I then looked at the payment holiday that BPF agreed in June 2020  as Mr Ws income was 
affected by the pandemic.
In April 2020, The Financial Conduct Authority (FCA) announced guidance to lenders in 
response to the effects on customers of the COVID-19 pandemic. All lenders, including BPF, 
had to put in place payment holidays on many credit agreements, including loans  to help 
customers who were affected. Customers could ask for a total of two payment holidays each of three months  whereby payments could be suspended. Missed payments would not be 
reported to credit reference agencies, although interest would still be debited to the 
accounts.
The intention of the scheme was to provide short term support  usually in cases where 
customers would be returning to work within a short period of time. And so  where a 
customers situation was that they were in longer term difficulty, then payment holidays 
under this scheme werent normally agreed. What that meant was that if there were pre-
existing arrears, then a payment holiday wouldnt normally be agreed.
In June 2020, Mr W had arrears of £468.72  as BPF had sent a Notice of Default for that 
amount. That was three payments. And so  I think its reasonable for me to say that a 
payment holiday should not have been given, because the arrears indicated that Mr W was 
in financial difficulty  and a better solution wouldve been for BPF to agree a period of 
reduced payments with zero interest. This wouldve been consistent with the obligations of 
firms to support customers in financial difficulty.  And so  on that aspect, I agree with our 
investigator that interest for the three months of the payment holiday should be refunded to 
Mr Ws loan account. And  given that he was already three months in arrears, its likely that 
the default wouldve taken place anyway  and it should therefore be backdated to July 
2020. This will mean that the six-year period  during which time the default will remain on 
Mr Ws credit file  will run out earlier that it would otherwise have done.
I appreciate that my final decision will come as a disappointment to Mr W. But Im not going 
to ask BPF to remove the default. But BPF should refund the interest for the three-month 
period of the payment holiday and backdate the default to July 2020. If Mr W wishes to 
receive the compensation offered by BPF (£100), he should contact them. We asked BPF 
about the status of Mr Ws loan. In July 2022  it was being managed by BPF and has been 
taken back from the debt collection agency. I would encourage Mr W to engage with BPF on 
order to agree a mutually agreeable repayment schedule.
(continued)
My final decision
I uphold this complaint. Clydesdale Financial Services Limited trading as Barclays Partner 
Finance must:
Refund interest payable on the loan for the period of the payment holiday (June 2020 
to August 2020).
Backdate the default to July 2020.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision before 14 September 2022.
 
Martin Lord
Ombudsman