DRN-3034330
The complaint
Mr B complains that Zurich Assurance Ltd (Zurich) failed to respond to him with information 
about his personal pension in a timely way. 
What happened
Zurich held a personal pension policy in Mr Bs name, but it didnt have an up to date 
address for him. It located him using a tracing service in August 2018, so sent him a form to 
complete regarding his unclaimed pension. Mr B responded with his correct address, and 
Zurich used this information to update its records in October 2018. 
On 2 November 2018, Mr B wrote to Zurich asking for information on the value of his 
pension. But he didnt include his policy number in his request, so Zurich sent him a form to 
complete so it could identify which pension he was referring to. Mr B returned this to Zurich 
on 13 November 2018, and also included an old policy document. But he heard nothing 
more until he chased his request on 1 February 2019. He then received a reply from Zurichs 
corporate savings department saying it couldnt find his pension plan.
In June 2019 and 2020, Zurich says it sent Mr B annual statements. In July 2020, Mr B 
complained to Zurich. He said hed received the recent statement showing he did have a 
policy, when hed previously thought there was no point taking this further as it had ignored 
his correspondence. 
On 14 July 2020, Zurich sent Mr B information about his pension plan options. Mr B replied 
the next day, asking for a claim form to take it as a lump sum. Zurich sent this to him on 
31 July 2020.
In August 2020, Zurich responded to Mr Bs complaint offering him £50 compensation for 
failing to send him policy information when he asked for it. And it said it took eight-days 
longer than it should have in total to send him pension options and the claim form. So it 
offered to make up for any financial loss caused by this when Mr B sends all requirements to 
make his claim. 
While Zurichs final response letter was sent to Mr Bs address, he emailed it at the end of 
August 2020 saying he hadnt received a response. Mr B says he didnt get a reply to this 
email, so he brought his complaint to our service. He added that he didnt receive his 2019 
annual statement and that Zurich ought to have traced him before 2018. 
In July 2021, Mr B sent Zurich the forms to withdraw his pension funds as cash, which took 
place a few weeks later. And Zurich said it calculated his loss for the delay it highlighted in 
its final response letter to be £62.56. 
One of our investigators looked into Mr Bs complaint. He said Zurich had acknowledged it 
had made some errors, which were exacerbated by Mr B not receiving the 2019 statement. 
But he thought that what it had offered was fair and reasonable in the circumstances. 
Mr B didnt agree. He said that he hadnt received the £50 compensation Zurich had offered 
and that hed chased its final response letter, without a reply. He said hed returned a car he 
had on PCP in February 2019 due to needing to make the balloon payment, which he might 
have kept if hed known he had the pension and was able to access the cash. He said that, 
to resolve his complaint, hed like £400 for the 20 hours hes spent on this, at £20 per hour.  
As no agreement could be reached, the complaints been passed to me for a decision. I told 
Zurich I thought it had missed opportunities to provide Mr B with the policy information hed 
asked for, so it would be fair to pay him further compensation for the distress and 
inconvenience caused him. 
But Zurich didnt think it needed to do anything more. In summary, it said that while it hadnt 
responded to Mr Bs letter dated 13 November 2018 when it should have, he ought to have 
included his policy number in his February 2019 letter. And, while Mr Bs letter was 
incorrectly directed by it to its corporate savings department, this is effectively a separate 
company. Zurich said Mr B took no action when he received its reply. And that the 2019 
statement was correctly sent to his updated address and wasnt returned as gone away, so 
it ought to have put him on notice that his plan existed.
I let Mr B know I was minded to ask Zurich to pay him a further £150 compensation in 
addition to the £50 it had already offered, as I thought it had made some errors and could 
have provided better customer service. I said I wasnt persuaded hed have done anything 
differently had he been given more information about the policy sooner, so I wasnt minded 
to ask Zurich to do anything further on top of the £62.56 its offered for the delay its 
highlighted. Mr B didnt respond.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im upholding Mr Bs complaint. Ill explain why. 
Zurich said it would have tried to trace Mr B sooner, although its unable to say when as it 
only has records of the successful 2018 trace. Either way, I cant say with any certainty that 
it could have done more or traced Mr B any sooner, as its efforts are largely reliant on 
information available to it. And theres an obligation on Mr B to keep it updated with his 
address. So Im not asking Zurich to do anything in this regard. 
But I do think Zurich couldve done more to trace Mr Bs pension when he asked for details 
of this. Whilst I acknowledge Mr B didnt provide enough information for Zurich to identify him 
in his letter dated 2 November 2018, it accepts that he did in his letter dated 
13 November 2018. And that it didnt respond with policy information when it should have. 
Zurich has said Mr Bs letter dated 1 February 2019 was directed to its corporate savings 
department. This isnt where it shouldve been directed given I can see Mr B sent it to the 
same address hed used for his other correspondence, which had been received correctly. 
So irrespective of Zurichs assertion that this department is effectively a different entity, Id 
reasonably expect his letter to have been directed as had been done previously. 
I appreciate Mr Bs letter didnt include his policy number though, so hes likely to have been 
asked for more information to identify him again. But I think this is something he could have 
engaged with, in contrast to being told Zurich couldnt find a plan. So I maintain it missed a 
further opportunity to put things right, causing Mr B frustration and confusion.  Turning to Mr Bs annual statements, Mr B says he didnt receive the June 2019 statement, 
so he didnt know his pension existed.  And that if he had he would have asked Zurich for his 
options in the way he did on receipt of the 2020 statement. But I think the majority of post is 
successful delivered. And Zurich has provided evidence which shows the 2019 statement 
was sent automatically to Mr Bs address. So, on balance, I think this was sent. And I cant 
fairly hold Zurich responsible if Mr B didnt receive this, as its done what Id expect by 
sending it.
In summary, I think Zurich missed opportunities to provide Mr B with information about his 
pension, and this caused him distress and inconvenience. I can see how frustrated Mr B was 
to not get a response to something that was important to him, on top of the inconvenience of 
having to make repeated efforts to get information which should have been more easily 
obtained. And I think a further £150 compensation  on top of the £50 that Zurichs already 
offered  is a fair and reasonable amount in the circumstances. I appreciate Mr B said he 
wants £400 to reflect the time hes spent on this matter, but I cant reasonably say this would 
have taken 20 hours and we look at the overall impact in the circumstances, rather than an 
hourly amount. 
Mr B hasnt suggested Zurich should compensate him for the chance he might have kept his 
car if it had provided him with policy information sooner. And I agree with this. I think its 
most likely Mr B was always planning on returning it at the end of the finance agreement. 
And without using the benefit of hindsight, Im unable to say with any degree of certainty, 
whether he wouldve done anything differently had he been given more information about the 
policy sooner. Especially when also bearing in mind he had the forms to cash this in from 
July 2020 if he wanted to, but he didnt do so until mid-2021. 
Zurich has offered to pay Mr B £62.56 to redress the loss he suffered as a result of the 
eight-day delay it later caused by not sending him his options and the claim form. And, 
although Ive not seen how it calculated this, it hasnt been questioned by Mr B so I see no 
reason to award anything different.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given, my final decision is I uphold Mr Bs complaint and Zurich 
Assurance Ltd should pay Mr B £200 total compensation for the distress and inconvenience 
caused to him. In addition it should pay him, if it hasnt already done so, £62.56 for the loss 
in value to his pension caused by its eight-day delay. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 7 June 2022.
 
Holly Jackson
Ombudsman