DRN-2939963
The complaint
Mr P complains that Ageas Insurance Limited declined his claim made on his motor 
insurance policy. 
What happened
Mr P made a claim on his policy following an accident abroad where he was visiting family. 
Ageas investigated the claim and declined to accept it. It said it had concerns about the 
information Mr P had provided about the accident. 
Our investigator didnt recommend that the complaint should be upheld. He thought Ageas 
had considered the evidence provided and relied on an engineers report and a claims 
investigators report to decide to decline the claim. He thought it was entitled to do this by the 
policys terms and conditions. So he didnt think Ageas had done anything wrong.
Mr P replied that he thought his evidence hadnt been taken into account by the investigator. 
He asked for an ombudsmans review, so the complaint has come to me for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr P said the accident occurred when he pulled out of a minor road onto a main road and 
was hit by another car. He said he didnt see the other car and was moving slowly at the 
time, between 5 and 10 miles per hour. The police attended and Mr P was given an on the 
spot fine. 
The investigator has already explained that it isnt our role to decide who was responsible for 
causing the accident. This is the role of the courts. Instead, our role in complaints of this 
nature is simply to investigate how the insurer made the decision to settle the claim. Did it 
act fairly and reasonably and in line with the terms and conditions of the policy? And has it 
treated Mr P the same as someone else in his position. 
I can see that Ageas considered the following evidence to investigate the claim: Mr Ps 
version of events, photographs taken at the scene, an engineers review of the damage 
caused to the two cars involved, a claims investigators report following interviews with Mr P. 
Ageas then had a number of concerns about the claim. 
I think Mr P has provided a reasonable explanation for some of these concerns: 
Mr P bought a previously written off car from a salvage company. But he was unable to 
provide Ageas with any evidence of repairs made to it through an estimate or receipt and 
there was no paper trail for the £4,000 repairs payment he said he had paid. Mr P said 
the repairing garage had closed during the pandemic and was now gone. So I cant say 
that this conclusively shows that Mr P didnt have his car repaired. 
Mr P said his car didnt have any previous damage before the accident and was in 
excellent condition. Hes provided us with photographs to show this. Ageas engineer 
considered these and thought they showed a repaired car at a date prior to the claim. 
But he couldnt confirm that this was Mr Ps car without seeing the Vehicle Identification 
Number. But, again, I dont think this shows conclusively that the car wasnt repaired.
Mr P booked a one-way journey by train with his car to his familys home, despite already 
having a flight booked to there for the same date. But I think Mr P has reasonably 
explained that hed already booked his flights before deciding to drive and use the train 
for family reasons. He hadnt yet booked the return journey as he couldnt time his return. 
I think thats a fair explanation of his travel arrangements. 
Ageas didnt have any information about the other driver. But I can see from its file that 
his name, description and car details were provided by Mr P to Ageas agent. These 
were also confirmed on the police report. So I cant say that Mr P didnt provide 
information about the other driver. 
But Im not satisfied that Mr P has provided a reasonable explanation for Ageas further 
concerns:
Mr P had a second car in his home country registered to him and shown by his 
photographs to be present at the accident scene. But he didnt recall knowing anything 
about that car when asked. Mr P later recalled that hed bought this car for his girlfriend. 
But in his statement, he said only he was named on the cars insurance policy. So Im 
not satisfied that Mr P has explained why the car was in his home country or at the 
scene of the accident.
Ageas engineer considered the damage to the cars and he thought this didnt match the 
circumstances. He said there was previous damage to Mr Ps car unrelated to the 
incident. He said this was damage to the rear wheel and tyre and rear suspension whilst, 
from Mr Ps photographs, the impact of the other car had been to the rear passenger 
door. Ageas noted that this pre-existing damage was the same as in the total loss claim.
The engineer said the other cars airbags didnt deploy as would be expected from the 
impact and there was no debris at the scene. He thought Mr Ps car had been stationary 
at the time of the collision whilst Mr P said he was moving slowly. 
The engineer thought the pre-existing suspension damage to Mr Ps car was such that it 
couldnt have been driven to Mr Ps home country. Mr P provided photographs which he 
said hed taken on his journey home. I can see these show his car in various locations 
and I cant see any damage to the car. But I cant say that Mr Ps car wasnt then 
damaged before this accident. 
So Im satisfied Ageas still had reasons to be concerned about the claim. I think it 
reasonably investigated the claim and relied on the engineers report and the claims 
investigators report to decide this. I think it reasonably considered that Mr P hadnt provided 
accurate information about the accident circumstances. And I think it was then entitled by the 
policy terms and conditions to decline the claim. So I dont require Ageas to settle Mr Ps 
claim.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision before 11 November 2021.
 
Phillip Berechree
Ombudsman