DRN-3893216
The complaint
Mr L complains that Ikano Bank AB (publ), has rejected the claim he made under section 75 
and 140 of the Consumer Credit Act 1974 (the Act) in relation to a solar panel, battery, and 
boiler optimiser system he says was misrepresented to him by the supplier.
Mr L is represented by a claims management company (the CMC).
What happened
In May 2019, Mr L purchased a solar panel system including battery and boiler optimiser 
(the system) to be installed at his home. Mr L financed the purchase through a fixed sum 
loan agreement with Ikano that was repayable over ten years.
In June 2022, the CMC made a claim on Mr Ls behalf under section 75 and section 140 of 
the Act to Ikano. The CMC said that the supplier had sold the system as self-funding on a 
monthly basis, in that its benefits would cover the cost of the loan repayments. 
Ikano issued a final response and explained that it didnt agree the system had been 
misrepresented to Mr L or that there were any other reasons for the claim to be upheld. 
The CMC then referred the complaint to the Financial Ombudsman Service. I issued a 
provisional decision explaining that I was not planning to uphold this complaint. 
The CMC responded and made a number of points, including the following:
Mr L relied on what he was told. The quote only showed estimated benefits for the 
first year and does not show that the system would not be self-funding within the term 
of the loan. 
Pre-contract credit information was not provided to Mr L and an affordability 
assessment was not carried out, thus creating an unfair relationship. 
The cost of replacing the inverter and labour costs associated with warranty repairs 
werent made clear to Mr L. 
The company that pays Mr L under the grid trading scheme has gone into liquidation 
and he is no longer receiving payments, reducing the benefit of the system.
Ive taken these comments into account when making my final decision. 
Ikano didnt provide anything further for me to consider. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Relevant considerations
When considering whats fair and reasonable, Im required to take into account; relevant law 
and regulations, relevant regulatory rules, guidance and standards and codes of practice 
and, where appropriate, what I consider to have been good industry practice at the relevant 
time.
In this case the relevant law includes section 56, section 75, and section 140 of the Act. 
Section 56 says that any negotiations between Mr L and the supplier are deemed to have 
been conducted by the supplier as an agent of Ikano. 
Section 75 provides protection for consumers for goods or services bought using credit, 
allowing them to claim against the credit provider in the same way they could against the 
supplier if there was a misrepresentation or breach of contract by the supplier. 
Section 140 allows the courts to consider if a relationship between a credit and debtor is 
unfair on the debtor  and the courts can take into account linked agreements and how they 
were sold.
For the purpose of this decision, Ive used the definition of a misrepresentation as an untrue 
statement of fact or law made by one party (or their agent) to a second party which induces 
that second party to enter the contract, thereby causing them loss.
Key documents
There are several documents that have been provided by both The CMC and Ikano. These 
include the contract, battery quote and credit agreement.
The contract is sets out key information about the system including the expected 
performance, financial benefits, and basic price. 
The credit agreement sets out the amount being borrowed, the interest to be charged, the 
total amount payable, the term of the loan and the contractual monthly repayments.
There was a separate quote relating to the battery only which set out its cost and estimated 
benefits over its expected lifetime. 
Im satisfied that these documents formed a central part of the sales process because they 
were all signed by Mr L on the same day during a meeting with the supplier. They are 
therefore relevant, alongside Mr Ls recollection of the sale, when considering if there have 
been any misrepresentations. Contract
The contract set out the cost of the system alongside the expected first-year benefits of the 
system as follows:
I think the sales contract is clear that the basic price of the system, excluding the costs of the 
loan was £12,295.00. 
I think it is also clear that the first-year benefit of the system was expected to total between 
£494.26 and £617.90 based on self-consumption rates of 25% and 50% respectively. This 
figure includes electricity savings from using electricity as it is generated by the solar system, 
grid trading (the net income from the battery trading electricity with the National Grid) and 
gas savings from the boiler optimiser.
Although the CMC referred to Feed-In Tariff (FIT) payments in its letter of claim, this system 
was sold after the FIT scheme closed to new applicants. There is nothing in any of the sales 
documents that suggests Mr L was told he was eligible to receive FIT payments. 
The credit agreement is clear about the loan being repayable through 120 monthly 
repayments of £135.05 (the first payment being deferred for 12 months). And that the total 
amount payable if the loan ran its full term would be £16,205.63. So, I think that Mr L 
wouldve understood what he had agreed to pay, and that the first-year benefit of £617.90 
was less than he would be paying in loan repayments once these started. 
The contract does not set out annual benefits of the system over its lifetime. And Im not 
persuaded that the salesperson wouldve told Mr L that the system would be self-funding on 
a monthly basis. Mr L deferred his first payment for 12 months, so in the first year he made 
no loan repayments. 
The battery quote had a table setting out the expected benefits of the battery through gird 
trading over its lifetime:
This shows that the battery benefits in year one were estimated to be £311.32. This matches 
what is shown on the contract. The table shows about a 6% increase to the benefits in year 
two. While the benefits continue to increase over the years, they dont increase as much 
after year two. 
So, the contract showed the total benefit in year one was £617.90. The contribution to that 
total from battery grid trading was shown as £311.32. This matches the year one benefit of 
battery grid trading shown on the battery quote, which then increased each year at a 
maximum of around 6%. 
With this in mind, I dont think it would be plausible to think that in the second year the total 
benefits would increase from £617.90 to cover the annual loan repayments (12 x £135.05) of 
£1,620.60, since the benefits of the system would have to be more than two and a half times 
more in the second year than the first. 
So, I think it is unlikely that the supplier wouldve misrepresented the system in the way Mr L 
has alleged.
The CMCs comments in response to my provisional decision
The CMC said that Mr L relied on what he was told  that the system would be self-funding 
within the loan term. But the actual allegation made in the letter of claim was that the system  
would be self-funding on a monthly basis  not placing the claimant in a position where they 
would be financially worse off per month. My opinion is that there is sufficient information in 
the sales documents to make clear that the system would not be self-funding on a monthly 
basis. As such I think it is unlikely that the salesperson wouldve misrepresented the system 
in the way that has been alleged. 
The CMC says that pre-contract credit information was not provided to Mr L and an 
affordability assessment was not carried out. But Im not persuaded that was the case. 
The CMC says the cost of replacing the inverter and labour costs associated with warranty 
repairs werent made clear to Mr L. But I dont think that would make the relationship 
between Ikano and Mr L unfair on him. It would be normal for any system to have some 
maintenance costs where it has such a long life expectancy. 
The CMC says the company that pays Mr L under the grid trading scheme has gone into 
liquidation and he is no longer receiving payments, reducing the benefit of the system. But I 
dont think this was reasonably foreseeable at the time of sale. Mr L may be able to change 
providers in order to receive payments for electricity generated in future.
Summary
Having carefully considered the evidence provided by all parties in this complaint, Im 
satisfied that there were no untrue statements of fact made by the supplier that induced Mr L 
to enter into the contract for the system, and I have found no other reason to uphold this 
complaint.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold Mr Ls complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr L to accept or 
reject my decision before 8 March 2023.
 
Phillip Lai-Fang
Ombudsman