DRN-3545677
The complaint
Mr and Mrs R have complained about Aviva Insurance Limiteds decision to decline a claim 
Mrs R made under their home insurance policy when she lost a ring.
What happened
In 2019 Mr and Mrs R bought a home insurance policy online through a broker with the 
insurer Aviva. They renewed their policy with Aviva in 2020 and 2021. 
In December 2021 Mrs R was travelling to visit a friend at a restaurant. When she reached 
the restaurant Mrs R noticed shed lost a ring. She contacted Aviva to make a claim. 
Aviva said that because Mr and Mrs R didnt have cover for contents lost away from home it 
wouldnt be able to consider her claim. 
Mr and Mrs R complained to Aviva as they said they believed they did have cover. They said 
the policy schedule listed unlimited cover for contents temporarily removed from the home. 
Aviva didnt uphold the complaint. It said the policy was clear as to the levels of cover and 
limits Mr and Mrs R had. Aviva said it defined what cover away from home and contents 
temporarily removed from home was. 
Mr and Mrs R didnt agree and asked us to look at their complaint. They said they believed 
Aviva had mis-sold the policy to them as the policy schedule was misleading. 
Our Investigator explained that Aviva didnt deal with a complaint about the sale of the 
policy. Mr and Mrs R can raise a separate complaint with the broker that sold the policy if 
they wish.
The Investigator didnt recommend their complaint should be upheld as she believed Aviva 
had reasonably declined the claim. She said the policy should be read alongside the policy 
schedule  and she found the policy clearly explained the difference between what was 
covered when away from home  and if Mr and Mrs R had cover. 
Mr and Mrs R didnt agree. In summary they say while its probable Mrs R lost the ring during 
her journey to the restaurant, its not fact that she didnt lose it in the home or within the 
boundaries of the home. They feel the policy doesnt provide for such a situation where the 
place of loss isnt a fact. 
Mr and Mrs R say that the policy schedule clearly says they have cover for contents 
temporarily away from the home and any reasonable customer would understand this to 
mean the ring was covered. They believe it was misleading of Aviva not to redirect them to 
the policy definition for this. 
So Mr and Mrs R want an ombudsman to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
When an insurer rejects a claim, we look at whether the decision was reached reasonably 
and in line with the policy terms. 
Aviva is the insurer and so it deals with any claims made against the policy  as it provides 
the risk. So Ive looked at whether Avivas decision to decline Mr and Mrs Rs claim was fair. 
Mr and Mrs R say they checked the policy schedule when they bought the policy in 2019 and 
checked at each renewal. They were satisfied with the level of cover as they believed they 
had cover for contents away from the home. 
Ive looked at the information Mr and Mrs R were provided with at renewal in 2021. 
Key statements from the cover letter reads:
This Home Insurance policy is designed for customers who wish to protect their 
property and possessions, and want protection to pursue or defend legal cases in 
court.
This policy is based on your previous insurance that is described in Your Schedule. 
You have not received advice on this renewal, please check Your Schedule to 
ensure this policy meets your continuing demands and needs and call (number 
inserted here) if you would like to make any changes.
The policy booklet draws attention to key information Aviva wants to highlight to customers. 
So it says this information has been put in boxes and typed in bold. 
The policy schedule lists cover for contents temporarily removed:
Contents temporarily removed from the home
We will cover, up to the limit shown on your Schedule, loss of or damage to contents 
while temporarily removed from the home to:
a) any building where you are living, while attending full-time education;
b) any nursing or care home (this includes contents belonging to your dependant 
relatives which they have with them while living in a nursing home).
So I think Aviva clearly defined what circumstances were covered under contents 
temporarily removed. 
Mr and Mrs R didnt select cover for contents away from home. This isnt something Aviva 
is responsible for as Mr and Mrs R were responsible for selecting the level of cover they 
wanted. The policy provides a definition of what this cover includes and excludes. However, 
it also says;
Standard And Premier  Contents away from home section
This section only applies when shown on your Schedule.
Mr and Mrs R says that the policy booklet should be consistent with the schedule but it isnt. 
I disagree. The policy schedule is a summary of cover to be read alongside the policy. I think 
the policy explains the different types of cover and directs Mr and Mrs R where to check if 
they have such cover. 
I understand Mr and Mrs R will be very disappointed with my decision. But from what Ive 
seen, I dont think Aviva has acted unreasonably in declining their claim as the 
circumstances of the loss isnt covered under the policy. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr R and Mrs R to 
accept or reject my decision before 4 August 2022.
 
Geraldine Newbold
Ombudsman