DRN-4191086
The complaint
Miss K says that Nationwide Building Society (Nationwide) acted unfairly by continuing to 
apply charges to her account when she was in financial difficulty. 
What happened
Miss K holds an account with Nationwide with a £2,000 overdraft. Miss K complained to 
Nationwide regarding the affordability of her overdraft. Miss K says Nationwide shouldve 
realised she was in financial difficulty and would like a refund of the charges and interest 
applied to her account.  
Nationwide says following a review of Miss Ks statements it didnt think there was evidence 
of true financial difficulties due to the large amount of cash withdrawals and didnt uphold her 
complaint.
Miss Ks complaint was considered by one of our adjudicators. They thought having 
reviewed Miss Ks statements that Nationwide should refund all fees and charges applied to 
Miss Ks account from February 2021 because her statements showed she had multiple 
payday loans, returned direct debits and wasnt able to maintain a credit balance for a 
reasonable period of time. They thought the statements showed Miss K was clearly 
struggling and that her overdraft usage was not sustainable. 
Nationwide disagreed. It says due to the pandemic it paused the removal of overdrafts and 
that instead of removing overdrafts where there were signs of financial difficulty the customer 
would instead enter its Repeat Use Strategy. When this happened Nationwide would 
highlight to the customer the pattern of their overdraft use and encourage them to contact its 
collections team to discuss their borrowing. 
Miss K entered Nationwides Repeat Use Strategy in September 2020. It says it made a 
number of outbound calls as well as sending emails and letters to Miss K but she did not 
make contact. So it continued to charge interest in accordance with the terms and conditions 
of the account.
So the complaint came to me for a decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Nationwide will be familiar with all the rules, regulations and good industry practice we 
consider when looking at whether a bank treated a customer fairly and reasonably when 
applying overdraft charges. So I dont consider it necessary to set all of this out in this 
decision.
Having carefully considered everything provided, Im in agreement with our adjudicator and I 
think Nationwide acted unfairly when it continued charging overdraft interest and associated 
fees on Miss Ks account from February 2021. 
By this point Nationwide itself had entered Miss K in its Repeat Use Strategy and ought to 
have realised that Miss Ks use of her overdraft was unsustainable and that Miss K was in no 
position to repay what she owed within a reasonable period of time. Miss Ks statements 
show that although she had a healthy salary coming in, she was living off borrowed money in 
the form of payday and other loans and that she was unable to see or maintain a credit 
balance for any reasonable period of time and often had direct debits returned.  I accept 
Miss K regularly made a cash withdrawals. But I think it is clear from the amount of other 
high cost lending she had that she was struggling financially. In these circumstances, 
Nationwide ought to have realised that Miss K was at a significant risk of being unable to 
repay what she already owed. 
Nationwide say it contacted Miss K on numerous occasions about her overdraft usage and 
that she never responded. But Nationwide has provided me with a record of its contact with 
Miss K for the period in question and it shows that there was one phone call in October 2020 
and one email was sent in July 2021. The records show all other contact mainly took place in 
August 2022. By entering Miss K in its Repeat Use Strategy Nationwide was clearly aware 
Miss K wasnt using the overdraft as intended but it still took no proactive action. Nationwide 
should have stopped providing the overdraft on the same terms and treated Miss K with 
forbearance rather than charge even more interest, fees and charges on the overdraft. 
Miss K ended up paying additional interest, fees and charges on her overdraft and this 
ended up exacerbating difficulties she already had in trying to clear it. So I think that 
Nationwide didnt treat Miss K fairly and she lost out because of what Nationwide did wrong. 
And this means that it should put things right.
Putting things right
Having thought about everything, I think that it would be fair and reasonable in all the 
circumstances of Miss Ks complaint for Nationwide to put things right by:
Reworking Miss Ks current overdraft balance so that all interest, fees and 
charges applied to it from February 2021 are removed.
AND
If an outstanding balance remains on the overdraft once these adjustments have 
been made Nationwide should contact Miss K to arrange a suitable repayment 
plan. If it considers it appropriate to record negative information on Miss Ks credit 
file, Nationwide should reflect what would have been recorded had it started the 
process of taking corrective action on the overdraft in February 2021. 
OR
If the effect of removing all interest, fees and charges results in there no longer 
being an outstanding balance, then any extra should be treated as overpayments 
and returned to Miss K along with 8% simple interest on the overpayments from 
the date they were made (if they were) until the date of settlement. If no 
outstanding balance remains after all adjustments have been made, then 
Nationwide should remove any adverse information from Miss Ks credit file.  HM Revenue & Customs requires Nationwide to take off tax from this interest. Nationwide 
must give Miss K a certificate showing how much tax it has taken off if they ask for one.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, I uphold Miss Ks complaint against Nationwide Building 
Society and direct it pay the fair compensation Ive set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss K to accept 
or reject my decision before 25 July 2023.
 
Caroline Davies
Ombudsman