DRN-2824741
The complaint
W, a limited company, complains that AXA Insurance UK Plc declined a claim made on its 
commercial motor insurance policy. This complaint is brought on Ws behalf by its director, 
Mr M. 
What happened
Mr Ms van broke down and was taken for repair. The garage provided a replacement van 
for the duration of the repairs. The van driver was then involved in an accident and Mr M 
made a claim to AXA. But AXA declined the claim as it said Mr M hadnt told it about the 
change of van and so added it to the policy.
our investigators view
Our investigator recommended that the complaint should be upheld. He thought Ws policy 
covered any vehicle hired or loaned to it. AXA had said W should notify it about any change 
in risk, which included a loaned van. But he thought the policy didnt make it clear that W 
needed to notify AXA of a temporary replacement vehicle. And so he thought AXA should 
deal with the claim.
AXA replied that the replacement van was a change of risk and it wasnt fair for W to expose 
it to this risk without notification. 
my provisional decision
After considering all the evidence, I issued a provisional decision on this complaint to W and 
to AXA on 15 April 2021. I summarise my findings:
Our approach in cases like this is to consider whether the insurers acted in line with the 
terms and conditions of the policy and fairly and reasonably.
The policy term that AXA relied on to decline the claim is on page 7 of the policy booklet 
under Policy Conditions:
Change in risk condition
You must tell us as soon as possible during the period of insurance of any change
1. to the business
2. in the person, firm, company or organisation shown in your schedule as The insured
3. to the information you provided to us previously or any new information that increases the 
risk of loss as insured under any section of your policy.
Your policy will come to an end from the date of the change unless we agree in writing to 
accept an alteration.
Mr M had a replacement van loaned to him by the repairing garage. This could be seen as a 
change in information provided previously. 
And I could see that Ws broker told AXA that it was its normal practice to add any 
replacement van as a temporary substitution on its fleet policy. The broker said Mr M fully 
intended to do this, but he hadnt told it of the change in the two days before the incident 
causing the damage occurred. 
Whilst I couldnt see that the policy made it clear that this term would apply to temporary 
replacement vehicles, I didnt think that it was unreasonable for AXA to apply the term as it 
was a change in risk. And, from the brokers statement, this seems to have been accepted 
by Mr M as standard practice. 
The term required Mr M to tell AXA of the substitution as soon as possible. AXA said the 
wording on the policy certificate required immediate reporting of changes in vehicle. But I 
thought this was different to what was stated in the policy booklet. And AXAs own file notes 
said it allows for some leeway outside office hours. 
So I didnt think it was fair for AXA to expect Mr M to contact it immediately to add the 
replacement van to the policy. Mr M notified the change when he reported the accident. And 
so I looked to see if Mr Ms delay was reasonable. 
From what I saw, Mr Ms van broke down at a very busy time of the year. The replacement 
van was made available and then taken out for one day whilst Mr M expected the repairs to 
his van to be made. But the repairs were delayed, and the van was used again early the 
following morning, outside of office hours, and damaged. So, whilst I thought there was a 
short delay in reporting the change, I didnt think this was unreasonable in the 
circumstances. 
Mr Ms policy Certificate of Insurance stated that it covers,
Any goods carrying vehicle owned by the policyholder or hired or loaned to them.
Mr M had presented this certificate to the garage which had then released the replacement 
van. AXA said this wording was to cover its Road Traffic Act responsibilities. But I couldnt 
see that this was made clear.
So I thought Mr M reasonably expected the policy to cover the temporary van, although he 
evidently understood the need to report the change. The policy wording didnt require Mr M 
to notify AXA of the change immediately. I thought his delay in doing so wasnt unreasonable 
in the circumstances. In that case, I thought AXAs decision to decline the claim was unfair. 
And so I thought it should deal with Ws claim. 
Subject to any further representations by W or AXA, my provisional decision was that I 
intended to uphold this complaint. I intended to require AXA Insurance UK Plc to deal with 
Ws claim under the remaining terms and conditions of the policy.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Neither AXA or W provided any further representations for me to consider. So I can see no 
reason to change my provisional decision.
 
Putting things right
I require AXA Insurance UK Plc to deal with Ws claim under the remaining terms and 
conditions of the policy.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, my final decision is that I uphold this complaint. I require AXA 
Insurance UK Plc to carry out the redress set out above. Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask W to accept or 
reject my decision before 16 June 2021.
 
Phillip Berechree
Ombudsman