DRN-1512963
The complaint
Mr G acquired valuable personal goods in September 2018, using his Halifax (Bank of 
Scotland plc) credit card. He complains that the quality of these goods was mis-represented 
at the point of supply. He wants the credit card payments he made to acquire these goods 
refunded. 
What happened
Mr G was outside the UK when he acquired these goods, which he said were described to 
him as being of high quality. He made two payments totalling a little under £6,000.  
When Mr G returned home, he asked a local merchant specialising in these goods to value 
them for insurance purposes. The valuer gave him a figure of £500. The valuer also told him 
that the goods were not of high quality. 
Mr G contacted the supplier of these goods, complaining about their quality. He asked for a 
refund. He also made the supplier aware that the goods were available for collection. The 
supplier did not respond, and so he referred his complaint to the bank in October 2018.
The bank used its credit cards chargeback scheme to attempt a reversal of Mr Gs 
payments.  This was unsuccessful, and the payments were re-presented in December 2018. 
The bank told us that, shortly thereafter, it tried several times to contact Mr G, in order to 
discuss this matter. But Mr G told us that he was unaware of these attempted contacts until, 
after about three months, he received notification that his card was close to its credit limit.
The bank said that it was unable to consider a second chargeback attempt, because it could 
not reach Mr G to discuss this possibility. But it decided to consider whether Mr G could 
make a claim under section 75 of the Consumer Credit Act 1974. (Because the payments 
were made using the banks credit card, section 75 made the bank and the supplier jointly 
and severally liable, if the goods supplied had been mis-represented.)
The bank received an independent valuers report on the goods acquired. This indicated that 
the goods were not of high quality  which contradicted the suppliers description of them, as 
stated by Mr G. But the bank also inspected the documentation that Mr G received at the 
point of supply, which did not give any clear indication of quality. 
In August 2019, the bank responded to Mr Gs complaint saying that it could not be upheld, 
because there was no evidence to corroborate his statement about high quality. But the 
bank acknowledged that it had taken too long to respond. It apologised for this delay, and it 
paid £50 to Mr G for the distress and inconvenience caused.
Mr G then referred his complaint to us. Our investigator did not think it should be upheld:
He felt the bank had acted fairly in its review of Mr Gs complaint
He had not seen anything provided to Mr G at the point of supply that confirmed the 
quality of the goods acquired
Mr G disagreed with our investigator, saying:
The bank made an administrative error and did not contact him promptly, when his 
payments were re-presented in December 2018  and so it denied him the 
opportunity of a second chargeback, and compromised the validity of his claim
At the point of supply, the supplier used inaccurate certificates to provide him with 
false reassurance about quality 
So, this complaint was referred for review by an ombudsman.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Where evidence is incomplete, inconsistent or contradictory (as some of it is here), I reach 
my decision on the balance of probabilities  in other words, what I consider most likely to 
have happened in light of the available evidence and wider circumstances.
 
Bank of Scotland plc has a responsibility to ensure that goods of satisfactory quality, and 
corresponding to their description, have been supplied. In this case, Mr G complained to the 
bank that the goods do not correspond to their description.
The bank used chargeback to attempt to recover the payments made by Mr G to acquire the 
goods. This did not work, and there is a disagreement between Mr G about what happened 
next. The bank told us that it tried promptly and repeatedly to contact him. Mr G told us that 
he was not contacted by the bank for several months.
The lack of contact meant that a possible second chargeback attempt was not made. But the 
bank did consider whether Mr Gs complaint fell within its responsibilities (as outlined above). 
Mr G stated he had been advised that the goods were of inferior quality, while the supplier 
had mis-represented the goods as being of high quality. 
The bank received an independent report, indicating that the goods were of inferior quality.  
It accepted this report, and it then considered whether Mr G was falsely told at the point of 
sale that the goods were of high quality. It decided there was no evidence to corroborate Mr 
Gs statement. And so, it did not accept that his complaint fell within its responsibilities.
I sympathise with Mr G. And there is evidence to show the goods are of inferior quality. But, 
on balance, I am unable to find in Mr Gs favour. This is because there is no evidence to 
corroborate his statement that the goods were mis-represented at the point of supply.
I also recognise Mr Gs concern that a breakdown in communications appears to have 
prevented a second chargeback being attempted. But, leaving aside the question of which 
party caused the communications problem, I find it is more likely than not that a second 
chargeback would have failed, in the absence of evidence corroborating Mr Gs statement. 
I note as well that the bank paid compensation to Mr G, for its delay in responding to his 
complaint. I find that this payment was appropriate, and in line with awards we make in these 
circumstances.  
So I have come to the same conclusions as our investigator, for similar reasons.
My final decision
For the reasons explained above, my final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision before 12 April 2021.
 
Roy Mawford
Ombudsman