DRN-4111209
The complaint
Mr L is unhappy about the quality of a car supplied to him by Volkswagen Financial Services 
(UK) Limited trading as Audi Financial Services (VWFS) under a hire purchase agreement.
What happened
Mr L acquired a used car under a 47 month hire purchase agreement with VWFS in   
October 2021. The cars mileage was around 5,500 at the time of supply and the car cost 
around £28,000. Under the agreement, Mr L made an advance payment of £3,182.46 and 
he was required to make 47 payments of £387.16, followed by a final payment of £12,611.25 
if he wanted to keep the car. Mr L acquired the car from a dealership Ill refer to as D.
Mr L says in January 2022, a regular warning light would appear across the cars dashboard 
advising him to take the car to a garage. He says he took the car to D and was told there 
was a software issue and a fix would be available soon. He said he also told D there were a 
number of other quality issues with the car.
In February 2022, Mr L complained to VWFS and said D had been unable to resolve his 
complaint. In March 2022, Mr L told VWFS that D had agreed to buy back the car from him 
due to the faults with it, but this meant he would lose the deposit he paid. He asked VWFS if 
it had any proposals in light of the issues with the car and said he would accept 50% of the 
deposit as a resolution. In April 2022, Mr L returned the car to D. He also told VWFS that 
whilst he was prepared to accept 50% of the deposit previously, he now wanted the full 
deposit returned to him.
VWFS issued its response to Mr Ls complaint in April 2022. It said it accepted there was a 
known issue with the multimedia interface and a product enhancement fix had recently been 
released. It said it was entitled to one attempt to repair Mr Ls car within the first six months 
of supplying the car to him. It confirmed Mr L had settled his agreement directly with D and 
so, he wasnt entitled to a refund of his deposit. It offered to pay Mr L £200 for the impaired 
usage during the five month period he had the car and a further £200 for any distress and 
inconvenience caused.
Unhappy with this, Mr L referred his complaint to this service. He reiterated his complaint.
Our investigator looked into the complaint but didnt think VWFS had acted unfairly. He said 
whilst he thought there was a fault with the car when it was supplied, Mr L had since sold the 
car to D. He said VWFS said there was a fix available for the multimedia interface fault and 
so, D would have been able to repair this with minimal inconvenience. He said had Mr L not 
sold the car, he would have recommended that the car was repaired by VWFS, as it was 
entitled to. And so, he didnt recommend VWFS took any action.
Mr L disagreed. He said the fault with the multimedia interface couldnt be repaired. He said 
D was aware of the software fault and didnt tell him. He said he was told the manufacturer 
would be issuing a fix in the future, but it hadnt said when this would be. He said there was 
also an issue with the sat nav blinking and the brakes later started grinding. Mr L also said 
he had issues with the settlement of the agreement. Our investigator explained that D didnt 
act as a credit broker when it took the car back and settled the agreement. Mr L said he 
understood this, but wanted an ombudsman to consider the complaint.
As Mr L disagreed, the complaint was passed to me to decide.
After the complaint was passed to me, I wrote to both VWFS and Mr L and explained that I 
was minded to uphold Mr Ls complaint. As a result of this, VWFS made an offer to pay Mr L 
£967.90 plus 8% simple interest for impaired usage. This represented 50% of the five 
monthly payments Mr L made to VWFS. Mr L disagreed with this offer.
Mr L has mentioned issues around the settlement of his hire purchase agreement. However, 
as our investigator has explained, these arent issues we can consider against VWFS. So, 
my decision wont comment on this point.
I issued a provisional decision on 20 April 2023, in which I said:
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In considering this complaint Ive had regard to the relevant law and regulations; any 
regulators rules, guidance and standards, codes of practice, and (if appropriate) what I 
consider was good industry practice at the time. Mr L was supplied with a car under a hire 
purchase agreement. This is a regulated consumer credit agreement which means were 
able to look into complaints about it.
What I need to decide in this case is whether the car supplied to Mr L was of satisfactory 
quality. If not, I need to decide what, if anything, VWFS need to do to put things right.
The car supplied to Mr L was a used car  so there would be different expectations 
compared to a new car. Having said that, the cars condition at the point of supply, should 
have met the standard a reasonable person would consider satisfactory, taking into account 
its age, mileage and price. The Supply of Goods (Implied Terms) Act 1973 says the aspects 
of the quality of the goods includes their general state and condition alongside other things 
such as their fitness for purpose, appearance and finish, freedom from minor defects, safety 
and durability.
Mr L says the car first had issues in January 2022. This was around three months after it 
was supplied to him. Mr L complained about the warning lights appearing, the rubber seal on 
the doors peeling off, the multimedia panel frequently turning off, technical issues with the 
lane assist feature which he says nearly caused him three accidents and a grinding noise 
when the brakes are applied at low speed.
VWFS has said there are no job sheets for any of the times Mr L says he took the car back 
to D and so, its unclear what was discussed. However, Mr Ls actions in reporting the issues 
to VWFS in February 2022 and detailing the issues with the car, lead me to believe that its 
more likely than not that Mr L did take the car back to D on a number of occasions. Ive also 
seen an email chain between Mr L and D in which he detailed the issues with the car.
Having considered the issues with the car, Im satisfied the car was not of satisfactory quality 
when it was supplied to Mr L. Ill explain why.
In this case, the car was only around a year old at the time it was supplied to Mr L and the 
mileage was relatively low at around 5,500 miles. So I think its fair to say that a reasonable 
person would assume that the car would be free from any defects for a reasonable period of 
time.
However, the issues with the car appeared within three months of Mr L being supplied with 
it. Mr L has detailed the extent of these issues and I dont consider that a car that has 
consistent warning lights appearing and has issues with the multimedia interface which 
sometimes results in it turning off, to be a car which is free from minor defects. And I dont 
think a reasonable person would expect these issues to occur considering that the car cost 
around £28,000, it was around one year old and it had only travelled around 5,500 miles.
In addition, VWFS appears to accept that the car supplied to Mr L wasnt of satisfactory 
quality, as it has made him an offer to pay for the impaired use of the car whilst he had it. 
VWFS has also accepted that there was a known issue with the multimedia interface and that the manufacturer was working on a product enhancement fix. It seems that all parties 
agree that Mr Ls car was impacted by the issue with the multimedia interface. And so, for all 
these reasons, Im satisfied that the car supplied to Mr L was not of satisfactory quality.
Ive gone on to consider what VWFS needs to do to put things right.
Mr L no longer has the car. Ive seen an email from D from early March 2022 in which D 
says the manufacturer are releasing a software issue to deal with the sat nav issues and 
warnings appearing on the cars dashboard. However, D said it wasnt willing to accept 
rejection of the car because a quality enhancement was being worked on. D said they would 
accept to buy back the car, but this would mean that D would pay the settlement figure to 
VWFS so Mr L could exit the agreement. It didnt refund Mr Ls deposit. Mr L returned the car 
to D in April 2022.
VWFS has confirmed that the product enhancement fix only became available in   
September 2022. This was around eight months after Mr L reported the issues to D. VWFS 
has said it doesnt think Mr L acted unreasonably by returning the car to D, given that the 
product enhancement fix wasnt available at the time. I agree with this. However, VWFS has 
also said it wouldnt have accepted rejection of the car and would have simply offered Mr L a 
goodwill gesture for the loss of enjoyment.
However, I dont think this is reasonable. I say this because Mr L provided D and VWFS with 
an opportunity to repair the car when he first returned it in January 2022. Mr L waited for a fix 
to become available, but this didnt transpire and so, he returned the car in April 2022. This 
was three months after he reported the issue. At this point, it was clear a fix wasnt going to 
be available  and a fix wasnt available until September 2022  and so, I dont think Mr L 
acted unreasonably by returning the car.
Im satisfied that Mr L was entitled to reject the car when the faults with the multimedia 
interface werent repaired within a reasonable time. I think this is a proportionate and fair 
remedy given all the circumstances. This means that VWFS should refund the deposit Mr L 
paid when he entered into this agreement and it should pay him 8% simple interest on this 
amount.
VWFS says the issue didnt impact Mr Ls use of the car, but it also acknowledges that there 
were ongoing multimedia interface issues, which impacted Mr Ls use of a number of 
functions in the car. Mr L has explained how he used the car for business use and would 
often have clients in the car. He said the warning sounds would go off, the sat nav and the 
multimedia interface would stop working and this was embarrassing due to clients being in 
the car. He also said he had to stop at the side of the road to check his phone for directions 
to his destination, due to the sat nav turning off and he had to stop to continue calls when 
the multimedia interface stopped working.
Having thought about this carefully, Im satisfied that Mr Ls use of the car was impaired 
whilst he had it. VWFS has made an offer to reimburse Mr L 50% of the five monthly rentals 
he paid for the car. However, I think VWFS should instead reimburse 25% of the five 
monthly rentals Mr L paid instead. This is because Mr L was still able to drive the car and 
make use of it to travel to destinations. However, he was unable to use some of the 
functions of it. I think a 50% reimbursement for impaired usage in the circumstances is 
excessive and so Im recommending 25% of the five monthly rentals Mr L paid.
I also think that Mr L has been distressed and inconvenienced as a result of the issues with 
the car. This includes having to make trips back to D to try and rectify the issue on what 
appears a number of occasions, hes detailed that there were issues with the lane assist 
which he says nearly caused an accident on three occasions and he was told there would be 
an imminent fix for the car, but this didnt transpire. I consider these issues would have 
caused Mr L some distress and inconvenience and these issues only occurred as a result of 
the faults with the car. And so I think VWFS should pay Mr L £200 to compensate him for 
any distress or inconvenience caused.My provisional decision
My provisional decision is that I intend to uphold Mr Ls complaint. Im minded to instruct 
Volkswagen Financial Services (UK) Limited to put things right by doing the following:
Pay Mr Ls advance deposit payment of £3,182.46;*
Pay Mr L 25% of all the five monthly rentals he paid;
Pay Mr L 8% simple interest on these amounts from the date of each payment until 
the date of settlement;* 
Pay Mr L £200 for the distress and inconvenience caused; and
Amend any adverse information reported to credit reference agencies about this hire 
purchase agreement.
*If any of the advanced deposit payment is made up of funds paid through a dealer 
contribution, then Volkswagen Financial Services (UK) Limited trading as Audi Financial 
Services is entitled to retain the proportion of the deposit that is made up of the dealer 
contribution.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr L accepted my provisional decision.
VWFS also accepted my provisional decision.
As Mr L and VWFS have accepted my provisional decision, it follows that there is no reason 
for me to reach any different conclusion than set out in my provisional decision.
Putting things right
For the reasons given in my provisional decision which I have outlined above, Volkswagen 
Financial Services (UK) Limited trading as Audi Financial Services should:
Pay Mr L the advance deposit payment of £3,182.46;*
Pay Mr L 25% of all the five monthly rentals he paid;
Pay Mr L 8% simple interest on these amounts from the date of each payment until 
the date of settlement;** 
Pay Mr L £200 for the distress and inconvenience caused;*** and
Amend any adverse information reported to credit reference agencies about this hire 
purchase agreement.
*If any of the advanced deposit payment is made up of funds paid through a dealer 
contribution, then Volkswagen Financial Services (UK) Limited trading as Audi Financial 
Services is entitled to retain the proportion of the deposit that is made up of the dealer 
contribution.
**If Volkswagen Financial Services (UK) Limited trading as Audi Financial Services 
considers that it is required by HM Revenue & Customs to withhold income tax from that 
interest, it should tell Mr L how much its taken off. It should also give Mr L a tax deduction 
certificate if she asks for one, so she can reclaim the tax from HM Revenue & Customs if 
appropriate.
*** If Volkswagen Financial Services (UK) Limited trading as Audi Financial Services does 
not pay this £200 compensation for inconvenience and distress within 28 days of the date on which we tell it Mr L accepts my final decision, then it must also pay 8% simple yearly 
interest on this from the date of my final decision to the date of payment. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, I uphold Mr Ls complaint. Volkswagen Financial Services 
(UK) Limited trading as Audi Financial Services should follow my directions above. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr L to accept or 
reject my decision before 31 May 2023.
 
Sonia Ahmed
Ombudsman