DRN-3034131
The complaint
Ms B is unhappy with Santander UK Plcs handling of her request and application to port her 
existing mortgage to a new property. She says the errors that it made and the amount of 
time that it took to approve her application caused her significant distress, inconvenience 
and financial loss.
What happened
 I understand that Ms B took out her original mortgage with Santander UK Plc (Santander) in 
June 2010, and in October 2018 she agreed to transfer her mortgage to a new fixed-rate 
product, which wasnt due to expire until January 2021.
In December 2018, Ms B asked Santander whether she could port her existing mortgage 
product to a new residential property, which she intended to purchase and move into. She 
explained that she wanted to rent out her current property and had planned to take out a buy 
to let mortgage with a different lender.
Santander initially told Ms B that she couldnt port her existing mortgage to a new property 
because she wasnt selling her current property- and shed be liable to pay an Early 
Repayment Charge (ERC) if she ended her mortgage early.
Shortly afterwards, Ms B sought advice from a third-party adviser, and she applied for a new 
residential mortgage for the new property with Santander. In January 2019, Santander 
issued an offer for a repayment mortgage for the sum of £254,484 over a term of 24 years.
However, Ms B was later told by her adviser that Santander had given her incorrect 
information and she was able to port her existing mortgage to the new property, meaning 
she wouldnt need to pay an ERC.
In April 2019, Santander confirmed that Ms B could port her mortgage and she wouldnt 
need to pay an ERC. However, I understand it later told Ms Bs solicitor that the ERC 
couldnt be waived. Ms B says she contacted Santander to query this and she was told that 
this was because her adviser had provided it with an incorrect product code. 
I understand that due to the error with the product code and the length of time that had 
passed since Ms B submitted her original application, Santander decided to consider her 
application again. 
On 30 May 2019, Ms B was told her application had been declined. I understand this was 
due to a late payment being recorded on her credit file by her mobile phone provider, 
although this was corrected a short time later and her application was reconsidered by 
Santander.
Ms B says she had wanted to exchange contracts for the purchase of her new property on 
31 May 2019, so this was very disappointing for her. She says she was regularly contacted 
by the seller of the property due to the delay, which she says caused her considerable stress 
and anxiety.
I understand that Ms B decided to go ahead with the buy to let re-mortgage on 31 May 2019 
and she paid the applicable ERC, which was later refunded to her. She says she had to 
move out of the property and put her belongings into storage.
I understand that in early June 2019, Ms B was told new affordability guidelines meant the 
full loan amount shed applied for wasnt considered to be affordable for her and a reduced 
amount was discussed. Ms B says this caused her considerable stress, but she reluctantly 
decided to proceed with her application on this basis.
A few days later, I understand Santander identified an issue with the income and 
employment details provided by Ms Bs adviser and requested further documentation from 
Ms B. After the income and employment details were clarified, the mortgage was approved 
on 13 June 2019.
However, I understand Santander sent a mortgage offer for the higher loan amount initially 
requested to Ms Bs solicitor in error. I also understand it sent another mortgage offer with 
the correct reduced loan amount to Ms Bs solicitor a few hours later. 
Ms B says her solicitor didnt receive the second offer, so it exchanged contracts for the 
purchase of the property based on the first offer issued. But on the day of intended 
completion, Santander only released the reduced loan amount, which prevented completion 
from taking place. After being notified of this, I understand Santander approved the higher 
amount, allowing Ms B to complete the purchase of her property one day later than shed 
intended. 
Ms B complained to Santander about the problems shed experienced, and on 
27 June 2019, Santander issued a Final Response letter. Santander upheld Ms Bs 
complaint and credited her account with £400 as an apology. However, Ms B remained 
unhappy and referred her complaint to our service.
Our investigator reviewed Ms Bs complaint, but he didnt think it should be upheld. In 
summary, he felt Santanders offer to pay Ms B £400 fairly reflected the impact the matter 
had on Ms B. He also noted that Ms B hadnt provided any evidence of the financial loss she 
said shed incurred, so he wasnt able to consider this. 
Ms B didnt accept the investigators opinion, so matter has been passed to me for a 
decision.
What I provisionally decided - and why
I issued a provisional decision setting out my thoughts on the case. I said:
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Its clear that a number of things went wrong with Ms Bs request and application to port her 
existing mortgage to a new property. Santander has accepted that it was responsible for 
many of the problems she experienced, so Ive gone on to consider the impact this had on 
Ms B and whether the action Santander has already taken to put things right is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances.
Santander incorrectly told Ms B that she couldnt port her existing mortgageSantander accepts that in December 2018, Ms B was incorrectly told she couldnt port her 
existing mortgage to a new property. Ms B says that had she been given correct information 
then, she would have submitted her application sooner and wouldnt have needed to instruct 
an adviser to help her find a new mortgage.
Given that Ms B had already found the property she wanted to purchase when she made her 
initial enquiry, it seems more likely than not, that had she been given correct information at 
the outset she would have submitted her application earlier than she did. It follows that I also 
think its likely that her application would have been approved earlier than it was, possibly 
even in time for her to exchange contracts on the 31 May 2019  although I cant be certain 
about that.
I also accept that Ms B wouldnt have needed to employ a financial adviser to help her 
source a new mortgage, therefore avoiding the unnecessary cost and inconvenience of 
having to arrange this.
I also understand that there was further confusion about whether the ERC could be waived, 
but this appears to have resulted from Ms Bs adviser using an incorrect product code, so I 
dont think Santander was responsible for this.
The application was declined due to information recorded on Ms Bs credit file
I understand that towards the end of May 2019, Santander declined Ms Bs application due 
to a late payment being recorded on her credit file by her mobile phone provider. Other than 
saying this affected Ms Bs credit score, Santander hasnt explained why it felt it was 
reasonable to decline the application on this basis, so its difficult to say whether its decision 
was reasonable in the circumstances.
However, I understand Santander reconsidered its decision just a few days later, after 
receiving confirmation that the information had been recorded on Ms Bs credit file 
incorrectly. So, I dont think this significantly contributed to the overall amount of time it took 
Santander to review and go on to approve Ms Bs application. 
Santander didnt approve the full loan amount requested
I understand that Ms Bs application was still being considered at the time Santander 
introduced new affordability criteria, and after applying the new criteria, Santander didnt 
think the full loan amount was affordable for Ms B. 
The rules of mortgage regulation (known as MCOB) say that a business can overlook any 
concerns it has about affordability where the new mortgage replaces an old one, and where 
either there are no changes material to affordability, or where it thinks it would otherwise be 
in the customers best interests to do so.
However, this doesnt apply where a customer is also asking to borrow more money at the 
same time  which is what Ms B had asked to do. So, Santander was entitled to carry out an 
affordability assessment. And I dont think it acted unreasonably by applying criteria that had 
been introduced after receiving Ms Bs original application. I say this because it appears that 
Santander was still assessing Ms Bs application at that time. Although I do appreciate that 
had Ms Bs application been considered sooner, it may have been approved before the new 
criteria was introduced.  
Santander hasnt provided us with details about how it reached its decision, so I havent 
been able to assess whether this was reasonable. However, I can see that it did go on to 
advance the full loan amount that Ms B had requested- although I do appreciate that it only did this to rectify an error it made later. But that does mean that, ultimately, Ms B was able to 
borrow what she wanted. 
Repeated requests for further information and needing to chase Santander 
Ms B says that she was asked for information shed already provided and often felt it was 
necessary to chase Santander for updates, which she didnt always receive.
I can see that Santander has accepted that it requested information that Ms B had already 
provided. I accept this caused Ms B some stress and inconvenience and it also appears to 
have caused some additional delay in her application being progressed. 
I can also see that Ms B found it necessary to chase Santander for an update about the 
status of her application on a number of occasions, and in June 2019, after not receiving a 
response, she found it necessary to make a formal complaint. Again, I accept this caused 
Ms B some stress and inconvenience.  
Santander provided Ms Bs solicitors with multiple mortgage offers
Santander has accepted that it sent two different mortgage offers to Ms Bs solicitor. And it 
appears to have accepted responsibility for the confusion this caused. 
It seems to me that Santander did what it could in the circumstances to mitigate the impact 
of its error, once it became aware of the problem. However, this still resulted in Ms B 
completing on the purchase of the new property one day later than had been agreed.  
Ms B has told us this caused her significant stress and anxiety, which I accept. However, it 
isnt clear from the information provided, whether this delay resulted in Ms B incurring any 
financial loss, such as fines for completing later than agreed.
Has Santander done enough to put things right? 
Ive thought very carefully about whether Santander has done enough to put things right.
Ms B says that Santanders errors and its delay in approving her application resulted in her 
experiencing significant stress and inconvenience. She says the stress she experienced 
caused her to suffer from migraines, which she hadnt had before. We havent been provided 
with any medical evidence to show this, but I dont consider this to be unlikely in the 
circumstances.
Ms B has also told us that she wasnt able to work between 30 May 2019 and 19 June 2019 
due to the stress she was experiencing and also having to make time consuming calls. 
Again, we havent been provided with any evidence to show this. However, Im satisfied that 
Ms B experienced significantly more stress and inconvenience than would be usually 
expected when completing the mortgage process and purchasing a new property  which I 
accept can often be a stressful experience.
Ms B has also told us that Santanders errors and delay in approving her application caused 
her to experience some financial loss. Amongst other things, she says her leave between   
30 May 2019 and 19 June 2019 was unpaid, there was a delay in tenants being able to 
move into her existing property and she had to pay for her belongings to be put into storage. 
 
Santander has said that it will consider refunding any financial loss Ms B has incurred as a 
result of its delay if Ms B provides it with evidence of this. However, it doesnt appear that 
Ms B has provided Santander with any evidence of this. Our investigator has also asked Ms B for evidence of any financial loss shes incurred, but we havent received this from her. 
In the absence of any evidence confirming the loss Ms B says shes experienced, Ive been 
unable to determine what this might be and whether Santander is responsible for this. 
However, Im satisfied Santander has acted reasonably by offering to consider this.    
My provisional decision
For the reasons I explained, I intended to uphold this complaint and instruct 
Santander UK Plc to pay Ms B an additional £250.
Responses to my provisional decision
Santander confirmed its acceptance of my provisional decision and said that it had nothing 
further to add.
Ms B told us that shes currently abroad so shes unable provide her payslips to evidence 
her financial loss due to having to take unpaid leave from work. However, she did arrange 
for her employer to send us an email. Her employer told us that Ms B took unpaid leave 
between 30 May 2019 and 19 June 2019 because she wasnt fit to work. He also told us that 
her net daily rate was £144. 
Ive carefully reviewed the further information provided, but I dont feel this is sufficient to 
evidence the financial loss Ms B says she incurred. It isnt clear from the information 
provided how may days during the timeframe given (which includes two weekends) that 
Ms B was due to work but didnt. Further, wed need to see her payslips to establish her 
actual loss of earnings.
Ive also noted that Ms Bs employer said that Ms B had insisted on her leave being unpaid, 
because she works for a small business. And during the conversation Ms B had with the 
investigator on 3 September 2021, she also confirmed that she had insisted on taking unpaid 
leave. This suggests there may have been other options available to Ms B, which may have 
mitigated the loss she says she incurred.  
Based on the limited information available to me, Im unable to direct Santander to make an 
additional award for the financial loss Ms B says she incurred.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
After reviewing everything, I see no reason to depart from the findings in my provisional 
decision. 
Putting things right
Santander should award Ms B a further £250 to reflect the impact its errors and delay in 
approving the application had on Ms B.
My final decisionFor the reasons Ive explained, I uphold this complaint and I instruct Santander UK Plc to 
pay Ms B an additional £250.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms B to accept or 
reject my decision before 21 October 2021.
 
Michelle Griffiths
Ombudsman