DRN-3312630
The complaint
Mrs W has complained that Ikano Bank AB (publ) (Ikano) rejected her claim against it 
under section 75 of the Consumer Credit Act 1974 in relation to her purchase of some solar 
panels.
Background
Mrs W bought solar panels for her home in November 2014. She paid a deposit of £4,000, 
and the balance of £3,653 was funded by a three-year interest-free loan from Ikano. Ikano is 
therefore liable for the acts and omissions of the installer under the relevant legislation. In 
this case, that relates to her complaint that the installer misled her into believing that the 
panels would be self-funding, which they werent.
Mrs Ws complaint was considered by one of our adjudicators. He thought that the benefits 
of the panels were mis-represented to Mrs W, and that fair redress would be for the loan to 
be restructured to effectively make the panels self-funding over a period of ten years. This 
restructure should be based on evidence of the actual performance of the panels, and a 
number of assumptions on future performance. Ikano agreed to do this, but the CMC argued 
that the loan should be restructured to make the panels self-funding over a shorter period, 
but the adjudicator thought that ten years was fair.
As no agreement could be reached, the case was referred for an ombudsmans decision. 
I wrote a provisional decision, which read as follows.
My provisional findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having carefully considered everything provided, I am currently not minded to uphold this 
complaint. That is because the contract for the sale of the solar panels sets out the cost and 
the estimated benefit of the panels very clearly, and the benefits did not begin to approach 
the cost.
Immediately above the signature box, in the middle, it says in bold capital letters Estimated 
total 1st year benefit, and next to that on the right is the figure £690.41. I think this figure is 
conspicuous; it is not buried in some fine print. To the left it says that the finance amount is 
£3,653, payable over three years.
This document was signed by Mrs W on the same date as the finance agreement, and so 
I think that the installers salesman did enough to bring this information to her attention.
More detailed figures for the cost of the panels are given in the finance agreement. The 
monthly loan repayments were £101.48, which over 12 months would come to £1,217.76, 
which is nearly double the stated benefit figure for the first year. Again, I think this is clear.
For these reasons, I am not persuaded that the installer misled Mrs W about the benefits 
and cost of the panels. It was clear that the panels would not be self-funding during the term 
of the loan.
Responses to my provisional findings
Following my provisional decision, the CMC changed its position and agreed to accept the 
redress which had been proposed by the adjudicator. But in light of what I had provisionally 
decided, Ikano no longer agreed to restructure the loan. Neither party has sought to change 
my mind about my provisional findings, and so there is no reason for me to depart from 
them; I confirm them here.
My final decision
My decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs W to accept or 
reject my decision before 21 April 2022.
 
Richard Wood
Ombudsman