DRN-2281135
The complaint
A charity Ill refer to as L have complained that Ecclesiastical Insurance Office Plc turned 
down a claim under their charity insurance policy. Mr M has brought the complaint to us on 
Ls behalf. 
For ease of reading, any reference to Ecclesiastical includes its agents. 
What happened
L claimed on their policy for theft, after items were stolen in a break-in. They said theyd 
locked up the building they used for courses, on 12 October 2018 and when they returned, 
on 18 October 2018, they found evidence of a forced entry. Property was stolen that 
included copper pipes, fireplaces and lead from the roof. 
Ecclesiastical appointed loss adjusters to look into what had happened. The loss adjusters 
thought the property was unoccupied and as a result Ecclesiastical asked L for more 
information. It said L didnt provide all the information it needed and turned down the claim. It 
said the policy didnt provide cover for theft if the property was unoccupied and it didnt think 
the property was occupied, partly due to photos supplied by a cleaning company it had 
appointed.
L complained to Ecclesiastical. They said they had provided all the information Ecclesiastical 
asked for, including the management information from the computer system and a timetable 
of events over the previous month. L said they were unhappy communicating with the 
solicitors Ecclesiastical appointed and only wanted to communicate with Ecclesiastical. 
Ecclesiastical said the solicitors were acting on its behalf and explained why it had turned 
down the claim. Unhappy with Ecclesiasticals response L brought their complaint to our 
service. They said the loss adjuster had upset one of their trustees in a meeting by setting 
out the implications of making a fraudulent claim. They said Ecclesiastical hadnt done 
enough to show that the property was unoccupied and felt it should pay their claim. 
Our investigator looked into Ls complaint but didnt recommend it be upheld. He found the 
evidence provided by Ecclesiastical to be persuasive in showing that the property was 
unoccupied. So, he thought it was fair for Ecclesiastical to turn down the claim. He thought 
Ecclesiastical was entitled to appoint experts to investigate the claim and didnt think it had 
acted unreasonably in how it had looked into things.
Mr M didnt agree. He said L had provided all the information necessary, including details of 
the charitys volunteers  who Ecclesiastical chose not to contact. He said L had refused to 
deal with Ecclesiasticals solicitors following legal advice. He said the utility statements were 
accurate and Ecclesiastical hadnt provided them with a copy of the police log it was relying 
on. Mr M also said that if the property was unoccupied then the policy would be void and 
Ecclesiastical shouldnt have kept taking payments. Although he also felt that the presence 
of squatters could be argued to mean it wasnt unoccupied. As L didnt agree with our 
investigator they asked for an ombudsmans decision. 
Before I reached my final decision our investigator provided Mr M with a copy of the police 
log hed asked Ecclesiastical for. In response, Mr M said L didnt consider the information to 
be a police disclosure. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr M has made a number of points. I dont intend to address them all and will instead focus 
on what I consider to be the central issues of this complaint. 
Ls policy covers them for theft. However, the terms of the policy say that claims for theft 
wont be covered if the building is unoccupied. The policy defines unoccupied as 
Unoccupied, untenanted, empty or disused. So, its for me to decide if Ecclesiastical has 
been fair and reasonable in turning down Ls claim on the basis that the property was 
unoccupied. 
Ecclesiastical has made a number of points to support its position that the property was 
unoccupied. It said records from the police log have described the building in ways that 
would indicate it was unoccupied. Ive seen a copy of the log and the entry regarding the 
theft in October 2018 which says the building is derelict. I understand Mr M doesnt feel this 
is a police disclosure but I havent seen anything other than his comments to doubt its 
authenticity. 
The cleaning company appointed by Ecclesiastical provided a number of photos showing the 
inside of the building. They also said they found around 240 needles lying around, large piles 
of rubbish and evidence of squatters in the building. Ive seen the photos and I think they 
indicate that the building wasnt occupied. I say this because of the large amounts of rubbish 
over the floors.
Ecclesiastical has also referred to Ls low gas and electricity usage. It said L reported using 
street lights and the outside Christmas lights instead, but Ecclesiastical didnt think that was 
realistic. Mr M said the bills show that the property was in use because of the energy being 
used. A gas bill for the property doesnt show energy being used, only the daily standing 
charge. An electricity bill does show the property used around £50 of electricity in just under 
three months. This seems to be a small amount of electricity, given the classes that L says 
take place at the property would most likely use electricity. 
Ecclesiastical said it was unusual for L not to have any computer equipment or WIFI if it was 
teaching IT courses. L said the course attendees used their own phones and they hadnt 
claimed for IT equipment even though it had been stolen. 
L provided some management information from its computer system and also a timetable 
showing the activities that had taken place at the centre the previous month. Ecclesiastical 
said it asked for further evidence of this but wasnt given any. It said web links that were 
meant to have gone through to more information about the courses were empty. I 
understand L were initially concerned about providing details about course attendees as they 
didnt want to share personal data. But later offered to show Ecclesiastical further 
information on that. However, many volunteers had moved on by that point. 
On balance, I think Ecclesiastical has done enough to show its most likely the property was 
unoccupied, due to the information its provided thats set out above. I dont accept that 
squatters being in the property mean its occupied. I can see Mr M thinks Ecclesiastical should have done more, such as obtaining CCTV from the town centre. But I think 
Ecclesiastical has provided enough to show it was most likely the property was unoccupied. 
As I think the property was unoccupied Ive thought about whether that made a difference to 
the theft - or made it more likely. I do think the property being unoccupied made the theft 
more likely because there was no one in the property on a day to day basis to deter thieves. 
So, I think it was fair for Ecclesiastical to turn down the claim on that basis.  
Ecclesiastical is entitled to instruct third parties to act on its behalf and L has a duty to assist 
Ecclesiastical in its investigation of the claim. Its impossible to know exactly what happened 
when the loss adjuster mentioned the implications of making a fraudulent claim, but I dont 
have enough to persuade me the comments were inappropriate. I dont think it was 
unreasonable for Ecclesiastical to explain what would happen if evidence within the claim 
was found to be fraudulent, if it had concerns with the information provided. 
I understand Mr M feels that Ecclesiastical should refund the premium because, if the 
property was unoccupied, Ecclesiastical wasnt on risk. However, in this particular case Im 
not going to require Ecclesiastical to refund the premium. I say that because the policy 
wasnt avoided and I think there are other parts of the policy that might have provided cover, 
where the occupancy of the building wasnt relevant to the risk. 
I appreciate my decision will come as a disappointment to Mr M, but Im not going to 
interfere with Ecclesiasticals decision to turn down Ls claim. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask L to accept or 
reject my decision before 15 January 2021.
 
Sarann Taylor
Ombudsman