DRN-2143800
The complaint
Mr C has complained Barclays Bank UK PLC placed a default on his credit record in error. 
This resulted in him paying more when he re-mortgaged.
What happened
In December 2018 Mr C applied for a bank account with Barclays. This was initially opened. 
On further checking Barclays believed there were inconsistencies in the previous address 
information Mr C had provided to them. They decided to close his account. This was done 
on 31 December 2018.
Mr C wasnt bothered about the account closure as hed not made any use of the account by 
then.
In 2019 as he was looking to re-mortgage to help pay off debts and family borrowing related 
to property work, he found out there was a default on his credit record. One of the three 
credit reference agencies (who Ill call T) was reporting a default for his closed Barclays 
account. This had been lodged on 31 December 2018.
Mr C immediately contacted Barclays. They didnt appear to understand the real nature of 
his complaint. Their response was that they were allowed to put information on his credit file 
to record his application to open an account with them. Mr C didnt dispute this but wanted 
the default removed.
Mr C brought his complaint to the ombudsman service. Our investigator tried to get Barclays 
to remove the default as Mr C was in the midst of re-mortgaging. Barclays confirmed on 
22 January 2020 theyd remove the default.
Mr C provided us with detailed information about the additional costs hed had to pay to re-
mortgage. Our investigator felt these costs were directly attributable to the default. He asked 
Barclays to remove the default, reimburse Mr C for his additional costs (along with 8% 
simple interest) and pay him £200 in compensation for the trouble caused. He also asked 
Barclays to remove any inconsistency loading on the National Hunter database.
Barclays accepted theyd recorded the default incorrectly but didnt agree to reimbursing 
Mr C. They felt it was Mr Cs choice to re-mortgage when he had and perhaps he could have 
hung on further.
Our investigator didnt agree with Barclays summation. Mr C also felt £200 compensation in 
no way reflected what hed been through.
Mr Cs complaint has been referred to an ombudsman for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive reached a slightly different conclusion to our investigator where 
compensation is involved. The reasoning, however, remains the same. In the interim Ive 
confirmed to Barclays my slightly amended conclusion.
There is really only one issue at the heart of this complaint. And thats the impact of the 
default put on Mr Cs credit record by Barclays.
Firstly its worth confirming theres no dispute this default was placed on Mr Cs record with T 
by mistake. Mr C had no funds in his Barclays account and ran up no debt. At no stage had 
Barclays sent Mr C any notice of their intention to default him, as I think its clear theyd not 
meant for this to happen.
Unfortunately mistakes can have a very unfortunate impact and this is what happened here.
Our investigator completed three reviews of this complaint on 31 January, 4 May and 
26 August 2020. Im therefore not going to cover all the points raised by both parties or the 
detail of Mr Cs re-mortgage as most of the facts have been covered already. And our 
investigator has also shared additional evidence with Barclays about the re-mortgage Mr C 
took out, the mortgage he could have taken out without a default on his record and the 
impact this has had on him.
Barclays has stated Mr C chose to re-mortgage and dont see why any liability for his costs 
should fall on them. I agree Mr C chose to re-mortgage but his choice of re-mortgage options 
was limited by the default on his record. Ive seen the evidence to demonstrate this. And in 
fact Mr C had tried to wait until Barclays sorted out the default but this hadnt happened.  
Mr C had first complained to Barclays in May 2019. The default wasnt finally removed until 
24 September 2020 despite our involvement.
In the end Mr C felt he had no choice but to take out the mortgage on offer with A, his 
mortgage provider. This started on 13 November 2019. Hes given us powerful testimony 
about why he needed to re-mortgage and the options open to him. Ive also seen evidence 
which shows as soon as Mr C re-mortgaged, he was able to pay off other debts.
Barclays also lodged the fact Mr C had given them inconsistent address information on the 
National Hunter database. Ive also noted they confirmed if this had been an honest mistake, 
theyd take steps to amend this. Our investigator has confirmed why he believed this was the 
case. Mr C had numerous addresses over a five year period and I can see no evidence that 
he was deliberately trying to provide incorrect information to Barclays. The only reason 
Barclays picked this up was because Mr C had previously held credit cards with a related 
company. So I cant see Mr C was deliberately hiding any address information.
Im in no doubt Barclays action in lodging a default when they shouldnt have had a financial 
impact on Mr C. Its fair and reasonable they put things right.
Putting things right
As Ive noted, Barclays action had an impact on Mr C. I believe its fair and reasonable they 
reimburse him for the additional costs Mr C had in re-mortgaging.
Mr C wasnt able to take out a mortgage at a lower interest rate. The higher interest rate may 
well apply for the full length of the mortgage but Mr C would be able to re-mortgage after 
three years. That marks the end of his fixed rate period. Mr C may well take out a further 
mortgage product then so I believe any additional costs should cover 36 months.During that three-year period, Mr C is paying an additional £228.24 a month. This works out 
in total at £8,216.64 which Barclays will need to reimburse. Along with how we consider 
these types of cases, Barclays will also need to add 8% simple interest a year to the monthly 
figures to reflect Mr Cs loss of those funds. I believe Mr Cs mortgage payments are made 
on the first of every month.
Barclays has confirmed the default was removed from Mr Cs credit record on 24 September 
2020. This was on his record for over a year and a half. Mr C has said this would have 
limited his ability to apply for additional credit. Im sure this is true but Im not reimbursing 
him for lost opportunity per se. However I do think this issue will have added quite 
considerably to the headache of trying to take out a mortgage. Also Mr C had only just got 
his finances back into a manageable state after struggling in previous years so the impact on 
him would have been considerable.
Because of this I believe Barclays should pay Mr C £500 for the impact this has had on him.
I also agree with our investigator that Barclays needs to remove any negative information on 
the National Hunter database about Mr C. Its fair to say, however, that this is unlikely to 
have had any impact on Mr C, as he was able to re-mortgage.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given, my final decision is to instruct Barclays Bank UK PLC to:
Reimburse Mr C for the additional costs hes had in taking out a mortgage with A: 
£8.216.64;
Add 8% simple interest to the additional monthly mortgage costs of £228.24 (paid on 
the first of the month) from 13 November 2019 until the date of settlement;
Remove any negative data on the National Hunter database about Mr C; and
Pay Mr C £500 for the trouble caused.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 18 March 2021.
 
Sandra Quinn
Ombudsman