DRN-3460122
The complaint
Ms K is unhappy that Klarna Bank AB (publ) reported missed payments on her credit file.
What happened
In August 2021 Ms K entered into a regulated credit agreement with Klarna, following an 
online purchase. She says she purchased some electronic equipment and agreed to pay 24 
payments of £26.60. Klarnas payment system required customers to have a set up direct 
debit and for them to have selected the Autopay function. Klarna sent Ms K details about 
Autopay when the account was set up. But, while Ms K had set up a direct debit, she didnt 
select Autopay.
As a result, the payments for September and October 2021 werent collected. And Klarna 
reported these missed payments to the credit reference agencies. Ms K contacted Klarna 
about the situation in November 2021, and Autopay was set up. Klarna removed the missed 
payment marker for September 2021, and they reset Ms Ks account. Because of this, they 
collected two payments late December 2021/early January 2022. However, the payments 
returned to normal after this.
Ms K wasnt happy with this, and she brought her complaint to us for investigation.
Our investigator said that Klarna had acted reasonably by removing the first missed payment 
marker, as having to set up Autopay as well as a direct debit isnt a usual process. But Ms K 
should reasonably have realised that her payment for September didnt go through. And 
Klarna had contacted her by email and text message to let her know that a payment had 
been missed and was due. So, he didnt think Klarna needed to remove the missed payment 
marker for October 2021.
The investigator also said that Klarna had an obligation to ensure that accurately report the 
position of an account to the credit reference agencies. Which they did. So, he didnt think 
they needed to do anything more.
Ms K didnt agree with the investigator. She said she didnt receive the emails from Klarna, 
as they went into junk mail until I moved them and changed the settings to Not Junk in 
November 2021. She also said that the text messages she received were notifications of 
when payments were due, not that theyd been missed.
Finally, Ms K said that she was unable to fix her mortgage payment because of the 
information Klarna recorded against her. So, shes asked for an ombudsman to make a final 
decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having reviewed the evidence, I agree with the investigators findings on this complaint for 
broadly the same reasons. If I havent commented on any specific point, its because I dont 
believe its affected what I think is the right outcome. 
Ms K entered into an agreement with Klarna on 14 August 2021 and, on 27 August 2021, 
they sent her an email about Autopay. Ms Ks first payment was due by 30 September 2021, 
and this wasnt paid because Autopay hadnt been set up.
Klarna had sent Ms K a statement on 6 September 2021, telling her that her first payment 
was due by the end of the month. And the statement they sent on 6 October 2021 told her 
we didnt receive your minimum payment last month. It also confirmed that a £12 late 
payment fee had been applied.
Klarna sent Ms K a payment reminder on 29 October 2021, which said you have a payment 
due on your Klarna account. And it went on to explain that your latest monthly statement 
has been available since the 5th and we have not received the minimum payment from you. 
This is a friendly reminder that you need to make a payment of at least £34.09 by 31 
October 2021. This was followed up on 6 November 2021 by a further statement, when 
Klarna again explained that we didnt receive your minimum payment last month.
Ms K has said she was unaware that she wasnt making any payments as the text messages 
Klarna sent her were just notifications of when payments were due; and all of their emails 
went into her junk folder, so she didnt see them until November 2021. Ive not seen that 
Klarna sent Ms K any text messages to tell her payments had been missed, but it was clear 
from the statements and reminders they emailed her that her payments hadnt been made. 
Klarna have supplied evidence of when the emails they sent Ms K were opened. And, while 
the Autopay email and the September statement werent opened until 18 November 2021, 
and the October payment reminder wasnt opened until 4 November 2021; the October 
statement (which clearly stated that the September payment had been missed) was opened 
on 6 October 2021  they day it was sent to Ms K.
Whats more, I dont think its unreasonable to expect Ms K to have noticed the payments 
didnt leave her bank account in September or October 2021. Given this, and that Ms K 
opened the statement on 6 October 2021 telling her that her September payment was 
missed, Im satisfied that she shouldve been reasonably aware that payments werent being 
made. 
In their final complaint letter Klarna explained that you were not familiar to our financing 
product yet, and we acknowledge that difficulties and misunderstandings might occur in the 
beginning of the journey. Because of this, the waived the £12 late payment fee applied in 
October 2021, and removed the September 2021 missed payment from her credit file. I think 
this was reasonable in the circumstances.
However, I wont be asking Klarna to remove the missed payment for October 2021. For the 
reasons given above, Im satisfied that Ms K shouldve been reasonably aware that her 
payments were not being collected, and that she shouldve contacted Klarna about this.
Ms K has also said that the missed payments recorded by Klarna have affected her ability to 
fix her mortgage payments. Klarna have an obligation to ensure they correctly and fairly 
report the status of a customers account. Given what Ive found above, I dont think Klarna 
have done anything wrong by reporting the October 2021 missed payment.And, even if I were persuaded that Klarna shouldnt have reported the October 2021 missed 
payment, there are multiple factors that can affect a mortgage application, and credit history 
is just one of these. 
Moreover, I havent seen anything to show me that Ms K was unable to fix her mortgage 
solely because Klarna originally recorded two missed payments, then removed the marker 
for one of these. As such, I wont be asking them to do anything more.
My final decision
For the reasons explained above I dont uphold Ms Ks complaint about Klarna Bank AB 
(publ).
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms K to accept or 
reject my decision before 25 August 2022.
 
Andrew Burford
Ombudsman