DRN-3032025
The complaint
Mr P has complained about Markerstudy Insurance Company Limited. He isnt happy about 
the way it valued his car after a claim under his motor insurance policy.
What happened
Mr P made a claim under his car insurance policy after his car was damaged in a fire. And 
when Markerstudy looked to settle the claim Mr P wasnt happy with the valuation of his car. 
So, Mr P complained to Markerstudy about this.
Markerstudy initially offered Mr P around £3,300 for his car and when he wasnt happy about 
this it looked again at the valuation of his car. It asked its engineer to look at the valuation 
provided and looked at the various trade valuation guides in order to gauge the market value 
of Mr Ps car. Markerstudy increased its valuation of Mr Ps car to about £4,450 and he 
received £4,108 when it took his excess off in line with the policy terms and conditions. But 
Mr P still wasnt happy and felt that he should receive about £5,500 so he complained to this 
service. 
Our investigator looked into things for him but didnt uphold his complaint. He looked at the 
various motor trade guides for Mr Ps car, but he found that they were in line with what 
Markerstudy had offered. Indeed, it had offered more than the trade guides so he didnt think 
that it had acted unreasonably in the way it valued Mr Ps car. 
As Mr P didnt agree, maintaining that he couldnt buy a car for the money Markerstudy had 
offered, the matter has been passed to me for review.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so I dont think the complaint should be upheld. I know this will come as a 
disappointment to Mr P, but Ill explain why.
I can understand Mr Ps position, as he clearly feels his car is worth more than Markerstudy 
have offered him. He feels the valuation Markerstudy has provided has left him unable to 
buy a similar car and has left him out of pocket. But this service has an established approach 
to valuation cases like Mr Ps. When looking at the valuation placed on a car by an insurance 
company I consider the approach they have adopted. And decide whether the valuation 
seems fair in all the circumstances. 
It isnt the role of this service to come to an exact valuation of a consumers car. But we do 
look to see if insurers have acted reasonably in looking to offer a fair market value of the car. 
I pay attention to the various trade guides used for valuing cars. And I look at any other 
evidence provided by both sides. This evidence might include advertisements for the sale of 
similar cars. But I place less weight on these than on the trade guides, as cars dont normally 
sell for the price at which they are advertised, and the trade guides give an up to date guide 
of the value of the car in question. The condition of the car at the time of the incident is also 
an important factor to consider. And I must emphasise that I will only order a business to 
increase its valuation if I consider it is unfair.
I know Mr P doesnt agree with this approach and feels his car is worth about £1,000 more 
than Markerstudy has paid him. And while I understand his position, and the fact that the 
second-hand car market is buoyant at the minute, Im satisfied Markerstudy has acted fairly. 
Ive looked at the various adverts that Mr P has provided and, in the main, they are slightly 
newer than his car and have a lot less miles and both these factors clearly affect the 
valuation. And, given the high mileage of Mr Ps car, Im sure it isnt easy to find a similar car 
with similar mileage to his. But that doesnt mean Markerstudys valuation and offer is unfair.
Markerstudy got its engineer to look at its initial valuation and considered the further 
information and evidence provided by Mr P but was satisfied that its increased offer was fair. 
Indeed, it offered Mr P more than the highest trade guide valuation of his particular make 
and model of car, so I cant say it has acted unreasonably here. 
Valuing second hand cars is far from an exact science and it isnt my role to value Mr Ps 
car. Im just looking to see if Markerstudy has acted reasonably in providing a fair market 
value of his car and I think it has. I understand that second hand car valuations are rising at 
present. But Markerstudy used trade guide valuations from around the time Mr Ps car was 
written off, so Im satisfied that he hasnt been prejudiced here and has been offered the 
market value of his car from around the time of his claim. 
Given all of this, Im satisfied Markerstudy has looked to value Mr Ps car in a fair and 
reasonable way and looked to pay him the market value of his car in line with the policy 
terms and conditions. So, although I know Mr P will be disappointed with my decision Im not 
upholding his complaint.
My final decision
It follows, for the reasons given above, that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision before 28 December 2021.
 
Colin Keegan
Ombudsman