DRN-2175270
The complaint
Miss Cs complaint about Bank of Ireland (UK) Plc trading as Post Office Financial (Post 
Office) relates to the charging of interest to her credit card account which she feels is unfair.
What happened
Miss C made two balance transfers to her account on 10 September 2019. The transfers 
attracted the standard transfer rate and not a 0% rate. On 1 October Miss C paid a sum of 
money equal to the balance transfers she had made earlier and with the intention of paying 
off the balance transfers in full.
The Post Office said that at the time Miss C made the payment on the 1 October the balance 
transfers had not been billed to her account and as such the payment she made was applied 
to the billed transactions appearing on her statement, rather than the non-billed balance 
transfers. 
The Post Office relied on the terms and conditions to support their approach in paying off the 
billed transactions before the non-billed transactions and felt they hadnt acted unfairly.
Miss C was unhappy with Post Offices final response and so approached this service to see 
if we could assist in resolving the dispute. Our investigator looked into the complaint but 
thought that Post Office hadnt done anything wrong and had acted in accordance with the 
terms and conditions which she thought was fair.
Miss C didnt agree and asked for the complaint to be passed to an Ombudsman for a final 
decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The facts to this complaint are very clear. Miss C had a balance on her credit card account 
which was in respect of purchases she had made, and which attracted a 0% interest rate. 
She then made two balance transfers which did not enjoy a 0% rate. When she made a 
payment to her account on 1 December this was before the balance transfers had been 
applied to her account and so the Post Office automatically applied the payment to the 
purchases balance. 
Miss C feels that was unfair and the payment ought to have bene applied to the balance 
attracting the higher rate of interest. Generally, that is what Post Office would do, but only if 
those balances had been billed and appeared on the statement, which in this case they had 
not.
Ive looked at section 9 of the terms and conditions governing Miss Cs account, to see if the 
Post Office have acted properly. They do provide that payments to the account will be 
applied in a particular order. And that says that payments are made to the balances 
outstanding at the time the payment is made. It is the balance outstanding which is the 
important point here because when Miss C made the payment to her account the balance 
transfers had not yet been billed and did not form part of the balance outstanding. 
But section 9 also sets out what happens when someone makes a payment to their account 
which is greater than the balance outstanding. I know that is not what happened here, but it 
is helpful in understanding the order of payments. It states that in those circumstances the 
payment is applied to non-billed transactions. What this does is demonstrate that non-billed 
transactions come after the billed transactions. 
I do understand that Miss C has said she understands the terms and conditions have an 
application here, but nevertheless feels the Post Office have still acted unfairly, but I do not 
agree. I can see why Miss C would feel it more logical for the Post Office to apply her 
payment to the balance attracting the higher interest rate, but when she made the payment 
the balance transfer balance was not in existence. 
The reason why there are terms and conditions to an account is to help to provide certainty 
to the relationship between the parties and to avoid disputes. The Post Office acted correctly 
in accordance with those terms and conditions here and I think that is fair. I also note that 
the Post Office refunded the October interest applied to Miss Cs account as a gesture of 
goodwill which I think also demonstrates fairness.
So, although Miss C will probably be disappointed with my decision, I cant say Post Office 
has acted unfairly or unreasonably here and Im not upholding this complaint. 
My final decision
For the reasons set out above I do not uphold the complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss C to accept 
or reject my decision before 24 December 2020. 
Jonathan Willis
Ombudsman