DRN-3698131
The complaint
This complaints about an interest-only mortgage that Mr F and Mrs F hold jointly with Coutts 
and Company (CAC).  It was due for repayment in July 2020. Although they first approached 
CAC about extending the term in March 2020, a new mortgage, with a five-year fixed rate of 
2.09%, wasnt formalised until June 2021. The essence of the complaint is that CAC took too 
long to agree to renew the mortgage This in turn meant that in the meantime, interest was 
charged at CACs Home Mortgage Rate (HMR) which was 3.75%. 
What happened
The broad circumstances of this complaint are known to Mr F and Mrs F and CAC. Im also 
aware that the investigator issued a comprehensive response to the complaint, which has 
been shared with all parties, and so I dont need to repeat all of the details here. 
Our decisions are published, and its important that I dont include any information that might 
result in Mr F and Mrs F being identified. Instead Ill give a brief summary of the main points, 
rounding the figures where appropriate, and then focus on giving the reasons for my 
decision. If I dont mention something, it wont be because Ive ignored it. Itll be because I 
didnt think it was material to the outcome of the complaint. 
Mr F and Mrs F had a mortgage which was due for repayment in July 2020. In March 2020, 
they contacted CAC to discuss renewing it, but also to ask for a payment holiday due to the 
effect of the COVID-19 pandemic. By common consent, the payment holiday was prioritised; 
it was initially agreed for three months, and then extended for another three months.
Once the payment holiday had finished, contact was resumed on renewing the mortgage, 
which had by now expired, and was attracting interest at the HMR. An information gathering 
exercise took place over several months, and in February 2021, after assessing their 
circumstances, CAC refused a term extension. However, it then reconsidered the case 
under the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA)s special provisions for high net worth 
individuals. The new assessment was successful, and June 2021, a new interest-only 
mortgage was granted, with a five-year term and a five-year fixed rate deal.
Our investigator thought that CAC had been right to wait until after the payment holiday was 
over before beginning to assess the request to renew the mortgage. Other than some delays 
in communication, for which he thought CACs offer of £250 was fair compensation, he 
wasnt persuaded that the time it took to complete what he considered a complex financial 
assessment to be unduly long.
Mr F and Mrs F have asked for the complaint to be reviewed by an ombudsman.
What Ive decided  and why
Ill start with some general observations. Were not the regulator of financial businesses, and 
we dont police their internal processes or how they operate generally. Thats the job of the 
Financial Conduct Authority (FCA). We deal with individual disputes between businesses 
and their customers. In doing that, we dont replicate the work of the courts. 
Were impartial, and we dont take either sides instructions on how we investigate a 
complaint. We conduct our investigations and reach our conclusions without interference 
from anyone else. But in doing so, we have to work within the rules of the ombudsman 
service, and the remit those rules give us.
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
No one is entitled to borrow money; and even when theyve borrowed before, theyre not 
automatically entitled to more time to repay the debt after it has fallen due. But a lender must 
treat customers fairly. In the context of an application for a term extension, that means 
assessing it fairly in accordance with the banks lending criteria and being mindful of what 
mortgage regulation requires of it. Lenders criteria are commercially sensitive and not 
generally made public.
Here, the crux of the complaint is that CACs assessment of the request took too long. The 
main argument here appears to be that Mr F and Mrs F think CAC was wrong to postpose 
the assessment until after the COVID payment holiday was over. Ive read very carefully 
their view that the payment holiday and term extension request were two unrelated matters. I 
understand why they hold it. Ultimately however, I cant agree. 
I say that because the reason the payment holiday was granted in the first place was that 
Mr F and Mrs Fs various income streams and business ventures were in a state of flux and 
uncertainty, because of the pandemic. They wanted the payment holiday because they 
werent sure they could manage their mortgage payments unless and until their incomes 
stabilised, which in due course they did. 
Its a little unrealistic for Mr F and Mrs F to expect CAC to have assessed the affordability of 
a new mortgage at the very same time that they were telling it they were concerned about 
the affordability of the mortgage they already had. Its hard to see how any assessment that 
took place during that six-month period would have been successful. Overall, I think it was 
entirely sensible, and fair, of CAC to defer any consideration of a term extension until after 
the payment holiday had finished. I now turn to how CAC handled the request for a term 
extension.
Mortgage underwriting isnt an exact science; nor is it a mechanical process. Lenders 
generally have anticipated timescales for how long an application might take, but 
occasionally things take longer than expected. If Im to order CAC to pay Mr F and Mrs F the 
compensation theyre seeking, I have to be satisfied that CAC unduly and excessively 
delayed the mortgage application by way of specific errors or omissions, and that the delay 
was the sole or over-riding reason for Mr F and Mrs F being charged interest at the HMR in 
the interim. 
As Ive said, it was sensible and fair to wait until after the payment holiday had ended in 
September 2020 before starting the process. Once that had happened, it was also entirely 
sensible and fair that CAC seek new information about Mr F and Mrs Fs financial affairs as 
they were now: i.e. in the wake of the pandemic. Its fair to say that Mr F and Mrs Fs 
financial affairs are complex, so there was a lot of information to gather and assess, and 
overall I dont think CAC unduly delayed gathering everything it needed in order to make its 
initial assessment.. 
That initial assessment, which was in February 2021, wasnt successful because CACs 
underwriters didnt consider Mr F and Mrs Fs immediate financial position to be strong 
enough to meet its affordability criteria. That was CACs judgement to make, based on its lending criteria, and theres no reasonable basis for me to second-guess that judgement by 
substituting my own view on whether, to whom, and how much CAC should lend.
Rather that end its consideration there, CAC instead invoked the FCA provisions for high net 
worth individuals. This provision allows lenders to exercise a greater degree of latitude and 
discretion. But it also in turn requires a much greater in-depth analysis of applicants assets 
and liabilities, and that is likely to be just as time-consuming, if not more so, than the initial 
affordability assessment. That proved to be the case here, and having looked at everything 
that both parties have said and provided, taking everything into account, I dont think CACs 
handling of the term extension was either unreasonable or unduly delayed. 
Without wishing to sound unkind, I get the impression that Mr F and Mrs F had assumed that 
extending their interest-only mortgage was something of a formality. If that is true, then Im 
afraid they were mistaken.
I said at the outset that I wouldnt be commenting on every single point, and I havent. I have, 
as I said I would, confined myself to those matters that I consider have a material effect on 
the outcome. I can see from their submissions how important this is to Mr F and Mrs F. 
Thats a natural reaction, and entirely understandable when youre as close to a situation as 
they have been here. 
But I have a different remit. I have to be objective, and impartial, and sometimes that means 
stepping back from the fine detail, taking an overview and deciding what is fair, reasonable 
and pragmatic in all the overall circumstances of the case. It also means that Im not 
required to provide answers to every specific question that comes up if I dont consider doing 
so will affect the overall outcome. Having done that, and having considered everything that 
both parties have said and provided, I think that the compensation of £250, already offered is 
fair redress.
Mr F and Mr F dont have to accept my conclusions, and if they dont, then neither they nor 
CAC will be bound by my final decision. Subject to any time limits or other restrictions a court 
might impose, Mr F and Mrs Fs right to take legal action against CAC over the subject 
matter of this complaint wont have been prejudiced by our consideration of it.
 
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. My final decision concludes this 
services consideration of this complaint, which means Ill not be engaging in any further 
consideration or discussion of the merits of it. Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman 
Service, Im required to ask Mr F and Mrs F to accept or reject my decision before 
31 October 2022. 
Jeff Parrington
Ombudsman