DRN-2519521
The complaint
Mr L has complained on behalf of himself and the other occupants of his building that U K 
Insurance Limited trading as NIG (UKI) has unfairly declined a claim under a property 
owners insurance policy.  
 
What happened
In 2019 Mr L made a claim to UKI after noticing a crack in the porch wall of the property he 
occupies with the other policyholders. He had a survey carried out which identified two 
possible causes for the crack. UKI said it couldnt accept the claim because the cause of the 
damage was unclear.
In 2020 Mr L obtained a second survey. It said the crack had been caused by a structural 
beam above the shop window having expanded due to rust. It recommended the beam be 
replaced. Mr L was told it would cost between £20-30,000 to replace the beam.
UKI said Mr L wasnt covered because the damage wasnt the result of a storm. It also said 
if the damage was accidental, the exclusion for damage happening gradually would apply. 
It thought thered been general weathering over time and noted previous poor repair 
attempts.
Mr L brought the complaint to this service. Our investigator didnt uphold it. She didnt think 
it had been shown that the damage to the building had been caused by an event covered 
by the policy. Mr L disagreed. He thought they should be covered for gradual damage.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr Ls insurance policy is intended to cover specified events rather than any damage that 
might happen to a property. These events include storm and accidental damage. Anything 
outside the listed events is an uninsured loss and so wouldnt be covered by the policy. So 
firstly I need to look at whether the damage being claimed for was caused by an insured 
event. If it wasnt, then theres no claim. Its up to the policyholder in the first instance to 
show that an insured event caused the damage in question.
Although Mr L has accepted that there isnt a valid claim for either storm or accidental 
damage, Ill look at these briefly.
When considering a storm claim, I generally take into consideration the following questions:
were there storm conditions on or around the date the problem occurred?
is the nature of the damage claimed for consistent with the storm damage?
were the prevailing storm conditions the main cause of the problem?
If the answer to any of the above questions is No, the complaint is likely to fail.
In this case Mr L cant identify any particular storm that might have caused the damage. In 
addition I dont think the nature of the damage is consistent with storm damage. The second 
engineers report refers to the beam having become corroded. The engineer said the beam 
was behind a rendered cornice which had seen various waterproofing attempts in poor 
condition, namely peeling bituminous coating and non-adhered flash band. This doesnt 
sound like one-off storm damage to me. So I think it was reasonable for UKI to conclude 
that the damage wasnt caused by a storm.
The policy also covers accidental damage but excluding damage caused by gradual 
deterioration, wear and tear, corrosion and rust. Where a policy doesnt define accidental 
damage, this service has long said that means something unforeseen and unintentional.
Mr L has referred to guidance on our website which says that if a claim was caused by an 
insured event, were likely to say that a business shouldnt rely on the gradual damage 
exclusion to decline the claim if we think the consumer couldnt reasonably have been 
aware of the damage happening gradually. Im aware of that guidance but it goes on to say 
that there are exceptions to how we decide this sort of complaint and one of these 
exceptions is a claim for accidental damage.
If a claim is being considered under the accidental damage section of a policy, it doesnt 
matter whether the consumer should have been aware of the damage or not  if the 
damage was caused gradually then we think its fair for an insurer to rely on a gradual 
damage exclusion to decline a claim. Thats to protect the insurer from having to pay claims 
that are really maintenance issues that a property owner is liable for.
Mr Ls engineer said when the beam was exposed, all visible surfaces were corroded 
causing it to expand. He thought it likely the expansion had resulted in the cracking in the 
render. Corrosion is a process that happens gradually. Based on the engineers report I 
think the corrosion is likely to have been caused by water getting behind the cornice and 
waterproofing over a period of time. So I dont think it was unreasonable for UKI to say that 
if the damage had been caused by an accident, the exclusions for gradual damage including 
corrosion would apply.
I note there was no subsidence cover for this property and none of the other insured events 
seem likely to apply to this damage. For the avoidance of doubt I should make it clear that 
gradual damage isnt an insured event in itself but an exclusion to certain sorts of insured 
events such as accidental damage.
Im sorry to disappoint Mr L because I appreciate he and the other policyholders werent 
aware of this damage developing. But for the reasons explained above I think UKI treated 
them fairly and reasonably in declining their claim.
My final decision
I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr L to accept or 
reject my decision before 18 February 2021.
 
Elizabeth GrantOmbudsman