DRN-4261719
The complaint
Mr P had a motor insurance policy with Advantage Insurance Company Limited. He said it 
reached the wrong decision about his liability for an accident and provided poor service.
What happened
Briefly, the accident happened when another driver stopped opposite a junction and 
remained there, despite having no obvious reason not to proceed, or to turn into the junction. 
Mr P waited behind and then overtook the other car. As he did so, the other driver turned her 
car into his passing vehicle. Mr P said Advantage didnt investigate the claim properly, as it 
didnt get the other drivers version of events and made a premature decision on liability 
without reviewing a statement from an independent witness. Mr P also said its reasons for 
holding him at fault changed over time and that it provided very poor service to him overall. 
One of our investigators reviewed Mr Ps complaint and didnt uphold it. Later, after 
reconsidering her first view, although she still thought Advantage had made a reasonable 
decision on liability, she said it didnt handle the claim efficiently. But she thought it had 
acted reasonably in offering Mr P £100 for poor service. As there was no agreement, the 
complaint was passed to me for review. I issued a provisional decision, upholding Mr Ps 
complaint in part. In summary, I said the following:
Writing off the car and providing  a valuation
I noted that initially Advantage had offered Mr P too little for his car, but after he pointed out 
the correct valuation in one of the trade guides, it increased its offer by around £900, which 
Mr P accepted. I thought the decision to class the car as a total loss was fair, given its value 
and the amount of damage to it. But I thought Advantage had provided poor service around 
the issue, especially by giving Mr P conflicting and inaccurate information - and by forcing 
him to make a long journey to collect items from the car.
Information gathering 
I thought it was fair for Mr P to say that Advantage made minimal efforts to contact the 
witness and didnt tell him to return his signed statement within two weeks. I didnt think he 
was chased for a response either. I noted that Advantage said later that its time limit should 
have been adjusted, but instead the claim was closed early. I thought Advantages service 
around the issue was very poor. And I said I thought it should have tried to get a statement 
from the other driver, especially as Mr P had said her poor driving caused the accident and 
gave details of what she did wrong. 
Case closure and re-opening
I noted the particularly poor communication from Advantage to Mr P on this issue. He was 
told twice in December 2021 that the case wouldnt be closed (or liability decided) until the 
witnesss statement had been reviewed. He found out later that at the time he got those 
messages, the case had already been closed  although in response to a query he raised 
about it, he was told that wasnt the case. In January 2022 Advantage said his claim was 
closed in error but had now been re-opened. But that wasnt accurate either. Mr P queried it 
with the advisor who had told him about the re-opening, but he didnt respond. I said I could 
see why Mr P was so upset and frustrated by all these inexplicable discrepancies. 
 
Other poor service 
 
I noted that Advantage had offered Mr P £100 for a few relatively minor service issues, but 
that numerous other more serious service issues hadnt been addressed. I said they arose in 
the total loss / valuation process, the information gathering process, the case closure / re-
opening saga and in the process for deciding liability. So I thought more compensation for 
Mr Ps distress and inconvenience was merited.
The liability decision
 
I said although Mr P had accepted that he disregarded Highway Code guidance by 
overtaking at a junction, he felt he had no choice, given the other drivers odd behaviour. I 
noted that Advantage initially said it held him at fault because there was no evidence that 
she wasnt indicating to turn right at the time. But after the witness confirmed she wasnt 
doing so, Advantage then made several assertions about the incident, including that Mr P 
may have been speeding (when the witness said hed been stationary before overtaking) 
and that by indicating when making the manoeuvre he may have confused her. I also noted 
that Advantage said the driver of the car at the rear when an accident happened was usually 
held at fault - but that Mr Ps car was alongside and slightly ahead of the other car at the 
point of impact. I thought it odd that Advantage hadnt wanted to review the other drivers 
account, given the statements made by Mr P and the witness, especially given that she had 
not only stopped her car for no reason, but also hadnt seen Mr Ps car, either when it was 
behind, or alongside, her car - and she hadnt made safety checks before turning right. 
Was the liability decision fair and reasonable? 
I said I understood why Mr P thought he wasnt to blame for the accident, given the other 
drivers behaviour, and that had Advantage acted differently, the other insurer may have 
agreed to split liability - but was unlikely to have agreed that Mr P wasnt at fault at all. So in 
my opinion, hed still have had a fault claim on his record and his premiums would still have 
risen. I noted that Advantage didnt think it could persuade a judge that Mr P bore no liability 
for the accident, and that it thought the best outcome in court would have been split liability. I 
thought it was fair for it to have considered the prospects of success in court alongside the 
cost of proceedings. I didnt think it would have made a difference to Mr Ps situation had 
Advantage acted differently. 
In summary
I said I was minded to conclude that Advantage should pay Mr P £400 compensation for 
distress and inconvenience, based on its poor service (especially in relation to the witness 
and in not challenging the other insurer) plus its poor communication with him. I asked the 
parties to comment on my provisional findings. Advantage didnt respond to them, but Mr P 
made numerous comments. 
In essence, he emphasised the amount of time hed had to spend dealing with all the issues 
that arose from Advantages poor service and poor communication, over a period of several 
months. He said it had caused him extreme stress that had affected his health. He also said 
that being held fully at fault, with a claim of over £11,000 against his name, had led to a huge 
rise in his premium  and that split liability would have had much less financial impact on 
him. He pointed out the numerous discrepancies in Advantages communication and said hed been misled by it. He queried if it had reviewed the witness statement properly and said 
he couldnt follow why it changed its stance to full liability, despite the witnesss support. 
I issued a further provisional decision, in which I said I thought Id seriously underestimated 
the impact on Mr P of Advantages poor service, especially in not challenging the other 
insurer about the other drivers conduct. I said I understood how galling it must be for Mr P 
that she doesnt have a fault claim on her record and wasnt required to explain her actions. I 
said I was minded to raise the compensation to £750. I still thought it was reasonable for 
Advantage to decide not to start proceedings in court, but I said it was hard to see why - if it 
had reviewed the witness statement properly - it didnt argue for liability to be split. I still 
thought that split liability wouldnt have left Mr P better off financially; hed still have had his 
no claims discount reduced and would still have had a fault claim on his record. I said these 
were major factors in setting premiums, whereas the cost of a claim isnt a major factor. 
I asked the parties to comment on my further provisional findings. Advantage didnt respond. 
Mr P didnt accept them. He said hed be taking legal advice and may take the matter to 
court, as he was sure a judge would look favourably on his actions. 
He said Advantage had ignored basic procedural matters - the First Notification of Loss 
process (requiring it to get a statement from both drivers, amongst other things) and the 14-
day rule (to be applied to the driver at the rear of a collision ). He said both procedures were 
set by the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA) but that I hadnt taken them into account.
 
Mr P also said Id said the initial decision made by Advantage was full liability against him, 
when in fact it had first said that liability would be split, but that - pending the witness 
statement - that could change. He said it had never explained why it accepted full liability. He 
said the other driver did nothing that was expected of her, and that her actions could be 
considered negligent - whereas he only departed from one aspect of the Highway Code. 
Although Mr P had said previously that perhaps he should have sounded the cars horn 
before overtaking, he commented that it wasnt his responsibility to do that (or to flash his 
lights). He said that shouldnt have been necessary and may have been a criminal offence.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I understand why Mr P wants to take his case to court. Advantage didnt think there was a 
reasonable prospect of success in doing so, but thats only its opinion. I thought it was a 
reasonable conclusion for it to reach, but thats just my view. A judge may think otherwise.
I agree with Mr P that Advantage should have sought an account from the other driver, as I 
said in my previous decisions. I thought it was a major omission in his case, but Im not 
aware of the FCA requiring all insurers to do so routinely. In relation to the 14-day rule Mr P 
has quoted, again Im not familiar with an FCA requirement relating to the driver at the rear 
when an accident happens. In my previous decisions, I commented on Mr Ps point about his 
car not  being at the rear at the point of impact, which I think is correct - but I dont think the 
issue was a factor (or not a significant one) in Advantages decision about liability anyway. 
Im sorry if the wording of my previous decisions about what Advantage said to Mr P at 
various times about liability caused any confusion. Mr Ps said it told him initially that the 
claim was likely to be decided on the basis of split liability (in which case hed be held partly 
at fault) but that the liability stance might change, depending on the witnesss statement. My 
aim was to reflect that position when referring to it in my previous decisions. And I said I 
didnt understand why, given the witnesss support for Mr P, Advantage had changed its stance and held him fully liable for the accident. 
The other driver in this case appears to have made a substantial contribution to the accident, 
as I said in my previous decisions. Mr P may only have departed from one aspect of 
Highway Code guidance, but he said that in hindsight perhaps he should have sounded the 
cars horn. I agree that he shouldnt have had to take that action, as the other driver should 
have been aware of his presence - however, if there was a chance that it could have 
prevented the accident, it might have been advisable, as Mr P has since realised. But that 
doesnt detract from the other drivers questionable acts and omissions at the time.  
I appreciate that Mr P is very disappointed with my recent provisional decision, but he hasnt 
said anything in his latest comments that has led me to change my mind. I still dont think 
hes worse off financially than he would have been had liability been split, but in my opinion, 
he was seriously let down by Advantages poor service and its poor communication. And (as 
Ive explained in more detail in my previous decisions) I think some of its actions were 
inexplicable and its investigation was lacking in some respects. Consequently, I think it 
would be fair and reasonable for Advantage to pay Mr P £750 compensation.     
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint. I require Advantage Insurance Company 
Limited to pay Mr P £750 for distress and inconvenience.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision before 22 August 2023. 
Susan Ewins
Ombudsman