DRN-3040281
The complaint
Mr K complains that AXA Insurance UK Plc has turned down a cancellation claim he made 
on his travel insurance policy.
What happened
In December 2019, Mr K took out an annual travel insurance policy through a broker. In 
January 2020, Mr K booked a holiday to a country Ill call T. He booked flights and 
accommodation separately. He was due to travel between 21 and 30 July 2020.
However, as a result of the Covid-19 pandemic, the Foreign, Commonwealth & Development 
Office (FCDO  formerly the FCO) had advised all but essential travel to T at the time Mr K 
was due to travel. So Mr K had to cancel his trip. His airline refunded the costs of Mr Ks 
flights. But the accommodation provider didnt agree to pay Mr K a cash refund. Instead, it 
said Mr K could use the credit amount of his booking for a future stay at the accommodation, 
up until the end of 2021. 
Mr K emailed the accommodation provider to propose some new booking dates but said he 
didnt get a response. So he made a claim on his travel insurance policy for the cost of his 
accommodation.
AXA turned down the claim. It said that the cancellation section of the policy didnt cover 
cancellation due to changes in FCDO advice. This cover was only available under optional, 
add-on Travel Disruption cover, which Mr K had chosen not to buy. However, it agreed to 
assess the claim under the Travel Disruption section. It said though that this section only 
covered a policyholders irrecoverable cancellation costs. As the accommodation provider 
had offered Mr K the chance to rebook his stay at the same cost, AXA didnt think Mr K had 
suffered a financial loss which was covered by the policy terms. It referred to the 
accommodation providers offer as a credit voucher.
Mr K was unhappy with AXAs response and he asked us to look into his complaint. In 
particular, he didnt think hed been offered a credit voucher. He also sent us a copy of a 
message hed sent to the accommodation provider which asked for advice about how to 
rebook the accommodation. 
Our investigator didnt think Mr Ks complaint should be upheld. She accepted that the Travel 
Disruption cover only covered a policyholders irrecoverable losses. In this case, she didnt 
think Mr K had shown that the accommodation providers offer to re-book his stay had 
expired or was no longer available. So she felt AXAs decision had been fair. However, she 
considered that once the offer had expired, Mr K was entitled to get back in touch with AXA 
and that it might then be fair for AXA to pay the claim. 
Mr K disagreed. In summary, he said there had been no credit voucher or coupon and no 
legally defined offer. There had been no response from the accommodation provider. He 
also felt AXA had failed to highlight the full available claims process to him.
The complaints been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, while Im sorry to disappoint Mr K, I think it was fair for AXA to turn down his 
claim. Ill explain why. 
The relevant regulators rules say that insurers must handle claims promptly and fairly. And 
they mustnt turn down claims unreasonably. So Ive thought carefully about, amongst other 
things, the terms and conditions of Mr Ks policy and the circumstances of his claim to 
decide whether AXA handled it fairly. 
Ive first considered the policy terms, as these form the basis of Mr Ks contract with AXA. 
The cancellation section of the policy sets out the insured events it covers for unused costs 
a policyholder incurs if they need to cancel his trip. Its common ground that the cancellation 
section of the policy doesnt cover cancellation due to changes in FCDO advice. 
Cancellation for this reason is only covered under the Travel Disruption section of the 
policy, which is an optional add-on. However, despite Mr K neither taking out this cover, nor 
paying the appropriate premium for it, AXA agreed to assess his accommodation claim 
under this section of cover. I think this was a fair, reasonable and appropriate response from 
AXA.
In this case, theres no dispute that Mr Ks holiday was cancelled as a result of the FCDO 
advising against all but essential travel to T. So I can understand why Mr K feels that AXA 
should pay his claim for his accommodation costs. 
The policy says: We will pay you for your proportion only of any unused travel, 
accommodation and other pre-paid charges that you cannot claim back from any other 
source if you cannot travel and have to cancel your trip (Emphasis added)
AXA says that as the accommodation provider effectively offered Mr K a credit note for the 
full value of his booking; he hasnt suffered a financial loss for this booking which is covered 
by the policy. And I think the policy wording makes it clear that AXA doesnt cover costs 
which can be recovered from elsewhere. Its important to add that when AXA refers to a 
credit voucher, its simply referring to the email offer from the booking agent setting out the 
accommodation providers offer to rebook Mr Ks accommodation. This doesnt mean that 
AXA has incorrectly considered the claim or taken incorrect evidence into account.
Ive next considered the terms of the accommodation providers offer. Ive seen a copy of the 
email correspondence between Mr K and the booking agent. The booking agent stated:
The accommodation would like to offer you the option to use the credit for a future stay. You 
can use this credit up until end of 2021 for same amount of original reservation. To accept 
this offer, please confirm. 
Ive seen Mr Ks reply to the booking agent. He asked whether it was possible to have the 
same dates or any date in August 2021. So I think it was fair for AXA to conclude that Mr K 
had accepted the terms of the offer and also, that at that point, he hadnt suffered a financial 
loss for this booking, because the offer would cover the full value of his pre-booked 
accommodation. Given Mr K proposed future dates when he could potentially use the offer, I 
think he could reasonably be considered to have accepted it. And given this, I dont think it 
was unreasonable for AXA to conclude that Mr K would most likely be in a position to make 
use of the accommodation credit in the future. I can understand why Mr K might prefer to get a cash refund for his booking with the accommodation provider, given that travel plans 
currently remain uncertain. But I dont find it was unfair for AXA to consider, when it 
assessed the claim, that Mr K hadnt suffered a financial loss for this booking.
Mr K has told us that he didnt get a reply to his email (and hes showed us a copy of the 
chaser he sent). Hes also provided us with a copy of a message he sent directly to the 
accommodation provider, which asked how he could make use of the offer. He says he 
didnt get a response. I accept this is possible. But I dont think Ive seen enough, either from 
the booking agent or the accommodation provider, to show that the offer didnt remain open; 
had been withdrawn or couldnt be extended. So Im not persuaded that Mr K has presently 
demonstrated that his loss is now irrecoverable.
If, however, Mr K is able to obtain confirmation from the booking agent or the 
accommodation provider to show that either the voucher has been withdrawn or wont be 
extended, its open to him to send this to AXA to consider. Equally, once the offer period has 
expired, its open to Mr K to provide evidence that he hasnt been able to recover his 
accommodation costs to AXA. It would be for AXA to assess the claim further in line with the 
terms and conditions of the policy, taking into account the fact it agreed to assess the claim 
as if Mr K had Travel Disruption cover. And if Mr K is unhappy with the outcome of any 
further assessment of his claim, he may potentially bring a new complaint to us about that 
issue alone.
But, as Ive set out above, on the evidence before me, I think it was fair and reasonable for 
AXA to conclude, at the point it assessed the claim, that Mr K hadnt demonstrated he'd 
suffered a financial loss for the accommodation booking. Overall, Ive decided it was fair and 
reasonable for AXA to turn down Mr Ks claim when it assessed it in August 2020.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr K to accept or 
reject my decision before 7 January 2022.
 
Lisa Barham
Ombudsman