DRN-4143388
The complaint
Mr H complains that Shelby Finance Ltd, trading as Dot Dot Loans (Shelby) lent to him 
irresponsibly. 
What happened
Using information from Shelby here is a loan table giving some details of the approved 
loans: 
Loan Approved Amount Repayments 
in monthsrepaid
1 20 June 2020 £250 £78.87 x 6 31 December 2020
2 8 November 2020 £350 £99.49 x 6 17 December 2020
Gap in the lending of eighteen months
3 5 June 2022 £1,000 £318.16 x 6 Payment plan since 
September 2022 £54 
month
Mr H complained to Shelby a few days after taking loan 3. Shelby issued its final response 
letter (FRL) on 8 August 2022 and did not uphold Mr Hs complaint. He referred it to the 
Financial Ombudsman Service and one of our adjudicators thought the same.
Mr H responded to our adjudicators view and said that his main concern arising from the 
complaint was with loan 3 and at the time he said that his outgoings were double the sum 
that hed declared when applying for loan 3. 
So, Mr H felt that Shelby ought to have been alerted that something wasnt quite right and 
therefore looked into it further. He understood that looking at bank statements is not required 
but he says that in these circumstances Shelbys underwriting team ought to have been 
suspicious. And, Mr H added, if Shelby had looked at his bank account statements before 
approving loan 3, it would have seen a large amount of gambling and that he was deep into 
his overdraft.
Our adjudicator issued a second view in which she explained:
- there was a gap between loans 2 and 3 and so she had treated the loan 3 approval 
as a new phase of lending and
- Shelby had increased the figure used in its creditworthiness assessment from £665 
(as declared by Mr H) to £1,350 after it had carried out its own research and so that 
element had been factored in, and
- even after deducting the higher figure of expenditure from Mr Hs income, Shelby still 
considered that he could afford loan 3 and
- she did not think Shelby needed to have asked to view bank statements. 
So, our adjudicator did not alter her view and Mr H wanted to have the complaint reviewed. 
The unresolved complaint was passed to me to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Shelby had to assess the lending to check if Mr H could afford to pay back the amounts hed 
borrowed without undue difficulty. It needed to do this in a way which was proportionate to 
the circumstances. Shelbys checks couldve taken into account several different things, 
such as how much was being lent, the size of the repayments, and Mr Hs income and 
expenditure. 
I think in the early stages of a lending relationship, less thorough checks might have been 
proportionate. But certain factors might suggest Shelby should have done more to establish 
that any lending was sustainable for Mr H. These factors include:
Mr H having a low income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make any loan 
repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income);
The amounts to be repaid being especially high (reflecting that it could be more 
difficult to meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income);
Mr H having a large number of loans and/or having these loans over a long period 
(reflecting the risk that repeated refinancing may signal that the borrowing had 
become, or was becoming, unsustainable);
Mr H coming back for loans shortly after previous borrowing had been repaid (also 
suggestive of the borrowing becoming unsustainable).
There may even come a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly 
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable for Mr H. 
Shelby was required to establish whether Mr H could sustainably repay the loans  not just 
whether he technically had enough money to make his repayments. Having enough money 
to make the repayments could of course be an indicator that Mr H was able to repay his 
loans sustainably. But it doesnt automatically follow that this is the case. 
Industry regulations say that payments are sustainable if they are made without undue 
difficulties and, made on time, while meeting other reasonable commitments and without 
having to borrow to make them. If a lender realises, or ought reasonably to have realised, 
that a borrower wont be able to make their repayments without borrowing further, then it 
follows that it should conclude those repayments are unsustainable.
Ive considered all the arguments, evidence and information provided in this context, and
thought about what this means for Mr Hs complaint. Ive decided not to uphold the 
complaint.
It seems that Mr Hs main issue was in relation to loan 3. Mr H did not seem to disagree with 
the adjudicators outcome about the first two loans as his response was mainly about loan 3. 
So, I have proceeded on the basis that the unresolved part of the complaint related to loan 3.  
But I have briefly reviewed the first two loans for completeness. 
I have reviewed the circumstances surrounding the approval of loans 1 and 2 and I agree 
with the adjudicator that Mr Hs income exceeded his expenditure and that the relatively modest loans over relatively short loan terms were approved after proportionate checks had 
been done. I do not uphold the complaint about loans 1 and 2.
Loan 3 was for more money - £1,000  but was applied for eighteen months after Mr H had 
paid off loan 2. That gap in the lending relationship was long enough to have been 
reasonable for Shelby to have approached that loan 3 application as if Mr H was a new 
customer. And that meant that for a £1,000 loan over six months Id have considered it 
proportionate for Shelby to have relied on the information Mr H had given to it on the 
application form.
Mr H did say on the application form that he wanted the loan for debt consolidation. Mr H 
had said that he earned £2,130 each month after tax from full time employment and his 
expenses were £665. And Shelby carried out its own research by verifying his income and 
by checking Mr Hs credit file and utilising data from the Office for National Statistics (ONS). 
It increased that expenditure figure to £1,350. Ive been sent copies of each of the credit 
search results and for loan 3 I have reviewed them carefully.
The additional expenses revealed in that credit search were factored into the 
creditworthiness assessment and so using the information it had and being satisfied that 
Mr H could still afford loan 3, it had no need to request to see anything further from Mr H. 
Therefore, its unlikely that Shelby would have seen any bank account transactions which 
may have shown gambling as Mr H has told us. That would have been disproportionate in 
my view. I add that Mr H has sent us no evidence to support his submission about gambling.  
And theres no evidence to show that Mr H had informed Shelby about the gambling and so 
I do not think that Shelby knew, or had any reason to have known, of the gambling. 
Mr Hs submissions that the Shelby underwriting team ought to have viewed his application 
as suspicious and investigated further rather turns on its head the rational reason for 
applying for a loan - namely that an applicant wants to receive some credit. To apply for a 
loan and complete the application form using information which the applicant deems to be 
the sort of information that should make the potential lender suspicious does not sound like 
an application to me. It sounds like Mr H  in doing this  may have wanted the loan to be 
refused. 
I did consider whether Shelby could have viewed Mr Hs complaint as a withdrawal, as the 
complaint was made so soon after Mr H had accepted the funds after the loan approval. 
I asked for a copy of that complaint email to check this. But the email from Mr H to complain 
makes no mention of any wish to withdraw or to pay back the £1,000 loan. 
And the email from Mr H clearly uses the terminology for his concern being an irresponsible 
lending complaint. For it to have been viewed as a withdrawal, Mr H needed to have 
stipulated that plus had the full £1,000 ready to pay back straight away. It may be that he did 
not have the money in his account with which to repay the full amount. So, for these reasons 
I decided it was not feasible to consider that there may have been a withdrawal here. 
I mention it so that Mr H appreciates I looked at each angle. But going forward, Mr H might 
like to be aware of that 14 day withdrawal period if he finds himself in similar circumstances 
again. 
However, for the reasons I have given I do not uphold the complaint. 
Correspondence between the parties seen in the account notes I have reviewed 
demonstrate to me that a repayment plan was set up for Mr H on 30 September 2022 for 
£54 a month. As I understand that in November 2022 Mr H still had around £900 to pay 
Shelby, which I anticipate has reduced since then, I remind Shelby to approach the debt held by Mr H with forbearance and to treat Mr H fairly going forward. Mr H has referred to some 
health issues of which Shelby is fully aware. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold the complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 30 August 2023.
 
Rachael Williams
Ombudsman