DRN-3660221
The complaint
Mr B complains that National Westminster Bank Plc hasnt refunded transactions of £1,800 
he says were made without his consent.
What happened
Mr B had a savings account and current account with NatWest. Mr B says that while he was 
in prison someone withdrew all his money from the accounts. But NatWest looked into this, 
and didnt agree to refund the transactions. Our investigator looked at this and thought what 
NatWest had done was fair. Mr B doesnt agree. The complaint has been referred to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The starting point is that Mr B can only be held liable for these transactions if he authorised 
them. Mr B has said he was in prison at the time these transactions were made  so I dont 
doubt he didnt carry out these transactions himself.
But Mr B can fairly be treated as having authorised transactions that were made by third 
parties with his permission. And Mr B can also be held liable where either with intent or 
gross negligence he failed to keep his security details secure, in breach of the terms and 
conditions of the account.
Ive thought about whats most likely to have happened. Mr B thinks that NatWest sent a new 
card and PIN to his address while he didnt have access to his property  and says that the 
lettings company cleared the property once it discovered he wasnt living there. But weve 
checked this with NatWest. NatWests records show it replaced Mr Bs card in October 2017, 
but doesnt show it sent Mr B any further cards. NatWest has also told us that all the 
transactions on the account were made using this card. Mr B told NatWest he checked his 
account balance for the last time at an ATM in December 2017.
Ive gone on to think about other ways the account may have been compromised. I note that 
when Mr B initially wrote to NatWest, he told them to cancel his current account card and 
PIN, but not his savings card as this was with him in custody. But the notes NatWest made 
when Mr B reported the theft in September 2018 say he told them hed left the savings card 
and PIN with a family member, who made one of the transactions during the period. 
Meanwhile hes told us that both these cards were in his possession. 
Thinking about all of this, I think its most likely that Mr B allowed someone else to have 
access to his card and PIN while he was in prison. I accept its possible he didnt, but as Ive 
said, Mr Bs version of events seems to have changed over time  and so I dont find what 
hes said persuasive. NatWest says that both the card for the current account and the 
savings account were used at the same ATMs, which suggests the same person may have 
used them.
Im also mindful that whoever used the card appears to have drawn down the account in 
amounts of between £50 and £250 at almost monthly intervals. This isnt in line with the 
normal behaviour of a thief, whod generally try to withdraw the entire balance as quickly as 
possible so it wouldnt be discovered. This, again, suggests the transactions may have been 
made by someone known to Mr B.
As such, while I accept that this will be disappointing to Mr B, I cant conclude that NatWest 
has acted unfairly here. I think the most likely explanation is that the withdrawals were made 
by someone who Mr B had given the card and PIN to. It follows I wont be asking NatWest to 
refund the disputed transactions.
Ive considered Mr Bs further comments. Mr B has referred me to the definition of 
victimisation under the Equality Act. Hes also referred me to the European Convention on 
Human Rights. 
But this doesnt change my conclusions. Im satisfied that NatWest is acting in line with its 
legal, statutory and regulatory requirements in holding Mr B liable for these transactions  
and Im satisfied it treated Mr B fairly. And while I appreciate Mr B feels strongly that, having 
had is complaint rejected, hes been denied his rights to an opinion about how hes feeling, 
this doesnt change my conclusions about his dispute about these transactions.
My final decision
I dont uphold Mr Bs complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 24 October 2022.
 
Rebecca Hardman
Ombudsman