DRN-2349200
Complaint
This complaint is about a loan single premium payment protection insurance (PPI) policy 
taken out in 1996. Mr R says Lloyds Bank PLC mis-sold him PPI.
Background
The background and circumstances leading up to this complaint, which includes Mr Rs 
circumstances at the time of the sale as well as the PPI policy benefits, limitations and 
exclusions of cover, arent disputed. So I havent repeated all of this information here.
Our adjudicator did not uphold the complaint.
Mr Rs representative disagreed with the adjudicators opinion  they didnt raise any new or 
additional points but repeated the same complaint points and arguments theyd previously 
made. 
As the complaint couldnt be resolved informally, it has been passed to me for a final 
decision.
My findings
Although I have only included a summary of the complaint, I have read and considered all 
the evidence and arguments available to me from the outset, in order to decide what is, in 
my opinion, fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of this complaint. 
When considering what is fair and reasonable, I am required to take into account relevant: 
law and regulations; regulators rules, guidance and standards; codes of practice; and, 
where appropriate, what I consider to have been good industry practice at the time. 
Weve set out our general approach to PPI mis-sale complaints on our website and 
published some example final decisions that set out in detail how these relevant 
considerations may apply to PPI sales like Mr Rs. I havent set out that detailed information 
here but Ive taken into account all relevant considerations in deciding Mr Rs complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided not to uphold this complaint and Ive summarised my reasons 
for this conclusion below:
 
I think Lloyds made it clear that Mr R didnt have to take out the PPI and he chose to 
take it out. I say this because while Lloyds no longer has a copy of Mr Rs loan 
application or credit agreement from 1996  unsurprising given the passage of time  it 
has provided an example of a credit agreement from around the same time, which it says 
represents what Mr R would have likely seen when he took out his loan.
Looking at this I can see that PPI is described on the agreement as Optional; the cost 
of the policy is set out in a separate column to the main cash loan; and the applicant had 
to tick one of two boxes  Yes or No  to indicate whether they wanted PPI or not.
So taking everything into account, and in the absence of anything so suggest something 
very different happened in Mr Rs case, I think Mr R understood he had a choice about 
PPI and likely chose to take it out by ticking the relevant box. And I think he did so 
without undue pressure.
Lloyds says it recommended the PPI to Mr R - so it had to check that the PPI was right 
for him. And the evidence about Mr Rs circumstances at the time, shows that the policy 
wasnt fundamentally wrong or unsuitable for him. For example Mr R was eligible for the 
cover and he didnt have any means to fall back on to make his loan repayments if he 
wasnt working, so he had a need for cover.
There was nothing about Mr Rs employment or occupation which would have made it 
difficult for him to claim (while Mr R was self-employed there were no additional steps Mr 
R had to take to make a successful unemployment claim). Although Mr R says he had 
two medical conditions some time before the policy was taken out, I dont think it was 
wrong for Lloyds to have recommended it. I say this because the things Mr R told us 
about happened many years before he took out PPI  the last one around 11 years prior. 
And because Mr R hasnt said or implied that either condition caused him ongoing 
problems or affected his ongoing ability to work, I dont think the policy was unsuitable for 
him. I note there were also no additional restrictions on cover for mental health or back 
problems.
While the policy didnt provide a pro-rata refund if the loan was repaid early and the PPI 
was cancelled, Ive not seen anything to suggest it was Mr Rs intention at the outset to 
repay the loan early - so I dont think the cancellation terms made the policy unsuitable.
I accept some of the information Lloyds gave Mr R about the PPI wasnt as clear as it 
shouldve been  for example not all of the single premium cost information was clear. 
But Ive found that he chose to take it out - so it looks like he wanted this type of cover. 
The cover wasnt fundamentally wrong for Mr R as I concluded above, or too dissimilar to 
what he reasonably thought he was buying from the information he was likely given. It 
also looks like it was affordable  so it seems like it would have been useful for him if 
something went wrong. Because of this I dont think Mr R would have declined the cover 
had Lloyds done anything more.
Overall, I consider that Mr R would have still taken out PPI. I think the policy could provide a 
useful benefit in a difficult time, given his circumstances at the time. I also think the policy 
was sufficiently close to what its likely he thought he was getting. And in those 
circumstances, I think that he would have taken out the policy in any event.
Mr Rs representative has raised a number of what I consider to be general complaint points, 
which it says apply to all PPI complaints. These general points include: a claim that the 
Financial Ombudsman Service is not correctly applying the regulators rules and guidance 
for handling PPI complaints; these policies represented poor value because of the number of 
significant exclusions and limitations of cover coupled with the low claims ratio; and the duty 
of utmost good faith meant Lloyds should have disclosed the poor value and explained the 
significance of the limitations and exclusions and the impact it had on the chances of making 
a claim.
But Mr Rs representative has not said how these points apply to the specific facts and 
circumstances of Mr Rs individual complaint  just that they apply to all PPI complaints.
I have thought about these things and how they might apply in Mr Rs particular case. But 
these points dont persuade me to alter my conclusions about what is fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of the complaint  for the reasons Ive set out above I dont uphold this 
complaint.
This means Lloyds doesnt have to do anything to put things right.
My decision
Overall, having considered all the evidence and arguments to decide what is, in my opinion, 
fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of this complaint and for the reasons I have set 
out above, I dont uphold Mr Rs complaint  so I make no award.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, I am required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision before 4 January 2022. 
Paul Featherstone
Ombudsman