DRN-2037935
The complaint
Mr M is unhappy with how Moneybarn No. 1 Limited, trading as Moneybarn, dealt with two 
lump sums he paid off a finance agreement with them.
What happened
Mr M (who was known by another name at the time) took out a conditional sale agreement 
with Moneybarn in March 2017. The amount of credit was £16,000; with repayments of 
£500.16 a month over 5 years. In May 2019 he paid two lump sums - £3,400 and £4,540  
towards his agreement, and he expected these to reduce his monthly repayments. But 
Moneybarn reduced the remaining term of the agreement and the monthly repayments 
remained the same. Mr M is now experiencing financial difficulties when trying to maintain 
these monthly repayments.
Mr M has complained that Moneybarn have used these lump sums to reduce the overall 
term of the agreement and havent used them to reduce his monthly repayment. Hes also 
unhappy that Moneybarn wouldnt let him pay an additional lump sum repayment using his 
wifes credit card.
Moneybarn said that they always use lump sum repayments (which they refer to as Partial 
Early Settlements or PES) to reduce the term, not the monthly repayments. And theyve also 
said that, as a responsible lender, they dont accept payments by credit card. This is 
because itd mean Mr M would be paying further interest, on top of the interest hed paying 
under his agreement with them. Mr M wasnt happy with this response and brought his 
complaint to the Financial Ombudsman Service.
Our investigator said the terms of the agreement Mr M signed said he had to notify 
Moneybarn before making a PES, and he didnt do this. So she thought Moneybarn had 
acted reasonably by using the PES Mr M made to reduce the term  without any prior 
conversation with Mr M, Moneybarn wouldnt have been aware that he wanted to reduce the 
payments.
The investigator also said that Moneybarn have policies and procedures in place that dont 
allow customers to repay agreements using a credit card. She said this was something we 
couldnt comment on, and it was a matter for Moneybarns regulators  the Financial 
Conduct Authority (FCA).
Mr M didnt agree with the investigator and has asked for an ombudsman to make a final 
decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I have reached the same overall conclusions as the investigator, and for 
broadly the same reasons. I can understand this is likely to come as a disappointment to Mr 
M, but I hope my findings go some way in explaining why Ive reached this decision. Ive also 
focused my comments on what I think is relevant. If I havent commented on any specific 
point, its because I dont believe its affected what I think is the right outcome.
When a borrower pays off part of a finance agreement, this payment could be used to either 
reduce the outstanding term (keeping the monthly repayments the same) or reduce the 
monthly repayments (keeping the outstanding term the same). The finance agreement 
should set out what will happen in these circumstances and, if it doesnt, Id expect the 
lender to tell the borrower what would happen.
Ive seen a copy of the conditional sale agreement documents signed on 30 March 2017. 
The terms and conditions of this agreement say:
3. EARLY REPAYMENT
3.1 You have the right to repay the amount you owe under this Agreement early either in 
part or in full, at any time. If you wish to exercise this right then you must notify us in writing 
at 
3.2 If the early repayment at clause 3.1 is in part, then your payment should be made (and 
funds cleared) with 28 days beginning with the day after the day that we receive your notice, 
or on or before any later date specified in your notice. You may also be due a rebate of 
interested. If requested we will write to you to let you know the details of whether you are 
due a rebate or not and we will tell you the implications this will have on your future 
repayments.
While its clear that Moneybarn wanted Mr M to write and tell them he intended to make a 
PES; its not clear from the terms and conditions that Moneybarn will always use a PES to 
reduce the outstanding term, not reduce the monthly repayments. Had Mr M contacted them 
before he made the PES, Moneybarn couldve told him the implications this will have on 
your future repayments were he would need to make fewer repayments, but the monthly 
repayments would remain unchanged. 
It isnt the role of the Financial Ombudsman Services to tell financial businesses what 
policies they should have in place. This is a decision Moneybarn can make in line with its 
regulator, the FCA. So Moneybarn havent done anything wrong by reducing the term 
instead of the monthly repayments. And, because Mr M didnt tell Moneybarn he intended to 
make a PES, even though the conditions said he should, Moneybarn couldnt tell him how 
this would impact things before the PES was made. 
But Moneybarn have an obligation to deal with customers in financial difficulties positively 
and sympathetically. So if Mr M had explained to them at the time that hed made the PES in 
order to reduce his payments because he was in financial difficulties; then Id expect 
Moneybarn to have considered restructuring the payments, not the term. But I havent seen 
anything to show me that Mr M told Moneybarn he was in financial difficulties at this point.
Mr M could also have explained this when he made his complaint in October 2019, but he 
didnt. I have seen that, as Mr Ms arrears increased, Moneybarn provided him with details of 
organisations that could assist him. But I wouldnt expect Moneybarn to assume that all 
missed payments are because of financial difficulties, and I wouldnt expect them to act upon 
information they werent aware of.
So I wont be asking Moneybarn to reduce Mr Ms payments. But Id still expect them to deal 
with his current financial difficulties positively and sympathetically and look to arrange a 
mutually agreeable repayment plan.Finally, Moneybarn have explained why they dont accept payments by credit card. I dont 
consider this explanation to be unreasonable, so I dont think they did anything wrong by 
refusing Mr Ms attempted payment by this method.
My final decision
For the reasons explained I dont uphold Mr Ms complaint about Moneybarn No. 1 Limited.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 8 October 2020.
 
Andrew Burford
Ombudsman