DRN-4269185
The complaint
Mr S is unhappy with how Capital One (Europe) plc (Capital One) dealt with his disputed 
transaction claim.
What happened
Mr S booked a package holiday with an online merchant. The hotel he chose was one that 
he and his wife had stayed at before. Mr S paid for the holiday using his Capital One credit 
card. 
Mr S initially booked a Superior Sea View room. He later upgraded the room directly with the 
hotel, upgrading to a Superior Sea View Deluxe room. He also requested a room with a 
bath. Mr S agreed with the hotel that he would pay for the upgrade on arrival.
Mr S later emailed the hotel and said he wanted to change back to the type of room he had 
initially booked.
When Mr S arrived at the hotel, he discovered that the request for the upgrade hadnt been 
cancelled. Mr S was shown other rooms that were available and ultimately accepted a room 
with a sea view but no bath. Mr S was charged a supplement of 575 Euros for the sea view. 
On returning from holiday Mr S complained to the merchant. He said hed been charged 
extra for a sea view when he shouldnt have been because his initial booking was for a room 
with a sea view. He was also unhappy that the room didnt have a bath. The merchant 
acknowledged that there had been an administration error. It refunded 500 Euros and gave 
Mr S a voucher for £300 to use towards his next holiday.
Mr S was unhappy with the response. He raised a disputed transaction claim with Capital 
One.
Capital One considered the claim under section 75 of the Consumer Credit Act 1974. It 
concluded that there hadnt been a breach of contract because the bath was something that 
Mr S had requested directly with the hotel after the booking had been made with the 
merchant. 
Mr S remained unhappy and brought his complaint to this service. He wants compensation 
for the service he received from the hotel.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im sorry to hear that Mr S and his wife didnt have the holiday experience they were hoping 
for. However, I dont think Capital One decided the section 75 claim unfairly. Ill explain why.
In certain circumstances, section 75 gives a consumer a right to claim against a supplier of 
goods or the provider of credit if theres been a breach of contract or a misrepresentation. In 
order to uphold Mr Ss complaint, I would need to be satisfied that theres been a breach of 
contract or a misrepresentation by the merchant, and that Capital Ones response to the 
claim under section 75 wasnt fair or reasonable. 
Mr S entered into a contract with the merchant for the provision of flights and 
accommodation. Based on the information Ive seen, Mr S booked a Superior Sea View 
room.
Mr S (or his wife) subsequently contacted the hotel directly and upgraded the room to a 
Superior Sea View Deluxe room and requested a bath. The hotel confirmed the upgrade.
Following this, Mr Ss wife emailed the hotel and asked to cancel the upgrade and revert to 
the room which was initially booked. I havent seen a reply from the hotel. On arrival at the 
hotel Mr S discovered that the upgrade hadnt been cancelled. Mr S was shown some rooms 
and accepted a room with a sea view, but it had no bath and he had to pay extra for the 
room. Mr S says he doesnt think he should have been charged extra because he booked a 
sea view room when he booked with the merchant.
The relevant legislation says that goods need to be of satisfactory quality and as described. 
If this wasnt the case, then a breach of contract can be said to have occurred. A 
misrepresentation is an untrue statement of fact which induces a consumer to enter into an 
agreement. For a claim under section 75 to be successful, it must be shown that the 
merchant either breached the contract or made a misrepresentation.
The issue here is whether the merchant breached the contract by failing to book the room 
requested by Mr S. However, I havent seen any evidence to suggest that the merchant 
failed to book the room. The situation was made more complicated when Mr S changed the 
room type directly with the hotel post booking. But this doesnt mean that the merchant can 
be held responsible for what the hotel did subsequently.
The invoice from the hotel shows that Mr S paid 575 Euros for a sea view room. Mr S has 
questioned why he was charged extra for a sea view room when his original booking with the 
merchant was for a sea view room. I understand the point Mr S makes here but I dont think 
the merchant can be held responsible. The hotels position is that the room ultimately given 
to Mr S was an upgraded room and this is why the extra charge was applied. I understand 
that Mr S doesnt agree that the room he was given was an upgraded room. But I cant be 
certain, based on the information that I have, of whether the room was an upgraded room or 
not. However, I can see that the merchant refunded 500 Euros and gave Mr S a voucher for 
£300, I dont think the merchant was obliged to do this, but as it has been done, Ive 
considered whether this was a fair resolution to Mr Ss complaint. And on balance, I think it 
was.
In terms of the decision by Capital One to reject the section 75 claim, I havent seen any 
evidence that theres been a breach of contract or a misrepresentation by the merchant 
here, so I dont think theres any basis for a successful section 75 claim. I appreciate that Mr 
Ss room didnt have the bath that he requested. But this request was made to the hotel, not 
as part of the booking with the merchant. So I cant hold the merchant responsible for this. 
Taking all the information into account, I dont think Capital One acted unfairly when it 
declined the claim under section 75. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold the complaint.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 29 November 2023.
 
Emma Davy
Ombudsman