DRN-3284995
The complaint
Mrs P complains that Creation Consumer Finance Ltd rejected her claim under section 75 of 
the Consumer Credit Act 1974.
What happened
Mrs P purchased an integrated television bed from a retailer and entered into a finance 
agreement with Creation.
The bed was delivered to Mrs Ps sons address. Soon after delivery, Mrs Ps son 
experienced issues with the television not turning on automatically when it was raised. He 
reported the issue to the retailer who arranged for the bed to be inspected. Mrs Ps son 
received conflicting information from the technicians as to whether the television was faulty 
or not.
Mrs P wasnt satisfied with the outcome of the inspection and contacted Creation to raise a 
section 75 claim.
In response, Creation said it had spoken to the retailer, who advised that the television was 
working as it should. Based on this, Creation rejected the section 75 claim.
Mrs P remained unhappy and complained to this service.
Our investigator upheld the complaint. He looked at the retailers terms and conditions and 
said that the television supplied was of reduced functionality and therefore not of an equal 
standard. He recommended that Creation replaced the television with one that automatically 
turned on when raised.
Creation didnt agree. It said it didnt think it had an obligation to deal with the claim under 
section 75 because the credit agreement was in the name of Mrs P but the television bed 
had been supplied to her son. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In certain circumstances, section 75 gives a consumer a right to claim against a supplier of 
goods or the provider of credit if theres been a breach of contract or a misrepresentation. In 
order to uphold Mrs Ps complaint, I would need to be satisfied that theres been a breach of 
contract or a misrepresentation and that Creations response to the section 75 claim wasnt 
fair or reasonable. 
In order to satisfy the requirements to bring a section 75 claim, there has to be a debtor  
creditor-supplier relationship. In this case, it was Mrs P who entered into the finance 
agreement and the goods were delivered to her sons address. Creation has said that 
because of this, theres been a break in the DCS relationship. Ive thought about this. But 
Mrs Ps sons name doesnt appear on any of the contractual documents, such as the 
invoice. On the evidence, Mrs P entered into the contract and became the debtor under the 
finance agreement and had the goods delivered to a different address. Mrs Ps sons name 
isnt on the invoice or the contract with the retailer, so Im satisfied that the DCS requirement 
is met here.
Ive gone on to consider whether theres been a breach of contract or a misrepresentation. 
The relevant law says that goods must be of satisfactory quality when supplied. Mrs Ps son 
has said that when the television bed was demonstrated to him in store, the television 
automatically turned itself on when it raised from the bed. But the television supplied with his 
bed doesnt do this and he has to turn it on manually.
Creation has said that two types of television are supplied with the bed, one which turns on 
automatically and one which isnt. It said the type of television wasnt guaranteed at the point 
of supply.
Ive looked at the terms and conditions of the contract. Under product specification, it says 
the retailer may supply goods with minor differences in specification and that where this is 
the case, any differences will result in the goods being of equal or improved standard. 
Creation has said that these terms mean that the retailer is allowed to supply a different type 
of television. I disagree. The television supplied here is not of an equal or improved 
standard, because it has reduced functionality insofar as it doesnt turn on automatically. 
Because of this, Im satisfied that theres been a breach of contract.  
Putting things right
To put things right, creation should arrange for the television to be replaced with a television 
which automatically turns on when it is raised from the bed.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold the complaint. Creation Consumer Finance Ltd must 
arrange for the television to be replaced with a model which turns on automatically when 
raised.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs P to accept or 
reject my decision before 24 March 2022.
 
Emma Davy
Ombudsman