DRN-4457541
The complaint
Mr I complains about a decision taken by EE Limited to not apply a discount to a mobile 
phone handset fixed sum loan agreement he took out in June 2023, a discount he believes 
he is entitled to.
What happened
Mr I says that since 2000 he (as an employee then as an ex-employee) was entitled to a 
discount on any handset and airtime agreement taken out by him with EE.
Prior to June 2021 Mr I benefited from a discount on all the handset and airtime agreements 
he took out with EE. This discount was initially set at 50% before being reduced over time to 
40% then 30%.
In June 2021 Mr I entered into a combined handset and airtime agreement with EE. EE 
didnt apply the above 30% discount but applied two other discounts of 20% and 10% - 
totalling 30%.
In June 2023 Mr I entered into a handset agreement with no discount and an airtime 
agreement with a 20% discount.
Mr I complained to EE that he understood that he was entitled to a 30% discount on his 
handset and airtime agreement but this hadnt been applied.
EE considered Mr Is complaint but concluded Mr I was only entitled to a 20% airtime 
agreement discount, nothing further.
Unhappy with EEs response to his complaint Mr I complained to our service.
Mr Is complaint was considered by one of our investigators who came to the view that it 
shouldnt be upheld.
Mr I didnt agree and so his complaint has been passed to me for review and decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so I can confirm that Ive come to the same outcome as the investigator and for 
the same reasons. There is also very little I can usefully add to what has already been said.
Ive read and considered the whole file, but Ill concentrate my comments on what I think is 
relevant. If I dont comment on any specific point its not because Ive failed to take it on 
board and think about it but because I dont think I need to comment on it in order to reach 
what I think is the right outcome.
I would also add that where the information Ive got is incomplete, unclear, or contradictory, 
Ive to base my decision on the balance of probabilities.
Our service was set up by Parliament under the Financial Services and Markets Act 2000 
(FSMA). Its important to make clear that  as a public body - we dont have a general, at 
large power to investigate any complaint. We can only investigate what FSMA and rules 
made under FSMA say we can. And we have no legal power to investigate complaints that 
are beyond our jurisdiction.
FSMA gives the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA) the power to say what complaints we 
can and cant consider. The FCA has set these out in the Dispute Resolution chapter of the 
FCA Handbook (also known as DISP or the DISP rules). 
We can consider some financial complaints against EE because it falls under what is known 
as our compulsory jurisdiction. But that doesnt mean we can consider every complaint that 
is brought to us.
DISP 2.3.1 says we can consider complaints under the compulsory jurisdiction if it relates to 
an act or omission by a firm in carrying out certain activities. We can also look at ancillary 
activities in connection with them.
The provision of an airtime agreement doesnt fall under the list of regulated activities. So I 
dont have the power to consider Mr Is complaint about the discount of 20%, rather than 
30%, that was applied to his airtime agreement.
I will now turn to Mr Is handset agreement, an agreement I can consider complaints about.
Mr I says he is entitled to a discount of 30% off this handset agreement due to being an 
ex-employee of EE. Now I dont doubt that Mr I has benefited from such a discount in the 
past and may still be enjoying such a discount on other handset plans he has with EE. But 
this doesnt mean EE has done anything wrong in not applying such a discount to the 
handset agreement subject to this complaint.
Unfortunately for Mr I he has provided no documentary evidence to show that he is entitled 
to a 30% discount off handset agreements with EE for life, or indeed for any period of time 
beyond say 2019. This, together with the fact that Mr I doesnt dispute signing the handset 
agreement in the full knowledge no discount had been applied and that he made an 
informed decision not to exercise his 14 days right of withdrawal I cant see how I can 
conclude that EE has done anything wrong in holding Mr I liable to those handset agreement 
terms now. 
I appreciate Mr I will be disappointed but based on what both parties have said and 
submitted Im satisfied that EE has done nothing wrong in the particular circumstances of 
this case.
My final decision
My final decision is I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr I to accept or 
reject my decision before 1 January 2024.
 
Peter Cook
Ombudsman