DRN-3018428
The complaint
Mr S has complained about his motor insurer U K Insurance Limited (UKI), which also 
provides his home insurance. When UKI acted in response to a claim Mr S made on his 
home insurance, it said that gave it cause to cancel his motor policy. Mr S thinks UKIs 
actions are unfair.
My colleague has considered Mr Ss complaint about UKI as Mr Ss home insurer. My 
decision relates to UKI as Mr Ss car insurer.
What happened
In respect of Mr Ss home insurance, UKI cancelled it on grounds of fraud, issuing a final 
response to Mr S on 18 November 2020. Because it felt Mr S had acted fraudulently, UKI 
said that tainted its whole relationship with him. UKI noted Mr Ss motor policy allowed it to 
cancel the policy at any time with notice. So on 23 November 2020 it gave Mr S notice that, 
as of 7 December 2020, his motor policy would be cancelled and hed no longer be insured 
to drive his car. Mr S complained to us.
Our investigator noted the policy allows UKI to cancel the cover. So she felt UKI had acted 
fairly and reasonably. Mr S asked for an ombudsmans decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I note, as our investigator did, that the terms of Mr Ss motor insurance 
policy do allow UKI to cancel the cover with notice if theres a valid reason for doing so. 
I note that UKI gave notice and refunded Mr Ss premium for the remainder of the policy 
year. So I just need to consider if UKI had a valid reason for cancelling the motor insurance.
In general terms, where this service accepts that an insurer has made a fair and reasonable 
finding of fraud against a policyholder, we usually consider that the fraud taints the whole 
relationship that exists between the policyholder and the insurer. In effect the insurer can no 
longer trust the policyholder to act honestly in good faith because the fraudulent act has 
shown them to be dishonest. And that lack of trust, reasonably I think, transcends policy 
boundaries and types. In my view, a lack of trust like this, would be a valid reason for 
cancelling a policy.
Im aware of my colleagues decision on the home insurance policy. I note it hasnt been 
upheld. So my colleague hasnt found that UKI was wrong in its allegation of fraud. As such, 
I think UKI had a valid reason for cancelling Mr Ss motor insurance policy. So, whilst I know 
that Mr S believes that the cancellation is affecting his ability to find other cover, as I think it 
cancelled his policy fairly, I wont be asking UKI to do anything differently here.
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint. I dont make any award against U K Insurance Limited.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 8 December 2021. 
Fiona Robinson
Ombudsman