DRN-3427567
The complaint
Miss L complains that Starling Bank Limited wont refund the money she paid for goods she 
didnt receive. 
What happened
Miss L wanted to buy hair extensions and an iPhone 13. On 31 December 2021, she made 
two bank transfer payments to a new payee to pay for the items, one for £50 and the other 
for £600. 
In January 2022, Miss L contacted Starling to explain that she had paid £600 to a friend 
three weeks ago for an item she didnt receive. She told the bank the seller was a friend of 
mine and I have paid her in the past to do my hair which she has done. Ive known her since 
collegeIve now paid her for a phone which she has not given me.  The banks operative 
asked Miss L questions about the payment and the wider circumstances. Miss L explained 
that the person she was expecting to pay was genuine because I known her And have paid 
her before which she hasnt failed to do. [sic]
Starling said it was unable to help as the situation was a private civil dispute rather than a 
scam, so it declined to provide a refund or look into things further.
In February 2022, Miss L raised the claim again. She explained she did not know the seller 
beforehand and they had been put in touch via a mutual friend. She said the seller 
advertised the items for sale on social media which is where they spoke and how they 
arranged for Miss L to purchase them. She told the bank she did not know the seller 
personally and doesnt have a phone number to try and call her. Starling said its previous 
claim outcome and decision still stood. 
Miss L replied to the bank to say the payee was sent to her by her sister as that person does 
her sisters hair and thats how she came to add her as a friend on social media. Miss L said 
she had never purchased from the seller before these two transactions made on the same 
day and neither of the items were received. Unhappy with the banks position, Miss L 
referred her complaint to this service. 
Our Investigator broadly agreed that Starling didnt need to do anything further in this case. 
She thought that there were indicators that Miss L had potentially been the victim of a scam. 
She pointed out that Miss L had said she didnt know the person, that shed never 
transferred any money to them before and that the items didnt arrive to support this. 
But she went on to say that even if she did consider the situation under the provisions of the 
Contingent Reimbursement Model Code that Starling has signed up to, she didnt think 
Miss L had a reasonable basis for believing the payments were for genuine goods. She 
thought the price of the iPhone 13 was too good to be true and that it was improbable that 
the same seller could supply both items. She also thought Miss L should have been more 
cautious by taking further steps to check things out before sending any money. 
Miss L responded to say the reasons the bank had given her for not refunding the money 
were because she knew the person and that she had received goods from them before, 
neither of which was the case. Miss L said it was the sellers cousin that was going to supply 
the phone and she did not know of his involvement before the transaction was made. She 
pointed out the seller sells multiple items online from her social media account and that the 
phone was refurbished and not brand-new, which is why it was cheaper. 
As no agreement could be reached, the case was passed to me for a final decision. 
My further investigation 
When the complaint was passed to me, I contacted Miss L to try and clarify the surrounding 
circumstances. I highlighted that when she contacted the bank initially, what shed said gave 
the impression that the seller was a friend of hers and that she had been providing a 
hairdressing service in person rather than arranging to supply hair extensions through the 
post. I pointed out that in later conversations with the bank, Miss L had said the seller was 
known to her only through a mutual friend and that they had connected through a social 
media app. I provided Miss L with extracts from the banks transcripts.
I explained that the banks records show that she had set up a payee with the same name as 
the seller in October 2021, so I could see why the bank had the impression that shed 
potentially known the person from more than just this social media interaction and for a 
longer time.
I pointed out that there was no specific information about what the deal with the mobile 
phone was. I acknowledged there was some debate as to whether the phone was meant to 
be supplied brand new or whether it was refurbished. I explained this could have an impact 
on what a fair price for it would be. I explained there are many different models of iPhone 13 
with different storage capacities and these differences mean the devices are offered for sale 
at different price points. 
I also provided a copy of a screenshot of a conversation that Miss L had provided to the 
bank. The conversation was between Miss L and the seller on 30 December 2021. The 
seller told Miss L that she needed to send me £100 from the phone plus the hair money 
which is £150 to this account and the £900 to this account.  I pointed out that it was not 
clear how much the phone was meant to be given that Miss L had told the bank it was £600, 
yet in this conversation there was an agreement about paying what looked to £1,000 for the 
device.  
I asked Miss L to contact me with any further information that could clarify what she thought 
she was buying. Miss L did not respond, so I am proceeding based on the information that 
I have. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I think its important to first point out that paying by bank transfer does not attract the same 
protections as paying by credit or debit card. Miss L does not dispute that she made the two 
payments in dispute herself. This means that the transactions were authorised by Miss L. 
The starting point under the Payment Services Regulations 2017 is that it is Miss L rather 
than Starling that is responsible for them.
For me to say that Starling is responsible for reimbursing Miss L, I would need to be satisfied 
that:Starling ought reasonably to have recognised Miss L was at risk of financial harm 
from fraud at the time she was making the payments and their failure to intervene 
has caused her loss; or  
Miss L ought to be reimbursed under the provisions of the Contingent 
Reimbursement Model CRM Code
The payments Miss L made were unremarkable. They didnt stand out enough from her 
typical spending patterns for me to be able to fairly say that Starling should have been 
concerned that Miss L might have been at risk of financial harm from fraud at the time she 
sent the money. Im also mindful that Miss L didnt know about the problems she was going 
to go on to have at the time she made the payments. So even if I thought Starling should 
have asked her questions about them at the time they were made, it seems unlikely that 
either side would have been concerned that a potential scam was taking place. 
The CRM Code, introduced in 2019, is designed to reimburse victims of authorised push 
payment scams, but not civil disputes. Starling has signed up to the CRM Code and it as in 
force when Miss L made the payment.  Neither scam nor civil dispute are defined in the 
Code, but a scam can ordinarily be defined as a dishonest scheme. It suggests criminal 
wrongdoing intended to result in financial gain. 
On the other hand, civil disputes are generally those between private individuals about 
disputes which sit outside of criminal law. So, in these circumstances, I need to consider 
whether the seller set out to defraud Miss L, including consideration of whether they ever 
had any intention of supplying the goods. 
The information Miss L has provided about the purchases and their surrounding 
circumstances is inconsistent and contradicts, making it very difficult to work out what has 
happened in this case. It is unclear to me to what extent Miss L truly knows the seller. I have 
placed more weight on what Miss L said when she first made her claim in January 2021. 
That evidence suggests Miss L and the seller are known to each other and that the seller 
has provided goods and services that Miss L has been happy with in the past. Against this 
backdrop, I dont think it was unfair for Starling to conclude the situation Miss L finds herself 
in forms part of a civil dispute and was not covered by the CRM Code. It seems more likely 
than not that this situation has arisen out of an agreement between friends that has gone 
wrong. I cant safely say with any degree of certainty, based on what I have to consider, that 
the seller set out with an intent to defraud Miss L and not provide the goods that she had 
paid for.  
I doubt Miss L would have gone to all of the effort required to pursue this matter if she had 
received everything she had paid for. But even if I were to conclude that she had been the 
victim of a scam and that she had been tricked into making payment for items that were 
never going to be provided, this isnt enough, in and of itself, for Miss L to receive a refund of 
the money thats been lost under the CRM Code. 
Under the CRM Code, a bank may choose not to reimburse a customer if it can establish 
that*: 
 The customer ignored what the CRM Code refers to as an Effective Warning by failing to 
take appropriate action in response to such an effective warning
  The customer made payments without having a reasonable basis for believing that: the 
payee was the person the Customer was expecting to pay; the payment was for genuine 
goods or services; and/or the person or business with whom they transacted was legitimate  The customer has been grossly negligent 
*The two further exceptions outlined in the CRM Code do not apply to this case
Im persuaded one of the listed exceptions to reimbursement under the provisions of the 
CRM Code applies in the circumstances of this case. Miss L failed to meet her requisite level 
of care under the CRM Code for the payment she made. I dont think she had a reasonable 
basis for believing the payment was for genuine goods and the person she transacted with 
was legitimate.
I cannot be sure of how the seller presented themselves and the goods at the time Miss L 
agreed to buy them. Miss L is saying that she arranged to buy hair extensions costing £50 
and a phone costing £600 over social media, but that does not tally with the screenshot of 
the text message Miss L sent to the bank of a conversation on 30 December 2021. This 
suggests that Miss L did have the sellers direct contact details and that the device was 
going to cost £1,000. 
Nonetheless, I think Miss L should have had done more to question this deal and to satisfy 
herself that it was legitimate before making the payment. There is a considerable degree of 
risk buying an expensive device from a seller as oppose to a retailer. Even if the seller was 
able to legitimately source the device, I think Miss L should have questioned in her own mind 
why the seller was prepared to let the latest model device go for what was probably less 
than its market value, even taking into account that it may have been a refurbished handset. 
She should have questioned in her own mind why the seller was providing her with someone 
elses bank account details to make the payment for the items. I think Miss L should have 
weighed it all up given there were some concerning red flags present. I am not persuaded 
Miss L did so given what shes said about not knowing that the phone was meant to be 
provided by the sellers cousin until after making the payment. Based on what I have to 
consider, it seems to me that Miss L took a gamble and decided to send the money without 
making the appropriate enquiries to satisfy herself that there was nothing untoward about the 
situation. But by doing so, she fell below the level of care expected of her under the CRM 
Code.  
Overall, I dont think Starling treated Miss L unfairly when it concluded it was not responsible 
for refunding the money that she has lost. For the reasons I have explained, Im satisfied 
Miss L isnt due a refund under the CRM Code. Nor can I see there are other grounds on 
which I could say that Starling should, fairly and reasonably, bear the responsibility for 
Miss Ls loss.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss L to accept or 
reject my decision before 23 June 2022.
 
Claire Marsh
Ombudsman