DRN-3844081
The complaint
Mr W complains about BUPA Insurance Limited (BUPA) on the following issues:
BUPA asked for a GP referral when Mr W contacted it after experiencing hip and leg 
pain.
Special conditions were added to his policy and Mr W wanted these to be removed.
BUPA took payment automatically when his policy was renewed.
He is unhappy about the call wait times.
What happened
Mr W has a private medical insurance policy with BUPA. 
He contacted BUPA in January 2022 as he was experiencing some pain in his hip and leg. 
BUPA said in order for him to have physiotherapy treatment, it needed to have a referral 
from his GP before the claim could be considered. Mr W didnt want to wait so he decided 
not to proceed with the claim and paid for the treatment himself. 
In May 2022, Mr Ws policy was due for renewal. As part of this, BUPA sent him a 
confirmation of special conditions letter. This included two new conditions  hip pain and leg 
pain  which were excluded under his policy. 
Unhappy with this, Mr W made a complaint to BUPA, which included the four points 
mentioned above. 
BUPA responded and said the GP referral requested and the special conditions added onto 
the policy were in line with Mr Ws policy terms and conditions. And, in regard to the call wait 
times, BUPA agreed the service could have been better. It also said the payment taken for 
the policy at renewal, if Mr W wanted to cancel the policy before 18 July 2022, he would 
receive a full refund of the premiums hed paid. 
Mr W remained unhappy and brought his complaint to this service. Our investigator looked 
into the complaint. He said BUPA was entitled to request the GP referral and this was part of 
BUPAs process and the special conditions added to the policy was, again, part of the terms 
and conditions of the policy. So, BUPA hadnt done anything wrong in requesting either the 
GP referral or Mr Ws medical records to ascertain whether the conditions were pre-existing. 
In regard to the call wait times, our investigator said BUPA accepted and apologised for the 
delays caused in answering the calls. However, it also said they were working to recruit 
more staff, so they were taking steps to provide better service. He didnt recommend any 
further action from BUPA.
Our investigator said BUPA apologised and said in its final response that it hadnt made it 
clear to Mr W that the policy would renew. So, it said if Mr W did want to cancel the policy, 
he could do so within two weeks of its final response letter and a full refund would be 
provided. No further action was recommended by our investigator. 
Mr W disagreed and asked for the complaint to be referred to an ombudsman. So, its been 
passed to me. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The insurance industry regulator, the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA), has set out rules 
and guidance for insurers in the Insurance: Conduct of Business Sourcebook (ICOBS).
ICOBS says that insurers should act honestly, fairly and professionally in accordance with
the best interests of their customers, and that they should handle claims promptly and fairly.
Mr W has made four points of complaint and Ill refer to each separately below. 
BUPA asked for a GP referral when Mr W contacted it after experiencing hip and leg 
pain.
Mr Ws policy booklet sets out the claims process on pages 33-38. This confirms that if a 
policy is underwritten (which Mr Ws is), certain information may need to be provided to 
BUPA to ascertain whether the condition is pre-existing. BUPA asked for a GP referral which 
was in line with the terms and conditions of Mr Ws policy. Therefore, I dont think BUPA did 
anything wrong here in requesting this.
Special conditions were added to his policy and Mr W wanted these to be removed.
Mr Ws policy is underwritten. According to his policy and membership certificate, any pre-
existing conditions will not be covered under the policy. Confirmation of these was provided 
to Mr W with the policy documents and on renewal. The letter would have been entitled: 
Confirmation of Special Conditions. 
And on page 5 of the policy booklet, it states that if the policy is underwritten, BUPA do not 
pay for treatment for any special conditions detailed in the Confirmation of Special 
Conditions or any pre-existing conditions. 
On Mr Ws Confirmation of Special Conditions, it states treatment for hip and leg pain wont 
be covered until a healthcare practitioners report is received for review. And in regard to 
Mr W wanting the eczema entry removed, BUPA will, again, need to see Mr Ws medical 
history for review.
I think therefore BUPA has acted in line with the terms and conditions of Mr Ws policy and 
its not unreasonable for it to ask for medical information to ascertain whether these 
conditions ought to remain or be removed from Mr Ws policy. I also dont think its 
reasonable for BUPA to cover any fees Mr Ws GP may charge for the information. 
BUPA took payment automatically when his policy was renewed.
I can see Mr W contacted BUPA on 13 June 2022. He had already made the complaint and 
his policy renewal was due on 27 June 2022. He said he hoped to hear back from BUPA.
On 23 June 2022, Mr W contacted BUPA again and said he didnt want to go ahead with the renewal until hed had a response about his complaint, and hed had a chance to consider its 
findings. 
BUPA said if the complaint response hadnt been sent to him by the end of the 21-day 
cooling-off period, they would extend this to allow him to make a decision about the renewal. 
I note BUPA has apologised for not being clear in its communication, but it also said Mr W 
could cancel the policy and a full refund would be provided. Since then, I understand Mr W 
didnt cancel the policy as he was still considering his options. Im satisfied that BUPA has 
responded fairly and reasonably and I dont think it needs to do anything further on this point. 
Mr W is unhappy about the call wait times.
Mr W has said hes unhappy about the delays caused and the waiting times when hes 
called BUPA. 
I can appreciate the frustration regarding this. However, BUPA has accepted that it can do 
better and provide better customer service. It said its addressing the issue and recruiting 
more staff. BUPA is taking steps to ensure the service provided on calls is improved. I think 
this is reasonable and I dont think we can ask BUPA to do anything further.
Conclusion
Overall, Im satisfied that BUPA has acted in line with the terms and conditions of Mr Ws 
policy. I appreciate Mr W is frustrated with the call wait times and with his policy renewal, but 
I think BUPA has dealt with this fairly and reasonably. It follows that I dont require BUPA to 
do anything further. 
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I dont uphold Mr Ws complaint against BUPA Insurance 
Limited. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision before 15 February 2023.
 
Nimisha Radia
Ombudsman