DRN-3144743
The complaint
Mr Z complains that Principal Insurance Limited didnt verify his details for his commercial 
vehicle insurance policy, which resulted in his claim being declined by the insurer.
What happened
Mr Z took out a commercial vehicle insurance policy with an insurer through Principal. Not 
long after the policy was taken out the insurer discovered that Mr Z hadnt had his driving 
licence for as long as he had said when he bought the policy. Because of this the insurer 
said it would never have covered him and avoided his policy. Mr Z also had an ongoing 
claim which his insurer said it wouldnt cover as it had avoided his policy.
Mr Z didnt think this was fair and complained to Principal and the insurer. He said it wasnt 
fair to verify his policy three months after taking it out and turn down his claim. Principal 
didnt respond to Mr Zs complaint, so he brought it here.
Our investigator reviewed the complaint and didnt recommend it was upheld. He found that 
during the initial sales call Mr Z was told his policy would need to be verified within the first 
14 days. However, it wasnt clear if it was Principal or the insurer who were responsible for 
verifying the details on Mr Zs policy. And as Mr Zs claim had happened within three days of 
the policy starting, our investigator didnt think it made a difference in this case. Mr Z didnt 
agree and said it wasnt fair to wait for three months to verify the policy. 
As Mr Z didnt agree the complaint has come to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In the initial sales call Principal tell Mr Z that its a condition of his policy that its validated 
within two weeks of it starting. But I can see this wasnt done within two weeks, however I 
dont think that makes a difference in this case.   
This is because Mr Zs claim happened within three days of him taking out his policy,
so even though Principal hadnt checked his details before the claim. It was still within time 
to verify them by the time the claim happened. So, Im not persuaded that by his policy not 
being verified within 14 days would make a difference to his claim. It also therefore follows 
that Im not going to instruct Principal to do anything else.
My final decision
For the reasons explained above, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr Z to accept or 
reject my decision before 21 December 2021.
 
Alex Newman
Ombudsman