DRN-2799170
The complaint
Mr H complains that Global Kapital Group Ltd trading as MyKredit gave him loans 
irresponsibly.
What happened
This complaint is about 19 loans MyKredit provided to Mr H between July 2016 and May 
2018. 
The amounts borrowed ranged between £100 and £600. 
Heres a table showing details of the first ten loans: 
Loan Date 
TakenDate 
RepaidInstalments Amount Highest*
Combined 
Repayment
1 26/07/2016 15/08/2016 1 £100.00 £110.00
2 24/08/2016 16/09/2016 1 £100.00 £110.00
3 22/09/2016 11/10/2016 1 £100.00 £115.00
4 01/10/2016 21/10/2016 1 £200.00 £345.00
5 15/11/2016 02/12/2016 1 £600.00 £690.00
6 02/12/2016 30/12/2016 1 £300.00 £345.00
7 05/12/2016 06/01/2017 1 £300.00 £690.00
8 09/01/2017 20/01/2017 1 £300.00 £345.00
9 25/01/2017 12/02/2017 1 £300.00 £345.00
10 18/02/2017 08/03/2017 1 £300.00 £345.00
* this shows the total combined monthly repayments where loans overlap
Mr H said that if MyKredit had done proper affordability checks each time it shouldve 
realised that he couldnt afford the loans and that having to borrow in order to repay loans 
trapped him in a spiral of debt. 
Our adjudicator came to the overall view that whilst loans 1-6 hadnt been unfair, the pattern 
of lending itself showed that from loan 7 onwards the borrowing was unsustainable  so 
MyKredit shouldnt have given Mr H loan 7 or any of the loans that followed. 
Our adjudicator set out the steps he felt MyKredit should take to put things right for Mr H.
MyKredit hasnt responded to our adjudicators view and so the complaint comes to me to 
decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about short-term lending - including all of 
the relevant rules, guidance and good industry practice - on our website. 
MyKredit needed to take reasonable steps to ensure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In 
practice this means that it should have carried out proportionate checks to make sure Mr H 
could repay the loans in a sustainable manner. These checks could take into account a 
number of different things, such as how much was being lent, the repayment amounts and 
the consumers income and expenditure. With this in mind, in the early stages of a lending 
relationship, I think less thorough checks might be reasonable and proportionate.  
But certain factors might point to the fact that MyKredit should fairly and reasonably have 
done more to establish that any lending was sustainable for the consumer. These factors 
include:
the lower a consumers income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make 
any loan repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income)
the higher the amount due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income) 
the greater the number and frequency of loans, and the longer the period of time 
during which a customer has been given loans (reflecting the risk that repeated 
refinancing may signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, 
unsustainable).
There may even come a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly 
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable.
MyKredit was required to establish whether Mr H could sustainably repay his loans  not just 
whether the loan payments were affordable on a strict pounds and pence calculation. 
Of course the loan payments being affordable on this basis might be an indication a 
consumer could sustainably make their repayments. But it doesnt automatically follow this is 
the case. This is because the relevant regulations define sustainable as being without undue 
difficulties and in particular the customer should be able to make repayments on time, while 
meeting other reasonable commitments, as well as without having to borrow to meet 
repayments. 
And it follows that a lender should realise, or it ought fairly and reasonably to realise, that a 
borrower wont be able to make their repayments sustainably if theyre unlikely to be able to 
make their repayments without borrowing further. 
MyKredit said it carried out all necessary checks on Mr Hs credit records and his credit files, 
regular salary and moderate risk score were enough for it to approve his applications. It said 
Mr H nearly always paid on or before due dates and gave no sign of any financial difficulty 
until he defaulted on his last loan.  
Ive carefully considered all of the arguments, evidence and information provided in this 
context and what this all means for Mr Hs complaint.As far as I can see, Mr H hasnt objected to what our adjudicator said with respect to not 
upholding his complaint about loans 1 -6. So I dont think I need to comment further on these 
loans except to say that having looked at all the information thats available, Ive 
independently reached the same conclusions as our adjudicator. I agree with our adjudicator 
about these loans.  
Ive also looked at the overall pattern of MyKredits lending history with Mr H, with a view to 
seeing if there was a point at which MyKredit should reasonably have seen that further 
lending was unsustainable, or otherwise harmful. And so MyKredit should have realised that 
it shouldnt have provided any further loans. 
Given the particular circumstances of Mr Hs case, I think by loan 7 MyKredit should 
reasonably have seen that further lending was likely to be unsustainable and it shouldnt 
have provided any further loans. I say this because at this point MyKredit ought to have 
realised:
Mr H was not managing to repay his loans sustainably. Since July 2016 he had taken 
out 7 loans in around 5 months or so 
successfully repaying his loans doesnt mean Mr H managed to do so in a 
sustainable way. Borrowing and repaying this number of loans early suggests to me 
that Mr Hs finances were not in a stable position
the loan amounts varied but loan 7 was three times the amount of the first loan Mr H 
had taken with MyKredit. And I think MyKredit shouldve realised that the big jump in 
lending when Mr H took out loan 5, followed by loans 6 and 7 overlapping to 
effectively give him access to the same amount of capital that loan 5 had given him, 
was a clear warning sign that his debt was spiralling out of control 
MyKredit ought to have realised it was more likely than not Mr H was borrowing 
further to cover the hole repaying previous loans was leaving in his finances and that 
Mr Hs indebtedness was increasing unsustainably. 
I think that Mr H lost out because MyKredit continued to provide borrowing from loan 7 
onwards because:
these loans had the effect of unfairly prolonging Mr Hs indebtedness by allowing him 
to take expensive credit intended for short-term use over an extended period of time 
the number of loans which Mr H borrowed was likely to have negative implications on 
Mr Hs ability to access mainstream credit and so kept him in the market for these 
high-cost loans. By the point that Mr H had already borrowed seven loans in a row 
any further borrowing was likely to be seriously detrimental to his credit rating.
So Im upholding the complaint about loans 7 through to 19 and MyKredit should put things 
right. 
Putting things right
I think it is fair and reasonable for Mr H to repay the principal amount that he borrowed 
because he had the benefit of that lending. But he has had to pay interest (and possibly 
charges) on a loan that shouldnt have been provided to him  so thats unfair. In deciding what redress MyKredit should fairly pay in this case Ive thought about what 
might have happened if it hadnt provided lending to Mr H, as Im satisfied it ought to have.
Clearly there are a great many possible and all hypothetical answers to that question. For 
example, having been declined this lending Mr H may have simply left matters there, not 
attempting to obtain the funds from elsewhere. If this wasnt a viable option, he may have 
looked to borrow the funds from a friend or relative  assuming that was even possible. Or, 
he may have decided to approach a third-party lender with the same application, or indeed a 
different application (i.e. for more or less borrowing). 
But even if he had done that, the information that would have been available to such a 
lender and how they would (or ought to) have treated an application which may or may not 
have been the same is now impossible to reconstruct accurately. From what Ive seen in this 
case, I dont think I can fairly conclude there was a real and substantial chance that a new 
lender would have been able to lend to Mr H in a compliant way at this time. 
Having thought about all of these possibilities, Im not persuaded it would be fair or 
reasonable to conclude that Mr H would more likely than not have taken up any one of these 
options. 
So it wouldnt be fair now to reduce MyKredits liability in this case for what Im satisfied it 
has done wrong and should put right.
If MyKredit has sold any outstanding debts it should buy these back before doing what 
I have set out below. If MyKredit isnt able to buy back any debts it sold then MyKredit should 
liaise with the new debt owner to achieve the following:
A. Add together the total of the repayments made by Mr H towards interest, fees and 
charges on all upheld loans without an outstanding balance, not including anything it 
has already refunded.
B. Calculate 8% simple interest* on the individual payments made by Mr H which were 
considered as part of "A", calculated from the date Mr H originally made the 
payments, to the date the complaint is settled.
C. Remove all interest, fees and charges from the balance on any upheld outstanding 
loans, and treat any repayments made by Mr H as though they had been 
repayments of the principal. If this results in Mr H having made overpayments then 
these should be refunded with 8% simple interest* calculated on the overpayments, 
from the date the overpayments would have arisen, to the date the complaint is 
settled. MyKredit should then refund the amounts calculated in "A" and "B" and 
move to step "E".
D. If there is still an outstanding balance then the amounts calculated in "A" and "B" 
should be used to repay any balance remaining on outstanding loans. If this results 
in a surplus then that surplus should be paid to Mr H. However if there is still an 
outstanding balance then MyKredit should try to agree an affordable repayment plan 
with Mr H.
E. The overall pattern of Mr Hs borrowing from the point of loan 7 means any 
information recorded about these loans is adverse. So all entries about loans 7 - 19 
should be removed from Mr Hs credit file.
*HM Revenue & Customs requires MyKredit to take off tax from this interest. MyKredit must 
give Mr H a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if he asks for one.My final decision
For the reasons given above, Im upholding Mr Hs complaint about loans 7 - 19. 
Global Kapital Group Ltd trading as MyKredit should pay Mr H as set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 17 June 2021.
 
Susan Webb
Ombudsman