DRN-3101957
The complaint
 A company, which Ill refer to as W, complains that Royal & Sun Alliance Insurance Plc
(RSA) declined a claim made against its business protection insurance policy.
Mr N, who is a director of W, brings the complaint on Ws behalf.
What happened
W had the benefit of a business protection policy, which included cover for its buildings and
contents. Around the time of the first Government-imposed lockdown, Ws automatic
irrigation system for the office plants failed which resulted in the plants on the office balcony
perishing.
W submitted a claim for the accidental damage caused to its plants. The works were carried
out at a cost of just under £5,000, which W thinks RSA should reimburse.
RSA considered the claim and initially declined it on the basis that the damage was the
result of a gradually operating cause, which was excluded from cover under the policy. W
disagreed so raised a complaint. RSA then agreed with W and retracted the declinature of
the claim on that basis. However, it then said that plants werent covered under the policy,
and that it wasnt RSAs intention to provide cover for plants as they are perishable.
W didnt agree and brought the complaint to this service. It said that the wording of the policy
did cover plants and there was no clear exclusion  so it thought the claim should be
covered.
On 10 September 2021 I issued a provisional decision. In it, I said:
When considering whether a claim should be paid, the starting point is the wording of the
policy. In this instance, the claim was made for accidental damage to contents. There is no
dispute that the failure of the irrigation system should be considered under the accidental
damage section of the policy. However, RSA has said that plants arent included in the
definition of contents. I have reviewed the policy to consider whether RSA has interpreted it
fairly.
The general contents section of the policy states:
General Contents

 all office equipment and other contents excluding Computer Equipment, Ancillary
Equipment, Computer Systems Records, Money, Deeds and Documents and Artwork and
Transparencies
I dont agree with RSA that plants are not included. The policy states that general contents
include all office equipment and other contents. It then goes on to specifically exclude
certain items but doesnt exclude plants or any similar items. I can appreciate that plants
may not be considered office equipment as they arent equipment for the running of an
office, however they are other contents. Moreover, the exclusions identify other non-
equipment contents, which implies that other contents in the office are covered. So, based
on the wording of the policy, I think office plants would be covered.
RSA states that it has listed what it intends to provide cover for, and this does not include
growing plants as they are perishable. However, while certain items are specifically excluded
from other contents, the policy is silent on plants. Given plants are commonplace in offices,
I believe had RSA intended to exclude cover for plants, it would have identified them in its
list of specific exclusions.
So, having considered RSAs comments, I dont think it would be fair and reasonable for
RSA to decline the claim for the reason it has.
Neither party has provided any further comments following my provisional decision, so the 
complaint had been passed back to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
 As both parties have confirmed they have received my provisional decision and neither 
party has provided any new comments or evidence for me to consider, I see no reason to 
depart from my provisional findings.
I remain of the opinion that the policy provides cover for other contents under the 
accidental damage section of the policy and sets out specific exclusions to that term. 
However, the policy is silent on office plants and had RSA intended to exclude them from 
cover, I would have expected the wording of the policy to reflect this. So I remain of the 
opinion that I dont think RSA acted reasonably to decline this claim for the reason it has. 
Putting things right
RSA should put things right by:
Reconsidering the claim under the remaining terms of the policy
If RSA makes a payment to W in respect of the claim, it should also pay simple 
interest on that amount from the date the claim was first declined to the date the 
payment is made. The rate if interest is 8% a year. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint. Royal & Sun Alliance Insurance Plc should 
put things right by doing what Ive said above. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask W to accept or 
reject my decision before 31 December 2021.
 
Sara Falzon
Ombudsman