DRN-1757813
The complaint
E is unhappy that AXA Insurance UK Plc declined its fire claim, under their commercial 
property insurance policy. Its also unhappy with how long it took to deal with the claim.
E has been represented in this complaint by Mrs W. I will refer to her in my decision. 
When I refer to AXA, Im also referring to any of their appointed agents or representatives.
What happened
E is a commercial property owner, including a fish and chip shop at its premises. In the early 
morning of 5 May 2019, a fire was reported at the premises. The fire brigade visited, and the 
fire was extinguished, having caused damage to the outbuildings at the rear of the premises. 
E reported the claim to AXA. They sent an expert to Es premises, but the expert was unable 
to ascertain the cause of the fire during the visit and the discussions with E. They 
recommended that a forensic expert be appointed. AXA agreed to this. 
The forensic expert visited E at the end of May 2019. They spoke to Mrs W, who runs the 
fish and chip shop as well as Mrs Ws father, who had completed some electrical work to 
enable the shop to resume trading. Following that, the expert also viewed CCTV of the fire 
starting and examined the remains of the fire. Having done so, the expert concluded that the 
fire had started in a plastic bin, situated next to the outbuilding. He felt that discarded batter 
scraps had reignited, causing the bin to catch fire. This had then spread to the outbuilding 
close by. 
When they received the experts report, AXA declined the claim. They said that E hadnt 
adhered to the Deep Fat Frying Condition explained on Es insurance schedule. It said point 
(h) states that all waste and batter scraps must be kept in metal bins with metal lids  and 
those bins must be removed from the building at the end of each frying session. Mrs W had 
confirmed that the scraps had been stored in a plastic bin while the shop was open and had 
been transferred to the external plastic bin at the end of the nights work. 
E wasnt happy that the claim had been declined and complained to AXA. They didnt 
change their decision, so E brought the complaint to our service. In doing so, E also said that 
it felt the claim had taken too long.
Our investigator didnt uphold the complaint. He said that he was more persuaded by the 
forensic experts report and comments and was satisfied that AXA had declined the claim 
fairly as the Deep Fat Frying Condition had not been met. He also said that he didnt think 
the complaint had taken too long to deal with. 
As E didnt agree, its been passed to me to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Es insurance schedule contains various conditions that have to be met to comply with the 
policy. One of those conditions is the Deep Fat Frying Condition. This condition says:
It is a condition precedent to any liability of Insurers to make any payment of DAMAGE that
(h) All waste and batter scraps are kept in metal bins with metal lids and such bins are 
removed from the building at the end of each frying session.
AXA have said that E hasnt complied with this condition and have declined the claim for that 
reason. I need to decide if AXA have acted fairly in doing that. In this case I think they have. 
Ill explain why. 
During her discussion with the forensic expert, Mrs W explained that the scraps are initially 
placed in a metal bin inside the shop, until that bin is half full. At that point, she said she 
transfers the scraps to a plastic bin, dousing them in water. At the end of the frying session 
the scraps are placed in plastic bags and taken outside to the external plastic bin. But this 
explanation isnt backed up by the forensic report. And Im more persuaded by the report 
than anything else. 
The expert has seen CCTV evidence to show the fire started in the plastic bin the scraps 
had been put into. And the fire had spread as expected, upwards and outwards, so that the 
contents at the bottom of the bin and the underneath of the bin were undamaged. As it was 
only the batter scraps that were placed in this bin, Im satisfied its most likely the batter 
scraps had reignited and were the cause of the fire. The condition expects the scraps to be 
kept in metal bins with metal lids for a reason and by not adhering to this E hasnt met its 
insurance requirements.
The expert also found batter scraps from previous days in the bins outside the perimeter of 
Es premises. Upon examination it was found that these scraps hadnt been doused in water. 
So, Im persuaded this wasnt something E did on a regular basis to the scraps when they 
were discarded.
 As a result of all of the above, I dont think AXA have acted unfairly by declining the claim. 
E has also said that it felt AXA took long to deal with the claim. The claim was notified to 
AXA on 5 May 2019, and the final declinature was issued on 17 June 2019. When I consider 
that the circumstances of the fire needed to be assessed by AXAs initial expert and 
subsequently by the forensic expert, and the forensic report needed to be considered, I dont 
think AXA has caused any unnecessary delays here. 
I understand the disruption the fire caused to Es business. But Im satisfied AXA have acted 
fairly throughout the claim and I wont be asking them to do anything. My final decision
For the reasons above, Im not upholding this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask E to accept or 
reject my decision before 2 March 2021.
 
Kevin Parmenter
Ombudsman