DRN-3423933
The complaint
X has complained about the service received from Wesleyan Assurance Society trading as 
Wesleyan (Wesleyan).
What happened
X has income protection insurance cover with Wesleyan. In December 2020, Wesleyan 
contacted X to arrange a review which took place in January 2021. 
A suitability report was created on 18 January 2021 and on 22 February 2021, Wesleyan 
emailed X with confirmation of the changes made to the policy. X wasnt able to access this 
and so Wesleyan sent a letter to an incorrect address in March 2021.
X complained about the data breach and the poor service she had received. 
Wesleyan replied towards the end of April 2021 to admit there had been a data breach and 
offered £100 compensation. It didnt think there had been any delays in changing the policy. 
X replied in May 2021 and chased for responses but didnt get any. So she referred her 
complaint to this Service. 
Our investigator looked into the complaint and found that Wesleyans failure to acknowledge 
or respond to Xs emails was poor service. He recommended a total of £175 compensation 
which Wesleyan agreed to and it paid the money to X.
X didnt think was enough and asked us to request all correspondence from Wesleyan.
As an agreement couldnt be reached, the case has been passed to me for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree that £175 compensation for Wesleyans poor service is fair and 
reasonable in all the circumstances, for the following reasons:
X says Wesleyan delayed in making changes to her policy but I havent seen any 
evidence that X asked Wesleyan to make changes by a specific date or that the 
changes were time sensitive. A meeting was arranged for the beginning of January 
2021, a suitability report was prepared in mid-January 2021 and the changes were 
made in February 2021. I dont think this suggests any excessive or unreasonable 
delays. 
Wesleyan has accepted that it sent an incorrectly addressed letter to X which was 
sent to another customer mistakenly. Wesleyan apologised for this and offered X 
compensation as a result. It also said it had spoken to the member of staff involved 
and explained this had happened as a template letter had been used but the address 
hadnt been changed. I think £100 compensation is appropriate on the basis that 
there is no evidence Xs data or information was used inappropriately by the 
customer it was sent to.
X says she had to chase Wesleyan and it didnt acknowledge all of her 
correspondence or reply within reasonable timeframes. As set out by the investigator, 
there were a number of emails Wesleyan didnt respond to over a two to three-month 
period. Our investigator recommended a further £75 compensation which Wesleyan 
has already paid and which I think is appropriate to recognise the frustration X felt 
and the inconvenience caused.
Wesleyan has confirmed it has provided all its correspondence with X to this office.
Overall, I appreciate why X feels disappointed with the service received and I agree that the 
lack of response, having to chase and the data breach would have caused distress and 
inconvenience. Having considered the time period involved and the emails I have been 
provided with, I think the £175 compensation already paid is sufficient. I havent seen any 
evidence that the data breach had any further impact or that Xs data was incorrectly used. 
And X chased around five or six times over a two-month period. As these matters werent 
long lasting, I dont think any additional compensation is due.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I uphold this complaint and agree that a total of £175 
compensation is fair. Wesleyan Assurance Society trading as Wesleyan has recently paid 
this and so it doesnt need to do anything further. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask X to accept or 
reject my decision before 28 October 2022.
 
Shamaila Hussain
Ombudsman