DRN-3740556
The complaint
Mr M complained that he was given unsuitable advice in 2017 to transfer his defined benefit 
(DB) British Steel Pension Scheme (BSPS), to a personal pension plan.
KBFS Financial Limited is responsible for answering this complaint and so to keep things 
consistent, Ill refer mainly to KBFS.
What happened
In March 2016, Mr Ms employer announced that it would be examining options to 
restructure its business, including decoupling the BSPS from the company. The consultation 
with members referred to possible outcomes regarding their preserved benefits, which 
included transferring the scheme to the Pension Protection Fund (PPF), or a new defined 
benefit scheme (BSPS2). Alternatively, members were informed they could transfer their 
benefits to a personal pension arrangement. 
In May 2017, the Pension Protection Fund (PPF) made the announcement that the terms of 
a Regulated Apportionment Arrangement (RAA) had been agreed. That announcement said 
that, if risk-related qualifying conditions relating to funding and size could be satisfied, a new 
pension scheme sponsored by Mr Ms employer would be set up  the BSPS2.
Mr M was concerned about what the announcement by his employer meant for the security 
of his preserved benefits in the BSPS. He was unsure what to do, so he first contacted an 
independent financial adviser (IFA). As the IFA did not have the regulatory permission to 
advise on DB pension transfers it asked KBFS to provide the advice. 
Information gathered about his circumstances and objectives were broadly as follows:
Mr M was 49 years old, married and with no financially dependent children. He was 
in good health.
He lived in a home valued at approximately £95,000, owned jointly with his wife 
which had an outstanding mortgage of around £26,000. The mortgage had around 7 
years left to run. 
Mrs M also worked. Together they had a joint income of £2,800 (net) per month and 
disposable income of over £1,000 per month. They had a £4,000 loan which was 
being paid down and credit card borrowing of a similar amount. Mr and Mrs M had 
around £3,500 in savings. 
The cash equivalent transfer value (CETV) of Mr Ms BSPS was approximately 
£336,000. The normal retirement age (NRA) was 65 although Mr M expressed a 
desire to retire earlier if possible. 
Throughout the summer of 2017, Mr M met with his IFA who subsequently passed on details 
to KBFS. KBFS discussed Mr Ms circumstances and objectives on 30 August 2017 and it 
set out its advice in a suitability letter on 12 September 2017. 
The letter said that on the basis of the financial comparisons alone, it didnt think that if Mr M 
transferred to a personal pension, his transferred-out funds could grow by enough to meet a 
growth figure called the critical yield which I explain more about later. However, it went on 
to say that based on his wider circumstances and objectives, it advised him to transfer away 
and invest the funds in a personal pension plan. KBFS said this would allow Mr M to achieve 
his financial objectives.
Mr M accepted this advice and so transferred from his BSPS to a personal pension plan. In 
2021 Mr M complained to KBFS about its advice, saying he shouldnt have been advised to 
transfer out of his BSPS. In response, KBFS said it hadnt done anything wrong and was 
acting on the objectives Mr M had at the time. 
Mr M referred his complaint to our Service. One of our investigators looked into the 
complaint and said it should be upheld. As the complaint couldnt be resolved informally, its 
come to me for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive taken into account relevant law and regulations, regulators rules, guidance and 
standards and codes of practice, and what I consider to have been good industry practice at 
the time. This includes the Principles for Business (PRIN) and the Conduct of Business 
Sourcebook (COBS). Where the evidence is incomplete, inconclusive or contradictory, I 
reach my conclusions on the balance of probabilities  that is, what I think is more likely than 
not to have happened based on the available evidence and the wider surrounding 
circumstances.
The applicable rules, regulations and requirements
The below is not a comprehensive list of the rules and regulations which applied at the time 
of the advice, but provides useful context for my assessment of KBFS's actions here.
PRIN 6: A firm must pay due regard to the interests of its customers and treat them 
fairly.
PRIN 7: A firm must pay due regard to the information needs of its clients, and 
communicate information to them in a way which is clear, fair and not misleading.
COBS 2.1.1R: A firm must act honestly, fairly and professionally in accordance with 
the best interests of its client (the client's best interests rule).
The provisions in COBS 9 which deal with the obligations when giving a personal 
recommendation and assessing suitability and the provisions in COBS 19 which 
specifically relate to a DB pension transfer.
I have further considered that the regulator, the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA), states in 
COBS 19.1.6 that the starting assumption for a transfer from a DB scheme is that it is 
unsuitable. So, KBFS should have only considered a transfer if it could clearly demonstrate 
that the transfer was in Mr Ms best interests. 
I dont think it was, so Im upholding Mr Ms complaint.
Financial viability 
As required by the regulator, to demonstrate the financial comparisons between his current 
scheme and transferring out to a personal pension, KBFS referred in its transfer analysis to 
critical yield rates.  The critical yield is essentially the average annual investment return that would be required 
on the transfer value - from the time of advice until retirement - to provide the same annuity 
income as the DB scheme. It is therefore part of a range of different things which help show 
how likely it is that a personal pension could achieve the necessary investment growth for a 
transfer-out to become financially viable. 
However, before I go into detail about the comparisons made, I think its relevant for me to 
comment on what KBFS was basing its financial comparisons on. In its suitability letter, 
KBFS implied that so little was known about the new BSPS2 scheme as to make any 
analysis or comparisons of no use. But I dont think this is right. 
Its true the situation was dynamic in that changes were being proposed at that very point, 
but we know a great deal about the timeline because weve seen many similar complaints to 
this one. And I think its reasonable to say, for example, that after mid-August 2017 KBFS 
should have waited for these new details (BSPS2) to emerge as the existing scheme (BSPS) 
was no longer an option. 
Further important announcements were made throughout August and early 
September 2017, so using analysis based on the BSPS wasnt particularly helpful to Mr M 
because he didnt have the option to remain in that scheme: he either needed to opt into the 
BSPS2 or move with the scheme to the PPF. 
Nevertheless, I think its also reasonable for me to say that the BSPS2 critical yield rates 
were likely to be between the existing BSPS rates, and the PPF ones - although the new 
scheme was most likely closer to the BSPS critical yield figures. Of course, its possible this 
scheme may not have gone ahead. But I still think the benefits available to Mr M through the 
BSPS2 could and should have been factored in with the advice, given the suitability letter 
was drawn up on 12 September 2017 and Mr Ms transfer value didnt expire until 21 
October 2017. Given these shortcomings, I dont think Mr M was given the best opportunity 
here to be able to make an informed decision, particularly about the BSPS2.
Still, in my view, theres no real dispute between the parties that Mr M would probably 
receive lower growth outside the DB scheme as a result of transferring to a personal 
pension. This is because the KBFS adviser themselves outlined this by saying that the 
critical yield in my opinion, may not be an achievable rate of return year on year, based on 
the term to retirement, however, the advice for the transfer is based on all of your 
circumstances not just this factor.
To be clear, I also dont think transferring out was financially viable in this context either, 
because achieving future growth rates above the critical yield werent likely in my view. And 
there would be little point in Mr M giving up the guarantees and benefits available to him 
through a DB scheme only to achieve a lower level of benefits in a personal pension. 
For example, KBFS said the critical yield required to match the benefits of BSPS at the age 
of 65 was 6.7% if he took a full pension. It did not provide an analysis against taking a 
reduced pension together with a tax-free lump sum at 65, nor was there any critical yields for 
retirement earlier than the age of 65 even though KBFS said this was one of Mr Ms 
objectives. But I think its reasonable to assume the critical yields would have been higher 
given the funds would be invested for a shorter time before being accessed and then would 
be accessed over a longer period of time.
Elsewhere, in its transfer analysis, KBFS also made mention of the PPF, which it described 
as a compensation scheme providing a safety net for pension schemes when the 
sponsoring employer becomes insolvent. It said the critical yield to match the reduced 
benefits available through the PPF at age 65 was 3.87% per year if Mr M took a pension under the reduced terms offered, and 3.49% with a further reduced pension and tax-free 
lump sum. As above, the critical yields would have been higher if he retired earlier than 65.
The advice was given during the period when the Financial Ombudsman Service was 
publishing 'discount rates' on our website for use in loss assessments where a complaint 
about a past pension transfer was being upheld. Whilst businesses weren't required to refer 
to these rates when giving advice on pension transfers, I consider they provide a useful 
indication of what growth rates would have been considered reasonably achievable when 
the advice was given in this case.
The relevant discount rate published by the Financial Ombudsman Service for the period 
before 1 October 2017 was 4.3% per year for 15 years to retirement (calculated to age 65). 
Ive also kept in mind that the regulator's upper projection rate was 8%, the middle projection 
rate was 5%, and the lower projection rate was 2%. At the time, as KBFS assessed Mr Ms 
attitude to risk (ATR) as balanced, I think a figure at the mid-point of these projections was 
most relevant. Both the regulators mid-projection and the discount rate are well below the 
critical yield figure for the BSPS, so I think KBFS was right to say that achieving the critical 
yield, year-on-year, upon transferring out, wasnt likely. And that was even more likely if 
Mr M retired early, as per his desire. I also think the annual management fees and charges 
associated with a personal pension would have further reduced potential growth and so also 
the viability of transferring away from a DB scheme.
Ive noted too, that KBFS said that in order to purchase an annuity to provide benefits of an 
equal value to the existing scheme at retirement at the age of 65, the funds required would 
be around £821,000. Even the fund required to purchase an annuity without a spouses 
pension and increases to the pension payable, was around £462,000, considerably higher 
than Mr Ms CETV. So, all these things, in my view, provide a powerful indication of the real 
value Mr M would lose if he transferred out to a personal pension.
So, I think its fair to say that from a financial comparison perspective, KBFSs figures, shown 
in its suitability letter and transfer analysis documents, showed that transferring to a personal 
pension plan would mean Mr M would receive lower pension benefits in the longer term, 
when compared against the BSPS. This was supported by KBFSs own statements in the 
suitability letter, which Ive referred to above. And I think its safe to say the same can be 
said broadly of the BSPS2 scheme, although we dont have corresponding analysis here to 
show it. 
Of course, according to KBFS itself, its recommendation that he should transfer out to a 
personal pension was not based on the financial comparisons with his current scheme. 
Rather, KBFS said Mr M had different reasons to transfer away, so Ive thought about all the 
other considerations which might have meant a transfer was suitable for him, despite 
providing the overall lower benefits mentioned above. Ive considered these below.
Flexibility and income needs
As Ive said, KBFS recommended a transfer out based on what it said were Mr Ms 
objectives. It listed these in the letter and I summarise them below as follows:
He wanted the option of flexible income to suit his situation; he wanted to give up 
work from the age of 56 without any reduction in benefits.
He wanted more control over where his pension was invested and in which funds.
He wanted to protect the full value of his fund in the event of his death, and to pass 
the value on to his wife, and eventually his two grown-up children.He didnt want his pension to enter the PPF and he didnt trust his employer.
So, it seems the main reasons that KBFS recommended the transfer was for the flexibility 
and control it offered to Mr M. I have therefore considered all these issues with great care, 
beginning with Mr Ms apparent desire to retire early. 
Retiring early 
There are conflicting ages in the documents Ive seen about when Mr M wanted to retire, 
ranging from ages 55  60. I dont doubt that Mr M might have genuinely hoped to retire 
early, but Ive seen nothing that shows this was anything more than something he aspired to 
do at that stage, as opposed to being part of a formulated plan. I say this because Mr M was 
only 49 years old and from what Ive seen, he had no concrete plans for retirement at that 
point. Ive also noted that Mr M could have retired early as a member of the BSPS2 and the 
PPF.
So, even if I were to consider that Mr Ms retirement plans were more advanced than the 
mere aspirations set out by KBFS - and he really did want to retire early - I think KBFS 
should have more comprehensively assessed the possibility of achieving this goal whilst 
being a member of the BSPS2 or the PPF. As Ive said, details of BSPS2 were emerging at 
the time and early retirement with the PPF was already something that could be calculated. 
But I think KBFS portrayed early retirement from these types of scheme in a negative 
dimension. Whilst its clear that in these circumstances there would have been actuarial 
reductions caused by early retirement from the scheme, KBFS set out in the suitability letter, 
only the early retirement income figures under the BSPS at 55 years of age. Not surprisingly, 
this was likely to produce a much lower retirement income and KBFS said the resulting 
£11,342 per year was too low for Mr M to contemplate. 
However, Ive seen some conflicting estimates of what Mr Ms required retirement income 
was actually projected to be. The fact-find said a joint income of £20,000 was required. But 
Ive also seen his estimation was for around £1,000 per month in retirement. Ive also 
accounted for Mr Ms mortgage being projected as being paid off around him reaching the 
age of 56; and any income source Mrs M may have still had doesnt appear to have been 
considered here either. Finally, as I explain more about later, Mr M also had another pension 
he was contributing to, as was his employer.
I appreciate that KBFS may not have had access to Mr Ms time to choose documents 
when it gave the advice. But I think it ought to have waited for this to fully advise him on his 
best options. And having now seen this information, if Mr M had wanted to retire at 55 under 
the BSPS2, this income would have also more or less met his needs, particularly when 
combined with his other pension. 
All these things indicate to me that retiring early from the BSPS2 or even the PPF would 
meet Mr Ms retirement needs  because whatever shortfall there was couldve been met by 
Mr M using the funds hed built up in the new scheme over the next five plus years. And I 
note Mr M said he expected Mrs M to continue earning money from childminding. He and 
Mrs M were also due to have state pensions at 66. So, I dont think early retirement within 
the new scheme, or indeed the PPF, ought to have been portrayed so negatively by KBFS 
and effectively discounted. Although early retirement in these circumstances would have 
meant Mr Ms pension benefits would have been somewhat reduced due to him accessing 
the pension earlier and for longer, Ive seen no evidence this was really properly assessed 
with a view to advising him whether it was more in his best interests, rather than him being 
advised to transfer away completely.
Flexibility In its suitability letter, KBFS said that by transferring out and having a personal pension plan, 
Mr M would be able to flexibly access the tax-free cash element earlier. However, Ive seen 
no compelling evidence showing access to a lump-sum at 55 years old was necessary or 
required for any specific reasons. In fact, KBFS itself said that Mr M had no such plans for 
the money. 
Its usually the case that more tax-free cash can be accessed from a personal pension when 
compared against a DB scheme; this is because the values and benefits of the two schemes 
are calculated differently. But KBFS should have been telling Mr M at the time that extra tax-
free lump sums being removed from a personal pension, potentially from the age of 55 
onwards, also came with consequences in that the amount left for his later retirement years 
would obviously decrease and the main purpose of a pension is to provide an income in 
retirement. 
I think the apparent aspirations Mr M had, as set out in KBFSs final response letter, to enjoy 
life and buy a camper van could have been met from his existing financial resources. KBFS 
demonstrated no need whatsoever for Mr M to transfer away from a DB pension, based on 
these types of reasons. Mr and Mrs M seem to have had a significant monthly disposable 
income and access to modest savings. The fact-find completed by KBFS showed, for 
instance, that they had several hundred pounds of difference between their joint monthly 
incomes and expenditures. 
So, whilst I accept the notion of accessing tax-free cash earlier than his NRA might have 
been appealing, this needed to be considered against the other options Mr M faced, 
including opting for the BSPS2. 
Also, I cant see that Mr M required flexibility in retirement in the way KBFS implied. KBFS 
said in its transfer analysis that Mr Ms estimated annual pension upon his NRA was £20,831 
per year. But as Ive said, when discussing his circumstances with KBFS, Mr M had 
speculated that in retirement he might actually need less income than this. As Ive also 
explained, there were limited degrees of flexibility still available to Mr M to retire younger 
than 65 and take tax-free cash, had he opted for the BSPS2. This was guaranteed and index 
linked and I think it fitted Mr Ms needs.
The time to choose document also shows Mr M could have taken tax-free cash of around 
£61,860 and a reduced pension of £9,280 per year at age 55 from the BSPS2. So, if Mr M 
did in fact require tax-free cash, I think he could have achieved this through the BSPS2, 
whilst still ensuring his income needs were met, particularly as he had also recently joined 
his employers new defined contribution (DC) scheme and would have been making 
contributions to it until he retired. And if he really did want to retire early, it seems to me that 
in the event of any shortfalls in Mr Ms income needs could have been met by drawing on 
this second pension.
So overall, I havent seen anything to persuade me that Mr M wouldnt have been able to 
meet his retirement income needs by accessing his DB pension instead. In my view, KBFS 
did not properly consider his additional DC pension when giving him the advice. 
I have therefore considered everything KBFS said in its suitability letter about flexibility: it 
said this would include how funds were invested, the level of income he could withdraw from 
the age of 55 and a greater ability to flexibly use the tax-free lump sum element. It also said 
that Mr M would be able to have more control over the pension if he transferred out. However, Ive seen nothing which shows Mr M had either the desire or capacity to exercise 
personal control over his pension. In my view, Mr Ms circumstances were much more 
aligned to him retiring from a DB scheme, such as BSPS2, and drawing a pension. So, I 
think the suitable option was for him to access his DB pension in the way it was originally 
intended. His DC pension could have supported some of his other aspirations for flexibility if 
ever needed.
Death benefits 
KBFS says that death benefits were discussed at the time and that Mr M was better off with 
the more flexible death benefits associated with a personal pension plan. In particular, it said 
money could be passed to his wife and / or grown-up children. However, this was, in my 
view, a demonstration of KBFSs failure to clearly explain the value of the death benefits he 
already enjoyed through the BSPS (and which would be broadly replicated in BSPS2).
Death benefits are an emotive subject and of course when asked, most people would like 
their loved ones to be taken care of when they die. The lump sum death benefits on offer 
through a personal pension was likely an attractive feature to Mr M. But whilst I appreciate 
death benefits are important to consumers, and Mr M might have thought it was a good idea 
to transfer his DB scheme to a personal pension because of this, the priority here was to 
advise him about what was best for his retirement provisions. As Ive said, a pension is 
primarily designed to provide income in retirement. And I dont think KBFS explored to what 
extent Mr M was prepared to accept a lower retirement income in exchange for higher death 
benefits.
Ive noted that at the time of the suitability letter, Mr M was described as being in good health 
and only 49 years old. Mrs M was also only in her early fifties and Ive noted there was no 
mention of her having a pension of her own. 
So, I also think the death benefits attached to the DB scheme were underplayed. The 
spouses pension provided by the DB scheme would have been very useful to Mrs M if Mr M 
predeceased her and I dont think KBFS made the value of this benefit clear enough. This 
was guaranteed and it escalated  it was not dependent on investment performance, 
whereas the sum remaining on death in a personal pension was. And in any event, there 
may not have been a large sum left in a personal pension plan to pass on to anyone, 
particularly if Mr M lived a long life or if investment returns were poor. So, KBFS should not 
have encouraged Mr M to prioritise the potential for higher death benefits through a personal 
pension over his security in retirement.
Furthermore, it doesnt appear that KBFS took into account the fact that Mr M could have 
nominated Mrs M (or their children) as the beneficiary of any funds remaining in his DC 
scheme. To this end, Mr M could have ensured part of his pension wouldnt just die with 
him.
I cant be sure about the extent to which life insurance was discussed in this case although 
Ive seen some quotes from another adviser. However, these appeared essentially to be 
quotes based on the transfer value of Mr Ms full pension benefits and assumed that he 
could pass away on day one following the transfer. Accordingly, they were very expensive 
and unrealistic. At around 49 years old and apparently healthy, term life insurance may 
have been a reasonably affordable product if he really did want to leave a legacy for his 
loved ones. 
Overall, in this case I dont think different death benefits available through a transfer to a 
personal pension justified the likely decrease of retirement benefits for Mr M. I think this objective, listed as it was in the suitability letter, was no more than a generic comment and 
not meaningful to Mr Ms situation.
Control or concerns over financial stability of the DB scheme 
Its clear that Mr M, like many employees of his company, was concerned about his pension. 
His employer had recently made the announcement about its plans for the scheme and he 
was worried his pension would end up in the PPF. Hed heard negative things about the PPF 
and KBFS said Mr M preferred to have control over his pension fund. 
So, its quite possible that Mr M was also leaning towards the decision to transfer because of 
the concerns he had about his employer and his negative perception of the PPF. However, it 
was KBFSs obligation to give Mr M an objective picture and recommend what was in his 
best interests.
By the point of the advice being delivered details of BSPS2 were emerging and it seemed 
likely it was going ahead. So, the advice should have properly taken the likely benefits 
available to Mr M through the BSPS2 into account and I think this should have alleviated any 
concerns about the scheme moving to the PPF.
Im conscious that Mr M said he didnt want his employer having control over his pension  
so KBFS says he wasnt interested in the BSPS2. But I note Mr M still worked for the same 
employer and he was a member of the new defined contribution pension scheme. So, his 
other pension would still be tied to his employer. I think it also should have been mentioned 
that his employer and the pension scheme trustees were not entirely one and the same; I 
think that would have reassured Mr M somewhat.
Even if there was a chance the BSPS2 wouldnt go ahead, I think that KBFS should have 
reassured Mr M that the scheme moving to the PPF wasnt as concerning as he thought. 
The income available to Mr M through the PPF would have still provided a significant portion 
of the income he thought he needed at retirement, and he was still unlikely to be able to 
exceed this by transferring out if he retired early. Although the increases in payment in the 
PPF were lower, the income was still guaranteed and was not subject to any investment risk. 
He also had his second pension  the DC scheme  which just wasnt featured in the 
advice. So, I dont think that these concerns should have led to KBFSs recommendation to 
Mr M to transfer out to the personal pension.
Summary
I dont doubt that the flexibility, control and potential for higher death benefits on offer 
through a personal pension would have sounded like attractive features to Mr M. But KBFS 
wasnt there to just transact what Mr M might have thought he wanted. The advisers role 
was to really understand what Mr M needed and recommend what was in his best interests.
Ultimately, I dont think the advice given to Mr M was suitable. He was giving up a 
guaranteed, risk-free and increasing income within the BSPS2. By transferring to a personal 
pension, the evidence shows Mr M was likely to obtain lower retirement benefits. And I dont 
think there were any other particular reasons which would justify the transfer and outweigh 
this. So, I dont think it was in Mr Ms best interests for him to transfer to a personal pension 
when he had the opportunity of opting into the BSPS2.
I appreciate that the BSPS2 hadnt been fully confirmed when the advice was given, but I 
think it was clear to all parties that it was likely to be going ahead. Mr M still had up to 15 years before he might retire and he couldnt yet know what his needs in retirement would be, 
in my view. So, I don't think that it would have been in his interest to accept the reduction in 
benefits he would have faced by the scheme entering the PPF, as it wouldn't be offset by the 
more favourable reduction for very early retirement. By opting into the BSPS2, Mr M would 
have retained the ability to transfer out of the scheme nearer to his retirement age if he 
needed to. Also, Mr M was married so his wifes pension would be set at 50% of his pension 
at the date of death, and this would be calculated as if no lump sum was taken at retirement 
(if Mr M chose to do so). 
On this basis, I think KBFS should have advised Mr M to opt into the BSPS2.
I have considered, given the circumstances of the time, whether Mr M would have 
transferred to a personal pension in any event. I accept that KBFS disclosed some of the 
risks of transferring to Mr M, and provided him with a significant amount of information. But 
ultimately it advised Mr M to transfer out, and I think Mr M relied on that advice.
Im not persuaded that Mr M would have insisted on transferring out of the DB scheme, 
against KBFSs advice. I say this because Mr M was an inexperienced investor and this 
pension accounted for most of his retirement provision at the time. And I dont think his 
concerns over his employer were so great that he wouldve gone against a professional 
advisers recommendation. So, if KBFS had provided him with clear advice against 
transferring out of the DB scheme, explaining why it wasnt in his best interests, I think he 
would have accepted that advice.
In light of the above, I think KBFS should compensate Mr M for the unsuitable advice, using 
the regulator's defined benefits pension transfer redress methodology. 
Putting things right
A fair and reasonable outcome would be for the business to put Mr M, as far as possible, 
into the position he would now be in but for KBFSs unsuitable advice. I consider Mr M would 
have most likely opted to join the BSPS2, rather than transfer to the personal pension if he'd 
been given suitable advice. So, KBFS should use the benefits offered by BSPS2 for 
comparison purposes.
On 2 August 2022, the FCA launched a consultation on new DB transfer redress guidance 
and has set out its proposals in a consultation document - CP22/15-calculating redress for 
non-compliant pension transfer advice. 
In this consultation, the FCA has said that it considers that the current redress methodology 
in Finalised Guidance (FG) 17/9 (Guidance for firms on how to calculate redress for 
unsuitable defined benefit pension transfers) remains appropriate and fundamental changes 
are not necessary. However, its review has identified some areas where the FCA considers 
it could improve or clarify the methodology to ensure it continues to provide appropriate 
redress. 
A policy statement was published on 28 November 2022 which set out the new rules and 
guidance- https://www.fca.org.uk/publication/policy/ps22-13.pdf. The new rules will come into 
effect on 1 April 2023.
The FCA has said that it expects firms to continue to calculate and offer compensation to 
their customers using the existing guidance in FG 17/9 for the time being. But until changes 
take effect firms should give customers the option of waiting for their compensation to be 
calculated in line with the new rules and guidance.Weve previously asked Mr M whether he preferred any redress to be calculated now in line 
with current guidance or wait for the new guidance/rules to come into effect. He would like 
the complaint to be settled in line with new guidance / rules. I consider its fair that KBFS 
calculates Mr Ms redress in line with new guidance and rules when they come into effect. 
KBFS must undertake a redress calculation in line with the updated methodology as soon as 
any new rules and/or guidance come into effect (rather than to calculate and pay any due 
compensation now in line with FG17/9).  
In accordance with the regulators expectations, this should be undertaken or submitted to 
an appropriate provider promptly once any new guidance/rules come into effect.
If the redress calculation demonstrates a loss, the compensation should if possible be paid 
into Mr Ms pension plan. The payment should allow for the effect of charges and any 
available tax relief. The compensation shouldnt be paid into the pension plan if it would 
conflict with any existing protection or allowance.
If a payment into the pension isnt possible or has protection or allowance implications, it 
should be paid directly to Mr M as a lump sum after making a notional deduction to allow for 
income tax that would otherwise have been paid. Typically, 25% of the loss could have been 
taken as tax-free cash and 75% would have been taxed according to his likely income tax 
rate in retirement - presumed to be 20%. So making a notional deduction of 15% overall 
from the loss adequately reflects this.
The compensation amount must where possible be paid to Mr M within 90 days of the date 
any changes to DB transfer redress guidance or new rules come into effect and KBFS has 
received notification of Mr Ms acceptance of my decision. Further interest must be added to 
the compensation amount at the rate of 8% per year simple from the date any changes to 
DB transfer redress guidance or new rules come into effect to the date of settlement for any 
time, in excess of 90 days, that it takes KBFS to pay Mr M.
Income tax may be payable on any interest paid. If KBFS deducts income tax from the 
interest, it should tell Mr M how much has been taken off. KBFS should give Mr M a tax 
deduction certificate in respect of interest if Mr M asks for one, so he can reclaim the tax on 
interest from HM Revenue & Customs if appropriate.
In addition KBFS should pay Mr P £300 for the distress and inconvenience this matter has 
caused him. 
Where I uphold a complaint, I can award fair compensation of up to £160,000, plus any
interest and/or costs that I consider are appropriate. Where I consider that fair compensation
requires payment of an amount that might exceed £160,000, I may recommend that the
business pays the balance.
My final decision
Determination and money award: Ive decided to uphold this complaint and require KBFS 
Financial Limited to pay Mr M the compensation amount as set out in the steps above, up to 
a maximum of £160,000.
Where the compensation amount does not exceed £160,000, I would additionally require
KBFS Financial Limited to pay Mr M any interest on that amount in full, as set out above.Where the compensation amount already exceeds £160,000, I would only require KBFS 
Financial Limited to pay Mr M any interest as set out above on the sum of £160,000.
Recommendation: If the compensation amount exceeds £160,000, I also recommend that
KBFS Financial Limited pays Mr M the balance. I would additionally recommend any interest 
calculated as set out above on this balance to be paid to Mr M.
If Mr M accepts my final decision, the money award becomes binding on KBFS Financial 
Limited.
My recommendation would not be binding. Further, its unlikely that Mr M can accept my 
decision and go to court to ask for the balance. Mr M may want to consider getting 
independent legal advice before deciding whether to accept any final decision.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 30 December 2022.
 
Michael Campbell
Ombudsman