DRN-4070291
The complaint
Mr and Mrs C complain about the advice they received from Rockwood Financial Solutions 
Ltd in respect of pensions and investments.
What happened
In 2015, Rockwood arranged for Mr C to transfer one of his pensions, and also 
recommended that Mr and Mrs C take out three investment bonds. 
In 2018, Rockwood arranged for another of Mr Cs pensions to be transferred, and also 
arranged for him to withdraw tax-free cash from the pension to fund a trip abroad. 
Mr and Mrs C later complained about the advice they had received from Rockwood. They 
thought two of the bonds hadnt been suitable for their requirements. They were also 
unhappy that the second pension transfer meant that Mr C had lost some of his protected 
rights, and that tax-free cash had been taken from Mr Cs pension instead of other sources. 
Rockwood didnt think it had done anything wrong, and so Mr and Mrs C brought their 
complaint to this service. 
Our investigator didnt recommend the complaint be upheld. He thought the investment 
bonds had been suitable for Mr and Mrs C, and that the second pension transfer and 
withdrawal of tax-free cash had been in line with Mr Cs requirements. 
Mr and Mrs C didnt accept our investigators findings, and so the matter has been passed to 
me for a decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ill address each of Mr and Mrs Cs concerns in turn. 
Investment bonds
Rockwood recommended that Mr and Mrs C take out three investment bonds. One was in 
joint name, and two held individually. Mr and Mrs C say the two individual bonds werent 
suitable for them, because they have only given them a return of around £8,000. They also 
say the bonds should have provided them with guaranteed minimum income of 3.9% per 
year, but this didnt happen. 
In the November 2015 suitability report, the adviser noted that Mr and Mrs C wanted to 
invest some surplus capital they had from a house sale, to supplement their income in the 
future if needed. It was confirmed that Mr and Mrs C were prepared to accept a level of risk 
with their investments to try and achieve more favourable returns. A risk assessment 
questionnaire was completed, which indicated their attitude to risk was high medium. 
Mr and Mrs C had around £440,000. The adviser recommended they invest £100,000 into 
the joint investment bond, and £50,000 each into the individual investment bonds. This left 
around £100,000 for them to spend on planned house renovations, and just over £100,000 
in various deposit accounts.
The two individual bonds were invested across a mix of cash, gilts, corporate bonds and 
equities (with a maximum exposure to equities of 40%). The provider gave the fund a risk 
rating of low.
Given that Mr and Mrs C werent experienced investors at the time (though I note that Mr C 
did later choose to invest in equities directly), I would have expected the adviser to have 
made it very clear to them how the investment bonds worked, and that their investments 
could go up or down. I see that the adviser did explain that the value of the bonds could 
fluctuate, and that Mr and Mrs C may not get back the full amount of their original 
investment. She also explained that equities were higher risk investments that generally offer 
higher returns over the longer term, and that they could make a loss on the amount invested, 
particularly in the short-term. The adviser thought a balanced mix of investments within the 
bonds would be appropriate for Mr and Mrs C.   
On balance, I think the advisers recommendation here was suitable for Mr and Mrs C. I 
appreciate that a large proportion of their funds were kept in low-risk deposit accounts, and 
they were prepared to accept some risk with their investments. However, it was still the case 
that they werent sophisticated investors. Whilst a greater exposure to equities may have 
given them a higher return, this would have also put their funds at greater risk. Although Mr 
and Mrs C havent complained about the joint investment bond, the adviser also needed to 
take this into account when looking at their investments, and this had a higher exposure to 
equities than the individual bonds. So although Mr and Mrs C are disappointed with the 
returns of their individual bonds, Im satisfied the recommendation was appropriate for them. 
In respect of the guaranteed income of 3.9% per year, the suitability report makes it clear 
that the bonds offered a guaranteed income for life based on age and the income base at 
the time Mr and Mrs C decided to draw an income from the bonds. The suitability report 
explained that, if Mr and Mrs C were to take an income at the outset with their £50,000 
investment, they would be guaranteed to receive at least 3.9% per year for their lifetime, 
irrespective of the performance of the underlying investment. The adviser explained that 
since Mr and Mrs C werent planning to draw an income from the bonds initially, the income 
base was guaranteed to increase each year either by 2.75%, or the performance of the bond 
if higher.  
Mr and Mrs C say they didnt receive 3.9% per year, because the combined value of the two 
bonds when surrendered was only £108,151.04. However, the 3.9% wasnt a guaranteed 
return on the investment, it was a guaranteed income. Im satisfied this was made clear to 
Mr and Mrs C by the adviser, and that the bonds met Mr and Mrs Cs requirements to 
supplement future income when needed. 
Withdrawal of tax-free cash
Mr and Mrs C say the adviser should not have recommended that Mr C withdraw tax-free 
cash from his pension and instead should have recommended they withdraw funds from 
their investments. 
Mr C held a pension with a provider (that Ill call Policy F). In 2015, the adviser 
recommended that Mr C keep the pension where it was as it was competitively charged and performing well. However, it was thought a transfer would take place in the future to 
consolidate Mr Cs pensions and allow him to access flexible drawdown. 
In 2018, the adviser said Mr and Mrs C had told her their savings were nearly depleted after 
paying for home and garden renovations. They wanted to replenish their emergency funds, 
and cover a three-month trip abroad. They thought they needed £35,000 for this. The 
adviser said they had discussed the options, and decided that rather than taking cash from 
their investments, Mr C would start drawing benefits from his pension as this was the most 
tax efficient option (as he had not previously taken any tax-free cash). 
Mr C held another pension (that Ill call Policy R). Due to the value of this pension, it would 
not give him the £35,000 he and his wife needed in tax-free cash. The adviser therefore 
recommended that Mr C switch Policy F to Policy R as previously intended, and take out the 
£35,000 in tax-free cash (though I note this was later reduced to £25,000). It was confirmed 
that Policy F did not give Mr C the facility to draw benefits in a flexible way, and the parties 
had discussed at length the timing of making the switch to Policy R. The adviser said they 
had decided it was best to make the switch at that time, as it was likely that Mr C was going 
to want to go into drawdown. 
The investment bonds had only been taken out in 2015, and the adviser had previously 
made it clear they had an investment horizon of at least five years. So it doesnt seem 
unreasonable for the adviser to recommend taking the funds from Mr Cs pension rather than 
the investments. 
It was also the case that Mr and Mrs C werent reliant on the funds within Mr Cs pension, as 
they had sufficient income from other sources (other pensions and rental income). It was 
noted in the 2018 suitability report that Mr and Mrs C didnt anticipate any need to withdraw 
additional income from Mr Cs pension, but may need occasional lump sums. Though the 
adviser did make it clear that by taking some of Mr Cs pension as a lump sum, this would 
mean thered be less fund available to provide an income and he may find that he didnt 
have sufficient income to live on in retirement. 
Mr and Mrs C could have withdrawn the funds they needed from their investments or Mr Cs 
pension (or even a combination of the two). There would have been positives and negatives 
whichever option was chosen. However, its clear a discussion took place about this, and 
Mr C was made aware of the risks of withdrawing funds from his pension. 
Ultimately, I dont find the adviser did anything wrong by recommending that Mr C access 
the funds needed from his pension rather than the investments. 
Protected rights
Mr and Mrs C say that Rockwood didnt inform them in October 2018 of the tax implications 
of Mr C giving up the protected rights on his pension by transferring Policy F to Policy R. 
On 10 October 2018, Mr C told Rockwood that hed spoken with the provider of Policy F 
about the transfer. He explained they had told him he had protected rights within the 
scheme, which he would lose if he transferred his pension. 
Rockwood noted that the information it had received from the provider of Policy F in July 
2018 hadnt mentioned that Mr C had protected rights. After Mr C told it about this, 
Rockwood contacted the provider to clarify this. Initially, it was told that Mr C had protected 
tax-free cash rights of around 28%, though the provider later advised Rockwood that the 
maximum tax-free cash was 25%. A phone call took place between the adviser and Mr C on 12 October 2018 where the matter 
was apparently discussed. The advisers notes reflected that Mr C didnt need the maximum 
tax-free cash amount, and this wouldnt have the same growth potential if taken out of his 
pension. The adviser asked him to think about this for a few days, and then get back to her. 
A few days later, Mr C emailed the adviser to say he was happy to forego the protected tax-
free cash as a result of transferring his pension. 
Firstly, its not clear whether Mr C even had any protected rights, as the provider of Policy F 
provided Rockwood with conflicting information about this. Though even if he did, Mr C 
confirmed he was happy to forego this. It seems to me that Mr C therefore understood there 
was potentially some additional tax-free cash available if he remained invested in Policy F, 
but he was willing to lose this benefit by transferring to Policy R. 
Contributions to pension
Mr C says Rockwood didnt inform him that he could have been making contributions 
towards his pension during the period it was his financial adviser. 
In January 2015, the adviser noted that Mr C wanted the flexibility to make future pension 
contributions, and her recommendation that he transfer one of his pensions at the time 
allowed for that. Then in November 2015, the adviser recommended that Mr and Mrs C each 
contribute £3,600 per year into their pensions. She said they had agreed to start with the 
investment bond recommendation, and then invest into their pensions over the next couple 
of months.
In January 2016, a pension provider issued two illustrations for Mr and Mrs C. These said 
there would be an expected monthly contribution of £300 made into each pension, and that 
this figure included 20% tax relief.  
My understanding is that Mr and Mrs C did not end up contributing to their pensions. That 
was of course up to them. However, Im satisfied a discussion took place about this, and that 
the adviser had recommended they contribute to their pensions.
Annual report
Mr and Mrs C say that Rockwood has not provided them with a report since November 2019, 
despite them paying for this service. 
Rockwood has provided this service with a copy of an annual review letter dated 23 June 
2020 that it says was sent to Mr and Mrs C. I note that Mr C wrote to Rockwood on 29 June 
2020 to say there appeared to be an error in that years review, and he quoted two figures 
that were contained in the annual review letter. So I agree with our investigator that it does 
seem as though Mr and Mrs C were sent the letter. Nonetheless, Ive asked our investigator 
to re-send this to Mr and Mrs C. 
My understanding is that no further reviews took place between June 2020, and the date Mr 
and Mrs C moved to a new financial adviser. 
Complaint
Mr and Mrs C are unhappy that Rockwood dealt with their initial request for information as a 
complaint. It does seem that Rockwood was a little hasty in assuming Mr and Mrs C were 
complaining after receiving their email of October 2022. However, Mr and Mrs C did then 
make a formal complaint, and Rockwood issued a new final response to address the points 
raised, as it was required to do.Mr and Mrs C have asked this service to comment on something that happened after theyd 
made a complaint to Rockwood. However, it wouldnt be appropriate for our service to 
comment on this, as it seems this may concern a personal matter between Mr and Mrs C 
and the adviser. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C and Mrs C to 
accept or reject my decision before 18 July 2023.
 
Chantelle Hurn-Ryan
Ombudsman