DRN-3839738
The complaint
Mr M complains that Santander UK plc (Santander) registered him with Cifas without due 
cause.
 
What happened
The circumstances of this complaint are well-known to both parties, so I will not repeat every 
detail here. But, in summary, in February 2022 four payments were sent to Mr Ms account 
totalling over £1,500. The funds were quickly spent through cash withdrawals, card 
payments, ApplePay payments, and a bill payment via faster payment. After the payments 
were made, the sending bank got in touch with Santander to report that they had been sent 
as the result of a fraud. 
Santander wrote to Mr M to ask him to get in touch about the payments. When Mr M spoke 
to Santander at the end of February 2022, their notes say he told them that the funds were 
from selling four pairs of trainers on online marketplace applications, which the buyer had 
collected from him on a date in February. He said the reason there were four payments was 
because of limits on sending funds through online banking. He provided screenshots from a 
different social media app which discussed selling some trainers, and meeting in person to 
do so. He said he bought the trainers from the trainer companys retail app, which he 
probably did by paying his mum in cash and using her card. He said he could not evidence 
the purchase of the trainers as he thinks he bought the trainers in 2018. 
Santander were not persuaded by Mr Ms version of events. They said there were 
inconsistencies between his story and the evidence he provided. So, they decided to close 
his account with 30 days notice, and to refer him to Cifas who registered a marker against 
him for misuse of facility. 
Mr Ms representative complained to Santander. She said that Mr M had nothing to do with 
the payments into the account. His representative also disputed the transactions leaving the 
account and said that these were not authorised by Mr M. They said that Mr M had lost his 
card and someone else had done this, which is why they had reported it to the police  and 
to Santander in February, too. She said that Mr M had been questioned by the bank without 
an adult with him to make sure he understood what he was being asked, and this was why 
he gave incorrect answers when he spoke with Santander originally. Santander looked into 
the complaint and said it had not done anything wrong and so would not be reversing its 
original decision. 
Unhappy with their response, Mr Ms representative brought his complaint to our service. 
One of our investigators looked into what had happened and did not recommend that the 
complaint be upheld. In summary, they thought Mr M had been inconsistent in his version of 
events, and the lack of a point of compromise for the relevant details needed for the 
payments out of the account meant it was most likely that Mr M or someone else acting on 
his behalf had made those payments. And therefore, Mr M had used his account, or allowed 
it to be used, for fraudulent transactions into and out of the account. So, it followed that it 
was fair and reasonable for Santander to close Mr Ms account and register him with Cifas. 
Mr Ms representative remained dissatisfied, and said in summary: 
Mr M did not complete or allow anyone to complete the transactions on his account; 
His card had been stolen  he had not given his card and PIN to anyone; 
He was at school when some of the transactions on his account took place, so they 
could not have been completed by him; 
No one had approached him to use his account in exchange for payment or anything 
else;
Some of the transactions took place in locations he had simply never been to, so 
they could not have been him;
He had been aware that she was contacting the police and was happy for her to do 
so; 
Transactions took place on his card in two locations close together in time, which 
were not geographically close together, showing that this must have been fraudulent. 
This did not change our investigators opinion and as no agreement could be reached, the 
case was passed to me to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I have reached the same conclusion as our investigator, and broadly for the 
same reasons. 
The type of Cifas marker that Santander asked Cifas to apply here is for misuse of facility  
relating to the account being used to receive and send on fraudulent funds. In order to file 
such a marker, Santander are not required to prove beyond reasonable doubt that Mr M is 
guilty of a fraud or financial crime, but they must show that there are grounds for more than 
mere suspicion or concern that such an offence took place. Cifas guidance at the time said: 
There must be reasonable grounds to believe that an identified fraud or financial 
crime has been committed or attempted; [and]
The evidence must be clear, relevant and rigorous such that the member could 
confidently report the conduct of the subject to the police. 
So, the relevant findings for me to make are whether I believe there is sufficient evidence to 
conclude that on balance, the money sent to Mr M was as the result of a fraud, and that he 
was deliberately dishonest in relation to this, such that Santander fairly and reasonably 
escalated their concerns to Cifas. I do think that Santander were entitled to do so, I will 
explain why. 
It is not in dispute that Mr Ms account was used to receive and send on fraudulent funds. 
The sending account holder complained that they were tricked into sending the funds as the 
result of a fraud. And whilst Mr M originally said he was entitled to these funds due to the 
sale of some trainers; it appears he is no longer asserting that he has any legitimate claim to 
those funds. So what is left for me to decide is whether on balance I think that it is most likely 
that Mr M was involved in the receipt and sending on of these funds  and whether he was 
deliberately dishonest in his actions with regards to these funds. And I think he most likely 
was. I say this because: 
Mr M has been inconsistent in his version of events between when he first spoke with 
Santander about the payments and now. His first version of events was that he 
received the funds for the sale of trainers, and that he had given these trainers to the 
buyer. He went so far as providing evidence of a chat between him and someone 
else over a social media application. 
I agree with Santander that this story did not add up. The evidence provided was not consistent with Mr Ms testimony in a number of ways including - a chat history was 
provided that was on a different social media platform to the two apps he named as 
where he sold trainers, with no name and no date on it. And the chat talks about 
sums for buying three pairs of trainers rather than four, and the amounts discussed 
do not match up with the payments into the account. Some of the payments also 
were made after Mr M says he handed over the trainers, and it seems unlikely he 
would have parted with high value trainers before receiving the funds when he did 
not know the person buying them. Further, it is unclear why four payments would 
have been required in this scenario. So, on balance, this did not seem like it was 
most likely what happened here. 
Mr M also said that the payments had nothing to do with him and he did not know 
how they happened, but that his card had been stolen. I appreciate Mr Ms 
representative said he said this because he was only fifteen and got confused or 
coerced in his conversation with Santander. But I do think it seems unusual that Mr M 
was so specific about where the funds came from in confusion. I cannot see any 
similarly sized payments into the account that he could have confused these 
payments with. Which would imply that this story was fabricated  along with the 
evidence he provided Santander. It would seem strange to do this rather than just 
explain that he did not know what happened. 
When considering his assertion that his card was lost or stolen, it does not seem 
most likely that this is what happened here. I say this because the payments that 
went out of Mr Ms account required more than just the card itself, and Mr M has not 
explained how an unknown third party could have had everything they needed to 
complete the transactions. There were cash withdrawals and card transactions which 
would have required his PIN code, and could not have simply been completed using 
his lost or stolen card. There was a faster payment out of the account which would 
have required security credentials. There were ApplePay payments which would 
have required a registered device, or registering a device using a registered phone 
number. I have seen nothing in evidence which explains how an unknown third party 
would have been able to have acquired not only his card, but all of the other 
information and security credentials needed to do all of this without Mr M knowing.  
I appreciate there is a possibility that Mr M did not directly complete all the 
transactions himself, but that does not negate his responsibility for them here. I think 
it is likely that if Mr M did not complete transactions himself, he allowed them to be 
completed. And I am unable to say on the evidence that he was unwitting in doing so.
When considering all of this, I dont think either version of events that Mr M has given are 
what most likely happened here. I am of the opinion that it is most likely that Mr M was 
complicit in the receiving of fraudulent payments. And he did not need to be aware of the 
exact provenance of the funds for me to make these findings, just that it was likely they were 
not legitimately come by. And so, it follows that Santander have met the requirements to 
refer him to Cifas and I wont be asking them to do anything further. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold Mr Ms complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 6 October 2023.
 
Katherine Jones
Ombudsman