DRN-3366267
The complaint
Ms M complains that BUPA Insurance Limited added a specific exclusion to her private 
health insurance policy.
What happened
On 1 March 2021 Ms M took out private medical insurance, insured by BUPA, through a 
broker. The policy was subject to full medical underwriting and during the sale of the policy 
Ms M disclosed she had counselling for stress in 2020 which she said was due to the Covid-
19 pandemic. 
BUPA added a specific exclusion to the policy for any treatment that is for, resulting from or 
is related to stress. It said Ms M had treatment for stress before the policy started and the 
policy didnt cover pre-existing conditions.
Ms M complained BUPA was unfair to add the specific exclusion. She said stress isnt a 
disease, illness or injury so doesnt meet the policy definition of pre-existing condition. She 
wanted BUPA to remove the specific exclusion from the policy start date.
BUPA said although Ms M had just one episode of stress that was still considered a pre-
existing condition under the policy terms. 
Our investigator thought BUPA acted fairly in adding the specific exclusion to Ms Ms policy. 
She noted that the policy terms said some exclusions could be removed at policy renewal in 
certain circumstances.
Ms M said the policy had now been renewed and BUPA had removed the specific exclusion. 
But she still wanted an ombudsmans decision as she thought in adding the exclusion BUPA 
had misunderstood its policy wording.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I need to decide whether BUPA fairly and reasonably added the specific exclusion to Ms Ms 
policy, and I think it did. Ill explain why. 
The policy says:
Exclusion 23 Pre-existing conditions
For underwritten members we do not pay for treatment of a pre-existing condition, or 
a disease, illness or injury that results from or is related to a pre-existing condition.
The policy details there is an exception to that exclusion, but the exception didnt apply to 
Ms Ms circumstances.
The policy defines pre-existing condition as:
Any disease, illness or injury for which in the seven years before your effective 
underwriting date:
you have received medication, advice or treatment, or
you have experienced symptoms
whether the condition was diagnosed or not. 
I think the policy is clear theres no cover for a condition Ms M had in the seven years before 
the policy started if she had medication, advice, treatment or symptoms. The policy is also 
clear that it doesnt matter whether or not the condition was diagnosed.
When Ms M completed the application form for the policy she was asked:
Mental health conditions
Have you talked with a GP, therapist, counsellor or any other health professional 
about your mental health? (For example: stress, depression, fatigue, anxiety, 
anorexia, bulimia, compulsive disorders, schizophrenia etc).
Ms M was asked to describe the illness or medical problem and she answered stress due 
to pandemic. The dates she gave for her symptoms were within a year of the policy starting. 
She said shed consulted a healthcare professional about the condition about five times in 
the last two years from the date of the application. She was asked about treatment and said 
she had talking therapy with a counsellor. Ms M was asked the current state of the 
condition to which she answered fully recovered.
So I think its clear Ms M had treatment for her stress, by taking part in talking therapy, in the 
year before the policy started which is within the seven years stated in the policy terms about 
pre-existing conditions.
Ms Ms point is she doesnt think stress meets the policy definition of pre-existing condition 
because she says stress isnt a disease, illness or injury, but just a state of mind. Shes 
referred to wording on a NHS website which says stress is the bodys reaction to feeling 
threatened or under pressure. Its very common, can be motivating to help us achieve things 
in our daily life and can help us meet the demands of home, work and family life. But too 
much stress can affect our mood, our body and our relationships - especially when it feels 
out of our control. 
NHS websites show that stress is a mental health condition. 
I do appreciate Ms Ms point, but I must consider the wording of this policy and its intention 
as a whole in order to determine whether Ms M has been treated fairly.
The policy doesnt define illness and in those circumstances its reasonable for me to 
consider common meanings of the word. Definitions in dictionaries Ive looked at generally 
say illness can mean ill or poor health.  
BUPA considered illness could include poor mental health. I find that was fair. As Ms Ms 
stress was at level where she consulted a healthcare professional several times, consulted a counsellor for her stress and took part in talking therapy to help manage how she was 
feeling I think BUPA fairly considered that for the relevant period Ms M had experienced 
stress which impacted on her mental health. Therefore, I think BUPA fairly concluded that 
Ms Ms stress, and the treatment she received for it, met the policy definition of a pre-
existing condition and reasonably added the specific exclusion to the policy.
The policy also says:
We are willing, at your renewal date, to review certain special conditions. We will do 
this if, in our opinion, no treatment is likely to be needed in the future, directly or 
indirectly, relating to the disease, illness or injury referred to in the special condition 
or for a related disease, illness or injury. However, there are some special conditions 
which we do not review. If you would like us to consider a review of your special 
conditions please call the helpline prior to your renewal date.
We will only determine whether a special condition can be removed or not, once we 
have received full current clinical details from a GP or consultant.
Ms M told us BUPA removed the specific exclusion in relation to stress when it renewed her 
policy, which Im pleased to hear, but I still think BUPA fairly added the exclusion when she 
first took out the policy.
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms M to accept or 
reject my decision before 6 June 2022.
 
Nicola Sisk
Ombudsman