DRN-3793812
The complaint
Mr N complains that Scottish Widows Limited (Scottish Widows) provided misleading 
information regarding when he would receive his first pension income payment. He says that 
the payment was received later than he was led to believe which resulted in him 
experiencing financial difficulties, distress and inconvenience.
What happened
On 8 April 2022, Mr N phoned Scottish Widows to set up a regular pension income payment 
from his retirement account. He was on hold for about 45 minutes before he was able to 
speak to a representative. Mr N confirmed to the representative that he wanted regular 
pension income payments to start from 20 April 2022. 
On 9 April 2022, Scottish Widows issued a letter to Mr N to confirm his instruction had been 
received and processed. In that letter it stated, the payment will be made to your bank / 
building society account from 20 April 2022. It also sent him a text message confirming the 
same information.
On 20 April 2022, Scottish Widows paid the first regular income payment. It was credited to 
Mr Ns nominated pension account on 25 April 2022. 
This complaint
Mr N was unhappy about receiving the payment on 25 April 2022 and not on 20 April 2022. 
So he complained to Scottish Widows.
Scottish Widows upheld Mr Ns complaint in part. It didnt uphold the part of his complaint 
relating to the pension income payment. It explained that it had listened to the recorded call 
between its representative and Mr N on 8 April 2022  and it was satisfied its representative 
had made clear to Mr N that he would receive payment a few days after the selected date of                   
20 April 2022. In addition, it was satisfied its subsequent letter and text message correctly 
confirmed payment would be made from 20 April 2022. It didnt agree that it told or misled    
Mr N to believe that the payment would be credited to his bank account on that date. So it 
wasnt prepared to pay compensation in respect of this. But it noted that Mr N had unfairly 
waited 45 minutes to speak to its representative on 8 April 2022 and so it paid him £50 
compensation in respect of this. 
Mr N didnt accept Scottish Widows response and so referred the matter to this service. Our 
investigator didnt think Scottish Widows needed to take any further action. This was 
because he was satisfied it had made clear to Mr N that the pension income payments 
would be made from the 20th of each month and be credited to his bank account a few days 
later. He noted that Scottish Widows had provided Mr N a contact phone number in its letter 
of 9 April 2022 to clarify any incorrect or contradictory information but there wasnt any 
evidence he had phoned, implying he was agreeable with the stated payment date. So he 
didnt think it would be fair for Scottish Widows to compensate Mr N for this. But he did think 
it was unreasonable Mr N had to wait for 45 minutes to speak to a representative on                        
8 April 2022 and that £50 compensation in respect of this was fair.
Mr N didnt accept our investigators assessment and requested that this complaint be 
referred to an ombudsman for review.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Id like to clarify that the purpose of this final decision isnt to repeat or address every single
point raised by Mr N and Scottish Widows. So if I havent commented on any specific point, 
its because I dont believe its affected what I think is the right outcome. Ive considered all 
the evidence afresh. Having done so, Ive reached the same conclusion as our investigator 
and largely for the same reasons. Ive explained my reasons why in the following sections.
Mr Ns pension income payment is paid through BACS, which is an inter-bank 
payment scheme that is used to clear direct debits and standing orders. It enables 
money to be paid from one party to another. Such payments typically take up to three 
working days to go through. Scottish Widows doesnt have control over when the 
pension income payments will be credited to Mr Ns bank account  this is because it 
is reliant on Mr Ns bank to process and apply the money to his account. The only 
aspect Scottish Widows has control over is the payment date.
Ive listened to the recorded call between Scottish Widows representative and Mr N 
on 8 April 2022. When discussing the payment date, the representative stated, if 
you pick the date youd like the payments to start paying out, and we would send the 
money on that date, and then it would land in your account a few days after that. 
Following this, Mr N confirmed that he wanted the payments to start on 20 April 2022. 
In response, the representative stated, the 20th of each month is when we will start 
payments, thats when it will leave us and land in your account a few days after 
thatif at any point you want to change that date, you dont feel its working for you, 
you can just call us up and we can do that for you. Based on this, Im satisfied that 
Scottish Widows made it clear to Mr N  on two separate occasions during the same 
call  that the first pension income payment would be credited to his bank account a 
few days after 20 April 2022. At no point during the call did the representative state or 
imply that the payment would be credited to Mr Ns bank account on 20 April 2022.
In its letter of 9 April 2022, Scottish Widows stated that it would make the payment 
from 20 April 2022  this is in line with what it told Mr N during the phone call on               
8 April 2022.
I havent seen any evidence that Scottish Widows provided contradictory or 
misleading information to Mr N about when the first pension income payment would 
be credited to his bank account. Overall, Im satisfied that Mr N chose the payment 
date of 20 April 2022 from an informed position and  based on what he was told  
should have expected payment a few days after that, which is what happened 
(allowing for the weekend between 20 and 25 April 2022).
I understand that Mr N was frustrated not to receive his first pension income payment 
on 20 April 2022. But, for the reasons explained above, Im satisfied that Scottish 
Widows made it clear to Mr N how and when payments would be made. It also told 
him that he could change the payment date if it wasnt convenient for him. 
In conclusion, I dont think Scottish Widows made an error or treated Mr N unfairly. 
Therefore, I dont consider it would be fair or reasonable in these circumstances for me to uphold this complaint and direct Scottish Widows to pay compensation to Mr N 
 or to take any further action in response to this complaint.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr N to accept or 
reject my decision before 25 April 2023. 
Clint Penfold
Ombudsman