DRN-2350628
The complaint
Mr S complains that T.R.S. Independent Financial Advisors (TRS) mis-sold him an 
endowment policy. 
What happened
Mr S was sold an endowment policy in January 1989. He said he was led to believe it would 
repay his mortgage in full and would provide an additional lump sum. 
The policy was surrendered early in September 1995 when Mr S sold his property. 
Mr S said that his circumstances meant the policy wasnt suitable for him. And that the 
adviser didnt extensively assess and discuss his attitude to risk. He told us he wouldnt have 
accepted any risk when repaying his mortgage but was told that he couldnt have a 
repayment mortgage due to his employment status at the time.  
TRS said it presented Mr S with the options and costs of both a repayment mortgage and an 
endowment-linked mortgage. It also said that it provided Mr S with ongoing financial advice 
and had an adviser who was very familiar with Mr Ss personal circumstances and financial 
aims. 
Our investigator considered this complaint and didnt think it should be upheld. He noted the 
limited information available due to how long it had been since the sale of the policy. But he 
pointed out that the mortgage application provided the option of a repayment mortgage, 
suggesting there may have been some discussion around this, though theres limited 
information available. Overall, he didnt feel that the level of risk, given Mr Ss circumstances, 
appeared unsuitable. 
Mr S disagreed. He maintained that he was told the endowment option was the only one 
available to him and that he wouldnt have accepted the risk involved. 
So the complaint has been passed to me to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
While it may come as a disappointment to Mr S, I dont uphold this complaint  Ill explain 
why.
As its been over 30 years since the endowment policy was sold, theres limited information 
available about what happened at the time  TRS said it wouldve thinned down the file for 
archiving.
Mr S feels strongly that he wasnt made aware of the risks, and that he wasnt offered a 
repayment mortgage. But TRS said it knows which adviser sold the policy and feels strongly 
that they wouldnt have given Mr S poor advice or incorrect information. TRS has also 
provided a witness statement from the adviser who is able to recall aspects of the sale on 
the basis that he vaguely knew Mr S in a capacity beyond TRS. The adviser has been able 
to give a persuasive recollection of Mr Ss circumstances at the time  to explain why he 
doesnt feel the advice was unsuitable. 
So with two somewhat conflicting, but both plausible recollections, its difficult for me to say 
which is accurate. And that leads me to turn to the written documentation available from the 
time of the sale  the application form. 
Looking at the application form, I can see that there were four available options; a 
Masterplan endowment, any other type of endowment, capital and interest method with 
mortgage protection or capital and interest method without mortgage protection. Underneath 
this, it says If you wish to repay the endowment other than Masterplan answer the following 
and this section has been completed with the details of the policy company, the sum 
assured, monthly premium and year of maturity. This has been filled in as part of the wider 
application form in which Mr S wouldve needed to provide details of the property and his 
circumstances. So I think its likely that there was some discussion about the type of 
mortgage Mr S was taking. 
Its been around 25 years since the policy was surrendered, and theres such limited 
information available that it doesnt feel fair to proceed on the assumption that the advice to 
take this policy was unsuitable. Ive also thought about what was known at the time. 
Endowments like this one were generally considered to be low-risk investments. And, more 
specifically to Mr S, we know that he was borrowing what appears to have been an 
affordable amount for him. And based on his age at the date the policy was intended to end, 
there wouldve been sufficient time before retirement to deal with any shortfall, had the policy 
not performed as expected.
So, based on the limited evidence provided, Im not persuaded that the policy was unsuitable 
for Mr S.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I dont uphold this complaint against T.R.S. Independent 
Financial Advisors.
 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 4 March 2021.
 
Melanie Roberts
Ombudsman