DRN-4467304
The complaint
Mr W complains about Vitality Health Limiteds handling of his private medical insurance 
claim. 
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again 
here. Instead, Ill focus on giving my reasons for my decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the conclusions reached by the investigator for these reasons:
Vitality initially couldnt locate Mr W on its system when he wanted to make a claim. 
The adviser told Mr W it looked like he hadnt been added to the policy, and said he 
would put Mr W through to Vitalitys admin team. Mr W ended the call at that point.
The reason Vitality couldnt find Mr Ws details was because it had the wrong date of 
birth recorded for him. This was put right when Mr Ws wife called Vitality around an 
hour later. I dont know who was at fault for this. Vitality said the wrong date of birth 
had been given to it by Mr Ws wifes employer, but they said that Vitality had made 
the error. Unfortunately, Mr W and his wife didnt notice the wrong date of birth had 
been recorded on their membership certificate.
Regardless of who was at fault for this though, Mr W was covered under the policy 
and was named on the membership certificate. I think if hed stayed on the line, this 
would have been confirmed by Vitalitys admin team, as it was when Mr Ws wife 
called Vitality. Mr W instead chose to make an appointment with a specialist and paid 
for this in advance, rather than try and resolve the matter with Vitality. 
That was Mr Ws decision, but I dont require Vitality to pay for that treatment cost (or 
the later costs he incurred). He hadnt been referred by a GP and the specialist he 
saw wasnt recognised by Vitality, as required under the policy terms for a claim to be 
paid. Whilst I understand he was in pain and wanted to see a doctor, hed spent less 
than three minutes on the phone to Vitality and didnt try and get the issue resolved 
with its admin team. If he had spoken to the admin team and Vitality still hadnt been 
able to find any record of him, I mightve required Vitality to cover his treatment costs 
on a fair and reasonable basis. However, I dont think he gave Vitality a reasonable 
opportunity to find him on its system before he made the decision to seek treatment 
himself outside the terms of the policy. 
I therefore dont uphold this complaint.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision before 9 January 2024.
 
Chantelle Hurn-Ryan
Ombudsman