DRN-2345907
The complaint
Mr W has complained about the decision by Aioi Nissay Dowa Insurance Company of 
Europe SE (trading as Insurethebox) to settle his claim under his motor insurance policy on 
a 50:50 basis. 
What happened
Mr Ws car was involved in an accident with another car. He logged the accident in April 
2019. He told Insurethebox he thought the accident was the other partys fault. 
Mr W didnt want to make a claim himself. But Insurethebox received notice of a claim from 
the third party. Mr W felt that the third partys claim could be fraudulent or exaggerated.
After investigating, Insurethebox concluded that it was unable to prove the accident was 
solely the other partys fault. So it agreed to settle the claim on a 50:50 basis. 
Mr W was unhappy with Insuretheboxs decision. He felt it shouldnt have agreed to a 50:50 
settlement. He complained to Insurethebox about this. 
Insurethebox didnt uphold his complaint. It reviewed its decision to offer a 50:50 settlement 
and concluded that it was fair. It also felt itd sufficiently investigated the validity of the third-
partys claim. Insurethebox also looked into the service Mr W had received. But concluded 
that it hadn't done anything wrong. So Mr W referred his complaint to this service. 
Our investigator didnt uphold the complaint. He felt Insurethebox had taken reasonable 
steps to try to establish who was to blame for the accident. He thought it was fair that it 
settled the claim on a 50:50 basis. 
Mr W didnt agree. He thought Insurethebox had left him with no information for months. He 
also felt that hed been forced into taking a new policy with it as the claim hadnt been 
resolved before his renewal was due.  
So the complaint has come to me for a final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I dont uphold this complaint. Ill explain why. 
Its important to explain that my role here is to look at whether Insurethebox acted in a fair 
and reasonable manner and within the terms and conditions of the policy in its handling of 
the claim. Its not my role to assess liability for an accident. Thats the role of the Courts.
Under the terms of the policy Insurethebox has the discretion to take over, defend or settle 
claims as it feels appropriate. So its entitled to decide how the claim should be recorded 
based on the evidence it has. But I expect it to exercise that discretion in a fair and 
reasonable way.  
I can see that Insurethebox took reasonable steps to hold the third-party driver at fault for the 
accident. But unfortunately both drivers gave conflicting statements about the accident. And 
their witnesses also disagreed about whod caused the accident. No CCTV or other video 
evidence was available to confirm one story over the other. 
In light of the available evidence, Insurethebox took the decision that it was unlikely to be 
able to prove to a court that the other driver was at fault. It therefore agreed to settle on a 
50:50 basis. 
I appreciate why Mr W was very frustrated at this. Hes adamant that he wasnt at fault in any 
way for the accident. But Im satisfied that Insurethebox made sufficient effort on his behalf 
to determine liability. In the end, it effectively became his word against that of the other 
driver. And I think, in those circumstances, it was reasonable for Insurethebox to agree to 
settle the claim on a 50:50 basis. 
Accident claims that are disputed usually take a long time to resolve. But Mr W felt he had to 
chase Insurethebox on a number of occasions and had to deal with a number of different 
members of staff. But I dont think Insurethebox caused any delays to the claim. 
I understand why Mr W feels he was regularly chasing Insurethebox for an update. And I can 
see why he feels hed been given no information for months, which was stressful for him. But 
I note that Insurethebox was in regular contact with the third-party insurer. And Ive seen no 
evidence of it causing delays to the claim process.
Mr W said he feels he was forced into a new policy with Insurethebox due to the open claim. 
But it isnt the case that he couldnt have moved to a different insurer. Insurethebox didnt tell 
him he couldnt go to a different insurer. So I dont think it did anything wrong here.
I know this decision will disappoint Mr W. But having looked at all the available information 
Ive no evidence that Insurethebox did anything wrong.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I dont uphold this complaint.
 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision before 9 June 2021.
 
Jo Occleshaw
Ombudsman