DRN-2128237
The complaint
Its agreed that AXA France IARD (as the insurer) should accept responsibility for the 
complaint. To keep things simpler, Ill just refer to AXA as the seller in my decision.
Miss M says AXA mis-sold her a payment protection insurance (PPI) policy.
What happened
This complaint is about a PPI policy Miss M took out with a store card in November 2002. It 
was added to her account when she applied for the card whilst she was shopping in the 
store.
Our adjudicator didnt uphold the complaint. Miss M disagreed with the adjudicators opinion. 
Miss M mainly told us that she didnt know shed taken out PPI. She said she signed the 
store card application form where there was an x telling her where to sign and she wasnt 
aware PPI had been added on. 
Miss M told us that she would never have wanted to pay an extra monthly charge and she 
wouldnt have agreed to the PPI if shed been able to make her own informed decision. 
Shes concerned that our adjudicator made the assumption that she wouldve taken out PPI 
if it had been properly explained. 
Miss M also told us she had no need for the policy as she always had savings and her 
employers always offered a generous sickness package. And shes concerned generally 
about a sales process where she took the insurance out when she was at the till and she 
wasnt given enough time to make a decision about PPI.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding Miss Ms case.
What Miss M says isnt enough on its own for me to be able to uphold this complaint just 
based on the way she says she was sold PPI. I have to look at all the available information 
and decide what I think is most likely  and that also means making reasonable assumptions 
where theres only limited information.
AXA has given us a copy of Miss Ms store card application.
Miss M has completed the PPI part of the form to indicate that she wanted to take out the 
cover offered. I dont know what may have been said about the PPI. But I think it wouldve 
been clear from the paperwork that it was up to Miss M to say if she wanted to have PPI 
added on. 
If Miss M felt she hadnt had enough time to decide if she wanted to take out the PPI she 
could've left this part of the form blank and taken out her store card without the PPI. I can see 
some of the other optional features that were offered on the application form are crossed 
through. So I think she would've understood at the time that it was up to her say if she wanted 
to have PPI  and if shed wanted longer to think about the PPI then she didn't have to take it.
Miss M signed the completed application so it seems to me that at the time she must have 
agreed with the information on the form and decided she did want to take the opportunity to 
take out the PPI. On balance, I find that Miss M was aware the policy was available as an 
option and it was added to her account when she chose to take it out.
 
AXA shouldve given Miss M enough clear information to decide if the policy was right for 
her. Its possible the information AXA gave Miss M about the PPI wasnt as clear as it 
shouldve been. So I need to consider if Miss M wouldve acted differently, and not bought 
the policy, if clearer information had been provided. 
Miss M was entitled to 6 months full sick pay followed by 6 months on half pay from her 
employer. This policy couldve paid a benefit for as long as Miss M was off work sick or 
disabled. So it couldve paid out for longer than Miss M was entitled to sick pay through work 
 and cleared her card balance if she wasnt well enough to go back to work. This benefit 
was also available to Miss M in the event that she lost her job unexpectedly and became 
unemployed. 
The policy wouldve paid out on top of sick pay providing Miss M with a useful benefit at a 
difficult time  especially bearing in mind that she mightve had some extra costs as a result 
of being sick or disabled.
I've taken into account that Miss M mentioned having some savings she couldve used to 
pay her card balance each month if necessary. But that doesnt mean that the policy was 
mis-sold to her. It was up to Miss M to choose PPI  or not - knowing what her 
circumstances were at the time. And the amount of savings shes mentioned wasnt enough 
to mean that the policy benefits couldnt still have been of some use to her. 
So I think Miss M couldve benefitted from having the policy if shed needed to claim.
It doesnt look as if Miss M was affected by any of the main things the policy didnt cover. So, 
I dont think having more information about the policy exclusions and limitations wouldve put 
her off taking it out. 
I dont think its likely that AXA gave Miss M clear enough information about the costs of the 
PPI policy. But Miss M chose to take out the policy when she didnt have to  so she seems 
to have wanted it at the time. And she indicated on the application she completed that she 
was happy to pay to have the policy as she signed next to where it said: Yes I would like to 
protect my Account ...Please debit my Account with the relevant monthly premium until 
further notice. 
Looked at overall, given the benefits PPI offered Miss M, I think it unlikely she wouldve 
made a different decision if better information had been provided. On balance I think shed 
still have taken out the policy. 
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I dont uphold Miss Ms complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss M to accept or reject my decision before 25 December 2020.
 
Susan Webb
Ombudsman