DRN-2195210
The complaint
Mr W says TFS Loans Limited lent to him irresponsibly.
 
What happened
 Mr W took out a guarantor loan from TFS in March 2015. It was for £7,500 over 48 months.
The monthly repayment was £304.63 and the total repayable was £14,622.24. 
He says TFS lent irresponsibly as he had so much unsecured debt at the time of application 
and they knew this from the credit check yet still lent him the money.
Our adjudicator recommended the complaint should be upheld. He said TFSs checks were 
not proportionate, and proportionate checks would have shown the loan wasnt affordable for 
Mr W.
TFS disagreed with the adjudicators view, so the complaint was passed to me for a final
decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Our approach to unaffordable/irresponsible lending complaints is set out on our website and
Ive followed it here.
The Financial Conduct Authority (FCA) was the regulator when TFS lent to Mr W. Its rules 
and guidance, set out in its Consumer Credit Sourcebook (CONC), obliged TFS to lend 
responsibly. Amongst other things, TFS was required to carry out a reasonable and 
proportionate assessment of whether Mr W could afford to repay what he owed in a 
sustainable manner. This is sometimes referred to as an affordability assessment or an 
affordability check.
The checks also had to be borrower-focused. So TFS had to think about whether repaying
the credit sustainably would cause any difficulties or adverse consequences for Mr W. In
other words, it wasnt enough for TFS to simply think about the likelihood of it getting its
money back, it had to consider the impact of the loan repayments on Mr W.
Checks also had to be proportionate to the specific circumstances of each loan application.
In general, what makes up a proportionate affordability check will be dependent upon a
number of factors including  but not limited to  the particular circumstances of the
consumer (e.g. their financial history, current situation and outlook, and any indications of
vulnerability or financial difficulty) and the amount, type and cost of credit they have applied
for.
In light of this, I think that a reasonable and proportionate check ought generally to have
been more thorough:
the lower a customers income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make
any repayments to credit from a lower level of income);
the higher the amount due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to
meet higher repayments from a particular level of income);
the longer the period of time a borrower will be indebted for (reflecting the fact
that the total cost of the credit is likely to be greater and the customer is required
to make repayments for an extended period).
There may also be other factors which could influence how detailed a proportionate check
shouldve been for a given application  including (but not limited to) any indications of
borrower vulnerability and any foreseeable changes in future circumstances. Ive kept all of
this in mind when thinking about whether TFS did what it needed to before agreeing to
lend to Mr W, and have considered the following questions:
did TFS complete reasonable and proportionate checks when assessing Mr Ws
loan application to satisfy itself that he would be able to repay the loan in a
sustainable way?
if not, what would reasonable and proportionate checks have shown?
did TFS make a fair lending decision?
did TFS act unfairly or unreasonably in some other way?
TFS asked for some information from Mr W before it approved the loan. It asked for details 
of his income, his monthly living costs and his existing credit commitments. It checked his 
credit file to understand his credit history. It also asked about the purpose of the loan which 
was debt consolidation. From these checks combined TFS concluded Mr W had monthly 
disposable income of £628 and so the loan was affordable.
But I dont agree that these checks were proportionate. Mr W was applying to borrow a 
significant amount of money from TFS. He was entering into a long-term commitment and 
would need to make monthly repayments for four years. So I would expect that TFS would 
want to gather, and independently check, more detailed information about Mr Ws financial 
circumstances before it agreed to lend to him. His credit file showed that he had 16 active 
accounts, total unsecured of debt over £14,500 and two of his credit cards had been running 
at or close to their credit limit for over a year. So, in the round, I think it would have been 
proportionate for TFS to independently check the actual state of Mr Ws finances before 
agreeing the loan, rather than relying primarily on his disclosures.
However its failure to do so doesnt in itself mean Mr Ws complaint should succeed. I need
to look at what proportionate checks would have shown TFS and consider if it ought to
have realised that Mr W most likely couldnt sustainably afford the repayments.
I have looked at Mr Ws bank statements. This is one way TFS could have gathered the 
information I think it needed on Mr Ws financial situation. Our adjudicator sent TFS a 
summary of what the statements showed in the month prior to Mr Ws loan application. He 
said Mr Ws income was £1936 as hed declared, his living costs were £1290, and his credit 
commitments came to £803. So he concluded Mr W didnt have the disposable income TFS 
had calculated, rather he had no disposable income available to spend, or to make this
loan repayment.
In response to this finding TFS said as Mr W was taking out its loan for the purpose of debt 
consolidation a number of his debts would be cleared and could not be taken into account as 
ongoing expenditure. It worked out Mr W would have had disposable income of £529. This is a fair to a point. What I would have expected TFS to understand and verify would be 
Mr Ws ongoing credit commitments. Whilst Mr W was clearing the majority of his high-cost 
short-term debt with the TFS loan, he was only paying off half of his overall debt. And I can 
see from his bank statements that he would still have had at least three active payday loans 
(two of which were taken out in the week before this loan) - and a significant amount of his 
credit card debt remained. So, discounting the debts that he cleared with this loan, but 
including ongoing credit commitments (which seem to total £348) a more realistic view of 
Mr Ws monthly disposable income would have been £297  this was before the TFS loan 
repayment. So even after making adjustments to take into account the consolidated debts, 
he still did not have sufficient disposable income to make this loan affordable. 
TFS also asked why Mr W gave a false value for his rent payment when he applied. I cant 
know the answer to this, but it does not change my conclusion as that inaccuracy does not 
change TFSs obligation to carry out proportionate checks before lending.
And I think that if TFS had completed proportionate checks, it would have realised the loan 
was unaffordable for Mr W. So as a responsible lender it would have decided not to approve 
his application.  
I have also looked at whether TFS acted unfairly or unreasonably in some other way. I 
havent found any evidence that it did. I think it responded appropriately when Mr W notified 
it of his change in employment circumstances by agreeing to a reduced payment plan for a 
period of time. 
Putting things right
Its reasonable for Mr W to have repaid the capital amount that he borrowed as he had the 
benefit of that money. But he has paid interest and charges on a loan that shouldnt have 
been given to him. So he has lost out and TFS needs to put things right. 
It should:
Remove all interest, fees and charges on the loan and treat all the payments
Mr W made as payments towards the capital.
If reworking Mr Ws loan account results in him having effectively made payments
above the original capital borrowed, then TFS should refund these overpayments 
with 8% simple interest calculated on the overpayments, from the date the 
overpayments would have arisen, to the date of settlement*.
Remove any adverse information recorded on Mr Ws credit file in relation to the
loan.
*HM Revenue & Customs requires TFS to deduct tax from this interest. TFS should give Mr W a 
certificate showing how much tax its deducted, if he asks for one.
  
My final decision
 I am upholding Mr Ws complaint and TFS Loans Limited must now put things right as set 
out above. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision before 25 March 2021.
 
Rebecca ConnelleyOmbudsman