DRN-2785112
The complaint
Mr S is unhappy with the way UK Insurance Limited, trading as Direct Line (UKI) valued his 
car after a claim under his motor insurance policy. 
What happened
When dealing with Mr Ss motor insurance claim UKI decided that after the incident Mr Ss 
car was beyond economical repair, so they looked to settle the claim using a market 
valuation for his car. However, Mr S felt the value UKI offered him was too low. As Mr S and 
UKI couldnt reach an agreement, the complaint was brought to our service. 
During the course of our investigators review Mr S also raised some other concerns about 
not being made aware he could have bought back his car and that he was still waiting for 
UKI to contact him about a bank card he possibly left in the car. Our investigator explained 
that as it didnt appear Mr S had previously raised these complaints with UKI it would not be 
possible for us to look into those matters, so these were things that Mr S may wish to 
approach UKI about separately.
 
Our investigator concluded UKIs valuation offer was reasonable in the circumstances as it 
was broadly in line with the trade valuation guides that our service can refer to when 
considering complaints of this nature  so they didnt uphold Mr Ss complaint. Mr S 
disagreed and referred to prices hed seen for cars on other online platforms. He also 
referred to the specification and good condition of his car as reasons for the value to be 
increased. As the investigator and Mr S couldnt reach an agreement, the case is now with 
me to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I dont think Mr Ss complaint should be upheld for broadly the same 
reasons as the investigator.
 
I understand from the submissions that Mr S relied heavily on his car and that this was a 
valued asset to him for numerous reasons, and so I realise how important it is for Mr S to 
ensure he feels he is getting a fair price for his car. Mr S has described his car was in good 
condition and regularly cleaned and hes talked about additional features on his car which he 
believes should be recognised by increasing the valuation figure.
As our investigator explained in their findings, it is not for this service to decide an exact 
valuation figure for a consumers car  our service uses an established to approach to such 
cases, and looks to see if the insurer has acted reasonably and made a fair market value 
offer. 
Our service will look at all the evidence provided by both sides and will review the various 
trade guides used for valuing cars. And while well be mindful of advertisements for the sale 
of similar cars, less weight is placed on these than on the trade guides. This is because cars 
dont usually sell for the price at which theyre advertised as often higher prices are quoted in 
such adverts so as to allow some room for the seller to negotiate  so these are asking 
prices, rather than actual sale prices. The trade guides are therefore generally more reliable 
mainly because their valuations are based on nationwide research and likely sales figures. 
The guides also take into account regional variations.
 
While Im mindful of what Mr S has said about the condition of his car, it might help him to 
know that the trade guide valuations work on the basis a car is in a good roadworthy 
condition and in a good general condition  so I dont think it fair to increase the valuation 
offered because of these points that Mr S has made.
 
Mr S also referred to a valuation mentioned on a social media platform, but having looked at 
this, it is unfortunately not enough for me to say the valuation figure UKI has used should be 
altered  theres not enough for me to draw a reasonable comparison.
As well as what Mr S has shared with us, Ive reviewed the trade guide valuations and some 
advertisements, and I cant conclude that UKIs offer is unreasonable. Of the trade 
valuations available, there are two which are broadly consistent and UKIs offer is within a 
reasonable sum of these two valuations. 
I realise from Mr Ss submissions that it hasnt been easy to find a replacement car. 
However, while I understand this matter has been difficult for Mr S, it doesnt mean that the 
valuation figure offered by UKI is unreasonable. 
Taking everything into account, I think UKI has valued Mr Ss car in a fair and reasonable 
way and looked to pay him the market value of his car in line with the policy terms and 
conditions. 
My final decision
For the reasons above, I dont uphold Mr Ss complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 23 July 2021.
 
Kristina Mathews
Ombudsman