DRN-2880012
The complaint
Mr S acquired a car in May 2018, by means of a hire agreement over 48 months with Lex 
Autolease Ltd. He complains that Lex claims he owes it one of the monthly repayments 
required under his agreement, which he believes has been paid. He wants Lex to accept that 
the payment is not owed, to cease its actions intended to recover the payment, and to 
remove any adverse references relating to this payment it may have made on his credit file.
 
What happened
I understand that, in May 2020, Mr S took a repayment holiday agreed with Lex, which he 
needed because of the impact of the Covid19 lockdown on him. That action is not in dispute, 
and it was not considered as part of this complaint.
Mr S provided to us copies of his bank account statements covering the period late June 
2020 to late February 2021. His repayments were normally taken by direct debit, either in the 
last few days of each month, or at the start of the following month. His repayments for June 
and July 2020 were taken as normal on the last day of these months.
Mr Ss next repayment was taken by direct debit at the start of September. But two days 
later his bank account was credited with the same amount as his monthly repayment, and 
the same amount was credited again on the following day. He contacted Lex for an 
explanation. It responded saying:
A fault had caused its internal systems to attempt to take by direct debit his 
September repayment (and those of some other customers) at an incorrect time early 
in the month
These funds were reimbursed promptly, and his September repayment was 
rescheduled to be taken at the correct time (around the end of the month)
It apologised for the inconvenience caused to him, for which it offered compensation 
of £50
Mr Ss next repayment was taken by direct debit at the start of October. And, eight days 
later, a payment of the same amount and described as a correction of direct debit was 
taken. 
Mr Ss repayments for October, November and December 2020 were taken as normal on the 
last days of these months. He made a one-off payment to Lex in late January 2021, for the 
amount of his regular monthly repayments, and his regular repayment was taken by direct 
debit in the last days of January. 
 
Correspondence from Lex to Mr S says that he complained to it in early January 2021. This 
was because he was being chased for an outstanding repayment, which he believed had 
been made. 
Lex responded in late February 2021. It upheld his complaint in part, saying:
The invoice he had received for an outstanding repayment was valid
It was aware that he had made a recent payment (in January 2021), but the letter it 
sent to him was despatched before he did so  and so the letter was correct at the 
time it was sent
But his circumstances at the time were such that he should not have been chased  
and to acknowledge the inconvenience caused, it offered compensation of £50
Mr S referred his complaint to us in early March 2021. He told us that Lex believed that one 
repayment was still missing, which he struggled to understand. 
Our investigator forwarded copies of Mr Ss bank account to Lex, asking it:
To clarify the payments it had taken from, and made to, Mr Ss account in September 
2020
To confirm that the correction of direct debit payment, taken in October 2020, 
cancelled out one of the two refunds made in the previous month
To clarify the month to which the extra payment Mr S made in January 2021 relates
Lex responded at the start of June 2021, saying: 
a) Mr Ss September direct debit, which it incorrectly attempted to take early in the 
month, bounced  but it still issued a refund early in the month (so he had one 
repayment outstanding)  
b) Mr Ss September direct debit was correctly and successfully taken around the 
month-end (so he still had one repayment outstanding)  
c) Looking at Mr Ss bank account statements  these showed that it took a direct debit 
repayment at the start of September, which also bounced, and the payment was 
returned two days later  
The payment returned to Mr S, referred to in (c) above, was made one day before the refund 
referred to in (a) above. And so, it appears Lexs view at that time was he had in total two 
repayments outstanding.  
Lex said as well that it had no record of receiving the correction of direct debit payment, 
taken in October 2020. And it suggested that Mr S should contact his bank to clarify this 
matter. 
Although Lexs February 2021 response to Mr S included an acknowledgement of receipt of 
his January 2021 one-off payment. And so, it appears Lexs later view was that he had one 
repayment outstanding. 
Our investigator thought the complaint should be upheld, saying: 
The correction of direct debit payment was clearly taken from Mr Ss bank account, 
whether or not it was reflected in Lexs internal statements of his account  
It would not be fair to expect Mr S to obtain further evidence that this payment had 
been made  if Lex could not locate this payment, then Lex should take the matter up 
with Mr Ss bank  
Mr S had received two refunds in September 2020, but one offsetting payment had 
been taken in October 2020, and he had made a second payment in January 2021 Our investigator recommended that Lex should:
Accept that Mr S has no outstanding repayments, relating to the period June 2020 to 
February 2021 
Accept these monthly repayments as not having been made late, in its statements of 
his account
Remove any adverse information it may have recorded on Mr Ss credit file, in 
relation to late or non-payment over this period
Mr S agreed with our investigators conclusions. But Lex disagreed, saying:
From its point of view the required repayments had not reached it
Mr S should request his bank to trace the missing funds, to ascertain where they 
have gone
So, this complaint was referred for review by an ombudsman.
  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Where evidence is incomplete, inconsistent or contradictory (as some of it is here), I reach 
my decision on the balance of probabilities  in other words, what I consider most likely to 
have happened in light of the available evidence and wider circumstances. 
On the one hand, Mr Ss bank account statements indicate:
a) Lex took all his required monthly repayments for June & July 2020 and October 2020 
to January 2021 on time by direct debit
b) Lex took his required monthly payment for August 2020 on time, at the start of 
September, by direct debit
c) This payment appears to have been returned two days later (in early September 
2020)
d) Lex appears to have made another payment to him one further day later (in early 
September 2020)  this payment was for the same amount as his monthly 
repayments 
e) Lex took his required monthly payment for September 2020 on time, at the start of 
October, by direct debit
f) Another payment (for the same amount as his monthly repayments) was taken eight 
days later in October 2020 
g) Mr S made a payment to Lex (for the same amount as his monthly repayments) in 
January 2021
All transactions, except those listed in (c) and (f) above, refer to Lex or Isuzu (Lex was 
trading as Isuzu).  
But every transaction is for the same amount, and it is Mr Ss understanding that all these 
transactions relate to Lex.  In which case:
All monthly repayments were taken on time by direct debit
The one-off payments made in January 2021 and taken in October 2020 balance the 
two credits paid into his account in September 2020. 
On the other hand, Lex says that it made the refund listed in (c) above, but says it never 
received the payment listed in (f) above. It also feels that Mr S, and not it, should be 
responsible for tracing the missing funds.I find Lexs explanations about bounced direct debits confusing and inconsistent. I accept it 
is possible that one bounced direct debit appears in Mr Ss bank account and is then 
refunded  while another bounced direct debit does not appear, but it is also (in effect) 
refunded.  This seems to me to be improbable, even accepting that there was a fault in Lexs 
internal systems at the time (September 2020).
I think it is more likely than not that Lex is responsible for all the transactions listed above, 
including the two that do not explicitly refer to Lex or Isuzu. If it can be responsible for one of 
these, then why should it not be responsible for the other, particularly given that every 
transaction is for the same amount as Mr Ss monthly repayments? 
I think it is more likely than not that Lex received the October 2020 payment, which has then 
been lost in Lexs internal systems. I note that Mr Ss complaint arises, at least indirectly, 
from the September 2020 fault in Lexs internal systems. And so, there has to be at least the 
possibility of another error.
I also agree with our investigator it would not be fair to expect Mr S to obtain further 
evidence that this payment had been made to Lex  given that Mr Ss complaint arises, at 
least indirectly, from a Lex internal systems fault.
    
This means that, on the balance of probabilities, I have come to the same conclusions as our 
investigator, for similar reasons.
All monthly repayments during the period June 2020 to January 2021 (inclusive) were 
taken on time by direct debit
Lex should not be recording late payments or making any charges relating to  
olate or non-payments during this period
othe two credits it made into Mr Ss bank account and their subsequent 
repayment 
Putting things right
In order to put things right, Lex needs:
To accept that Mr S has no outstanding repayments, relating to the period June 2020 
to January 2021 (inclusive)
To remove any adverse information recorded on Mr Ss credit file, relating to the 
above
My final decision
For the reasons explained above, my final decision is that I uphold this complaint. In full and 
final settlement, I order Lex Autolease Ltd:
1. To accept that Mr S has no outstanding repayments, relating to the period June 2020 
to January 2021 (inclusive)
2. To reverse any charges made relating to late or non-payments during the above 
period, or the two credits it made into Mr Ss bank account and their subsequent 
repayment
3. To remove any adverse information recorded on Mr Ss credit file, relating to the 
above
  Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 28 September 2021.
 
Roy Mawford
Ombudsman