DRN-3499410
The complaint
Mr D has complained that Building Block Insurance PCC Limited (Building Block) has 
declined to meet a claim under his pet insurance policy on the ground that the treatment 
claimed for arose from a pre-existing condition.
What happened
The background to this complaint is known to both parties and has been explained in our 
investigators view, so I wont repeat it here at length. 
Briefly stated, Mr Ds dog, who Ill refer to as R, collapsed in September 2021 and was 
subsequently diagnosed by his vet as having dilated cardiomyopathy (DCM). Sadly R died 
not long afterwards. 
Mr D had taken out a pet insurance policy with Building Block on 1 November 2019. When 
Mr D claimed for Rs treatment in September 2021, it declined the claim on the ground that 
an entry in Rs veterinary records for 13 November 2019, just after the policy was taken out, 
showed that a slight heart murmur had been noted. Building Block therefore maintains that R 
was treated for a pre-existing condition, and the policy excludes cover for pre-existing 
conditions which include conditions occurring within 14 days of the policy start date.
Rs vet has provided a letter which explains that on 13 November 2019 a few of Rs 
heartbeats had sounded abnormal but all other beats during that same examination were 
normal. He says there are other things that can masquerade as a heart murmur, such as the 
sound of the dog breathing over the top of their heartbeat for a few breaths. This anomaly 
was not repeatedly present later during the examination or on subsequent examinations until 
the DCM developed in September 2021. He says that had DCM been present in 2019, as it 
carries a very short life expectancy of an average of three months, a few unusual-sounding 
heartbeats in 2019 would not be in keeping with the progression of DCM as a disease.
Building Block has not provided any veterinary evidence of its own to support its assessment 
and relies on the clinical note from November 2019 and mention of a grade 2 heart murmur 
recorded on 23 August 2021. 
It also relies on the following terms of Mr Ds policy:
Insurance Product Information Document
What is not insured?
Any claim made within, or related to, the waiting period.
Any claim for illness or accidental injury that relates to a pre-existing condition.
Policy Definitions
WAITING PERIOD: A period of: 14 days from the Policy Start Date for an Illness that occurs 
or shows clinical signs or symptoms;
PRE-EXISTING CONDITION: Any diagnosed or undiagnosed Condition which has occurred 
or existed, or has shown signs or symptoms of existing in any form before the Policy Start 
Date or within the Waiting Period in the first Period of Insurance. This also includes any 
diagnosis or any clinical signs caused by or resulting from an Accidental Injury or Illness 
Your pet had on an Associated Condition before the Policy Start Date or within the Waiting 
Period in the first Period of Insurance.
Veterinary Fees
What is not insured?
Any claim for Illness or Accidental Injury that relates to a Pre-existing Condition or
that showed signs of existence before Your Policy Start Date.
General Exclusions
If We are made aware of any Pre-existing Conditions at the time of claim, these conditions 
will not be covered and We have the right to void the Policy.
As he was very unhappy with Building Blocks rejection of his claim on top of the loss of his 
pet, Mr D brought his complaint to this service. 
Our investigators view was that Building Block hadnt acted fairly. She didnt think that it had 
done enough to evidence that there was a sign or symptom, in the waiting period of the 
policy, of the condition being claimed for. This was DCM, and not a heart murmur. Building 
Blocks decision to decline the claim was based on the clinical entry of 13 November 2019. 
She also took into consideration the vets confirmation that the condition of DCM didnt start 
until 2021 and his view that to assume that the few unusual sounding heartbeats in 2019 
represented the start of DCM wasnt in keeping with the progression of the condition.
Building Block doesnt agree with our investigators view and has asked that the matter be 
referred to an ombudsman for a final decision from this service. It hasnt provided any further 
evidence or representations.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im upholding Mr Ds complaint and Ill explain why.
Ive considered the terms of Mr Ds policy. I first have to decide whether R was treated for a 
condition - defined as an illness or accidental injury  that occurred or existed, or showed 
signs or symptoms of existing in any form  before 14 November 2019 (the end of the 
Waiting Period). In September 2021 R was treated for DCM. I therefore have to form a view 
on whether any signs or symptoms of DCM were present before 14 November 2019.
It's for Building Block to support its claim that this was the case. It hasnt provided any 
evidence to support any connection between the slight heart murmur in November 2019 and 
DCM nearly two years later. It relies solely on the clinical entry of 13 November 2019. 
Rs vet, on the other hand, has provided a professional opinion that a heart murmur is a 
subjective description of the sound of a heartbeat rather than a disease, and that there are 
other things that can masquerade as a heart murmur. He stated We assess the significance 
of such observations by seeing if the anomole (sic) is repeatably present later during the exam (which it was not) and on subsequent examinations (which it was not, until the DCM 
developed in 2021). He concludes as follows: 
To assume that a few unusual-sounding beats in 2019 are represent the start of DCM 
in 2021 is not in keeping with the progression of DCM as a disease and as such, in my 
opinion, it is spurious to claim that the DCM was pre-existing when the policy was 
taken out. (sic) 
In the face of a professional opinion from Rs vet as to the lack of a connection between 
slight heart murmur notes for a few beats in November 2019, and DCM diagnosed in 
September 2021, and no evidence to the contrary from Building Block, I dont consider that  
Building Block has done enough to support its contention that Rs condition was a pre-
existing one. 
I therefore agree with our investigators view that Building Block has not acted fairly towards 
Mr D, and that it should address his claim.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above, Im upholding Mr Ds claim.
I require Building Block Insurance PCC Limited to settle Mr Ds claim subject to the other 
terms and conditions of his policy.
I also require Building Block Insurance PCC Limited to pay interest at the simple rate of 8% 
on any sums that Mr D has already paid for Rs treatment from the date such payments were 
made to the date payment is made to him.
If Building Block Insurance PCC Limited considers that its required by HM Revenue & 
Customs to deduct income tax from that interest, it should tell Mr D how much its taken off. 
It should also give Mr D a tax deduction certificate if Mr D asks for one so he can reclaim the 
tax from HM Revenue & Customs if appropriate.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision before 1 August 2022.
 
Nigel Bremner
Ombudsman