DRN-2559476
The complaint
Mr E complains about how Advantage Insurance Company Limited responded after he 
notified it of an incident under his motor insurance policy. 
What happened
Mr Es car was damaged in a collision, and he called Advantage to notify it of the incident. 
But he said Advantage pressurised him into making a claim. His car was recovered by a 
roadside assistance company, and Mr E said he was left in the dark about what his options 
were. He needed a car and so he bought a replacement and transferred his policy to it. 
Advantage agreed that it should have treated the claim as notification, and it should have 
told Mr E what his options were. It offered him £75 compensation, which he rejected. But, 
five months later, Mr E said Advantage still had his car and hadnt made him any offers.
Our investigator recommended that the complaint should be upheld. He thought the initial 
error had led to delays, poor communication, and cost and inconvenience for Mr E. He 
thought Mr E would have had to buy a new car in any case as his was eventually deemed to 
be beyond economical repair. But he thought Advantage should have assessed his car when 
it recovered it and made Mr E an offer of settlement. Advantage later tried to return the car to 
Mr E, but he rejected it as it wasnt insured and didnt have an MOT. He thought this had 
caused Mr E additional inconvenience. 
The investigator recommended that Advantage should write to Mr E setting out his options. If 
a settlement was offered, he thought this should have interest added. He thought Advantage 
should refund the cost of the transferred insurance. And he thought it should increase its 
offer of compensation from £75 to £300. 
Advantage replied that it didnt think it should refund the additional premium for changing 
cars as Mr Es car was undriveable and he would have needed a replacement. Our 
investigator thought Mr E had been led to think his car may be repairable. But he didnt think 
Advantage needed to refund this cost.
Advantage said it shouldnt have instructed the roadside assistance company to recover the 
car. But it hadnt charged Mr E any storage costs. It said it had settled the other drivers 
claim and so Mr E would have a fault recorded against him whether or not he made a claim. 
It said Mr E hadnt made his intentions clear.
 What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
When a business makes a mistake, as Advantage accepts it has done here, we expect it to 
restore the consumers position, as far as its able to do so. And we also consider the impact 
the error had on the consumer. 
Mr Es car was eventually declared to be beyond economical repair. So I think he would 
have had to replace it and transfer his cover to a replacement in any case. So I dont think 
Advantage needs to refund him any additional premium he paid for the change of vehicle.
I can see that Mr E has now agreed a settlement with Advantage for the loss of his car. This 
took six months to be arranged. Advantage agreed that it made a mistake by instructing the 
recovery of his car and starting the claim process. But I can see that in this time Advantage 
didnt provide Mr E with his options or a valuation for the pre-accident value of his car. 
I think that if Advantage had communicated better with Mr E during this time he would have 
had his payment earlier and been better able to buy a replacement. So, as Mr E has been 
without his money for some time, I think Advantage should reasonably add interest to this 
settlement from the date of the notification to the date of settlement. 
Advantage offered Mr E £75 compensation for service failings. It also waived its storage 
charges because of its initial error. But I dont think this goes far enough in the 
circumstances as it doesnt recognise the impact Advantages errors had on Mr E:
Mr E was initially told that his car would be collected in one or two days time. Instead, it 
was within two hours. So he had to change his plans and remove his personal 
possessions at short notice. I think this caused him trouble and stress. 
Advantage said Mr E hadnt made his intentions clear. But it took his car away for 
assessment but then didnt contact him with a repair estimate or total loss valuation. 
Advantage didnt explain to Mr E what its process was when it took his car. He was left in 
the dark when his options should have been explained, his car assessed, and a 
valuation provided. 
This wasnt corrected when Advantage responded to his complaint or when Advantages 
agent wrote to Mr E three months after the accident to tell him his car was likely to be a 
total loss. And it was a further two months before Advantage provided any offer of 
settlement. I think this was poor service that left Mr E uncertain for six months of what 
was happening with his car or how to proceed. 
Mr Es car was returned to him without appropriate warning when it was uninsured. Mr E 
had to take time off work to deal with this. 
Our investigator recommended that Advantage should increase its offer of compensation for 
the trouble and upset caused by its level of service from £75 to £300. I think thats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances as its what Id require in similar circumstances. I 
understand that Mr E rejected Advantages initial offer, so the cheque for £75 may need to 
be reissued.
Putting things right
I require Advantage Insurance Company Limited to do the following:
1. Add interest at 8% simple per annum from the date of notification to the date of 
settlement to Mr Es settlement for the loss of his car.
2. Pay Mr E £300 in total compensation for the distress and inconvenience caused by its 
handling of his claim. 
 HM Revenue & Customs requires Advantage to take off tax from this interest. Advantage 
must give Mr E a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if he asks for one.
My final decisionFor the reasons given above, my final decision is that I uphold this complaint. I require 
Advantage Insurance Company Limited to carry out the redress set out above. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr E to accept or 
reject my decision before 17 June 2021.
 
Phillip Berechree
Ombudsman