DRN-1705792
Complaint
Mrs R, on behalf of herself and the estate of the late Mr R, complains that Newcastle 
Building Society (Newcastle) mis-sold them a monthly premium payment protection 
insurance (PPI) policy.
Background
Mr and Mrs R took out a mortgage with Newcastle in 1990. They were sold PPI in 
connection with this mortgage. Although the mortgage was in both Mr and Mrs Rs names, 
the policy only covered Mr R. It would have provided a monthly benefit for up to 24 months if 
Mr R was off work sick or lost his job.
In 1991 Mr and Mrs R remortgaged their property and applied for further funds. The PPI 
policy was amended to reflect this further borrowing. It started off providing a monthly benefit 
for 24 months per claim if Mr R was off work sick or lost his job but this was later reduced to 
12 months per claim due to a change in insurers. 
In 2004 Mr and Mrs R took out a further advance and the PPI policy was again amended to 
reflect this further borrowing. Again, although the advance was in both Mr and Mrs Rs 
names the PPI only covered Mr R. It would have provided a monthly for up to 12 months if 
Mr R was off work sick or lost his job. 
Our adjudicator didnt think Mrs Rs complaint should be upheld. Mrs R didnt agree with the 
adjudicator and so the complaint has been passed to me to decide.
My findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding this case.
Having done that, Ive decided not to uphold this complaint. I appreciate Mrs R will be 
disappointed with this outcome but I will go on to explain why Ive reached this decision.
First of all Ive checked if Mr R was eligible for this PPI. And based on Mr Rs age, residence 
and work at the time of the sale, Im satisfied that he was eligible.
Newcastle had to make it clear to Mr and Mrs R that the PPI was optional and needed their 
consent before it could be applied to the account. Mrs R says they were led to believe they 
had to take PPI to get the mortgage. And Mrs R says she recalls the representative being 
pushy and through her representative explains the difficulties in getting loans as Mr R was 
self-employed, unless they took PPI.
I cant know for sure what took place during the sale. So Ive thought carefully about what 
Mrs R has told us and looked to the documents from the time of the sale to help me decide 
what is more likely to have happened. Given the length of time since PPI was initially taken out (1990), its understandable that 
Newcastle no longer have the actual documents from the time of the sale. They have 
however, told us that PPI was never presented as compulsory. They have provided a 
sample application form but unfortunately it isnt very clear. However, I have seen the 
application form from 1991 and this does present PPI as optional. I note that Mr and Mrs R 
ticked to take cover and also made a choice as to who should be covered. There is nothing 
on this form which gave the impression that PPI was compulsory or would help Mr and Mrs 
R to get the mortgage. 
Further I note that the application form in 2004 also presented the policy as optional and Mr 
and Mrs R again ticked to take cover and chose the level of cover required as well as who 
they wanted to be covered under the policy.
So while I appreciate what Mrs R has told us, I think its more likely that PPI was presented 
as optional and that it was only applied to the account because Mr and Mrs R chose to take 
it out. I have also thought about what Mrs R has said about the representative being pushy 
but based on the evidence Ive seen and the very subjective nature of feeling pressured, I 
am unable to conclude that its more likely that Mr and Mrs R were pressured into taking PPI. 
It also seems to me that Mr R was employed rather than self-employed at the time of the 
sale so I am unable to place emphasis on Mrs Rs point about taking PPI because Mr R was 
self-employed.
Newcastle say they didnt recommend PPI to Mr and Mrs R and they only conducted sales 
on a non-advised basis. I note in their 1991 application form the word recommend is used 
in relation to PPI. But I havent seen sufficient evidence to be able to conclude that they 
recommended the policy in the sense that they took into account Mr and Mrs Rs 
circumstances and gave them tailored advice regarding PPI. 
This means Newcastle didnt have to take steps to check the PPI was suitable for Mr and 
Mrs R. So, for example, they didnt have to take into account Mr and Mrs Rs existing 
repayment provisions or whether the policy was affordable for Mr and Mrs R. Instead, it 
would have been for Mr and Mrs R to decide whether the policy was right for them in their 
particular circumstances. 
But Newcastle did have to provide Mr and Mrs R with clear information so that they could 
make an informed decision about whether or not to take PPI. In particular, they should have 
drawn Mr and Mrs Rs attention to the costs, benefits and main exclusions/restrictions in the 
policy.
Its possible Newcastle didnt give Mr and Mrs R this information as clearly as they should 
have. But this in itself doesnt mean PPI was mis-sold as I have to go on and consider 
whether better information would have put them off taking PPI. And I dont think it would 
have. I say this because:
 
The PPI would have paid out in addition to Mr Rs sick pay and potentially for a much 
longer period of time with repeated claims being possible. It would also have paid out 
in addition to any redundancy pay Mr R may have been entitled to. 
 
Although it appears Mr R had an existing medical condition at the time of the sale, it 
doesnt appear that he was prevented from making a claim because of this condition. 
I note that he made a successful claim for this condition in 2006/7. So I dont think 
better information about any exclusions/restrictions relating to pre-existing medical conditions would have put Mr and Mrs R off taking PPI. I also note what Mrs R has 
said about Mr R being self-employed. However, the application form Ive seen from 
1991 shows that Mr R was employed. There is also a reference from Mr Rs 
employer confirming that he was employed from 1989. So it seems that Mr R was 
also employed in 1990 at the time of the initial sale. So I dont think Mr R would have 
been affected by restrictive terms relating to self-employed people at the time of the 
sale. I have also thought about what Mrs R has said about Mr R not being able to 
make a claim after he turned 65 years of age. However, I don't think this was a 
restrictive term in the policy and it seems to me that Newcastle provided Mr and Mrs 
R with the terms and conditions for the policies which Mr and Mrs R could have 
considered in their own time.
 
I havent seen any evidence which would suggest that the PPI itself was unaffordable 
for Mr and Mrs R.
 
Mr and Mrs R could have cancelled the policy at any time without losing out 
financially.
 
So having taken everything into consideration, I dont think Newcastle mis-sold Mr and Mrs 
R this PPI policy. 
My final decision
I dont uphold Mrs Rs complaint against Newcastle Building Society.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs R, on behalf of 
herself and the estate of Mr R to accept or reject my decision before 25 May 2020.
Navneet Sher
Ombudsman