The complaint
Miss M says PDL Finance Limited (trading as Mr Lender) lent to her irresponsibly.
What happened
Miss M had two loans with Mr Lender. A £250 loan she had for two days from
14 August 2017. And then a £300 loan taken on 20 August 2017.
An adjudicator considered Miss M's complaint but didn't think it should be upheld. Miss M 
asked that an ombudsman consider her complaint.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Weve set out our general approach to 
complaints about short-term lending - including all of the relevant rules, guidance and good 
industry practice - on our website. 
Mr Lender needed to take reasonable steps to ensure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In 
practice this means that it should have carried out proportionate checks to make sure
Miss M could repay the loans in a sustainable manner. These checks could take into 
account a number of different things, such as how much was being lent, the repayment 
amounts and the consumers income and expenditure. With this in mind, in the early stages 
of a lending relationship, I think less thorough checks might be reasonable and 
proportionate.  
With this said, I think the checks Mr Lender carried out were proportionate. The information 
Miss M provided about her income and expenditure suggested the loan repayments were 
affordable. And the credit check Mr Lender carried out didn't indicate Miss M was in the sort 
of financial difficulty which meant it would've been irresponsible for Mr Lender to agree these 
loans. I understand Miss M thinks Mr Lender should've looked at her bank statements. But I 
think that would've been a disproportionate step to take for these two loans.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I do not uphold this complaint against PDL Finance Limited.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss M to accept 
or reject my decision before 15 July 2020.
DRN-1642157Matthew Bradford
Ombudsman