DRN-3777261
The complaint
Miss D complains ETIKA FINANCE UK LIMITED (Etika) has treated her unfairly in relation 
to a loan she took out to pay for beauty products and treatments.
What happened
In May 2018 Miss D purchased a package of products and treatments from a company Ill 
call S. Miss D says the treatments were for her mother. In order to pay for the treatments, 
S arranged for Miss D to take a loan from Etika of £1,800. The loan was repayable over 24 
monthly payments of £75 each.
Around the end of 2018, before it had provided all the treatments, S became insolvent and 
ceased trading. Etika says it sourced an alternative provider, T, to continue the treatments 
and emailed Miss D about this in early to mid-2019. It had also been attempting to contact 
Miss D because she had missed some repayments.
Miss D and her mother decided not to take Etika up on its offer of continuing the treatments. 
This was because they were unhappy about how theyd been signed up for them in the first 
place by S. It appears Miss D asked her bank to reclaim the loan payments shed made, via 
a direct debit indemnity claim. Etika continued to contact Miss D about being behind with her 
payments and then passed the account over to debt collectors in November 2020, before 
taking the account back in house in January 2022.
Miss D made a complaint in August 2022. She requested a refund of everything she had 
paid. She also said Etikas frequent and repeated contact with her over the disputed 
payments on the account had caused her severe stress which resulted in her becoming 
unwell and having a miscarriage in May 2020, a few weeks after becoming pregnant.
Etika investigated what had happened. It said Miss D had already received a partial refund 
via the direct debit indemnity claim, meaning she had only paid £150 towards the 
agreement. It offered to refund the £150 to her and write off the loan, removing it from her 
credit file. Miss D was dissatisfied with this offer and referred her complaint to this service. In 
her complaint form she said she wanted the following to put things right:
I would like damage claims for everything Id been put through with this company. Not only 
losing my money to them, but losing my baby.
One of our investigators looked into the case. He considered the complaint in two parts: 
Etikas actions in relation to the treatments with S, and Etikas communication with Miss D 
over the loan payments.
Our investigator considered it was likely an ombudsman would dismiss the part of the 
complaint about the way Etika (or its agents) had communicated with Miss D over the loan 
payments. He explained that, in light of the seriousness of what Miss D said had happened 
as a result of Etikas actions, the Financial Ombudsman Service wasnt able to investigate 
this point in a way which was fair to her or Etika. He noted that the situation raised complex 
issues about mental and physical health and causation that only a court could fairly consider, 
with the assistance of expert evidence.
Our investigator thought Etika had made a fair offer in relation to the treatments with S. He 
noted that under section 75 of the Consumer Credit Act 1974 (CCA), Miss D had a like 
claim against Etika for Ss breaches of contract or misrepresentations. It wasnt in dispute 
that the treatments hadnt gone as planned, but in the end what Etika had agreed to do 
seemed to be more than fair  this was because Miss Ds mother had received some 
treatments, but Etikas offer was equivalent to a full refund.
Miss D was unhappy with our investigators assessment. I could summarise her comments 
in response as follows:
She hadnt received any compensation even for the stress and anxiety caused by 
Etika, let alone for the loss of her baby. She was getting less than others who had 
made complaints to the business in similar circumstances, and because she was 
currently in serious financial difficulties, she would be left homeless because she was 
not receiving compensation.
The £150 refunded to her, and clearance of the loan from her credit file, was 
something Etika should have had to do anyway because the treatments and products 
had been sold illegally.
She didnt have the time or money to take the matter to court. 
Miss D suggested removing the miscarriage aspect of the complaint to enable our 
investigator to consider the rest of it. But our investigator said that he didnt think he could 
simply disregard what Miss D had told him about the impact Etikas actions had had on her, 
and therefore his view remained the same that he couldnt fairly assess this part of the 
complaint. Miss D then asked for an ombudsman to consider her complaint.
Miss D has also made a complaint about the way her case has been handled by the 
Financial Ombudsman Service. For the avoidance of doubt, my decision deals only with 
Miss Ds complaint about Etika.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As our investigator noted, there are two main parts to Miss Ds complaint. Firstly, there is the 
complaint about S and the products and treatments which were provided under the Etika 
loan. Secondly, there is the complaint about how Etika and/or its agents communicated with 
Miss D over what it considered to be arrears on the account.
Because S arranged the loan with Etika in order to pay for goods and services it was 
supplying (or supposed to be supplying) to Miss D or her mother, the loan is of a type to 
which section 75 of the CCA applies. Section 75 allows consumers who have purchased 
goods or services using loans of this type to hold their lender liable for breaches of contract 
or misrepresentations by the supplier of the goods or services, subject to certain conditions 
being met.
It's not been argued that the technical conditions for Miss D to make a section 75 claim 
against Etika arent in place, and I have proceeded on the basis that they are. Theres also 
no dispute that S breached the contract to provide the products and treatments, because it 
ceased trading. What has not been agreed is how Etika should have resolved the matter.Etika had a responsibility to remedy Ss breach. It originally arranged for T to take over the 
treatments. I dont think this was the most appropriate remedy in the circumstances. Its 
apparent that Etika didnt have a very good idea of what treatments and products Miss D or 
her mother had received or had been due to receive. This appears to have been due to poor 
record-keeping on Ss part, and its difficult to see how T could have picked up the contract 
where S had left off in light of this. 
I think a price reduction to account for the goods and services not received would have been 
more appropriate in these circumstances. In the end, Etika agreed to write off everything. 
This involved cancelling the loan so there was nothing more to pay, removing it from 
Miss Ds credit file, and refunding any repayments she had made. Given Miss D or her 
mother had received some products or treatments, this essentially meant these had been 
received for free. My view is that this was a fair offer from Etika to remedy Ss breach of 
contract and so discharge its liability to Miss D under section 75 of the CCA.
I note there is a dispute over how much Miss D has paid and therefore how much she should 
receive as a refund. Etika accepts she paid more than the £150 it offered to refund, but it 
says Miss D had claimed these amounts back through direct debit indemnity claims with her 
bank, so they had already been refunded. Miss D disputed this. The evidence Ive seen 
suggests Etika is correct. Specifically:
Miss Ds loan account statement shows ten payments of £75 each were either made 
or attempted. This is a total of £750.
The same statement shows four of the payments, totalling £300, bounced. It also 
shows another four payments totalling £300 were refunded via direct debit indemnity 
claims.
Etikas internal system notes show four direct debit indemnity claims were received 
on 28 May 2019, for payments Miss D had made in July, August and December 
2018, and January 2019. This is consistent with what shows on the loan account 
statement.
This all leads to the conclusion that there was only £150 to refund to Miss D, as all other 
payments had either bounced or been reclaimed. Etika has said it will consider evidence 
from Miss D that she has in fact paid more  and I think this is reasonable.
I now come to the part of the complaint which our investigator did not think it was appropriate 
to consider  Etikas communications with her in relation to the disputed debt on her loan 
account. 
The Financial Ombudsman Services complaint-handling rules and procedures are set out in 
the part of the Financial Conduct Authoritys Handbook called DISP and these are usually 
referred to as the DISP rules.
The DISP rules contain provisions which allow the ombudsman to decide not to look at a 
particular complaint, or an aspect of it, on certain grounds. This is referred to in the DISP 
rules as dismissing the complaint. This doesnt mean that the complaint has no merit, it 
simply means that the ombudsman has decided that it is not appropriate to consider it.
One of the reasons a complaint can be dismissed is if it would seriously impair the effective 
operation of the Financial Ombudsman Service. The DISP rules give an example of such a 
complaint as one where it would be more suitable for the complaint to be dealt with by a 
court or a comparable ADR entity.Miss Ds complaint about what she has described as Etikas harassment spree against her 
is simple enough. There are rules creditors are expected to follow when contacting someone 
who it is pursuing for unpaid debt, and it would be straightforward to decide whether Etikas 
actions, with reference to those rules, were fair and reasonable.
But while the nature of Miss Ds complaint is simple, the consequences she has referred to 
are not. She has described, in some detail, how she became unwell a few weeks after 
becoming pregnant for the first time and ended up miscarrying. She says this was caused by 
Etikas actions. This is a very serious allegation which deserves careful and considered 
evaluation, and it would be nearly impossible for this service, which was set up to resolve 
disputes about financial services quickly, impartially and informally, to answer the question of 
causation in a way which is fair to both parties. 
Expert medical evidence would be need to be consulted, and its entirely possible that Etika 
would wish to instruct their own expert to challenge any evidence Miss D put forward. This 
could lead to a disagreement of medical opinion which the Financial Ombudsman Service is 
not well-equipped to deal with. We do not have the same procedures that a court of law does 
which would allow us to ensure any expert evidence covers all the issues it needs to and has 
been rigorously probed. 
My view is that, due to the very serious medical and personal consequences Miss D has 
said were caused by Etikas alleged wrongful actions, her complaint about Etikas behaviour 
towards her over the debt is a complaint which would be more suitable to be dealt with by a 
court. It would therefore seriously impair the effective operation of the Financial Ombudsman 
Service if I were to consider it.
Miss D has asked us to consider the matter without the part about the miscarriage. I dont 
think that would be appropriate because it is clearly a very important and serious part of her 
complaint against Etika. And if I were to decide the complaint without it, it could prevent Miss 
D from being able to pursue the matter further against Etika in the future. So, for the reasons 
Ive explained, I dismiss this part of Miss Ds complaint.
My final decision
I have dismissed Miss Ds complaint about ETIKA FINANCE UK LIMITEDs communication 
and actions towards her in relation to the loan payments, so I make no decision on the 
merits of that part of the complaint.
For the reasons explained above, I do not uphold Miss Ds complaint about ETIKA FINANCE 
UK LIMITEDs handling of its liability to Miss D in respect of the products and treatments 
financed by the loan. The most recent offer made by it to Miss D was fair.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss D to accept 
or reject my decision before 1 December 2022.
 
Will Culley
Ombudsman