DRN-2435841
The complaint
Mrs T complains that Gain Credit LLC, trading as Lending Stream, lent to her irresponsibly.
Mrs T also complains that six late payments and a default appeared on her credit file which 
she says ought not to be there. 
 
What happened
Mrs T applied for a £600 loan from Lending Stream in February 2019. She told Lending 
Stream that she earned £2,000 a month and had expenditure of around £950 a month. The 
loan was approved with six instalments of around £195 each month commencing 
19 March 2019 and due to end 19 August 2019.
Mrs T complained to Lending Stream in March 2020 and referred her complaint here in 
May 2020. Lending Stream sent to us its records and documents and the statement of 
account shows that in March 2019 Mrs T was sent a default notice for failure to pay that first 
instalment. And it seems that she did not pay anything until January 2020 and then paid 
more in June 2020. 
Mrs T says that she should never have been given the loan from Lending Stream as she had 
so much debt already and had more expenses that she had to pay out than she had told 
Lending Stream. 
Mrs T says that she entered a Debt Management Plan (DMP) with a well-known charity 
which assists with debt in March 2019. Mrs T has sent us a list of payments made to that 
charity in relation to a third party debt collector and it does list payments of around £16 a 
month commencing 23 March 2019. Mrs T says that these show she paid towards the 
Lending Stream debt. 
One of our adjudicators looked at the complaint and did not think that Lending Stream had 
done anything wrong in approving the loan. And she did not think that it was wrong for the 
late payments and the default to have been registered on her credit file.
Mrs T did not agree and asked for an ombudsman to review the complaint. It was passed to 
me for a decision.
  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I have considered the law, any relevant regulatory rules and good industry practice at the 
time the loans were offered.
Before lending money to a consumer a lender should take proportionate steps to understand 
whether the consumer will be able to repay what they are borrowing in a sustainable manner 
without it adversely impacting on their financial situation. 
A lender should gather enough information for it to be able to make an informed decision on 
the lending. Although the guidance and rules themselves did not set out compulsory checks, 
they did list several things a lender could consider before agreeing to lend. The key element 
was that any checks needed to be proportionate and had to consider several different things, 
including how much was being lent and when the sum being borrowed was due to be repaid.
I need to explain to Mrs T that for a first loan with Lending Stream where her declared 
income and expenditure seemed to show that she was able to afford the £195 monthly 
instalment payments, then it would be disproportionate to expect Lending Stream to have 
carried out a full financial review of her circumstances. It was entitled to rely on the 
information she gave to it when she applied. The checks it carried out were proportionate to 
this application and I would not have expected it to do more. 
Lending Stream would not have known that Mrs T was about to enter a DMP within weeks of 
being approved for this Lending Stream loan. So, I do not uphold Mrs Ts complaint about 
the irresponsible lending.
In relation to the credit file entries then the evidence Mrs T has sent to show that she was 
making payments to Lending Stream in or around March 2019 does not show that. It seems 
that the debt charity was making payments on her behalf to a third party debt collector in or 
around March 2019 until July 2020. But this was not related to Lending Stream, and I say 
that because that is not the name which appears on the debt charity statement I have been 
sent. And its highly unlikely that the debt with Lending Stream would have been passed to a 
third party debt collector within a month of the loan being approved  that is just not likely at 
all. And so, I conclude that these records do not relate to Lending Stream at all and I do not 
know what they are for. And if Mrs T was concerned about more recent missed payments to 
Lending Stream I have not been sent any evidence of that or that she has paid anything to 
Lending Stream recently. 
Lending Stream has sent to us statements to show what Mrs T has paid and it does seem to 
be the case that she paid money to it on 24 January 2020 and 24 June 2020.  
The default letter Lending Stream has sent to us is dated 20 March 2019. So that may be the 
default that Mrs T was concerned to see on her credit file. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold Mrs Ts complaint. Under the rules of the Financial 
Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs T to accept or reject my decision before 
28 January 2021.
 
Rachael Williams
Ombudsman