DRN-3246602
The complaint
Mr M complains that Barclays Bank UK PLC trading as Barclaycard acted irresponsibly 
when it granted him a credit limit on his credit card.
What happened
Mr M had a credit card with Barclaycard. He applied online for the card in June 2015. He 
says he was granted a credit limit of £8,000 even though he already had a credit card debt of 
over £10,000 and a loan for £10,000 at the time. He says the credit limit he was granted was 
over 50% of his take home salary. 
Mr M says that it only took 30 seconds for Barclaycard to carry out its credit checks before it 
granted him the credit limit. He says he couldnt afford this credit limit and if Barclaycard had 
carried out the checks it was required to carry out, it wouldnt have lent him this money. He 
says the whole situation has affected his mental health and caused him financial difficulties. 
He complained to Barclaycard.
Barclaycard investigated his complaint. It said it had set the credit limit for his account in line 
with its terms and conditions. It had taken account of his circumstances, his account usage 
and history, information from other parts of its Group, credit reference agencies and other 
information it considered relevant, when it had granted him the credit limit. Hed repaid his 
account in April 2020 and the account had been closed at that time. It didnt agree that it had 
done anything wrong.
Mr M referred his complaint to our service. Our investigator looked into his complaint. He 
looked at the information thatd been provided to him. Mr M hadnt been able to provide a 
copy of his credit file or bank statements from 2015. Our investigator thought Barclaycard 
had taken account of his employment income and his outgoings at the time. It had also taken 
information from credit reference agencies into account. Although there had been a credit 
card debt of just over £5,500, there were no other significant debts at the time. Our 
investigator thought Barclaycard hadnt held any information which wouldve caused it to 
believe Mr M couldnt manage the credit limit of £8,000.
Mr M didnt agree. So, the complaint has been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Before a lender provides credit to a consumer there are certain checks that its required 
to make. Details about those checks can be found in the Financial Conduct Authority 
(FCA) Handbook in the section entitled CONC (Consumer Credit Sourcebook) (the 
Rules). Those checks should be reasonable and proportionate. The thoroughness of the 
checks required will depend on a number of factors - such as the size of the credit 
relative to the consumers income and the amount of the repayments.
When considering this complaint, Ive looked at the checks which Barclaycard carried out 
when it issued the credit card. There werent any subsequent increases in the credit limit. 
Infact the credit limit was reduced on a number of occasions before the debt was paid off 
in April 2020.
The checks carried out by Barclaycard
The rules in CONC state that a firm must take reasonable steps to determine the income 
and expenditure of a consumer when assessing whether to provide credit. That doesnt 
mean it has to ask the consumer, in every case, for proof of income and expenditure. So, 
Ive looked at what Barclaycard did here.
Barclaycard says it carried out all necessary checks in line with its own policies and 
procedures before granting the credit limit to Mr M. 
When considering whether Mr M could afford the credit limit, Barclaycard relied on the 
information he provided to it about his income. Mr M told Barclaycard that his gross annual 
income was £24,000.  It then calculated his net monthly income as being £1,617.27. Thats 
not in line with what Mr M recently told us about his monthly income at the time. Hes told 
us his monthly take home pay was only about £1,300. Because of the passage of time, he 
hasnt been able to provide copies of his payslips or his bank statements to support what 
hes told us. 
When assessing Mr Ms income, Barclaycard says it validated the information Mr M 
provided to it with credit reference agencies. It says that the credit reference agency it uses 
confirmed that the information Mr M had provided was consistent with other data thatd 
been recorded. The data recorded with the credit reference agency included details of 
information Mr M had provided for other credit applications as well as information from 
other financial organisations about his current account turnover. 
Having considered what Barclaycard has told us, Im persuaded, on balance, it was 
reasonable for it to estimate Mr Ms income, based on the data it had collected from the 
credit reference agency, without requiring further proof from him. 
Barclaycard also estimated Mr Ms expenditure by using expenditure modelling based on 
the information he provided to it about his other personal circumstances. Mr M told us that 
his actual monthly expenditure was considerably more than what Barclaycard estimated. 
Hes referred to rental payments and other household expenses. Again, because of the 
passage of time, he says he hasnt been able to provide anything to support what hes told 
us.
As mentioned above the Rules did permit Barclaycard to estimate Mr Ms expenditure. 
When doing that it was required to take reasonable steps. Having thought about the steps 
it did take, Im satisfied, on balance, that the steps it took here were reasonable. Ill explain 
why.
Based on the information Mr M provided to it, Barclaycard determined that his income 
exceeded his expenditure by approximately £750 each month. It used modelling 
assumptions to estimate his expenditure. Those assumptions took account of his residency 
status, utility bills and other spending. I havent seen anything to persuade me that this was 
not a fair and reasonable approach. 
Ive also looked at Mr Ms payment record with other credit providers at the date when he 
applied to Barclaycard. Although there was evidence of a default registered by a utility provider in 2011, some four years previously, there wasnt any other adverse information 
recorded. Several other credit agreements had been settled and the only current significant 
credit agreement on his credit history, at the time, appears to have been a credit card with 
another provider where the balance was around £5,500. That account appears to have 
been managed well by Mr M over a long period of time with only one missed payment 
several years previously.
So, I dont think there was anything in his credit file history to indicate he wouldnt have 
been able to sustain the repayments for the credit limit set by Barclaycard over a longer 
period of time.
Taking everything into account, I dont think there was any information available to 
Barclaycard which would have meant it was reasonable or proportionate for it to have 
needed to carry out any further checks. It set Mr Ms credit limit in line with its own credit 
policy at the time.
Ive also looked at the conduct of the account after June 2015 when it was opened. 
Barclaycard reduced the credit limit in July 2016 to £6,500. There doesnt appear to have 
been any issues making the payments until April 2017 when the account exceeded the 
credit limit. That appears to have been resolved quickly and the account continued without 
any issues until around December 2017. It was shortly after that when Mr M reported his 
financial difficulties to Barclaycard and the account was put on hold.
Having considered the conduct of the account, Im satisfied, on balance, that it was quite 
some time after the account was opened before it became apparent that Mr M was having 
difficulties making the payments and was unable to afford the credit limit on the card. After 
those difficulties were reported Barclaycard reduced the limit progressively and Mr M 
repaid the debt in April 2020. 
I know it will disappoint Mr M, but having considered everything here, Im not persuaded 
that Barclaycard acted irresponsibly when it provided the credit card to him in 2015.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I do not uphold this complaint about Barclays Bank UK PLC 
trading as Barclaycard.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 8 July 2022.
 
Irene Martin
Ombudsman