DRN-3308888
The complaint
Mrs J has complained about Accredited Insurance (Europe) Limiteds decision to decline a 
claim she made for damage to her home under her home and buildings insurance policy.
What happened
Mrs J had an extension built to her home in October 2020. In June 2021 she contacted her 
insurer Accredited Insurance and said that the builders had caused accidental damage. Mrs 
J wanted Accredited Insurance to meet her claim. 
Accredited Insurance appointed a loss adjuster (LA) to visit Mrs Js home and they 
recommended the claim be declined as they said the damage hadnt been caused by an 
insured event, but by poor workmanship. Poor workmanship is excluded from Mrs Js policy 
with Accredited Insurance. 
Mrs J was unhappy with the LA  and so Accredited Insurance arranged for a second LA to 
visit. They reached the same outcome as the first LA  and so Accredited Insurance 
declined Mrs Js claim. It explained that it was for Mrs J to show that an insured event 
occurred  and if any new information came to light to contact it and it would reconsider her 
claim. 
In July 2021 Mrs J complained about the poor service she received from Accredited 
Insurance and about its decision. It upheld part of Mrs Js complaint and said it could have 
better managed her expectations. But Accredited Insurance said ultimately it didnt change 
the outcome and its decision to decline the claim was correct. 
In September 2021 Mrs J asked us to look at her complaint. Our Investigator didnt find that 
Accredited Insurance had acted unreasonably. 
Mrs J didnt agree and wants an ombudsman to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mrs J asked to see all of the information this service was provided with by Accredited 
Insurance. I appreciate Mrs J is of the view that she hasnt been provided with everything in 
order to respond to the Investigators view  as she has been provided with redacted 
information from Accredited Insurance. But Accredited Insurance is entitled to redact 
information from its file it says Mrs J isnt entitled to see. We cannot insist that an insurer 
provides all of the information it has on file if some of this is commercially sensitive  for 
example -  the LA reports. 
Mrs J has asked for the qualifications of the LAs who inspected her home and provided 
reports to Accredited Insurance.  Its not for us to make a finding as to the qualifications of 
the individual(s) an insurer appoints to assess a claim on its behalf.
Accredited Insurance upheld Mrs Js complaint that its service should have been better. The 
remaining issue for me to decide is whether Accredited Insurances decision to decline Mrs 
Js claim was reasonable and in line with the policy. 
Insurers provide cover for specified insured perils such as storm, flood or theft. This means 
insurer dont provide cover for every eventuality. Some insurance policies include cover for 
accidental damage. Accredited Insurance   like most if not all other insurers  doesnt 
provide cover for damage caused by poor workmanship.
Mrs J first approached the builders insurers to make a claim for damage caused to her 
home. She wrote:
the builders have caused extensive damage to my property, poor workmanship and 
have still not completed the works but have continued to take all the money off me at 
regular intervals but have failed to complete my extension and other associated 
work.
Mrs J did not say that the damage she was claiming for was accidental when she tried to 
claim against the builders insurer. The builders insurer directed Mrs J to her own insurer. 
When Mrs J contacted Accredited Insurance she said that the builders had accidentally 
damaged an underground pipe, had caused structural damage and damaged a fence and 
their driveway when building the extension. 
I appreciate that Mrs J is unhappy with the outcome of the LAs that visited her home. But its 
for Mrs J to show that an insured event occurred.  And Accredited Insurance said it would 
reconsider any new evidence Mrs J may provide in the future to demonstrate this. 
I think it was reasonable for Accredited Insurance to rely on the professional opinion of the 
LAs in deciding that the damage Mrs J wished to claim for was caused by poor 
workmanship. And so I think its decision to decline her claim was reached in a reasonable 
way. Mrs J says the second LA gave her the impression they would recommend the insurer 
meet the claim. So she says the decision to decline the claim was a surprise to her. 
I cannot make a finding on a verbal discussion. I dont hold Accredited Insurance at fault for 
giving more weight to the written report provided by the LA as to their findings. 
I understand that the situation Mrs J finds herself in with major issues with the building works 
is extremely upsetting and worrying. But I cant say that this means Accredited Insurance 
should meet a claim the policy doesnt provide cover for, based on the information available 
to it. I think it properly considered her claim and relied on the professional opinion of the LAs 
appointed to consider if the damage was covered under the policy.  So this means Im not 
asking Accredited Insurance to do any more.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs J to accept or 
reject my decision before 29 April 2022.
 
Geraldine Newbold
Ombudsman