DRN-1725434
The complaint
Mr C complains that HSBC UK Bank Plc mis-sold him a payment protection insurance (PPI) 
policy. 
What happened
This complaint is about a credit card PPI policy Mr C took out in 2006. PPI was added to his 
account when he applied for his credit card.
Our adjudicator upheld the complaint. HSBC disagreed with the adjudicators opinion so the 
complaint has been passed to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding Mr Cs case. 
Ive decided to uphold Mr Cs complaint. Ill explain why. 
Mr C says hes unhappy because hes been charged for a product that he never asked for 
and didnt need. 
HSBC doesnt have a copy of anything signed by Mr C to show how it sold him the PPI. And 
it cant confirm how it sold the PPI to Mr C. All along, Mr C has told HSBC and us that he 
took out his credit card and the PPI over the phone. And Ive seen nothing to make me think 
that hes unlikely to be right about that. So I think thats probably what happened.
HSBC told us that Mr C would have had a conversation with HSBC, and he would have 
requested an application for a credit card to be sent out to him through the post. HSBC says 
that Mr C wouldve had to actively select PPI by signing in a separate box on the application. 
But I havent seen enough to be able to say that this is what Mr C did. 
HSBC hasnt been able to provide a copy of Mr Cs credit card application. Also, as HSBC 
cant provide any call recording or a call script showing what was likely to have been said 
and how the PPI was likely to have been explained (if at all) during the call, I dont know 
what was discussed, or how PPI was explained or presented to Mr C. And I cant see how 
he consented to HSBC adding PPI to his credit card account. 
HSBC says the policy provided the Mr C with valuable protection in respect of his credit card 
repayments. But, overall, Im not persuaded that Ive seen enough information to show that 
HSBC gave Mr C a fair choice about taking PPI  or that he agreed to have it. So I think its 
fair to uphold the complaint. 
Putting things right
HSBC should put Mr C in the financial position hed be in now if he hadnt taken out PPI.
A. HSBC should find out how much Mr C wouldve owed when he closed his credit card 
account if the policy hadnt been added. So, it should remove the PPI premiums added, 
as well as any interest charged on those premiums. It should also remove any charges 
that were caused by the mis-sale of the PPI  as well as any interest added to those 
charges. 
HSBC should then refund the difference between what Mr C owed when he closed his 
account and what he wouldve owed if he hadnt had PPI.
If Mr C made a successful claim under the PPI policy, HSBC can take off what he got for 
the claim from the amount it owes him.  
B. HSBC should add simple interest on the difference between what Mr C wouldve owed 
when he closed his account from when he closed it until he gets the refund. The interest 
rate should be 8% a year.
C. If  when HSBC works out what Mr C wouldve owed each month without PPI  Mr C 
paid more than enough to clear his balance, HSBC should also pay simple interest on 
the extra Mr C paid. And it should carry on paying interest until the point when Mr C 
wouldve owed HSBC something on his credit card. The interest rate should be 8% a 
year.
D. HSBC should tell Mr C what its done to work out A, B and C.
 HM Revenue & Customs requires HSBC to take off tax from this interest. HSBC must give 
Mr C a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if he asks for one.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, I uphold Mr Cs complaint. HSBC UK Bank Plc should put 
things right by doing what Ive said above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 23 September 2020.
 
Susan Webb
Ombudsman