DRN-4010513
The complaint
Miss B complains that Allianz Insurance Plc gave her inaccurate information about the 
cancellation of her pet insurance policy. 
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I will not repeat them again 
here. Instead, I will focus on giving the reasons for my decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the conclusions set out by the investigator for largely the same 
reasons. Ill explain why. 
Miss Bs pet insurance policy was cancelled in June 2022. Allianz has said it acted in line 
with the terms and conditions of the policy when it decided to cancel the policy. I have 
considered the policy terms and under general exclusions it states:
The following exclusions apply to all sections of the policy:
4. Laws and regulations:
a)Any dog that must be registered under the Dangerous Dogs Act 1991, the 
Dangerous Dogs (Amendment) Act 1997 or any further amendments to this Act.  
Allianz were made aware that Miss Bs dog had been added to the dangerous dogs list in 
April 2022, so it cancelled the policy from this date. As one of the exclusions in the policy 
now applied to Miss Bs dog, Im satisfied Allianz didnt act unreasonably in cancelling the 
policy from this date.
Allianz has accepted it provided Miss B with inaccurate information about obtaining a DNA 
test on the breed of her dog and that it may be able to cancel her policy from inception in 
2016. Given Miss B relied on the incorrect information given by Allianz when choosing to 
proceed with a DNA test, I consider it was reasonable of the investigator to recommend 
Allianz refund the costs of the DNA test to Miss B should she provide it with evidence of the 
payment she made for it. 
But I dont think it would be reasonable to ask Allianz to refund all the premiums back to 
inception, because Allianz has confirmed it would have provided cover for Miss Bs dog 
during the period Miss Bs dog was on cover. Nothing in the evidence suggests her dog 
wouldnt have been covered by the policy, particularly seeing as Miss B had confirmed at 
inception that her dog wasnt of any breed that would have been caught under the other 
exclusions of the policy. And so, I dont think an administrative error Allianz has made in 
providing Miss B with the inaccurate information would warrant such redress in order to put 
things right. 
Allianz has offered to pay Miss B £100 compensation in recognition of the poor handling of 
the matter, which Im satisfied is a fair and proportionate reflection of the distress and 
inconvenience caused to her for the loss of expectation in these circumstances. 
My final decision
For the reasons mentioned above, I uphold this complaint against Allianz Insurance Plc. 
I direct Allianz Insurance Plc to: 
pay Miss B £100 compensation if it hasnt done so already, and 
refund Miss Bs cost for the DNA test once she provides it with evidence of the costs.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss B to accept 
or reject my decision before 19 April 2023.
 
Jag Dhuphar
Ombudsman