DRN-2826382
The complaint
Mr L complains that Monzo Bank Ltd blocked and then closed his account. And that it took 
too long to release his account balance. He says this caused him trouble and upset and he 
wants the bank to pay him compensation.
What happened
Mr L had an account with Monzo. On 22 October 2020, Monzo decided to carry out a review 
of Mr Ls account. Whilst it completed its review the bank blocked Mr Ls access to his 
account. At the time the balance of the account was £250. 
Monzo completed its review on 23 October 2020. Following its review, Monzo closed Mr Ls 
account immediately and released his closing balance to him on 26 October 2020. 
Mr L complained to the bank. He said the bank had treated him unfairly in taking the actions 
it did. And hed been caused a great deal of stress, worry and inconvenience. He said he 
hadnt been able to pay his credit card bill on time. And because his account had been 
blocked, he wasnt able to pay his motorbike insurance and a benefit payment he was 
expecting on the day his account was blocked didnt credit his account. Mr L explained that it 
had taken him a number of weeks to set up his benefit claim after hed lost his job. So, 
having his first benefit payment sent back due to his account being closed caused him a lot 
of stress and upset. He also said he had to spend a number of hours on the phone and 
writing emails to reorganise his financial obligations after Monzo closed his account. 
In response, Monzo said it hadnt done anything wrong when it blocked Mr Ls account. 
However, it recognised that Mr L had been inconvenienced due Mr Ls benefit payment not 
being returned to source until 26 October 2020. And that Mr L had to spend time trying to 
chase the payment with DWP and sort out his finances. So, it paid Mr L £200 for the trouble 
and upset hed been caused. Unhappy with this response, Mr L brought his complaint to our 
service where one of our investigators looked into things for him.
The investigator said Monzo hadnt done anything wrong when it blocked and closed Mr Ls 
account. Mr L disagreed. He wants Monzo to pay him £1,200 compensation for blocking and 
closing his account. And to provide him with a proper explanation why it no longer wanted 
him as customer. 
As no agreement could be reached the matter has come to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Firstly, the investigator was right to point out that Monzo has important legal and regulatory 
obligations it must meet when providing accounts to customers. These obligations are 
ongoing, so do not only pertain to when an account is opened. To comply with its obligations 
Monzo may need to review an account and/or restrict its customers access. If Monzo didnt 
comply with its obligations it could risk serious sanction. Having looked at all the evidence, 
Im satisfied Monzo acted in accordance with its obligations when it blocked and reviewed 
Mr Ls account. And it was entitled to do so under the account terms and conditions. So, 
whilst I accept this caused Mr L inconvenience, I cant say Monzo treated him unfairly when 
it blocked his account
Mr L wants Monzo to explain why it blocked his account. But Monzo doesnt disclose to its 
customers what triggers a review of their accounts. So, I cant say its done anything wrong 
by not giving Mr L this information. And it wouldnt be appropriate for me to require it do so. 
Mr L says Monzo took too long to release his account balance. I can see that the bank 
returned his balance to him within 4 days of closing the account, which was well within the 
banks 2 -4 weeks timeframe. So, Im satisfied there wasnt any undue delays.
The timing of Monzos actions was unfortunate. Mr L was expecting his benefit payment into 
his account on the day it was blocked. And from what Mr L has said it had taken him 
considerable time and effort organising his benefit claim. He was also relying on the money 
in his account to be able to pay his credit card  and renew his moped insurance. So, I can 
understand why he found this experience with Monzo stressful and upsetting. But as Ive 
already explained financial businesses have a legal obligation to comply with various laws 
and regulations. Ive seen the evidence provided by Monzo and I can see that in blocking the 
account Monzo were following an internal process which they carried out in order to comply 
with their legal and regulatory obligations. This was a legitimate exercise. So, it wouldnt be 
appropriate to make an award of compensation for that, since I dont believe Monzo acted 
inappropriately and treated Mr L unfairly in taking the actions it did.
However, its only fair that Monzo should compensate Mr L for any losses, distress and 
inconvenience he experienced as a result of its errors. Monzo accepted that it hadnt 
returned Mr Ls expected benefit payment to DWP until 26 October 2020, which was three 
days after it had closed Mr Ls account. And Mr L had to spend time making several phone 
calls trying to locate his DWP payment and sort out his finances. So, it paid Mr L £200.  Mr L 
says this doesnt reflect the amount of trouble and upset hes suffered. He wants £1,200.  
When a business makes an error that affects a customer, it would be expected that the 
business puts their customer back in the position that they would be in had the error not 
occurred. Monzo released Mr Ls frozen balance to him within four days, so hes not lost out 
financially. Monzo has also paid Mr L £200 for the trouble and upset hes been caused. I 
understand Mr L doesnt think this goes far enough given the amount of distress and 
inconvenience he says hes suffered. But its important to note that it isnt the role of this 
service to punish or fine businesses for their mistakes or standard of service. I know Mr L 
wont agree, but I think Monzo has done enough to put things right. So, Im not going to ask 
them to do anything more. 
I then turn to the banks decision to close Mr Ls account. Its generally for banks to decide 
whether or not they want to provide, or to continue to provide, banking facilities to any 
particular customer. Unless theres a very good reason to do so, this service wont usually 
say that a bank must keep customer or require it to compensate a customer who has had 
their account closed.
Banks should however, give reasonable notice before closing an account. Usually, that 
means 60 days notice, but it can be less  depending on the circumstances. In this case 
Monzo closed Mr Ls account immediately. Having looked at the information provided by 
Monzo, in my view that was reasonable given the banks concerns about how Mr L was 
operating his account. So, it was entitled to close the account as it has already done. My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, Im not going to ask Monzo Bank Ltd to do anything more to 
resolve Mr Ls complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr L to accept or 
reject my decision before 7 July 2021.
 
Sharon Kerrison
Ombudsman