DRN-3418190
The complaint
Mr H has complained that Hargreaves Lansdown Asset Management Limited (HL) mis-sold 
him his investment in the Woodford Patient Capital trust (WPCT). Hes also complained that 
HL heavily promoted the trust when it shouldnt have done and that it hasnt performed well 
resulting in him suffering significant financial loss.
What happened
Mr H holds a Self Invested personal Pension (SIPP) with HL which he opened in 2006 
through HLs online service. In September 2017, again using the online service, he bought 
shares in the WPCT for his SIPP. He bought additional units later in 2017 and again in 
February 2019.
The WPCT is no longer trading by that name following the collapse of another fund managed 
by the same fund manager. It is now known as the Schroder UK Public Private Trust PLC, 
managed by Schroders, but I will refer to it as the WPCT throughout this decision for ease of 
understanding.
Mr H has said although he was an execution only client of HL he was significantly influenced 
by the unusual marketing push by HL of the fund managers expertise. He feels HL abused 
its execution only platform and induced investors into purchasing the fund managers 
products. Hes also raised concerns about one of the directors of HL selling a large amount 
of his shareholdings ahead of the suspension of the related fund.
When HL investigated his complaint, it found it was satisfied with all of its actions and 
dealing with Mr H in relation to the WPCT. As Mr H didnt agree he brought his complaint to 
this Service where it was assessed by one of our investigators. She felt the complaint 
couldnt be upheld. She was of the view that while HL did provide its own opinions about the 
WPCT and did support the fund it did also report accurately when the fund was 
underperforming. She also felt it wasnt unreasonable for a platform provider to do this. She 
found no evidence that HL unreasonably over promoted the fund nor did she find anything 
that indicated HL knew anything more about the WPCT than what it communicated to its 
investors or that one of HLs directors had acted inappropriately in relation to selling his 
investments.
Mr H didnt agree with the assessment. So the complaint has been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so I am not upholding this complaint.
First and foremost, the relationship between Mr H and HL was an execution only one. This 
means Mr H made his own decision about whether to invest, where to invest and how much 
to invest. All HL had to do was provide full clear and not misleading information about the 
funds. It wasnt responsible for checking whether the chosen investment was suitable for 
Mr H  that was for him to decide. Mr H signed documents confirming he understood this. 
And as he has also accepted the service from HL was execution only there is no need for 
me to consider whether any actions from HL could be inferred as giving advice. Therefore, 
as it was Mr Hs decision to invest in the WPCT HL cant be responsible for any mis selling 
as technically there wasnt any.
I know Mr H feels HL over promoted the WPCT, but he hasnt provided any examples of how 
he thinks HL did this. In my view, while I agree HL did promote the WPCT I dont think HLs 
actions in relation to the fund were any different to what it had done with other funds it 
offered to its clients. As a platform provider offering a large number of funds to its clients, 
I dont see it as unusual for HL to provide a lot of detailed information about the funds it 
offers via its website or throughout its other communication methods. For the vast number of 
its clients this is so its clients can decide whether certain fund are right/suitable for them. 
This doesnt mean however that HL was making a personal recommendation about any of 
those funds or that it was over promoting one over the other or pushing one to its clients.
I appreciate that occasionally HL will provide comments of its own and give its opinions on 
some funds in its newsletters as it did with the WPCT. It was in support of the fund but this 
isnt unreasonable given at the time Mr H first bought the units the fund was healthy. But it 
didnt include the WPCT on any of its best buy lists  the Wealth 150 or wealth 50. So HL 
certainly didnt hold the fund up as being one of its best performers. And it also clearly 
communicated when the WPCT was underperforming, as it did in January 2019. 
Nevertheless, despite its underperformance I see nothing wrong with HL remaining 
supportive of the fund or its rationale that sometimes it takes time for a fund to make money 
and how this fund could be something for someone who has the time and patience to see 
how it performs. 
In my view HL provided a balanced perspective of the investment and this is acceptable and 
I see no reason why HL couldnt maintain its support of the trust despite the  other fund by 
the same fund manager declining and ultimately being suspended. Therefore, I dont agree 
with Mr Hs assertion that HL over promoted the fund.
I am also not persuaded that Mr H who clearly knew he was the one in charge of his 
investment decision was ultimately swayed by anything HL said about the WPCT. 
Fundamentally, Mr H is unhappy that HL continued to support or offer the fund when the 
related fund started to underperform but the two investments were different, only having the 
same fund manager. And given the very different characteristics of the fund I see no reason 
why HL should have stopped offering the fund to clients.
I know Mr H feels HL had different information internally which prompted some directors to 
disinvest before the collapse of the related fund managed by the same fund manager. But 
HL has confirmed that the director in question sold shares in a different fund (not any of the 
Woodford funds). This is a serious accusation that Mr H has made but he hasnt provided 
anything to confirm this so in lieu of anything compelling I have no reason to doubt what HL 
has told us in this regard.
Overall, the WPCT wasnt managed by HL so it wasnt responsible for its downturn in 
performance. I see nothing wrong in HL continuing to offer the fund to its clients and I am 
satisfied HL provided it clients with clear and accurate information about the WPCT. I also 
havent seen anything to suggest HL had information about the WPCT that it didnt pass on 
to its clients. Ultimately Mr H was the only one who could change the investment in his SIPP 
because that was the nature of the relationship he had with HL.My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint and I make no award.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 20 July 2022.
 
Ayshea Khan
Ombudsman