DRN-1431806
 
The complaint
Mr R complains that Aviva Life & Pensions UK Limited declined his claim for life insurance 
benefit unfairly after his wife, Mrs R, sadly passed away.
What happened
Mrs R applied for a level-term assurance policy with a sum assured of £25,000 on 
9 September 2018. The policy included life cover. Mrs R made her application through an 
independent financial advisor (IFA). As part of her application, Aviva asked Mrs R a number 
of questions about her health. Mrs R didnt disclose any previous medical conditions. Her 
policy began the same day.
Sadly, Mr Rs wife passed away on 18 February 2019  the death certificate said MrsR died 
because of hypertensive heart disease. Mr R began the process of making a claim on his 
wifes policy the same day. 
Aviva noted Mrs R died from heart problems five months after applying for her policy, in 
which she confirmed she was in good health. So Aviva contacted Mrs Rs GP for information 
about her medical history. In early March 2019, Mrs Rs GP said Mrs R was only registered 
with a UK GP from October 2018  a month after the policy began. The GP said Mrs R had a 
prior diagnosis of hypertension, but it had no details in her medical records.
Aviva wanted to find out more about Mrs Rs health before she applied for the policy. In April 
2019, it asked Mr R for details of Mrs Rs doctors before October 2018, including the doctors 
who treated her whilst she was living abroad  which she did for most of her life before 
moving to the UK. But Mr R said he didnt know the contact details for MrsRs previous 
doctors abroad. He also said he wasnt aware his wife had any treatment for her heart 
condition.
There was a delay of over a month between Mr R telling Aviva it didnt have details of Mrs 
Rs GP abroad and Aviva deciding to go back to Mrs Rs GP for a copy of the records it held. 
The delay prompted Mr R to complain about how his complaint was progressing in May2019. 
Aviva contacted the coroner who recorded Mrs Rs death asking for copies of its records. 
And on 28 May 2019, Aviva asked Mrs Rs GP for a copy of the records it held. 
Aviva responded to Mr Rs complaint on 1 July 2018, explaining it needed more information 
to assess his claim. In the meantime, Aviva kept trying to obtain Mrs Rs medical records 
from her GP, which it received in mid-July 2019. The records said Mrs R reported being 
diagnosed with an enlarged heart ten years before, and had bariatric surgery in 2017. In the 
meantime, Aviva kept trying to obtain Mrs Rs medical records from her GP, which it 
received in mid-July 2019. The records said Mrs R reported being diagnosed with an 
enlarged heart ten years before, and had bariatric surgery in 2017. The records also 
provided some details of Mrs Rs GP abroad.In early-August 2019, Aviva asked Mrs Rs IFA to obtain further information from Mr R or Mrs 
Rs GP about when Mrs R was first diagnosed with raised blood pressure and details of any 
investigations about her enlarged heart. Mr R didnt provide these details, so Aviva asked for 
details of Mrs Rs GP abroad again  which Mr R said he didnt know. 
Aviva assessed Mr Rs claim based on the information it had. On 9 October 2019, it declined 
Mr Rs claim and voided Mrs Rs policy, refunding the premiums she paid towards it. Aviva 
said it wouldnt have offered Mrs R her policy if shed disclosed she was diagnosed with an 
enlarged heart because it didnt have any further information about any tests or 
investigations Mrs R had. 
Mr R was unhappy Aviva declined his claim, and the time it took to do so. Mr R said he 
needed the money to buy a house. Mr R said Mrs R was diagnosed with an enlarged heart 
any years ago and simply forgot about this fact  he said she had the right not to remember. 
He was unhappy Aviva asked him about Mrs Rs doctors whilst living abroad and felt Aviva 
treated him in a racist way. Mr R referred his complaint to our service.
One of our investigators reviewed Mr Rs complaint but didnt uphold it. The investigator 
noted Mrs R said she didnt have any heart problems when she applied for the policy, but 
her GPs records said shed told the GP she was diagnosed with an enlarged heart ten years 
before. And if Aviva had known about her enlarged heart, it wouldnt have offered her policy. 
So, our investigator thought Avivas decision to decline the claim, void Mrs Rs policy and 
refund her premiums was reasonable. The investigator said Aviva should reconsider Mr Rs 
claim if he could provide details of his wifes doctor abroad. Our investigator didnt award Mr 
R any compensation for the time it took Aviva took to handle his claim, and said it takes time 
for insurance companies to investigate claims like these. 
Mr R didnt agree with our investigators view of his complaint. He said his wife died of 
natural causes and didnt know how the coroner identified his wifes cause of death. He said 
he couldnt obtain any medical records from Mrs Rs doctor abroad. So Mr Rs complaint has 
been passed to me to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I would first like to say how sorry I am for Mr Rs loss, and acknowledge the 
difficult circumstances in which hes made this complaint.
In reviewing this complaint Ive considered the Consumer Insurance (Disclosure and 
Representations) Act 2012 (CIDRA). It sets out the roles and duties of the consumer and 
insurer when entering into an insurance contract. CIDRA placed Mrs R under a duty to take 
reasonable care not to make a misrepresentation (i.e. to say something untrue or 
misleading), provided Aviva asked her a clear question. If Mrs R didnt take reasonable care 
to answer questions accurately, CIDRA sets out the remedies available to Aviva. 
was there a misrepresentation?
I first need to decide whether Mrs R met her obligation to take reasonable care when 
completing her application for insurance. If she didnt do so, this amounts to a 
misrepresentation. 
As part of her application, Mrs R was asked the following questions:Have you ever had:
Chest pain, angina heart attack, heart enlargement, heart failure, heart valve defect 
or any other heart condition?
Apart from any conditions youve already told us about in this application, within the last two 
years have you:
Been referred to, treated at or had any investigations at a hospital or clinic?
Mrs R answered no to both questions. But based on the evidence available, I think Mrs R 
should have answered yes when asked if she had heart enlargement. I think she should 
have disclosed her surgery when asked about any other referral or treatment in a hospital or 
clinic. Having reviewed the notes provided by Mrs Rs GP, the records say:
07 Dec 2018       Plan: came with loads of paperwork had had bariatric surgery in 
[another country] and want [sic] medication etc advised book double appointment to see GP 
ticket given
13 Dec 2018 History lady who underwent bariatric surgery in July 2017, reports she had 
sugar earlier and felt unwell 20 mins after, has a headache, [blood teats done abroad] 
suggest possible diabetes or pre diabetes, 1 normal result, from the ranges provided I cant 
ascertain if she is definitely diabetic
3/12 ago had syncopal episode at airport, declined to go to hospital, has also happened 
once in shop, no ecg available, reports she was told 10 years ago she has an enlarged 
heart
Diagnosis: hypertension and possible diabetes
I know Mr R is unhappy Aviva asked for more information from Mrs Rs GP abroad. But the 
terms of Mrs Rs policy say:
Before we can pay a claim, we need to assess it. To do this, well ask for some important 
information
The kind of information we need may include, but isnt limited to, the following:
Written consent that lets us: 
oAccess the medical records or reports of the life covered
oReceive the results of any medical examinations or tests of the life covered
Conversations with, and reports from, third parties such as coroners, attending 
consultants, employers and the policy.
 
The policy goes on to list the countries from which all medical certificates and results of 
medical examinations must be provided from, which includes the country which Mrs R was 
from. So, the terms of Mrs Rs policy allow Aviva to ask for copies of Mrs Rs medical 
records from the UK and abroad to help it assess a claim on the policy. Mrs Rs death 
certificate says she passed away five months after taking out the policy  I dont think Aviva 
acted unreasonably in asking for copies of Mrs Rs medical records in the circumstances.
I think the evidence available says Mrs R had an enlarged heart for a number of years, and 
had bariatric surgery the year before she applied for her policy. So I think she should have 
answered yes to the question about heart problems. Based on the information available, I 
think it was reasonable for Aviva to conclude Mrs R had an enlarged heart at the time she 
applied for her policy. For these reasons, I think a misrepresentation occurred.A qualifying misrepresentation will have occurred if the information that was not disclosed 
wouldve made a difference to the terms Aviva wouldve offered Mrs R. For example, if Aviva 
wouldnt have offered Mrs R a policy, or it wouldve charged her a higher premium, this 
would be a qualifying misrepresentation. So Ive gone on to consider whether a qualifying 
misrepresentation occurred here.
what would Aviva have done differently? 
Aviva has said it would not have offered Mrs R cover if it had known about her enlarged 
heart without any further information about any investigations, treatment or medication she 
had in relation to it. Its not been possible to find out any further information from Mrs Rs GP 
abroad. Ive seen no persuasive evidence to suggest Aviva would have acted differently  I 
dont think theres any reason why Aviva would offer Mrs R cover without knowing more 
about her condition if it had been made aware of it. 
I note Mr R may have recently obtained details of Mrs Rs GP abroad and should share 
these contact details with Aviva. Aviva should reconsider whether any information its able to 
obtain from Mrs Rs GP makes any difference to whether it would have offered her a policy 
and, if applicable, reconsider Mr Rs claim. 
The time it took Aviva to investigate Mr Rs claim
I think there were some delays in handling Mr Rs claim, but I dont think the time taken 
overall to investigate Mr Rs claim was unreasonable. Its clear Aviva was willing to consider 
Mr Rs claims about Mrs Rs heart condition before she took out her policy if it could get 
more information about it from her doctor. I dont think the delays had any impact on Avivas 
decision to decline Mr Rs claim. I know Mr R says he wanted to use the sum assured, but I 
dont think Aviva was obliged to pay his claim for the reasons set out above. 
My final decision
For the reasons explained above, I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision before 16 July 2020.
Victoria Blackwood
Ombudsman