DRN-3939534
The complaint
The estate of Ms W has complained that Bank of Scotland plc (BoS) sent documents relating 
to a joint account to an address that she did not reside at.
The estate of Ms W says that this led to Ms W not having access to a life insurance policy  
which in turn led to her estate not receiving the proceeds of the life insurance claim.
What happened
One of our adjudicators assessed the complaint and in summary, he was unable to say that 
BoS had done anything wrong, so was unable to uphold the complaint.
The estate of Ms W disagreed with the adjudicators assessment, so the matter was referred 
for an ombudsmans decision.
This decision will only address BOS actions in relation to the late Ms Ws joint account. It will 
not address the concerns raised by the estate of Ms W about the insurance policy.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having read through everything, Im sorry to hear about the circumstances that led to this 
complaint being made. I appreciate that this will have been difficult for the family of the late 
Ms W and I can see that they have invested a large amount of time and effort in pursuing 
this matter.
Having said that, I agree with what the adjudicator said. As the adjudicator explained the 
eligible complainant in this case is the late Ms W i.e. her estate. This means the executors of 
Ms Ws estate are acting in the capacity of representative for the estate.
This is an important distinction to make, because we can only award compensation for any 
distress and inconvenience (if its warranted) to eligible complainants. But we cant generally 
make any awards of compensation for any distress or inconvenience experienced by a 
representative of an eligible complainant. 
So I wouldnt be able to award compensation for any distress or inconvenience that the 
executors have experienced in this matter (even if I thought some was warranted), as they 
are not eligible complainants.
Turning now to the main issue, I understand that in 2014 the joint account holder credited a 
large amount of money into the late Ms Ws joint account on 27 May 2014 to bring it back to 
a zero balance and then arranged for it to be closed on the same day. In summary, the 
estate of Ms W says that BoS shouldve done more to check that this is what Ms W wanted 
(and was aware was happening). However, I disagree with this point.
The account terms and conditions in 2014 essentially allowed either one of the joint account 
holders to make changes to the account or to close it if the account was set up on an either 
to sign basis. Such terms and conditions are fairly standard as joint account holders are 
usually jointly and severely liable for a joint current account. 
Furthermore, there is no evidence to suggest that BoS was aware (or shouldve been aware) 
of a dispute existing between the late Ms W and the other joint account holder. On the 
contrary, I understand the other joint account holder had power of attorney for the late Ms W 
at the time (later revoked in 2017), as she was incapacitated by her illness. And I can see 
that the estate of Ms W says that the late Ms W had no interaction with BoS or the joint 
account for a number of years, because she was incapacitated. As such, I see no reason 
why BoS wouldve questioned the request (or the motivations behind it) to close the account. 
So in summary, I cant see that BoS did anything wrong by closing the account  it was 
simply acting on the instructions of one of the joint account holders, who also had power of 
attorney for the other account holder - which it was obliged to do.
I note that a reason why the estate of Ms W has raised this complaint is because BoS sent 
the estate a copy of a bank statement, and the address on that statement displayed an 
address for the joint account holder, rather than for Ms W. The estate of Ms W says that this 
is evidence BoS had recorded the wrong address for Ms W, which in turn led to her not 
seeing information about the account and therefore not having sight of the direct debits for a 
life insurance policy.
During the course of the complaint, BoS has explained that the address showing on the 
sample bank statement was the one it had recorded at the time for the joint account holder 
who requested the account be closed and was not the address it had registered for the late 
Ms W at the time. BoS explains that where it has different addresses for each of the account 
holders, the address showing on the statements around the time the account was closed 
would be the address of whoever asked for it to be closed. 
I appreciate that the estate of Ms W doesnt accept this explanation. But BoS has provided 
evidence to show that it had the correct address for the late Ms Ws since at least 2011. And 
the evidence it has provided regarding the registered address for the late Ms W doesnt 
indicate that the address for Ms W was changed in 2014. So, although the address showing 
on the sample statement was not Ms Ws address, Im unable to say that its likely that BoS 
had the incorrect address recorded for Ms W when the account was closed. I think this 
conclusion is further supported by the fact that the estate of Ms W says that Ms W was still 
receiving some post at her (correct) address from BoS. 
However, even if BoS did have the incorrect address recorded for Ms W in 2014 (although I 
dont think it did) I still dont think this wouldve changed anything. I say this because BoS 
has confirmed that Ms W had switched on paperless statements via her online banking 
access on 11 March 2013. The estate of Ms W says that the other joint account holder did 
this, not Ms W, as she was incapacitated by then. But if that is the case, as the other 
account holder had a power of attorney for Ms W since 2008, and there was no evidence of 
a dispute, I cant reasonably say that BoS did anything wrong by following this instruction. I 
also cant see why BoS wouldve questioned this request, given that the correct login details 
wouldve needed to have been provided for this change to have been made.
Nevertheless, as Ms W had opted for paperless statement, she wouldnt necessarily have 
been sent a bank statement when the account was closed, regardless of what address it had 
recorded for her.
When the account was closed, I understand that the joint account holder arranged for the 
premiums for a life insurance policy to be paid for from another account. Again, I cant say 
that BoS has done anything wrong regarding this, as all automated payments from the 
account (such as Direct Debits) would cease when the account was closed. So it wouldve 
been up to the account holders, not BoS, to decide what to do with the existing automated 
payments e.g. whether to stop paying them or arranging for them to be paid from another 
account.So overall, I understand why the estate of Ms W are dissatisfied that the joint account was 
allowed to be closed without any input from the late Ms W. But in short, the joint account 
holder was able to do this and therefore I cant say that BoS did anything wrong.
My final decision
Because of the reasons given above, Im unable to uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask the estate of Ms W 
to accept or reject my decision before 20 March 2023.
 
Thomas White
Ombudsman