DRN-4438997
The complaint
This complaints about Mr Hs mortgage with The Mortgage Business plc (TMB). Mr H say 
TMB has denied him access to a lower interest rate and treated him unfairly as a result.
What happened
Mr Hs mortgage started in 2007. Initially, the mortgage was on a fixed rate, which ran until 
2009. Since then, no interest rate product has been attached (TMB had become a closed 
lender and stopped offering new rate products in 2008) and instead interest has been 
charged at TMBs standard variable rate (SVR). 
In September 2022, Mr H complained that hed been denied a lower rate. 
TMB rejected the complaint, and it was passed to our service. Our investigator didnt 
recommend the complaint be upheld. Mr H asked for his complaint to be referred to the 
ombudsman. 
By way of a jurisdiction decision dated 1 November 2023, I confirmed that my remit to 
consider the merits of this this complaint was confined to the interest charging events that 
took place since September 2016
What Ive decided  and why
Ill start with some general observations. Were not the regulator of financial businesses, and 
we dont police their internal processes or how they operate generally. Thats the job of the 
Financial Conduct Authority (FCA). We deal with individual disputes between businesses 
and their customers. In doing that, we dont replicate the work of the courts. 
Were impartial, and we dont take either sides instructions on how we investigate a 
complaint. We conduct our investigations and reach our conclusions without interference 
from anyone else. But in doing so, we have to work within the rules of the ombudsman 
service, and the remit those rules give us.
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The complaint is about whether TMB either:
placed obstacles in the way of Mr H getting a new rate; and/or 
failed to take reasonable steps to let him know this was a possibility for him to explore. 
My remit is confined to what has happened since September 2016, but I must also consider 
if events prior to that date impacted on what happened after it.
As Ive already set out, TMB had become a closed lender whilst the tracker rate was 
running. That meant that there would not be an opportunity for Mr H to take a new deal with 
TMB, rather than go onto SVR, when the fixed rate ended in 2009. However, that in itself 
wouldnt have prevented Mr H from looking for a better deal by re-mortgaging to another 
lender, and TMB told Mr H this during the phone conversation of June 2009.
Mr H has told us he spoke to TMB about changing his interest rate many times over the 
years, but in the period since September 2016, the only occasion TMB has on record is from 
October 2020, when Mr H called because he was in difficulties as a result of the COVID-19 
pandemic. Although TMB as a closed lender couldnt offer him a new rate of its own, this 
was an opportunity for it to tell Mr H about the option of applying to re-mortgage to another 
lender within the same business group without the need for an affordability assessment. 
TMB didnt tell Mr H about this, but I dont think the omission resulted in Mr H being treated 
unfairly.
Thats because Mr H told TMB in the October 2020 phone call that he had put the 
mortgaged property up for sale. If Mr H had re-financed with another lender on a new rate 
product, and then sold his house, its more likely than not that hed have had to pay a 
significant early repayment charge (ERC) to the new lender on redeeming the mortgage 
whilst the interest rate product was active. 
In that circumstance, encouraging Mr H to pursue the possibility of a new deal with another 
lender might not have been the most appropriate course of action. Rather than saving him 
money, it would in all probability have cost Mr H money if he had succeeded in selling his 
home as planned. TMB couldnt have known in October 2020 that Mr H would still own the 
house when he started his complaint two years later. 
Equally, Mr H couldnt know that either. It seems to me that if TMB had told him about the 
possibility of re-financing to another lender, the prospect of paying an ERC when he then 
sold would more likely than not have put him off changing lenders, rather than putting him off 
selling. I appreciate he might not agree with that now, but I cant take into account the impact 
of hindsight. At the time, Mr H was quite adamant that this was the right time to sell his 
house, and move into another property he owns.
All TMB could do was judge the situation as presented to it in October 2020. Having listened 
to Mr Hs phone conversations with TMB in October 2020, I think it judged his circumstances 
fairly and reasonably. 
Mr Hs primary objective in the call was to ask about switching from capital repayment to 
interest-only, and TMB explained to him that the bulk of the mortgage was already 
interest-only. As to any other concessions, TMBs room for manoeuvre was limited; Mr H 
had already made use of the options available for borrowers in hardship in the wake of the 
pandemic, his account was up to date at that point, and he wasnt prepared to consider any 
option that might impact on his credit file. All that left for the call-handler to suggest was a 
possible term extension, for which Mr H didnt show much enthusiasm, perhaps because he 
didnt anticipate having the mortgage for much longer. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
My final decision concludes this services consideration of this complaint, which means Ill 
not be engaging in any further consideration or discussion of the merits of it.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 4 December 2023. 
Jeff ParringtonOmbudsman