DRN-4118799
The complaint
Mr K complains that Wise Payments Limited (Wise) wont refund the money he lost in a 
scam.
What happened
Mr K has explained that he entered his details online and received a call from someone who 
said he was from a company Ill call T. He was offered the opportunity to trade on a training 
platform without paying anything and then decided to invest his own funds. Mr K was helped 
to open an account with a digital wallet provider and made the payments in the table below 
to an account in his own name with that provider. Mr K was able to see the funds he sent on 
a trading platform. 
Date Amount
10/06/22 £2
15/06/22 £3,333
05/07/22 £3,000
15/07/22 £4,000
19/07/22 £2,000
Total £12,335
Cryptocurrency was then sent from Mr Ks account as directed by the representative of T. 
The trading platform later showed Mr K had £19,000 in his account and he decided to 
withdraw his funds. At this stage Mr K was asked to pay additional funds and realised that 
hed been scammed. He contacted Wise by email on 4 October 2022. 
Wise referred to its terms and conditions and said it cant be involved in disputes between 
senders and recipients but if it investigates a fraud claim and finds someone has used Wise 
to receive money fraudulently it will block that person. Wise also said that Mr K had made 
similar genuine transactions in the past so Wise had no reason to be concerned. A recall 
request was sent to the recipient, but it wasnt successful. 
Mr K was unhappy with Wises response and brought a complaint to this service. He 
maintained that Wise had failed in its duty to safeguard his funds.  
Our investigation so far
The investigator who considered this complaint didnt recommend that it be upheld. He said 
this because he didnt think the transactions Mr K made were so unusual that Wise needed 
to intervene when they were made. They were relatively low in value, were to an account in 
Mr Ks own name and werent made in rapid succession  so there was no known pattern of 
fraud. 
Mr K didnt agree with the investigators findings and asked for a final decision, so the 
complaint has been passed to me to consider.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im very sorry that Mr K has lost so much money in a cruel scam. I need to decide whether it 
would be fair and reasonable for Wise, in all the circumstances of this case, to be held 
responsible for this loss. 
Wise is an electronic money institute and not a bank so isnt subject to the same 
expectations set out in guidance and regulations as a bank when it comes to fraud 
prevention. Wise should execute payment instructions without undue delay. And as a 
starting point there is a presumption that liability for authorised payments is on the payer, 
even where it might have been made as part of a scam. 
I think Wise might be liable for reasonably foreseeable losses if, in breach of its duty of care, 
it fails to act on information which ought reasonably to alert a prudent authorised payment 
institution to potential fraud or financial crime by, or against, its customer. So I think Wise 
should be on the lookout for unusual and out of character transactions and exercise 
reasonable skill and care. But I dont think Wise has failed in its obligations to Mr K in this 
case and will explain why. 
I dont consider the transactions Mr K made were so unusual and out of character compared 
with his normal account activity that Wise ought reasonably to have intervened. Mr K didnt 
open his account with Wise for the purpose of the scam so Wise had previous activity to 
compare the transactions with. In July 2021 Mr K made a transfer of £3,000. Given this, I 
dont consider transfers of around this amount ought reasonably to have concerned Wise 
and led it to take additional steps. Mr K told the investigator that this £3,000 payment was to 
a family member. But the transaction was to a third party and represented normal account 
activity, so I think its fair to take it into account.  
If the pattern of transactions matched any common scams, Id expect Wise, in some 
circumstances, to take additional steps - but I dont think they did. The transactions were 
made over a period of over five weeks and there was never more than one transaction in a 
day and payments werent made on successive days. There also isnt a pattern of increasing 
payments. And Mr K transferred funds to an account in his own name at an exchange that 
doesnt just provide cryptocurrency, so it wasnt clear that he was buying cryptocurrency. 
Ive also taken into account the manner in which Wise accounts are used. It isnt unusual to 
make larger payments from a Wise account.
So, I think its reasonable that Wise didnt identify the payments Mr K made here as unusual 
or do anything further before allowing them to go through.
Wise were unable to recover any of Mr Ks funds as they were sent to an account in his 
name and on from there. I dont think Wise could have done anything more. 
I sympathise with the position Mr K has found himself in. He has been the victim of a cruel 
scam and I appreciate that my decision will come as a disappointment to him. But, for the 
reasons Ive set out above, I dont think Wise has acted unreasonably.
My final decision
I do not uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr K to accept or 
reject my decision before 2 October 2023.
 
Jay HadfieldOmbudsman