DRN-3833933
The complaint
Mr T says that Nationwide Building Society (Nationwide) acted irresponsibly by providing 
him with an overdraft of £100 and allowing him to increase his limit to £3,000 over a period 
of four months. He says this caused him financial difficulty as he had borrowing with other 
creditors.  
What happened
One of our adjudicators looked into Mr Ts concerns and didnt think there was anything 
within the credit checks that should have led to Nationwide questioning the lending and 
didnt think Nationwide had done anything wrong or treated Mr T unfairly. 
Mr T disagreed and asked for an ombudsmans final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about irresponsible lending - including the 
key rules, guidance and good industry practice - on our website. And Ive referred to this 
when deciding Mr Ts complaint. Having considered everything provided, Ive decided not to 
uphold Mr Ts complaint. Ill explain why in a little more detail. 
Nationwide needed to make sure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In practice, what this means 
is Nationwide needed to carry out proportionate checks to be able to understand whether Mr 
T would be able to repay what he was being lent before providing any credit to him. Our 
website sets out what we typically think about when deciding whether a lenders checks 
were proportionate. 
Generally, we think its reasonable for a lenders checks to be less thorough  in terms of 
how much information it gathers and what it does to verify it  in the early stages of a lending 
relationship. But we might think it needed to do more if, for example, a borrowers income 
was low or the amount lent was high. And the longer the lending relationship goes on, the 
greater the risk of it becoming unsustainable and the borrower experiencing financial 
difficulty. 
Ive kept all of this in mind when thinking about whether Nationwide did what it needed to 
before agreeing to Mr Ts overdraft. Mr T was given what was an open-ended credit facility. 
So overall this means the checks Nationwide carried out had to provide enough for it to be 
able to understand whether Mr T would be able to repay his overdraft within a reasonable 
period of time. 
Nationwide says Mr T had an initial overdraft with a limit of £100 in July 2019 which 
increased to its highest limit of £3,000 by October 2019. I can see from Mr Ts bank 
statements that between the period he was granted the initial overdraft up until his highest 
limit Mr T managed to pay off his overdraft and see a credit balance every month until 
November 2019. 
Nationwide says all overdraft limit increase applications were fully credit scored taking into 
account information Mr T provided about his income and how Mr T had managed his 
accounts held with it, as well as information held by other lenders provided through credit 
reference checks. Ive seen a copy of this information and no adverse information came up 
on the credit checks and Mr T had a regular healthy salary coming in and at times he was in 
receipt of other large credits coming into his account prior to the overdraft applications being 
approved. Based on this information Nationwide was satisfied his score was high enough to 
provide him with the overdraft facility and limits he requested.
I accept that Mr Ts financial position may well have been worse than the credit checks 
carried out showed or in any information he disclosed to Nationwide at the time. And it is 
possible that further checks might have told Nationwide this. But Nationwide was reasonably 
entitled to rely on the credit checks it carried out. And given there wasnt any adverse 
information shown on the credit check, he had a regular healthy salary coming in and his 
account with Nationwide was being managed well I think Nationwides checks went far 
enough. 
So I dont agree that Nationwide acted irresponsibly by allowing Mr T to increase his 
overdraft limit. Nationwide carried out the appropriate credit checks on Mr T and were 
entitled to rely on the information provided to it when assessing Mr Ts overdraft applications. 
And given the regular credits going into the account and amount of disposable income 
available to Mr T was enough to significantly reduce the overdraft, I dont think that it was 
unreasonable for Nationwide to conclude Mr T would be able to repay the additional funds 
within a reasonable period of time. 
This means that I dont agree Nationwide provided Mr T with an overdraft unfairly or 
irresponsibly. That said, even though Mr Ts overdraft wasnt approved irresponsibly, 
Nationwide still wont have acted fairly and reasonably towards Mr T if it applied any interest, 
fees and charges to Mr Ts account in circumstances where it was aware, or it ought fairly 
and reasonably to have been aware Mr T was experiencing financial difficulty. 
So Ive considered whether there were instances where Nationwide didnt treat Mr T fairly 
and reasonably. I dont think that Nationwide did treat Mr T unfairly or unreasonably though. I 
say this because having looked at Mr Ts statements I cant see anything to suggest that 
Nationwide ought to have realised he might have been experiencing financial difficulty prior 
to it being notified of this. 
I accept that Mr Ts did use his overdraft, but use of an overdraft in itself doesnt necessarily 
mean Mr T was suffering from financial difficulty. Having looked at Mr Ts statements I can 
see that though Mr T did have some loan payments going out of the account the vast 
majority of transactions going out werent for paying essential bills but rather non-committed, 
non-contractual and discretionary transactions. I can see numerous cash withdrawals and 
spending on retail and entertainment as well as cash transfers in and out of other accounts. 
I accept that this doesnt necessarily mean Mr T wasnt experiencing financial difficulty. But 
there isnt anything in these transactions in themselves which ought to have alerted 
Nationwide to any potential financial difficulty before Mr T got in touch. And in these 
circumstances, I dont think that it was unreasonable for Nationwide to proceed with adding 
the interest, fees and charges it did. So I dont think that Nationwide treated Mr T unfairly or unreasonably which means that Im 
not upholding this complaint.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, Im not upholding Mr Ts complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr T to accept or 
reject my decision before 30 December 2022.
 
Caroline Davies
Ombudsman