DRN-1421093
The complaint
Mrs L says Canada Square Operations Limited (trading as Egg) mis-sold her a payment 
protection insurance (PPI) policy.
What happened
Mrs L bought the policy (in a former name) in 2001 at the same time as taking out a credit 
card through an internet application. She couldnt remember anything about the sale and 
says she didnt want PPI and didnt need it. So she concludes the policy was mis-sold.
Our adjudicator didnt uphold the complaint. Mrs L disagreed with our adjudicators view, so 
the complaint has been passed to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding Mrs Ls case.
Ive decided not to uphold Mrs Ls complaint because:
I think Canada Square Operations made Mrs L aware on her internet application 
form that she had a choice about buying the PPI. I say this because Ive seen the 
internet screenshots which Canada Square Operations says its consumers would 
have seen around the time of the sale. I can see the consumer was presented 
with a choice to buy PPI. So as there was a choice given to Mrs L, I think the 
policy was shown as optional. I also think Mrs L chose to take PPI  although she 
cant now remember this.
Canada Square Operations didnt recommend the PPI to Mrs L, so it didnt 
have to check if it was right for her. But it did have to give her enough 
information which was clear, fair and not misleading, so she could make her 
own decision.
I looked at the information Canada Square Operations said it gave to Mrs L. I think 
the information was clear enough for her on the internet application. And I think 
she chose to take out the PPI - so it looks like she wanted this type of cover.
 
Based on what Ive seen of her circumstances at the time it doesnt look like she 
was affected by any of the exclusions to or limits on the PPI cover - so it would 
have been useful for her if something went wrong. It also looks like the PPI was 
affordable. So I dont think better information about the PPI would have put her off 
taking out the cover. So I dont think more detailed information would have 
stopped her buying it.
So all this means Canada Square Operations doesnt have to pay back all of the cost of the 
PPI to Mrs L. 
But Canada Square Operations has paid back some of the cost of the PPI to Mrs L because: 
Canada Square Operations got a high level of commission and profit share (more than 
50% of the PPI premium) - so it should have told Mrs L about that. Because Canada 
Square Operations didnt tell Mrs L, that was unfair. 
To put that right, Canada Square Operations has paid back the amount of commission 
and profit share that was above 50% of the PPI premium - and I think that is fair in this 
case.
Ive thought about everything Mrs L has said - including what she said about her sick pay 
benefits from her employer and her other insurance cover. But these points dont change my 
decision because the PPI could have lasted for longer than and in addition to her sick pay  
and it left her other insurance cover for other expenses. 
She also said she could have relied on her parents for support. I understand the point she is 
making, but there was no guarantee she could still rely on this support at some unknown 
point in the future. So I dont think this changes my decision.
Taking everything into account, I am not going to uphold this complaint.
My final decision
The PPI policy wasnt mis-sold  so Canada Square Operations Limited does not have to 
pay back all of the cost of the PPI to Mrs L.
But Canada Square Operations Limited does have to pay back to Mrs L any commission and 
profit share it got that was more than 50% of the PPI premium. I understand it has already 
done this, so I dont award any further compensation.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs L to accept or 
reject my decision before 8 September 2020.
 
Amrit Mangra
Ombudsman