DRN-3574545
The complaint
Miss B, through her representative, complains that Everyday Lending Limited, trading as 
Everyday Loans, lent to her irresponsibly.
What happened
In November 2017, Miss B was approved for a £3,500 over 36 months repayable at £225.05 
each month. The total to pay was £8,101.80. As at May 2022, Everyday Lending has said 
that around £3,458 remained to pay back. 
Everyday Lending has sent documents to show that it reviewed and verified Miss Bs income 
and considered two months worth of bank statements before lending. Miss B had told 
Everyday Lending that she lived with her parents and so paid little or nothing to household 
bills. Still it used some data to calculate what it thought would be her living expenses.
Miss B provided details of her existing credit commitments and these were set out in a table, 
a copy of which has been sent to me. Miss B was using this Everyday Lending loan to 
consolidate several other loans. 
By Everyday Lendings calculations this meant that Miss Bs current, monthly creditor 
repayment liability would be reduced by £820 each month and its own repayment amount of 
£225 would be affordable.
One of our adjudicators looked at the complaint and wrote a brief view to say that even then, 
the amount Miss B would be repaying to Everyday Lending and her other creditors each 
month would have been too much for Miss B. So, she thought that Everyday Lending had 
got it wrong when it advanced this loan.
Everyday Lending responded to say that it did not agree and so the unresolved complaint 
was passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about unaffordable/irresponsible lending - 
including all of the relevant rules, guidance and good industry practice - on our website. 
I think the questions I need to consider in deciding whats fair and reasonable in the 
circumstances of this complaint are:
Did Everyday Lending, each time it lent, complete reasonable and proportionate 
checks to satisfy itself that Miss B would be able to repay in a sustainable way?
If not, would those checks have shown that Miss B would have been able to do so?
The rules and regulations in place required Everyday Lending to carry out a reasonable and 
proportionate assessment of Miss Bs ability to make the repayments under this agreement. 
This assessment is sometimes referred to as an affordability assessment or affordability 
check.
The checks had to be borrower-focused  so Everyday Lending had to think about whether 
repaying the loan would be sustainable. In practice this meant that the business had to 
ensure that making the repayments on the loan wouldnt cause Miss B undue difficulty or 
significant adverse consequences. That means she should have been able to meet 
repayments out of normal income without having to borrow to meet the repayments, without 
failing to make any other payment she had a contractual or statutory obligation to make and 
without the repayments having a significant adverse impact on her financial situation.
In other words, it wasnt enough for Everyday Lending to simply think about the likelihood of 
it getting its money back, it had to consider the impact of the loan repayments on Miss B. 
Checks also had to be proportionate to the specific circumstances of the loan application.
In general, what constitutes a proportionate affordability check will be dependent upon a 
number of factors including  but not limited to  the particular circumstances of the 
consumer (e.g. their financial history, current situation and outlook, and any indications of 
vulnerability or financial difficulty) and the amount/type/cost of credit they are seeking. Even 
for the same customer, a proportionate check could look different for different applications.
I think that a reasonable and proportionate check ought generally to have been more 
thorough:
the lower a consumers income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make 
any loan repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income);
the higher the amount due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income); 
the greater the number and frequency of loans, and the longer the period during 
which a customer has been given loans (reflecting the risk that repeated 
refinancing may signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, 
unsustainable).
Ive carefully considered all the arguments, evidence and information provided in this context 
and what this all means for Miss Bs complaint.
Everyday Lendings response to our adjudicators view is a little puzzling as it cites figures 
which I do not think correlate to its own affordability review done before it lent to Miss B in 
2017. I say this because recently it has accepted that Miss Bs total repayments may have 
been over 25% of her income at the time, but it says that Miss B would have been left with 
£760.31 for her general living expenses and her disposable income. 
It pointed to the bank statements it reviewed in 2017 showed that Miss B rarely used her 
overdraft facility. And these figures differ from what Everyday Lending had outlined in its final response letter 
(FRL) it sent to Miss Bs representative after she had complained. In that FRL Everyday 
Lending had stated that Miss Bs income was £1,389 and her monthly financial commitments 
plus her general living expenses were calculated as £1,724. Clearly demonstrating a deficit 
of £335. Its own FRL showed that Miss B was not able to afford the £225 a month for this 
loan. 
Ive considered what Everyday Lending has said together with the documentary evidence 
I have from the review carried out in 2017. And I think that what Everyday Lending was 
trying to demonstrate was that by consolidating several other loans then her monthly 
repayment commitment would have reduced. 
But I have calculated that even if her monthly repayment commitment was reduced from 
£1,224 to £404, when her Everyday Lending commitment of £225 a month was added into 
that , it would come to £629 a month. And yes  that may be a reduction for Miss B but her 
indebtedness to Everyday Lending was due to go on for three years which is not an 
insubstantial term for a loan. And the percentage of her net monthly income would have 
been about 45%. This was in my view too much for Miss B to commit to overall.
Miss B had other debts to repay as well as the four she consolidated with the Everyday 
Lending loan. Plus, she was paying her father £372 for a car  and although that may have 
been an informal arrangement, it showed as a regular expenditure sum on the bank 
statements Everyday lending had reviewed. And all individuals have everyday living 
expenses and Everyday Lending would have known that at the time.
The situation was that Miss B was spending a great deal of her net salary on credit 
commitments even after the consolidation exercise with the Everyday lending loan. And in 
my view that was too much. 
So, I am upholding Miss Bs complaint .
Putting things right
If Everyday Lending has sold the outstanding debt it should buy it back if able to do so and 
then take the following steps. If it is not able to buy the debt back then it should liaise with 
the new debt owner to achieve the results outlined below.
A) Remove all interest, fees and charges from the balance on the upheld outstanding loan, 
and treat any repayments made by Miss B as though they had been repayments of the 
principal on it. If this results in Miss B having made overpayments then Everyday Lending 
should refund these overpayments with 8% simple interest* calculated on the 
overpayments, from the date the overpayments would have arisen, to the date the 
complaint is settled. It should then refund the amounts calculated.
B) If there is still an outstanding balance then the amounts calculated in A should be used to 
repay any balance remaining on outstanding balance. If this results in a surplus then the 
surplus should be paid to Miss B. 
However, if there is still an outstanding balance then Everyday Lending should try to agree 
an affordable repayment plan with Miss B. It shouldnt pursue outstanding balances made 
up of principal already written-off.
C) Remove any adverse information recorded on Miss Bs credit file in relation to the loan. *HM Revenue and Customs requires Everyday Lending to deduct tax from this interest. It 
should give Miss B a certificate showing how much tax its deducted, if she asks for one.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold Miss Bs complaint and I direct that Everyday Lending 
Limited, trading as Everyday Loans, does as I have outlined in the putting things right 
section of the decision. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss B to accept 
or reject my decision before 15 August 2022.
 
Rachael Williams
Ombudsman