DRN-3031681
complaint
Mr W complained that Bank of Scotland Plc, trading as Halifax, mis-sold him payment 
protection insurance (PPI) as part of a Total Mortgage Protection Plan (TMPP), in 2004. 
A TMPP was a type of protection policy which typically included PPI together with other 
features, such as life insurance and critical illness cover (CIC). The individual elements of 
the TMPP could be added or taken out as the consumer wished. 
To keep things simple, Ill refer mainly to Halifax throughout this decision.
background
Only the PPI was complained about in this case and Mr W said it was in his name only, so 
thats what Im addressing here. 
One of our adjudicators previously looked into the mis-sale element of the complaint and 
said they didnt think we should uphold it. They also said that although Halifax doesnt accept 
it did anything wrong in relation to the commission it obtained as a result of selling the PPI, it 
has since made an offer to Mr W as if it had. The adjudicator thought this offer to pay back 
some of the cost in relation to the commission element was fair in the circumstances.
Mr Ws representative disagreed with the adjudicators opinion. However, they didnt raise 
any new or additional points but repeated the same complaint points and arguments theyd 
previously made. As the complaint couldnt be resolved informally, it has been passed to me 
for a final decision.
my findings
Although I have only included a summary of the complaint, I have read and considered all 
the evidence and arguments available. When considering what is fair and reasonable, I am 
required to take into account relevant: law and regulations; regulators rules, guidance and 
standards; codes of practice; and, where appropriate, what I consider to have been good 
industry practice at the time. 
Weve set out our general approach to PPI mis-sale complaints on our website and 
published some example final decisions that set out in detail how these relevant 
considerations may apply to PPI sales like Mr Ws. I havent set out that detailed information 
here but Ive taken into account all relevant considerations in deciding Mr Ws complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided not to uphold the mis-sale complaint. Ive also considered the 
issue of non-disclosure of commission. And Ive too decided that Halifaxs offer to refund 
some of the cost of PPI is fair in the circumstances. 
I accept theres not much of the sale documentation left to look at after so long. However, 
businesses arent required to retain documents indefinitely and when complained about, this 
sale was already quite a long time in the past. 
Nevertheless, Ive seen quite a few very similar sales to this one, and my experience is that 
consumers were given a choice about PPI during a discussion they had with a mortgage 
adviser. Paperwork was then drawn up for the customer to see, based on that discussion. 
Halifaxs computerised records are still available and these also tend to confirm that such a 
discussion took place and that Mr W was asked about how he might fare if he lost his job or 
became too ill to work. The records show he agreed to the PPI.
Based on my experience of these particular sales, Mr W would have also been given a 
schedule showing which, if any, elements of the TMPP he had chosen to take out and I see 
in this case he also agreed to the  life cover and CIC. So I think he wanted to protect himself 
against unforeseen events. In my view, Mr W would have also had to authorise the monthly 
premiums for all these insurances to leave his bank account. 
Given all this, I think its much more likely Mr W consented to the PPI back in 2004.
Halifax says it recommended the PPI to Mr W as part of an advised sale, so it needed to 
check that the PPI was suitable for his situation. I think it was.
I say this because he was eligible for the cover and it looks like he had very little job-related 
protection against sickness. This was a mortgage secured against Mr Ws home and it would 
have paid out up to £179 per month for up to two years if successfully claimed on. This 
would have been in addition to any other means he already had at the time. I also think the 
monthly cost would have been affordable for him. I therefore believe the PPI Mr W chose 
was suitable for him and recommending it to him wasnt unreasonable.
Its certainly possible the information Halifax gave to Mr W about the PPI wasnt as clear as it 
might have been. But in my view the cover wasnt too dissimilar to what he probably thought 
he was buying from the information he was most likely given at the point of sale. Mr Ws 
health at the time doesnt seem to conflict with any of the policy rules about pre-existing 
medical conditions. I think those rules probably contained certain conditions about claiming 
for illnesses such as stress and back problems. But these things didnt apply to Mr Ws 
situation of that time; in any event I dont think he would have expected to claim for these in 
the future without providing at least some evidence, which is what the rules said. 
So even if I accept Halifax could have explained the policy more fully, theres nothing 
suggesting this would have caused Mr W to act differently.
Mr Ws representative has raised a number of what I consider to be general complaint 
points, which it says apply to all PPI complaints. These general points include: a claim that 
the Financial Ombudsman Service is not correctly applying the regulators rules and 
guidance for handling PPI complaints; these policies represented poor value because of the 
number of significant exclusions and limitations of cover coupled with the low claims ratio; 
and the duty of utmost good faith meant Halifax should have disclosed the poor value and 
explained the significance of the limitations and exclusions and the impact it had on the 
chances of making a claim.
But Mr Ws representative has not said how these points apply to the specific facts and 
circumstances of Mr Ws individual complaint  just that they apply to all PPI complaints. I 
have thought about these things and how they might apply in Mr Ws particular case. But 
these points dont persuade me to alter my conclusions about what is fair and reasonable in 
all the circumstances of the complaint  for the reasons Ive set out above I dont uphold the 
mis-sale element of this complaint. This means Halifax doesnt have to pay back all of the 
cost of the PPI to Mr W.
non-disclosure of commissionAs I also mentioned above, Ive also considered the issue of non-disclosure of commission, 
including whether this resulted in an unfair relationship under section 140A of the Consumer 
Credit Act, and if so, what fair compensation would be to remedy that unfairness.
Having done so Ive decided Halifax didnt need to disclose the commission it received under 
the rules that apply  but in any event I note its offered to pay back some of the cost of PPI, 
so theres nothing more it needs to do. My reasons are set out below.
was there an unfair relationship?
Mr Ws representative has made a number of points about this part of the complaint 
including the impact of the Plevin1 judgment and sections 140A and 140B of the Consumer 
Credit Act on the complaint. In summary they said Mr W should get back all the money he 
paid for the policy because Halifax failed to tell him about the high commission and profit-
share rates paid, the low claims ratio, and the typical restrictions / exclusions on cover. 
Because they say these things meant the policy was poor value, they imply I should find that 
Mr W wouldnt have taken out the policy had he known about the level of commission. The 
representative says he should receive a refund of all the premiums paid.
However, in this case, Halifax has shown us that the commission for Mr Ws PPI was less 
than half of what he paid for each premium. Weve looked at how Halifax has worked this out 
and based on what weve seen, Im satisfied that the commission in Mr Ws case was less 
than half the cost of the PPI, and therefore below the threshold mentioned in the rules about 
compensating consumers.
As thats the case, taking into account:
- the effect of section 140A and B of the Consumer Credit Act;
- The Supreme Court judgment in Plevin and the conclusion in that case; and
- The FCAs rules and guidance for handling complaints about the non-disclosure of 
commission and profit share - introduced in light of the Supreme Court judgment in 
Plevin - which require a business to presume that the failure to disclose commission 
gave rise to an unfair relationship where the business expected commission and 
profit share to be more than 50% of the cost of the policy
I dont think Halifax needed to tell Mr W about the commission levels in this particular case. It 
follows that I dont think the non-disclosure created an unfair relationship and I dont 
therefore think Halifax treated Mr W unfairly.  This means it doesnt need to pay Mr W back 
any of the commission he paid for the PPI. 
However, in any event, Halifax has since offered to give back to Mr W some of the cost of 
the PPI to compensate him as if it had treated him unfairly. I dont think it needs to do 
anything more.
my decision
I dont uphold the mis-sale element of the complaint or make any award.
1 Plevin v Paragon Personal Finance Limited [2014] UKSC 61 in which the Supreme Court concluded 
that the non-disclosure of commission could lead to an unfair relationshipIve also decided that Bank of Scotland Plc didnt need to disclose the commission it 
received, but it has already paid back some of the cost of the PPI to Mr W. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, I am required to ask Mr W to accept 
or reject my decision before 29 December 2021.
 
Michael Campbell
Ombudsman