DRN-4201267
The complaint
Ms H complains that Lloyds Bank PLC irresponsibly approved an unaffordable loan.
What happened
Ms H says she took out a Lloyds loan in 2016 for just under £15,000. She says the loan was 
unaffordable and Lloyds didnt carry out appropriate checks on the application. Ms H would 
like the loan written off.
Lloyds accepts that it didnt carry out reasonable and proportionate checks before approving 
the loan. 
Ms H had brought her complaint to us, and our investigator upheld it. The investigator 
agreed that appropriate checks hadnt been carried out and recommended interest and 
charges be refunded. The investigator also recommended any adverse information be 
removed from Ms Hs credit file.
Lloyds has agreed with that view, but Ms H maintains that the loan should be written off.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so I have come to the same overall view as the investigator and for the same 
reasons. I appreciate Ms H would like the loan written off but that is not something I can 
fairly order for the reasons I will explain. There is no need for me to wait for Lloyds decision 
on Ms Hs request but of course its up to Lloyds to decide if it wishes to take such a course 
of action.
There is no need for me to explain in detail our approach to complaints of irresponsible 
lending as Lloyds accepts it should have carried out more checks on the loan application in 
2016. We would normally order that a complainant be put back in the position they would 
have been in where possible, if the lending hadnt been approved. That of course is not 
always possible, and we take the view that generally a customer should pay back the money 
they have had the benefit of. I think that Ms H had the benefit of the loan and so I cant fairly 
order that Lloyds write off that balance in these circumstances. I cant see any exceptional 
reasons that are present here that would prevent me from taking that view.
Putting things right
Lloyds should refund all interest and charges which should be refunded from the balance 
owed by Ms H. There is no refund due to Ms H and so no need for me to consider an 
interest payment. Lloyds should agree an affordable interest free repayment plan with Ms H. 
I can see that Lloyds has agreed with the investigators view which also recommended that 
Ms Hs credit file be updated. Lloyds should rework Ms Hs credit file to reflect the 
arrangement rather than the default, if of course Ms H accepts this decision.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint in part and order Lloyds Bank PLC to follow 
the above direction which its agreed to do.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms H to accept or 
reject my decision before 25 July 2023.
 
David Singh
Ombudsman