DRN-2612547
The complaint
Mr G says Advancis Limited (trading as Buddy Loans) lent to him irresponsibly.
What happened
Mr G took out a guarantor loan from Buddy Loans in December 2019. It was for £2000 over 
18 months. The monthly repayment was £150.75 and the total repayable was £2699.05
Mr G says the loan was wholly unaffordable and a quick search of his credit file wouldve 
shown the number of loans he had.
.
Our adjudicator didnt recommend the complaint should be upheld. He said Buddy Loans 
had carried out proportionate checks and there was nothing in the information it gathered 
that should have led it to make a different lending decision.
Mr G disagreed with the adjudicators view, so the complaint was passed to me for a final
decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided not to uphold Mr Gs complaint. Ill explain why.
Our approach to unaffordable/irresponsible lending complaints is set out on our website and
Ive followed it here.
The Financial Conduct Authority (FCA) was the regulator when Buddy Loans lent to Mr G. Its 
rules and guidance, set out in its Consumer Credit Sourcebook (CONC), obliged Buddy 
Loans to lend responsibly. Amongst other things, Buddy Loans was required to carry out a 
reasonable and proportionate assessment of whether Mr G could afford to repay what he 
owed in a sustainable manner. This is sometimes referred to as an affordability assessment 
or an affordability check.
The checks also had to be borrower-focused. So Buddy Loans had to think about whether 
repaying the credit sustainably would cause any difficulties or adverse consequences for 
Mr G. In other words, it wasnt enough for Buddy Loans to simply think about the likelihood 
of it getting its money back, it had to consider the impact of the loan repayments on Mr G.
Checks also had to be proportionate to the specific circumstances of each loan application.
In general, what makes up a proportionate affordability check will be dependent upon a
number of factors including  but not limited to  the particular circumstances of the
consumer (eg. their financial history, current situation and outlook, and any indications of
vulnerability or financial difficulty) and the amount, type and cost of credit they have applied
for.
In light of this, I think that a reasonable and proportionate check ought generally to have
been more thorough:
the lower a customers income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make any 
repayments to credit from a lower level of income);
the higher the amount due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to
meet higher repayments from a particular level of income);
the longer the period of time a borrower will be indebted for (reflecting the fact
that the total cost of the credit is likely to be greater and the customer is required
to make repayments for an extended period).
There may also be other factors which could influence how detailed a proportionate check
shouldve been for a given application  including (but not limited to) any indications of
borrower vulnerability and any foreseeable changes in future circumstances. Ive kept all of
this in mind when thinking about whether Buddy Loans did what it needed to before agreeing 
to lend to Mr G, and have considered the following questions:
did Buddy Loans complete reasonable and proportionate checks when assessing 
Mr Gs loan application to satisfy itself that he would be able to repay the loan in a 
sustainable way?
if not, what would reasonable and proportionate checks have shown?
did Buddy Loans make a fair lending decision?
did Buddy Loans act unfairly or unreasonably in some other way?
Buddy Loans asked for some information from Mr G before it approved the loan. It asked for 
details of his income, his monthly living costs and his existing credit commitments. It 
checked his income using an income verification tool and used national statistics to increase 
his declared living costs. It checked his credit file to understand his credit history. It also 
asked about the purpose of the loan which was for car repairs. From these checks
combined Buddy Loans concluded Mr G had sufficient monthly disposable income for the 
loan to be affordable. 
I think these checks were proportionate and from what I have seen there was nothing in the 
information Buddy Loans gathered that should have led it to make a different lending 
decision. Mr G says checking his credit file would have shown how may loans he had and 
that he couldnt afford this loan. But Ive looked at the credit report the lender saw and 
listened to the application call between the parties. The credit report showed Mr G had two 
unsecured loans, one of which had recently defaulted with a balance of £6750. But Mr G 
explained on the application call that this was an error - and due to be amended - as that 
loan had been settled in full. He sent Buddy Loans evidence to support this, so it was 
reasonable for the lender to discount this adverse data.  His other loan was up-to-date and 
he had an overdraft that he was repaying. This meant in total the report showed Mr G had 
just under £3000 of total debt at the time. So I dont think there were signs that his finances 
were under a level of pressure at the time that this loan would be sustainably unaffordable. 
I accept Mr G may have had other borrowing that wasnt on the credit report Buddy Loans 
saw. The information a lender sees can vary from what a consumer may see on their own 
credit report for a number of reasons such as timing and the fact not all lenders report to all 
credit reference agencies. But in the circumstances of this case it was fair and reasonable 
for Buddy Loans to rely on the information in the credit report it obtained.
And I understand the information Buddy Loans gathered might not have been a complete 
reflection of Mr Gs financial position at the time. But as I think the checks were proportionate, I have to assess the subsequent lending decision it made based on the 
information it had. 
It follows I dont think Buddy Loans was wrong to lend to Mr G. And I havent found any 
evidence that it acted unfairly or unreasonably towards Mr G in any other way.
Im sorry to hear the borrowing has had such a negative effect on Mr G. If, as it seems, there 
remains an outstanding balance on the loan I would remind Buddy Loans of its obligation to 
treat Mr G positively and sympathetically if he is having financial difficulties.
 
My final decision
For the reasons set out above I am not upholding this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision before 24 June 2021.
 
Rebecca Connelley
Ombudsman