DRN-3359632
The complaint
Mrs L complains about the delays and poor handling of her claim for subsidence damage by 
her home insurer UK Insurance Limited (UKI). 
What happened
Mrs L took out a home insurance policy with UKI and made a claim for subsidence damage 
to her home in early 2017. Mrs L complained about delays and poor service in September 
2019 and UKI responded to the issues at that time and paid her £250 compensation. Mrs L 
complained to UKI again in February 2021 about further delays and poor service.
Mrs L said its unacceptable that her subsidence claim has been ongoing for four years. And 
that having monitored her home for movement for a year, poor communication and service 
meant it took UKI until the end of 2021 to agree that her conservatory needs to be removed. 
But she said UKI arent willing to replace the flank wall, which is coming away from the 
building, saying that 700mm of foundations are sufficient for the new conservatory to be built 
on. Mrs L said she has evidence deeper foundations are required when theres been 
subsidence even if the cause has been resolved, and what UKI is proposing isnt safe. 
UKI appointed loss adjusters as subsidence specialists and they determined the cause of 
the movement as trees in Mrs Ls neighbours garden. These took a long time to remove due 
to delays by UKIs agents and Mrs Ls neighbours. Mrs L said the loss adjusters pursuit of 
this with her neighbours impacted on their relationship. The loss adjusters said an alternative 
means of stabilising the property would be arranged in case the neighbours refused to 
remove the trees. Mrs L said this plan was delayed and eventually removal was arranged.    
The loss adjusters offered a 12-month guarantee on the work, but Mrs L doesnt think this is 
sufficient and said a new building would come with a longer guarantee. Mrs L said a quote 
from a local contractor stated the new building would require 1500mm foundations. Mrs L 
said that UKI responded that theres no evidence of ongoing movement to her property. 
Mrs L said UKI hasnt monitored her home since the original monitoring finished in February 
2018. She said UKI has no idea of measurements from before the trees were removed or 
after but are saying she can now have new monitoring if she wishes. But Mrs L said shes 
waited four years for UKI to deal with the subsidence and doesnt want to wait any longer. 
She said UKIs handling of her claim has been appalling and because of the timeframe shes 
been tied to the policy and paid premiums which have doubled in this time. 
UKI responded to Mrs L saying it had fallen short in progressing her claim. It said delays in 
removing the neighbours trees werent all its fault and an alternative scheme of stabilisation 
had been under review. UKI acknowledged the schedule of works took longer than it should, 
and Mrs L had had to chase this. It said the foundations are sufficient for the structure and 
the wall will be stripped back and damage dealt with. It said any future cracking in the same 
area would be dealt with as a continuation of the claim. UKI paid Mrs L £400 compensation 
for its poor service and advised that her premiums will have increased due to her claim.  
Mrs L wasnt happy with UKIs response to her complaint and referred it to our service. She 
said her claim has taken far too long and she wants UKI to agree a cash settlement that 
covers the cost of replacing her conservatory and the flank wall, with adequate foundations.
Our investigator didnt recommend Mrs Ls complaint be upheld. She thought UKIs schedule 
of works was reasonable. She said there were delays in progressing the claim, but that UKIs 
payment of £400 compensation was fair for this. The investigator said that a claim can affect 
an insurance premium. She said the 12-month guarantee for the repairs is standard and UKI 
will also provide Mrs L with a Certificate of Structural Adequacy when the work is completed. 
Mrs L disagreed with the investigator. She said the second surveyor told her the flank wall 
was bad but then reported differently. She said she cant understand why the entire wall 
isnt in need of replacement as its coming away from her property. Mrs L said she was aware 
her conservatory quote wasnt like-for-like, but she had also spoken to other builders who 
thought the foundations should be 1500mm deep. Mrs L said it was negligent of UKI not to 
arrange monitoring after the trees were removed to ensure her home had stopped moving. 
Mrs L said she would get another quote for a like-for-like replacement of her conservatory to 
gain a reasonable cash settlement as she doesnt want UKI involved. Mrs L sent a second 
conservatory quote to UKI at around 10% cheaper than the original quote and then a further 
quote at about the same amount with foundations of 1000mm. UKI said these arent like-for-
like replacements and it didnt alter its response to her complaint or claim. The investigator 
agreed with UKI about this and Mrs L requested an ombudsman review her complaint.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
References to UKI include its agents. I have considered Mrs Ls complaint from when UKI 
responded to her previous complaint. 
 
Mrs L said that she had a complete lack of faith in UKIs decisions and feels unfairly treated 
during her claim. Ive looked carefully at Mrs Ls and UKIs records to see how UKI handled 
her claim and whether it treated her fairly. I have to bear in mind that subsidence claims are 
by their nature long lasting and involve multiple parties and long-term disruption to 
policyholders. My role is to see if UKI has made fair and reasonable decisions about the 
claim and whether or not it caused avoidable delays and poor service. 
Ive started by considering the technical aspects of Mrs Ls complaint. But I should note that 
we arent experts in property construction and structural damage and so we have to rely 
upon the available expert reports in reaching a decision about the work that should be 
carried out. In this case the only expert reports are from UKIs loss adjusters and their 
surveyors.
Mrs L said the evidence is clear that deeper foundations are needed for her conservatory 
based on the clay soil that her home stands on, and the fact that subsidence has been 
present. She disagrees with UKI about the work that needs to take place. Following the 
removal of the neighbours trees and a site investigation report, the surveyor for UKIs loss 
adjusters confirmed that foundations of 700mm are adequate for the conservatory. In the 
absence of any other expert evidence I cant say this is incorrect or unsafe as Mrs L 
suggests.
Mrs Ls quotes for a replacement conservatory are more than double the costed schedule of 
works from UKIs loss adjuster. UKI said this isnt like-for-like as it includes new foundations, new ring beam and electrics and to take down and re-build the flank wall. UKI said Mrs Ls 
estimates include much better glass and an improved conservatory design than the one in 
situ. In other words, Mrs Ls estimates provide for a complete re-build of an improved 
conservatory rather than the limited re-build put forward by UKI. I can see from its records 
that UKI has explained to Mrs L that it wouldnt pay to enhance what is there at present as 
this would constitute betterment. 
Mrs Ls quotes dont include a professional opinion and come from home improvement 
specialists, and so these dont carry the same weight as a surveyors report. It should be 
borne in mind that Mrs Ls insurance policy indemnifies her for loss on a like-for-like basis 
but provides no cover for any improvements. It appears that the quotes provided by Mrs L 
are for significant improvements over her current conservatory and so I think its reasonable 
for UKI not to fund these estimates. 
There appears to have been a misunderstanding between the parties about the problem of 
Mrs Ls flank wall, which has evidence of damp and cracking. UKI has said that damage by 
water ingress into the top half of the wall will be repaired and the extent of this will be 
assessed when the plaster covering is stripped away. Although Mrs L wants the whole wall 
replaced, the approach put forward by UKIs surveyor following two inspections appears to 
be reasonable. It remains open to Mrs L to obtain a surveyors report about the repairs which 
UKI would need to consider and respond to in detail. If Mrs L remained dissatisfied with 
UKIs response she could bring a further complaint to UKI and then our service if she 
wished.
Although I have no reason to believe that UKIs schedule of work doesnt provide a 
reasonable indemnity for the repairs required to Mrs Ls home, I do think UKI should review 
the costings underpinning its offer of settlement to ensure they reflect up to date prices for 
labour and materials. Mrs L should bear in mind that UKI only needs to provide a cash 
settlement at what it would cost UKI to have the repairs completed and that will be much less 
than a policyholder could hope to pay.
UKI has offered Mrs L a 12-month guarantee to cover its contractors work and a Certificate 
of Structural Adequacy on completion. UKI has also told her that if cracks reappear in any of 
the areas where they have previously been identified it will consider this a continuation of her 
existing claim and make good any damage. I understand that Mrs L wants to arrange the 
work without UKIs involvement, but I think what UKI is offering is fair. It means Mrs L can 
have peace of mind that should there be a recurrence of the subsidence problems, they will 
be dealt with and no further excess payment will be required of her.
Mrs L said her premiums have risen over the period of her claim and because it has taken so 
long, shes tied into the policy and cant mitigate the rises. UKI has confirmed theres an 
increase as a consequence of her claim. I think this is reasonable in the circumstances and 
treats Mrs L as any other policyholder renewing their insurance with a similar claim.
UKI acknowledged that its poor service in progressing Mrs Ls claim. I agree. There were 
delays following the monitoring of her home in requesting her neighbours remove some 
trees, which was UKIs fault - and delays in the trees then being removed, which wasnt 
UKIs fault. Once removed, it took UKI from June to October 2021 to provide Mrs L with a 
schedule of works. 
Mrs L was concerned that no further monitoring of her home was arranged by UKI after the 
trees were removed. UKI were concerned that this would delay the claim further, and Mrs L 
declined its offer to re-monitor for this reason. I can see that further monitoring could have 
added to the delay and as UKIs surveyor was satisfied the property had stabilised I think 
this was reasonable. I havent seen evidence that further monitoring was promised by UKI as 
Mrs L suggests.I sympathise with Mrs L for the years her claim has taken to this point. I have thought about 
the compensation UKI has paid to her for its poor service. Although its not unusual to see 
subsidence claims take years to resolve, I can see there have been delays caused by UKI 
and its agents. Much of the time taken was not due to poor service by UKI and latterly there 
was a time-consuming dispute about the foundations of the conservatory and betterment. 
Having said this, I can see there were many times when Mrs L has had to pursue UKI and its 
agents to progress her claim and I dont think this was fair to her. All-in-all, I think the £400 
compensation put forward by UKI is fair in the circumstances of Mrs Ls claim and in line with 
awards we have made in similar circumstances. 
From what Ive seen I think UKI has put forward a schedule of works to provide lasting and 
effective repairs on a like-for-like basis. I hope Mrs L and UKI can reach agreement about 
the works to be carried out, or a cash settlement.
My final decision
For the reasons I have given above it is my final decision that the complaint is not upheld. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms L to accept or 
reject my decision before 5 May 2022.
 
Andrew Fraser
Ombudsman