DRN-2495526
The complaint
 Ms C says Barclays Bank UK PLC (Barclays) mis-sold her a payment protection 
insurance (PPI) policy.
 
What happened
Our adjudicator recommended the complaint be upheld. Barclays disagreed with the 
adjudicators opinion, so the complaints been passed to me.
I issued my provisional decision in respect of this complaint on 4 December 2020, a copy of 
which is attached to, and forms part of, this final decision. In my provisional decision I set out 
the reasons why I was minded not to uphold Ms Cs complaint about the miss-sale of the 
PPI. But I thought there was something that Barclays had to do to put things right with Ms C.
I asked the parties to the complaint to let me have any further representations that they 
wished me to consider by 3 January 2021. Barclays has said that it received the provisional 
decision and that it has nothing else to add. Ms C has been contacted twice since the 
decision, reminding her of the deadline for a response. But at the time of writing I have not 
received any further submissions from her. I consider that sufficient time has been given for 
a response had Ms C wished to make one. So, I am proceeding to my final decision.
  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding Ms Cs case.
In my provisional decision I explained that,
Where the evidence is incomplete (as some of it is here), I have based my decision 
on the balance of probabilities  in other words, on what I consider is most likely 
given the available evidence and the wider circumstances.
Ive read and considered the whole file, but Ill confine my comments to what I think 
is relevant. If I dont comment on any specific point its not because Ive failed to 
consider it, but
because I dont think I need to comment on it in order to reach what I think is 
the right outcome in the wider context.
After reviewing all of the information provided in this complaint, I do not intend to 
uphold Ms Cs complaint. I explain why below.
Ive first looked at whether Barclays gained Ms Cs consent and whether it made clear 
that the policy was optional. Barclays told us the PPI was sold on the telephone when Ms 
C applied for her loan. It says that its representative would have had to gain Ms Cs 
consent to set up the PPI and that Ms C would have had a choice about doing that.
Barclays told us the recording of the telephone call was no longer available. Whilst thats 
disappointing, it is not necessarily surprising as these events happened over 11 years 
ago, and businesses arent required to keep such things indefinitely. However, Barclays 
has sent us the documentation it sent to Ms C after the telephone call in which she set up 
the loan and the PPI. Barclays wrote to Ms C separately about the loan and the PPI. And 
the two things were paid for separately by two direct debits. And the letter Barclays sent 
about the PPI is written in the language of something that was recommended to Ms C and 
of something that was accepted by Ms C during the telephone call.
So, having considered all the submissions I have received in this case, and in the absence 
of detailed testimony from Ms C to the contrary, I think its more likely that Barclays made 
Ms C aware that the PPI was optional and that she chose to take it.
Both parties agree that Barclays recommended the policy to Ms C. This meant 
Barclays needed to take reasonable steps to make sure the policy was suitable 
for her. Based on what Ive seen of her circumstances at the time, I think the 
recommendation was right for her. I explain why below.
Ms C was eligible for the cover, and she doesnt appear to have been affected by 
any of the main exclusions from or limitations to the policies. Ms C told us that she 
was entitled to no sick pay and had no other means she could rely on to make her 
repayments. In any event, the PPI policies would have paid out for up to 12 months 
if Ms suffered accident or sickness. So, I think the policy could have been useful to 
Ms C.
The cost of each policy appears to have been comparable to other similar 
policies at the time and appears to have been affordable.
So, having thought about everything carefully, I think the policy was suitable for Ms C.
As well as checking the policy was right for Ms C, Barclays also had to give her 
clear enough information about the policy so she could decide if she wanted to buy 
it. Its possible the information Barclays gave her was not as clear as it shouldve 
been. However, for the same reasons I think the policies were suitable, Im not 
persuaded better information wouldve made a difference to their decision to take 
out the PPI policies.
In saying that I think that the cost was not as clear as it could have been. But Barclays say 
the cost would have been put to Ms C on the telephone. And the letter that was sent to her 
the same day explained that cost. Had the cost in the letter been significantly different to 
what she was told on the telephone, I might have expected Ms C to raise a concern about 
that at the time or to have cancelled it. I have been shown no evidence that either 
happened. So, it seems more likely that Ms C agreed to the policy knowing what the cost 
was.
In effect the policy ended up costing 1p less than was stated in the letter. There may 
have been cases in which this may have made a significant difference to a consumer. 
But I do not think the discrepancy was such that Ms C would have avoided the policy as 
the difference was 1p. And the difference worked in Ms Cs favour. So, as I think it more 
likely that the policy was discussed and agreed to during the telephone call, I dont think 
Ms C would have avoided it when it came into effect for 1p less than the quoted price.So, I dont think better information about the PPI would have put her off taking out the 
cover and I dont think that Ms C lost out as a result of anything Barclays might have 
done wrong.
Which means Barclays doesnt have to pay back all of the cost of the PPI 
to Ms C. But Barclays will pay back some of the cost of the PPI to Ms C because:
When the policy was sold, Barclays expected to get a high level of commission 
and profit share (more than 50% of the PPI premium) - so it should have told 
Ms C about that. Because Barclays didnt tell Ms C, that was unfair.
To put that right, Barclays has basically offered to pay back the amount of 
commission and profit share that was above 50% of the PPI premium - and I 
think that offer is fair in this case.
what the business needs to do
Barclays has to pay back to Ms C any commission and profit share it got that was 
more than 50% of the PPI premium. Barclays should also pay back to Ms C any 
extra interest Ms C paid because of that.
Barclays should pay back to Ms C the extra she paid each month because the 
commission and profit share it got was more than 50% of the cost of PPI. Barclays 
should also pay Ms C 8%* simple interest on each payment.
*Businesses have to take basic rate tax off this interest. Ms C can claim back the tax if she doesnt pay tax.
My provisional decision
My provisional decision is that I am not minded to uphold Ms Cs complaint as the 
PPI policy wasnt mis-sold  so Barclays UK Plc does not have to pay back all of 
the cost of the PPI to Ms C.
But Barclays UK Plc does have to pay back to Ms C any commission and profit 
share it got that was more than 50% of the PPI premium.
I have considered all of the evidence and arguments from the outset in order to decide what 
is fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  In the absence of any further 
points for me to consider, I find no reason to depart from my original findings as set out in my 
provisional decision.
  
Putting things right
 Barclays will pay fair compensation in accordance with the details in my provisional 
decision, which is repeated above. 
 
My final decision
 For the reasons set out above, and within my provisional decision, the PPI policy wasnt 
mis-sold  so Barclays Bank UK PLC does not have to pay back all of the cost of the PPI to 
Ms C. But Barclays Bank UK PLC does have to pay back to Ms C any commission and profit share 
it got that was more than 50% of the PPI premium. 
 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms C to accept or 
reject my decision before 8 February 2021.
 
Douglas Sayers
Ombudsman