DRN-2816603
The complaint
Mr and Mrs P are unhappy that Fairmead Insurance Limited declined a claim they made 
against their home insurance policy. Mr and Mrs P say birds attacked the property and 
damaged the rubber seals surrounding the double glazed units. 
What happened
Mr and Mrs P were advised by a local farmer that birds had attacked their holiday home. Mr 
and Mrs P say the damage has affected the integrity of the double glazed units and the seals 
need to be replaced. They made a claim to their insurer, Fairmead.
Fairmead said the damage wasnt covered under the policy as an insured peril didnt take 
place. It said the policy provides cover in the event of collision or impact damage caused by 
an animal. Fairmead said it couldnt be established that the damage being claimed for was 
caused by a one off insurable event. 
Mr and Mrs P remained unhappy and asked us to look at their complaint. They believe their 
claim is covered under the policy. 
Our investigator thought Fairmeads decision to decline the claim was reasonable. He didnt 
think the action of the birds pulling out chunks of the seal while pecking at the window could 
be described as impact damage caused by a one off event. And so he was satisfied that the 
policy didnt provide cover in this case. 
Mr and Mrs P didnt agree. They say that the meaning of impact includes; a marked effect or 
influence and so their claim should be covered as the birds made a marked effect and 
influence when making contact with their property. 
So Mr and Mrs P would like an ombudsman to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr P says the definition of impact is described as the action of one object coming forcibly 
into contact with another  but he says the word impact has a secondary meaning: being a 
marked effect or influence. He says it isnt reasonable for Fairmead to rely on only the first 
definition  and so he believes the claim should be covered. 
The policy term says Fairmead will provide cover in the event of:
6. Collision or impact involving:
a vehicle, aircraft or other aerial device (or anything falling from them), or an animal"
Mr Ps view therefore is that this term can be interpreted as a marked effect or influence 
involving an animal. 
The purpose of Mr and Mrs Ps home insurance policy is to provide indemnity in the event of 
loss or damage to an insured item caused by an insurable event. This means it wont provide 
cover for every eventuality. Having reviewed the definitions given for impact, I find the first 
definition relates to contact likely to cause damage to an insurable item that may require 
repair or replacement. The word impact is defined as collision and  coming into forcible 
contact with another object. 
Ive looked at the examples given for the definition Mr P believes should reasonably apply to 
the circumstances of his claim. The examples relate to influence rather than physical contact 
with an object: i.e. an insurable item. For example; high interest rates have had a significant 
impact on spending. 
The circumstances of the incident are that many birds used their beaks to pull out pieces of 
the seal surrounding double glazing units to Mr and Mrs Ps property. I think Fairmeads 
policy is clear enough when referring to the word impact in the context of insurance cover  
and when written alongside the word collision - for loss or damage.
Fairmead explained when declining the claim that an example of where the key term would 
apply would be where a bird flew into a closed window or a horse damaged a boundary wall 
at their property: a one off event caused by an animal.
I understand Mr and Mrs P are disappointed with Fairmeads decision. But I dont think 
Fairmeads decision to decline the claim was unreasonable. I dont think the circumstances 
which caused the damage is a one off insurable event covered under the policy. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr P and Mrs P to 
accept or reject my decision before 9 July 2021.
 
Geraldine Newbold
Ombudsman