DRN-2701883
The complaint
Mr P complains about end of contract charges when his agreement with PSA Finance UK 
Limited ended.  
What happened
In September 2018 Mr P was supplied with a car and entered into a hire purchase 
agreement with PSA.
At the end of the agreement the car was inspected. PSA asked Mr P to pay charges for 
damage.
Mr P disputed the charges. PSA agreed to remove some of them but the following charges 
remain outstanding:-
Scuffed front alloy wheel £65
Rim damage rear alloy wheel £65
Corrosion front alloy wheel £65
Rear bumper £75
Mr P complained to this service. He said there was damage to the alloy wheels when the car 
was supplied to him. He also said he hadnt caused any damage to the bumper during the 
time the car had been in his possession.
Our investigator upheld the complaint. She said that based on the evidence provided by Mr 
P showing the damage to the wheels in September 2018, she was satisfied that the car had 
been supplied with the damage and that the charges would be removed. In relation to the 
bumper the investigator said the photos taken by Mr P on the day the car was inspected 
didnt show any damage, so these charges should be removed as well.
PSA agreed to remove the charges for the alloy wheels but said the photos of the bumper 
hadnt been taken close enough to show the damage which was there.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The terms and conditions of the agreement say that Mr P must return the car in good 
condition at the end of the agreement and that any damage which goes beyond acceptable 
wear and tear is the consumers responsibility.
PSA has said that it provided Mr P with finance on the understanding that there was no 
damage to the car. Mr P has said that the car was supplied to him as a used car with 
damage to the wheels and that at the price it was advertised, refurbishment of the alloy 
wheels wasnt included.
Ive looked at the inspection report and the photos provided by Mr P which show the 
condition of the wheels at the point of supply. Based on what Ive seen, Im satisfied that the 
wheels were damaged at the point of supply and that the dealership was aware of this. 
Looking at the photos of the wheels now, I dont think the damage looks any different , so Im 
satisfied that the damage to the wheels was pre-existing and that the charges should be 
removed.
In relation to the bumper, Ive looked at all of the available information, including the photos. 
PSA says there is paint cracking on the rear bumper. I cant see this clearly I the photos. Its 
up to PSA to show that the damage exists sand Im not persuaded the photos show it. 
Therefore Im of the view that the charges for damage to the bumper should be removed as 
well.
Putting things right
PSA should remove all of the charges for damage. This is because the damage is either pre-
existing or because it cant be seen in the photos.  
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold the complaint. PSA Finance UK Limited must remove all of 
the charges for damage.  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision before 2 June 2021.
 
Emma Davy
Ombudsman