DRN-2981906
Complaint
Ms M has complained about her Bank of Scotland Plc (trading as Halifax) overdraft, 
Amongst other things, shes said that Halifax unfairly applied charges to her overdraft when 
she was in financial difficulty.
  
Background
One of our adjudicators looked at this complaint and thought Halifax should have realised 
that Ms Ms overdraft had become unsustainable for her by May 2015 and so it needed to 
refund all the interest, fees and charges it added to the overdraft from this point. 
Halifax didnt respond to our adjudicators view. So the complaint was passed to an 
ombudsman for a final decision.   
  
My findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Halifax will be familiar with all the rules, regulations and good industry practice we consider 
when looking at whether a bank treated a customer fairly and reasonably when applying 
overdraft charges. So I dont consider it necessary to set all of this out in this decision.
Having carefully considered everything provided, I also think Halifax acted unfairly when it 
continued charging overdraft interest and associated fees after it renewed Ms Ms overdraft 
in May 2015. 
A look at Ms Ms statements in the period leading up to the renewal shows that she never 
saw a credit balance on her account. It was clear that Ms M was using her overdraft for day 
to day expenditure, rather than short-term occasional use. And I cant see that there were 
sufficient credits going into the account either. 
In these circumstances, it ought to have been apparent that Ms M was struggling and she 
was unlikely to repay what she owed within a reasonable period of time with overdraft 
interest, fees and associated charges being added. So Halifax should have stopped 
providing the overdraft on the same terms and treated Ms M with forbearance rather than 
adding even more fees and charges on the overdraft.
All of this means that Halifax should have realised that Ms M was experiencing financial 
difficulty, wasnt using her overdraft as intended and shouldnt have continued offering it on 
the same terms. As Halifax didnt react to Ms Ms overdraft usage and instead continued 
charging in the same way, I think it failed to act fairly and reasonably towards her. 
Ms M ended up paying additional interest, fees and charges on her overdraft at a time when 
she was already experiencing difficulty. So I think that Ms M lost out because of what Halifax 
did wrong and that it should put things right.  
Fair compensation - what Halifax needs to do to put things right for Ms M
Having thought about everything, I think that it would be fair and reasonable in all the 
circumstances of Ms Ms complaint for Halifax to put things right by:
Reworking Ms Ms overdraft balance so that all interest, fees and charges applied to 
it from May 2015 onwards are removed.
AND
If an outstanding balance remains on the overdraft once these adjustments have 
been made Halifax should contact Ms M to arrange a suitable repayment plan for 
this. If it considers it appropriate to record negative information on Ms Ms credit file, 
it should reflect what would have been recorded had it started the process of taking 
corrective action on the overdraft in May 2015.
OR
If the effect of removing all interest, fees and charges results in there no longer being 
an outstanding balance, then any extra should be treated as overpayments and 
returned to Ms M along with 8% simple interest on the overpayments from the date 
they were made (if they were) until the date of settlement. If no outstanding balance 
remains after all adjustments have been made, then Halifax should remove any 
adverse information from Ms Ms credit file. 
 HM Revenue & Customs requires Halifax to take off tax from this interest. Halifax must 
give Ms M a certificate showing how much tax it has taken off if she asks for one.  
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, Im upholding Ms Ms complaint. Bank of Scotland Plc should 
put things right in the way Ive set out above.
  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms M to accept or 
reject my decision before 17 September 2021.
 
Jeshen Narayanan
Ombudsman