DRN-2374610
The complaint
Miss T and Mr W complain that Union Reiseversicherung AG (URV) declined their claim 
against their travel insurance policy after it had told them that it would be covered. 
Reference to URV includes reference to its agents. 
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again 
here in full. In summary, in August 2019, Miss T and Mr W planned a trip to Southeast 
Asia with departure and return dates of 6 January 2020 and 10 June 2020 respectively.  
In September 2019, they bought a travel insurance policy from URV. 
On 11 March 2020, the World Health Organisation declared Covid-19 a pandemic. On 
15 March 2020, the Foreign and Commonwealth Office (FCO) advised against all but 
essential travel to the country Miss T and Mr W were in. On 16 March 2020, Miss T and 
Mr W contacted URV via on-line chat. Ill refer to that exchange in more detail below. 
On 17 March 2020, the UK government advised against all but essential travel abroad 
and on that day Miss T and Mr W curtailed their trip and began their journey home. On 
23 March 2020, the UK government advised all UK tourists abroad to return home. 
Miss T and Mr W made a claim against their policy. URV declined their claim. It said 
Miss T and Mr Ws policy doesnt cover what happened here. Miss T and Mr W pursued 
their complaint. They say that URV misled them and told them that they had grounds to 
make a claim, then declined it. They want URV to reimburse the cost of their additional 
flights back to the UK. 
The background facts are not in dispute, so Ill focus on giving my reasons for my 
decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The relevant rules and industry guidance say that URV has a responsibility to handle claims 
promptly and fairly and it shouldnt reject a claim unreasonably. And it should give 
consumers sufficient information about a policy to enable them to decide if the policy is right 
for them. This should include an Insurance Product Information Document (IPID), giving a 
consumer a summary of certain things  including excluded risks. 
Im not upholding Miss T and Mr Ws complaint because I dont think that URV treated them 
unfairly in declining their claim. I say that because: 
Ive considered the policy terms and conditions and the IPID in this case. The 
curtailment section of Miss T and Mr Ws policy entitled If you need to come home 
early (Policy B Section 3) sets out the specific set of circumstances in which this 
benefit is available. None of the circumstances described apply here: theres no 
cover for curtailment if the FCO advises against all but essential travel. 
On the first page of the IPID it says:
Are there restrictions on cover?
[]
Unless agreed with us there will be no cover if the FCO advises against travel to your 
destination
[]
Theres a general exclusion in the policy which says that travel against FCO advice 
at the time of departure of the trip isnt covered. Thats not relevant here as the FCO 
advice were considering was issued after Miss T and Mr W departed for their trip. 
So, I think its most likely Miss T and Mr Ws cover remained in place after the FCO 
advice to return home on 23 March 2020, as that advice wasnt applicable at the 
point of departure. 
So, the reason Miss T and Mr W curtailed their trip isnt one of the specific, listed 
events for which curtailment cover is provided. This means that Miss T and Mr Ws 
claim isnt covered under the terms and conditions of their policy. And in the 
particular circumstances in this case, I dont think its unfair for URV to rely on the 
terms and conditions of the policy, as Miss T and Mr Ws cover - for example, for 
emergency medical attention - remained in place after the FCO advice changed on                     
23 March 2020. 
When Mr W contacted URV on 16 March 2020, he asked whether hed be covered 
under the policy if he curtailed his trip. URV said that as the FCO had advised 
against all but essential travel to the country Miss T and Mr W were in, they will 
have grounds to put through a claim if [they] have to cut [their] trip short. 
That wasnt in fact correct information, as Miss T and Mr Ws policy doesnt cover 
them for curtailment of their trip following a change of FCO advice. And the FCO 
advice that was relevant for Miss T and Mr W was the one issued on 23 March 2020, 
when all UK tourists were advised to return to the UK. Miss T and Mr W returned 
home before that advice was issued.
In its letter to Mr W of 22 April 2020, URV acknowledged that it referred to the wrong 
policy wording and gave Mr W incorrect information in the on-line chat exchange on 
16 March 2020. But whilst URV told Mr W, incorrectly, that he had grounds to make a 
claim under the policy, it didnt say that it would settle any claim. When an insurer 
gives incorrect information, we dont proceed on the basis that the incorrect 
information is true: we look at the effect on the policyholders. 
I dont think that the incorrect information URV gave to Mr W in the on-line chat on  
16 March 2020 altered the course of events here. Thats because its more likely than 
not that Miss T and Mr W would have curtailed their trip in any event, following the 
subsequent FCO advice for all UK tourists abroad to return home. I can quite understand why Miss T and Mr W returned home when they did, but for 
the reasons Ive explained, curtailment of their trip in the circumstances that arose 
here isnt something thats covered under the policy. And, considering everything, 
there are no grounds on which I could fairly direct URV to deal with their claim.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold Miss T and Mr Ws complaint.   
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss T and Mr W 
to accept or reject my decision before 16 August 2021. 
Louise Povey
Ombudsman