DRN-2105458
The complaint
Ms S complains that Specialist Lending Limited refused to let her end a loan which was mis-
sold.
What happened
In December 2018 Ms S arranged for a home visit by a company I will call E regarding a 
maths and English tuition service for her children. After assessing the children Ms S says the 
representative said they would benefit from Es learning support. Ms S says she was told 
she could cancel at any time and only had to return the laptop which E provided. She 
presumed that he would make monthly payments while her children were making use of the 
support.
She signed an agreement electronically and relied on the representatives confirmation that 
this reflected what he had told her. In March 2019 Ms S contacted E to cancel as her 
children were not getting benefit from it and she discovered that she had taken out a loan 
with Specialist for £3,925 payable over 60 months. 
She complained to Specialist and when this was rejected she brought the matter to this 
service. It was considered by one of our investigators who recommended it be upheld. 
Our investigator reviewed the documentation and thought it lacked clarity and noted the 
words loan agreement didnt appear anywhere except on the loan agreement which was 
signed electronically. As a result, Ms S says she didnt see that part of it.
Nor did our investigator think the video used in the sales process was sufficiently 
comprehensive and she could understand that Ms S relied on the representative. She noted 
a 14-day cancellation period was mentioned on the paperwork, but she accepted that Ms S 
had relied on the advice of the representative. She also was persuaded that Ms S would not 
have taken out the agreement if she had realised it was a loan.
She concluded that E hadnt made it clear to Ms S what she was signing up to and that she 
could not end it when she wanted. She said Specialist should 
End the loan agreement with no further repayments made.
Remove any adverse information relating to the loan agreement (late payments, 
defaults etc.) from Ms Ss credit file.
Specialist didnt agree and said that the documentation was sufficiently clear and the loan 
agreement was well labelled. Ms S had signed this and the fact it was digital had no bearing. 
It said she would have had the opportunity question anything she didnt understand and the 
right to cancel within 14 days. It was her responsibility to be satisfied with what she was 
signing. She was left with paperwork and a copy of the agreement was posted to her. It also 
noted that she didnt complain until over six months had elapsed.
It mentioned the video she would have been shown which draws attention to the 14-day 
cancellation period. The direct debit coming out of her bank account showed it was being 
paid to Specialist and this should have shown it was a loan. It felt too much weight had been 
given to Ms Ss testimony rather than the documentary evidence. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
This complaint has been submitted as a claim under section 75 of the Consumer Credit Act 
1974. Section 75 offers protection to customers who use certain types of credit to make 
purchases of goods or services. Under section 75 the consumer has an equal right to claim 
against the provider of the credit or the retailer providing the goods or services, if there has 
been a misrepresentation or breach of contract on the suppliers part.
For section 75 to apply, the law effectively says that there has to be a:
Debtor-creditor-supplier chain to an agreement and
A clear breach of contract or misrepresentation by the supplier in the chain.
I have given considerable thought to this decision and I have some sympathy with the 
arguments put forward by the business, but I have concluded that the complaint should be 
upheld. I will explain why.
I have noted the documentary material supplied by Specialist and I can see that the letter 
sent to her a few days after she signed up is titled fixed sum loan agreement. What is less 
clear is what was said to Ms S by the representative when he was selling the product. Ms S 
has provided persuasive and consistent testimony to both Specialist and to this service as to 
what she believes she heard.
Her clear recollection was that she was paying monthly for the use of the product and could 
cancel at any time. As far as she was concerned al she had to do was to notify E and return 
the laptop. She didnt appreciate that she had agreed to take out a loan. 
The issue is whether perception Ms S gained from the representative was such that it 
overrode the documentary material and video which I presumed was played to Ms S. Both 
parties have responsibilities, Ms S to endeavour to understand what she was signing and the 
representative to ensure that he made clear what he was proposing. 
I am satisfied the application form was completed digitally by the representative. In that 
regard I note Ms Ss financial details are omitted and it is simply noted: Mum ok with mothly 
(sic) payments. I gather Ms G has raised affordability issues with Specialist, though she has 
not done so in her complaint with this service. I have not explored this aspect of the matter 
and I trust Specialist carried the necessary credit checks etc. before approving the loan.
However, this entry does give me some cause for concern as to the diligence of the 
representative when he was explaining the agreement. I accept that digital forms are often 
used, but their weakness is that they can be completed by the seller and the consumer may 
not be fully aware of the content.  So, I consider it is reasonable to conclude that, despite the 
documentation, Ms S was led to believe that she could walk away from the agreement 
whenever she so chose.
I have some concerns around the letter sent to her a few days later. Although the loan 
agreement is not as crystal clear as it could be to the layman the letter does refer to a loan agreement. As I said at the outset, I have given considerable thought to this matter and to 
whether this letter is sufficient to allow me to conclude that Ms Ss mistaken perception at 
the time of signing the form should be ignored. 
As I have indicated I consider this to be a finely balanced decision, but on balance I think 
that the onus was on the representative to ensure Ms G was aware of the commitment she 
was making and despite the documentation I am not persuaded that he did.
Specialist has confirmed that Miss S has paid £740.67 ad stopped payments in November 
2019. I consider that is reasonable for the use which she has made of the service and I dont 
consider further payments are necessary.
Putting things right
Ms S should be allowed to terminate the agreement 
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint and I direct Specialist Lending Limited
End the loan agreement with no further repayments made.
Remove any adverse information relating to the loan agreement (late payments, 
defaults etc.) from Ms Ss credit file.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms S to accept or 
reject my decision before 5 March 2021.
 
Ivor Graham
Ombudsman