DRN-2889240
The complaint
Mr S complains that Clydesdale Bank Plc trading as Yorkshire Bank (YB) didnt pay the
correct interest at the end of a five year fixed rate term account.  
What happened
The background to this complaint and my initial conclusions were set out in my provisional 
decision. In my provisional decision I explained why I intended to uphold Mr S complaint. I 
said:  
In May 2015 Mr S called YB and told the advisor he wanted an application form for the 2.7%
AER five year account. The application form was completed over the phone and sent to Mr S
to sign. Towards the end of the call, YBs advisor confirmed the product details, saying the
interest rate would be 2.7% AER and added interest would be paid at maturity. The pre
completed application form was then sent to Mr S to sign and return with a cheque.
When Mr S received the application form it contained a different interest rate to the one hed
discussed on the phone and showed 2.85% gross and 2.28% net. Whether interest was
applied annually under an AER approach or in one lump sum at the end of the five year term
wasnt noted within the application. Mr S signed and returned the application and the
account was opened.
At the end of the five year term YB sent Mr S information about the interest hed earned.
Mr S invested £50,000 at the beginning of the term and YB paid interest of £7,132.81. Mr S
wrote back to YB and said hed expected to receive £7,542.87 as interest on a 2.85% AER
basis. YB responded and said the interest paid was correct.
Mr S complained but YB didnt agree an error had been made. Mr S referred his case to this
service and it was passed to an investigator. They thought YB had dealt with the complaint
fairly. Mr S asked to appeal, so his complaint has been passed to me to make a decision.
What Ive provisionally decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
YBs final response says it didnt offer a 2.85% AER five year fixed rate term account in May
2015. Ive independently checked the products YB offered at the time using industry press
we keep on file. I can see YB offered two very similar five year fixed rate term accounts
when Mr S applied. One of the accounts paid 2.7% AER (which means interest will be
applied to the capital annually). The other paid 2.85% gross with interest applied on maturity.
However, I can confirm YB didnt offer a 2.85% AER five year fixed rate term account in May
2015.
When Mr S called YB in May 2015 he asked for the 2.7% AER product and the advisor he
spoke with confirmed that was the basis on which the application would be made. But when
Mr S received his application it contained a different product, the five year fixed rate of
2.85% gross. Mr S signed the application so the account was set up on that basis. I think the
fact Mr S asked to apply for one product but was sent a completed application form on the
basis of a different, albeit very similar, product has caused the confusion in this case.
Whilst the application form does say 2.85% gross and 2.28% net, its clear Mr S thought hed
applied for a product where interest was paid on an AER basis. That meant Mr S thought
interest was applied to the account annually and accrued interest across the term. So when
Mr S term matured, he was expecting to receive interest paid at 2.85% AER. I can
understand why Mr S thought interest would be paid on an AER basis and can see there
was a disparity between what he asked for in the call and the product quoted in his
application form.
Our approach to resolving complaints is to try and put the consumer into the position they
wouldve been in had no error been made. We cant tell a business to pay someone interest
they were never entitled to. In this case, as YB didnt offer a 2.85% AER product when Mr S
applied, I cant tell it to pay him the additional interest he was expecting to receive.
Ive roughly calculated what Mr S wouldve received in interest had YB opened the 2.7%
AER five year fixed rate term account for him and reached a figure of around £7,127. YB
actually paid Mr S £7,132.81 on the 2.85% gross product so he is in broadly the same
position in terms of how much interest he received during the term.
From the information Ive seen, Mr S hasnt lost out financially because of what happened
with his application. However, Im satisfied the difference in products discussed and
contained in the application form and the basis on which interest was applied to the capital
balance has caused a reasonable level of confusion. And the confusion has caused
disappointment for Mr S at a lower than expected return. Mr S has also spent a significant
amount of time trying to get to the bottom of what happened and why interest wasnt applied
on an AER basis as he requested when he first called YB in May 2015. Based on the
information Ive seen, I intend to tell YB to pay £150 to reflect the impact of the trouble and
upset caused to Mr S. 
I invited both parties to respond with any additional points or information they wanted me to 
consider before making my final decision. Mr S responded to say that, whilst disappointed, 
he would accept the award I set out. YB responded and accepted but didnt comment 
otherwise. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As both parties have accepted the provisional decision I see no reason to change the 
conclusions I previously reached. I still think Mr S complaint should be upheld for the same 
reasons.   
My final decision
My decision is that I uphold this complaint and direct Clydesdale Bank Plc trading as 
Yorkshire Bank to pay Mr S £150.  
 Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 23 July 2021.
 
Marco Manente
Ombudsman