DRN-1818759
 
The complaint
Mr S and the estate of the late Mrs S say Lloyds Bank PLC mis-sold them a mortgage 
payment protection insurance (PPI) policy. 
What happened
Mr and Mrs S took out the policy in 2001 to cover their monthly mortgage repayments if Mr S 
couldnt work due to disablement or unemployment. 
Our adjudicator didnt recommend the complaint be upheld. Mr S and the estate disagreed 
with the adjudicator, so the complaint was passed to me to review afresh.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Weve set out our general approach to 
complaints about the sale of PPI on our website. And Ive taken this into account in deciding 
this case. 
Having done so, Im not upholding the complaint. Ill explain why.
Lloyds should have made it clear to Mr and Mrs S that the PPI was optional and get their 
agreement before adding it. Mr S suggests they were rushed into buying the PPI.
I cant say for sure what happened in 2001 or how the PPI was presented. But, from their 
copy mortgage application which shows PPI was actively selected, and the separate PPI 
application form they signed, I think Mr and Mrs S were made aware it was optional and that 
they chose to take it on that basis. 
Lloyds has assessed the complaint as though it recommended the PPI to Mr and Mrs S. So, 
as well as having to give them enough information for them to make an informed choice 
about taking it, Lloyds should have looked in to whether it was right for Mr and Mrs S. I dont 
know what steps Lloyds took but I think a recommendation to take the PPI was suitable for 
them in any case.
I say that because, from what Mr S has told us about Mr and Mrs S circumstances in 2001, 
it appears Mr S would have been eligible for the PPI and that it was affordable for them. And 
I cant, for instance, see that hed have been significantly affected by the main exclusions to, 
or limits on, the cover. 
Mr S was a company director and says hed have been paid for as long as necessary if he 
was off work. But that depended on the financial position of the company whereas the PPI 
benefits were guaranteed. The PPI would have paid out for up to 12 months per claim, on 
top of any other income Mr S received. The PPI would also have allowed them to put any 
alternative means of income to other uses, such as towards covering their daily living costs if Mr S wasnt working. 
Mr and Mrs S borrowing was secured against their home and the consequences of failing to 
make their repayments were potentially very serious. Overall, I think the PPI provided them 
with useful extra protection.
Its possible Lloyds didnt point out everything it should have about the PPI. But I dont find 
that Mr and Mrs S lost out because of any failings. I say that because, for the same reasons 
I think the PPI was suitable and affordable for them, I dont think better information would 
have stopped Mr and Mrs S from buying it. 
Taking everything into account, I dont think Mr and Mrs S lost out because of how Lloyds 
sold them the PPI.
My final decision
For the reasons given, Im not upholding the complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S and the 
estate of the late Mrs S to accept or reject my decision before 29 June 2020.
Nimish Patel
Ombudsman