DRN-2748238
The complaint
Miss C complains that U K Insurance Limited wrongly declined claims on her home 
insurance policy. 
What happened
Miss Cs held a home insurance policy underwritten by U K Insurance Limited between 
December 2017 and December 2019.
During this time Miss C tried to claim on her policy on a few occasions. Her claims were 
either declined or didnt go ahead.   
Miss C complained to U K Insurance Limited about some of the claims soon after they were 
declined. Her complaints werent upheld.
Miss C says that U K Insurance Limiteds decision to decline her claims demonstrates that 
the policy was unsuitable for her needs. As a result, she raised a complaint with the 
intermediary about the policy being mis-sold to her. She says the terms and conditions 
werent explained, and she never received any policy documents. Miss C also complained 
that the policy wasnt cancelled in time upon her request. Ive considered the mis-sale 
complaint under a separate case with our service. Whilst I found that the policy wasnt mis-
sold, I did uphold part of the complaint in relation to how the cancellation was administered. 
In August 2020 Miss C complained to U K Insurance Limited again about the declined 
claims. U K Insurance Limited issued a final response in September 2020. It said that it did 
not consent to our service looking at the claims that were previously complained about in 
2018, because Miss C brought her complaint to our service more than six months after it 
issued its final response letters on those matters. 
U K Insurance Limited provided its response to the declined claims not yet complained 
about. The complaint wasnt upheld on the basis that U K Insurance Limited didnt feel the 
claims were unfairly declined. 
Dissatisfied with the response she received, Miss C asked our service to look into things. 
Our investigator explained why were not able to consider the claims complained about in 
2018. He considered the new complaint about the remaining declined claims and didnt 
uphold it. 
Miss C accepted that we could only consider her complaint about some of the declined 
claims. But she disagreed with our investigators findings here and asked for the case to be 
referred to an ombudsman for a final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Miss C accepts that my decision will only focus on the declined claims complained about in 
2020. Ive considered the background to each of these claims in turn to decide whether they 
were fairly declined in line with terms of her policy. 
Legal expenses claim
In early April 2018 Miss C made a claim under the legal expenses section of her policy for
the cost of bringing legal action against her former employer.
U K Insurance Limited appointed one if its panel solicitors (D) to consider the claim. D 
provided its report on the claim on 20 April 2018. 
In common with other legal expenses insurance terms Miss Cs policy says that for a claim 
to be covered it needs to have a reasonable chance of success. It defines that as better 
than 50% chance that you will obtain a successful judgement and recover your losses or 
damages or obtain any other legal remedy we agree to.
Ds opinion was the claim didnt have a reasonable prospect of success. Ive seen
that opinion and I think its detailed and reasoned and from someone suitably qualified. The 
assessment was carried out by a solicitor specialising in employment law, with a number of 
years experience. U K Insurance Limited has also confirmed that the assessment was 
reviewed and supervised by the team leader of the employment team.  So, I think U K 
Insurance Limited was entitled to rely on the opinion of a qualified professional when 
concluding Miss Cs claim wasnt one that her policy covered. 
I appreciate Miss C may disagree with that opinion but we're not able to consider the legal 
advice provided or whether the legal advice was correct. 
D offered to look at the claim again if Miss C was able to provide further information or 
evidence to support her case. I cant see this happened, so the case was closed. Therefore, 
I dont think U K Insurance Limited has unfairly declined this claim.
Damage to kitchen unit doors
In 2018 Miss C logged a claim for damage to her kitchen unit doors. It appears Miss C first 
discussed the damage with U K Insurance Limited in early 2018 and then again in mid-2018. 
I say this because I can see reference made to damage of a similar nature in February 2018 
and again in July 2018. On both occasions the claims were declined.  
U K Insurance Limited declined the claims on the basis that Miss C reported that the 
cupboard doors fell off the hinges as they were faulty. 
The exclusions section of the policy terms state: this policy doesnt cover...faulty 
workmanship, faulty design or the use of faulty materials.
Based on what Miss C said (at the time of reporting the claim) about how the damage 
occurred I dont think it was unreasonable for U K Insurance Limited to rely on this exclusion 
to decline the claim. 
Damage to laptop 
In July 2018 Miss C tried to claim for damage to her laptop. She reported that the damage 
was caused by a passing cyclist who knocked it out of her hand.U K Insurance Limited declined the claim on the basis that Miss C had not opted for personal 
possessions cover - an optional extra that came with an additional cost. 
Personal possessions are defined in the policy as: Personal possessions Valuables, sports 
equipment and bicycles that belong to you and luggage, clothes and any other items you 
normally wear or carry that belong to you or for which you are legally responsible.
Based on what Miss C said about how the damage occurred, I dont think it was 
unreasonable for U K Insurance Limited to rely on this exclusion to decline the claim. I say 
this because its clear the damage occurred outside of the home and Miss C didnt have the 
appropriate cover in place to make a valid claim. 
The following month Miss C tried to log another claim for damage to her laptop. U K 
Insurance Limited said the claim didnt progress because its supplier responsible for 
handling the claim required further information that Miss C wasnt willing to provide. 
I can see that Miss C raised some concerns about the questions asked. Her complaint was 
addressed in September 2018 and not upheld. Following this, Miss C did not pursue the 
claim. As a result, I cant fairly hold U K Insurance Limited responsible for Miss Cs choice in 
the matter. 
In its final response letter, U K Insurance Limited said that if Miss C was to provide the 
necessary information, the claim could be reopened. I think this was fair in the 
circumstances. 
Water leak in bathroom
In August 2018 Miss C reported a water leak in her bathroom. It appears she spoke with a 
claims handler and discussed the excess on this part of the policy. Miss C was told the 
excess for the claim was £350. Miss C said shed call back to progress with the claim. No 
further contact was made regarding the matter, so the claim didnt proceed.
As a result, I cant fairly hold U K Insurance Limited responsible for Miss Cs decision not to 
pursue the claim. 
In its final response letter, U K Insurance Limited said that if Miss C was to provide the 
necessary information, the claim could be reopened. I think this was fair in the 
circumstances. 
I understand Miss Cs frustration due to unsuccessful claims and the reasons why feels the 
policy was not fit for purpose. But after having considered some of the claims, Ive seen 
nothing to suggest the policy wouldnt pay out if the correct conditions were met. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss C to accept 
or reject my decision before 25 June 2021.
 
Arazu Eid
Ombudsman