DRN-3470089
The complaint
Mr B complains that Clydesdale Bank PLC, trading as Virgin Money, has not provided a 
breakdown of charges applied to his account which seem to be higher than he expected. He 
would like a daily breakdown of charges.
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties so I wont repeat them again here 
instead I will focus on giving the reasons for my decision our text here
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so I have reached the following conclusions:-
I appreciate Mr Bs frustration that Virgin Money hasnt given him a daily breakdown 
of charges applied to his account as he would like. I have looked at all the 
information Virgin Money has given him to judge if his request is reasonable.
Virgin Money sent Mr B a detailed final response letter explaining generally how 
interest is charged  and specifically explaining his December 2021 and January 2022 
payments. It also sent him a guide to interest charges explaining the steps it uses to 
calculate interest which included a worked example. I think this information along 
with the monthly statements on the account  which show how much interest will be 
charged if only the minimum payment is made should be sufficient for Mr B to know 
how Virgin Money applies interest to his account.
However, I appreciate Mr B wanted a more specific breakdown, so we have gone 
back to Virgin Money to ask for more detail. It sent a table showing over a 5-month 
period the average daily balance, daily rate of interest, the interest applied , and 
interest on new transactions to be applied in the following month. I appreciate that, 
despite seeing this information, Mr B remains unhappy as he still  doesnt feel he has 
the level of detail that he wants and still disputes the charges that have been applied. 
Having carefully considered all of the information that Virgin Money  has given us I 
dont feel there are grounds to say that the charges it applied are incorrect. 
Mr B has raised several further issues with us. It wouldnt be fair for me to comment 
on these issues as they didnt form part of Mr Bs original complaint so Virgin Money 
has had no chance to investigate or respond to these issues. If Mr B wishes to 
pursue these issues he should, in the first instance, raise them with Virgin Money. He 
can of course then , if appropriate, put in a further complaint to us if he isnt satisfied 
with the response he gets..
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 22 November 2022.
 
Bridget Makins
Ombudsman