DRN-2855323
The complaint
Mrs M complains that Bank of Scotland plc trading as St James's Place Bank incorrectly 
reported a default on her credit file. She wants compensation for losses incurred in her 
having to accept a mortgage with a higher rate of interest.
What happened
Mrs M says that in the latter half of 2019 she became aware that SJP had restarted reporting 
a default on her credit file that should have been removed several years earlier, when the six 
year recording period had elapsed. She states that despite requesting that SJP update and 
correct the entry it delayed doing so. And that as a result she was refused a mortgage at a 
favourable rate of interest from a bank Ill call N. Mrs M explains that she was forced to 
obtain a sub-prime mortgage from a business Ill call P. And that this meant that she was 
paying in excess of £500 a month more interest than she wouldve been with N. She 
calculates her loss will be in excess of £14,000 before she is able to re-mortgage. Mrs M 
says that once the default was removed her credit score was increased so that it became 
within the excellent range.
SJP accepted that it had made an error in continuing to report the default. It also accepted 
that Mrs M had settled the account with its collection agent in August 2019. But it said that 
as N hadnt made a formal offer, it wouldnt refund the difference between the interest 
payments she was making to P and the rate N was advertising. It offered £1,000 for the 
upset caused and £9 to cover call costs.
Our investigator recommended that the complaint should be upheld. He said that SJP should 
pay an additional £500 for distress and inconvenience. He thought that apart from the 
incorrect reporting, it had taken too long to correct the error. But he wouldnt recommend that 
it pay the difference in interest charges between the two mortgages. He didnt feel there was 
sufficient information to show that the business which was potentially offering lower rates of 
interest would have agreed the mortgage at the relevant time.
SJP accepted the investigators view and the increased award. Mrs M felt this outcome was 
wholly inadequate. As its not been possible to resolve this complaint an ombudsmans been 
asked to make the final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I understand why Mrs M feels so strongly about this matter. She experienced financial 
difficulties but over several years made successful efforts to repay her debts. So it would be 
particularly disappointing to her to discover that SJP was reporting a defaulted account long 
after it shouldve been removed from her credit file. 
Having then brought this mistake to SJPs attention and settled an outstanding balance, it 
would be upsetting and frustrating that it took several more months for SJP to update and 
correct her credit file.
Mrs Ms complaint is that due to SJPs error she was obliged to accept a mortgage 
agreement at a much higher interest rate than that which shed have been able to obtain had 
it not been for the wrongly recorded default.
Im aware that Ive summarised this complaint in far less detail than the parties and Ive done 
so using my own words. Im not responding to every single point made by all the parties 
involved. No discourtesy is intended by this. Instead, Ive concentrated on what I think are 
the key issues here. Our rules allow me to do this.
This reflects the nature of our service as an informal alternative to the courts. If theres 
something Ive not mentioned, it isnt because Ive ignored it. I havent. Im satisfied I dont 
need to comment on every individual argument to be able to reach what I think is the right 
outcome. 
Whilst I take account of the law, I dont apply it directly. My decision is based on what I 
determine to be fair and reasonable. And not on any finding of legal liability. So theres no 
guarantee that any decision I make would be the same as that which would be reached if a 
court were able to decide the matter.
Theres no significant dispute about the basic facts on which this complaint is brought. As 
such, I think that the main issue I have to determine is what would be a fair level of 
compensation upon which this complaint should be resolved.
Assessing that amount in these circumstances is not a precise science. And its likely that 
the level of upset experienced by Mrs M is at least partially related to the amount she feels 
shes lost.
But for reasons Ill explain  and which include much the same as those given by our 
investigator  I dont find myself able to order SJP to pay the difference between the level of 
interest which Mrs M is paying and that which she wouldve likely paid if her application to N 
had been successful. 
Firstly, N didnt make an offer prior to rejecting Mrs Ms application. However likely it might 
seem that an offer wouldve been made, I dont think that can be taken for granted. Credit 
files are usually a significant factor in a lending decision  but by no means the only one. 
And the terms of any such offer  even had it been made - remain a matter of speculation. 
Ive noted that at the time the application to P was made, it was known that the default was 
still showing. And I think it is to be inferred that this would likely have had a detrimental 
impact upon the nature of offers which mightve been available.
I accept that there wouldve been pressure of time on Mrs M to complete the deal in order to 
facilitate her change of address. And moving house is stressful enough without other factors 
making for increased difficulties. Im aware that Mrs M had pressing family concerns. But it 
remains the fact that Mrs M went ahead and accepted Ps offer despite the impact the 
default was likely to have on the rate of interest offered.
Having said that, I accept that the responsibility for the incorrectly reported default still lay 
with SJP. And that after the issue was first raised and the relevant accounts settled, it 
shouldnt have needed further prompting to ensure that Mrs Ms credit file was correctly 
updated.Whilst it doesnt materially change my decision, Id add that the comparison is being made 
between only two products. The mortgage market is notable for the number and variety of 
potential lenders. This is amply demonstrated by the list provided by Mrs Ms broker. Ive 
seen no information to show what other offers mightve been made to Mrs M had an 
application been made to other businesses. And whether this might have reduced the 
difference in interest rates and / or the minimum term available.
Theres a requirement for reasonable attempts to be made to mitigate loss. And I dont feel 
that a straight comparison between only two lenders is a sufficient basis on which to assess 
a potential loss, given the number of potential alternatives.
In summary, I accept that SJPs errors have caused Mrs M distress and inconvenience that 
should have been avoidable. But for the reasons Ive explained, I dont believe it would be 
correct for me to speculate upon the alleged consequential losses said to have arisen from 
the error. Or to make a further award based on that aspect.
In the circumstances, I think that the £1,509 now offered is a fair resolution of this complaint.
Putting things right
SJP should now pay (if not already paid) Mrs M £1,500 for distress and inconvenience. And 
an additional £9 to cover the reasonable cost of phone calls.
My final decision
For the reasons given above I uphold this complaint. But Im satisfied the offer now made by 
Bank of Scotland plc trading as St James's Place Bank is fair and reasonable. I require it to 
take the action Ive set out in the preceding section.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs M to accept or 
reject my decision before 5 July 2021.
 
Stephen Ross
Ombudsman