DRN-3845784
The complaint
Mrs H complains that Santander UK Plc wont make any form of refund for payments made 
on her debit card for a holiday.
What happened
In February and March 2020 Mrs H used her Santander debit card to pay a total of £1314.95 
to a holiday company for a holiday in August 2020. Shortly before the holiday was due to 
take place the holiday company cancelled the holiday due to the Pandemic. Mrs H says she 
contacted them repeatedly and was told shed get a refund, but to date she hasnt received 
this refund. And since then shes now been told that the holiday company has gone into 
liquidation. So she took her complaint to Santander.
Santander looked into the matter and says it asked Mrs H for evidence of being told she was 
getting a refund, but it says Mrs H never provided it. So it didnt take her Chargeback any 
further. And now it says such a chargeback is impossible because it is out of time due to the 
time limits set out under the card scheme involved here. So it doesnt think it could do any 
more for Mrs H.
Mrs H didnt think this was fair, so she brought her complaint to our service. Our investigator 
looked into the matter. Overall, he didnt think Santander had acted unfairly by declining Mrs 
Hs request for a refund. Mrs H didnt agree. So the complaint has been passed to me to 
decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I should make very clear that this decision is not about the holiday company, which isnt a 
financial services provider and doesnt fall within my remit.  I can see from Mrs Hs 
representations to the Investigator that Mrs H is (understandably) focusing on the actions of 
the Holiday company. However whatever the issues there maybe with the Holiday company 
and just because Mrs H feels shes lost out, it doesnt necessarily follow that Santander has 
treated Mrs H unfairly. 
Santanders role in the matter is to be considered only under the Chargeback rules in place 
as this transaction was on Mrs Hs debit card. The Chargeback rules are under a voluntary 
scheme and consumers do not have a right to a chargeback being raised. It is the case 
though that this Service considers raising a chargeback to be good practice. Santander can 
only be held responsible if it has failed in some way. And the question of whether or not 
Santander has treated Mrs H fairly is the only question I can decide upon in this decision. 
This is an important distinction which I hope Ive made sufficiently clear.
Mrs H accepts she made these transactions for the holiday with the holiday company in 
question and doesnt dispute the amounts, dates or other aspects of the transactions 
themselves. Having looked into the matter Im satisfied the transaction was properly 
authorised by Mrs H and correctly applied to her debit card account with Santander. 
could Santander challenge the transaction through a chargeback? 
In certain circumstances, when a cardholder has a dispute about a transaction, as Mrs H 
does here, Santander (as the card issuer) can attempt to go through a chargeback process. I 
dont think Santander couldve challenged the payment on the basis Mrs H didnt properly 
authorise the transaction, given the conclusions on this issue that Ive already set out.
Santander is required to consider whether there is a reasonable prospect of success when it 
is considering whether to go through the chargeback process or not. If it does go through the 
process, then it must do so properly. And if Santander takes the chargeback as far as it can 
then the scheme provider (not Santander) will then make an independent determination on 
the matter. So Santander isnt solely responsible for the decision whether to refund or not 
when going through the chargeback process. And it can fairly decide to not proceed at any 
stage if it doesnt think there is a reasonable prospect of success.
I can see Mrs H raised the matter with Santander and as a consequence it wrote to her in 
both January and February 2021. Ive seen these letters and I note that in both it makes 
clear it needs her evidence (broadly) and then specifically the evidence of the refund offer 
from the business to be supplied to it by Mrs H so it can take her dispute forward. I note that 
in both letters Santander make the point that if it doesnt receive the evidence it asks for then 
a consequence of that can be that it doesnt take the matter forward and any such dispute 
could be closed down as a result. So I think Santander did enough to warn Mrs H of the 
consequences of not providing the required evidence.
Ive considered what Mrs H has supplied to both Santander and this service. Ive not seen 
any persuasive evidence of Mrs H supplying evidence of this refund to either Santander or 
this service other than saying she was told shed get a refund. Mrs H has provided a number 
of emails of her emailing the holiday company, and shes provided the original booking 
confirmation. However Ive havent seen any persuasive evidence that Mrs H supplied 
Santander with any persuasive evidence of this refund confirmation from the holiday 
company. Indeed it seems shes provided little evidence of receiving any correspondence 
from the holiday company during her dispute with it.
Santander says, in essence, that it decided it didnt have a reasonable prospect of success 
without the evidence of the refund and as Mrs H didnt supply it, it didnt take the matter 
further. Ive considered this and Im not persuaded Santander treated Mrs H unfairly here. It 
asked her for help with her dispute and she didnt supply what it needed to take the matter 
further.
Ive considered the sequence of events here, alongside the time limits set out within the card 
scheme. And I can see when Mrs H complained this was some time after these letters were 
sent and at that time was outside of the time limits for raising a chargeback. And having 
seen the letters Santander sent her I think it did enough to make clear to Mrs H that if she 
didnt respond then her dispute could come to an end promptly. So having considered 
everything I dont think Mrs Hs complaint succeeds.
For completeness Ill address some other issues that Mrs H raises. She says Santander told 
her that shed get her money back on the phone. Santander havent kept calls from that long 
ago. Im not necessarily persuaded that Mrs H was told shed get her money back, but even 
if she was told this, it wouldnt necessarily mean she should get all her money back now. Ive 
not seen a persuasive reason for Santander to give her this money back so even if it had 
mistakenly said shed get her money back, I wouldnt be making it do so. If that was the case a relatively small award for the disappointment would be more likely rather than making 
Santander pay a far larger amount when it didnt have to.
Mrs H says Santander arent telling the truth about these calls. But Im not persuaded that 
these calls make a difference to Mrs H getting her money back. The crux of this complaint is 
that Im satisfied Mrs H didnt send the evidence Santander asked for when it asked for it. So 
it didnt do anything wrong by not taking this dispute further.
I see that the Investigator pointed Mrs H towards another route to getting her money back. 
Mrs H should pursue this route if she wants her money back and I suggest she provides all 
evidence she can to support her claim if asked to do so.
So although Mrs H clearly feels the holiday company is at fault here (and Ive got 
considerable empathy with that feeling) this doesnt necessarily mean that Santander is 
liable to refund these transactions. 
I note Mrs H recently has said Santander is going to close her account. If she wants to 
complain about this she should take her complaint to Santander in the first instance. I can 
also see that Mrs H has submitted a letter to this service recently she says she sent 
Santander about gaining copies of its records on her. Similarly if she wishes to complain 
about what documentation it sends her she should complain to Santander in the first 
instance.
In summary this is a decision about what Santander is responsible for regarding these 
transactions for this holiday. The test here is did Santander consider the Chargeback 
situation here properly. I think that Mrs H hasnt lost out here as I think Santander made a 
fair decision in not pursuing the chargeback any further. So I dont think I can fairly require 
Santander to refund Mrs H for the holiday. So this complaint is unsuccessful.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I do not uphold the complaint against Santander UK Plc.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs H to accept or 
reject my decision before 7 February 2023.
 
Rod Glyn-Thomas
Ombudsman