DRN-3316455
The complaint
Ms W is unhappy with Tesco Personal Finance PLCs response to her request for a refund
under section 75 of the Consumer Credit Act 1974 (S75). She requested the refund for a
car that she says had various problems with it.
What happened
Ms W acquired a used car in May 2019. She paid £3,995 for the car and paid a deposit of
£200 on her Tesco credit card. The car was around 14 years old and had covered around
67,915 miles.
The car had an MOT test around two months before Ms W acquired it and it failed on several
areas. Around a month later, another test was carried out where it failed for two smaller
issues. It then passed an MOT later the same day.
Ms W says she specifically asked the dealer some questions about the car before she
agreed to take it. She says she asked about the condition of the sills, as she says she was
aware this could be an issue for the make and model. And she says she specifically asked
about whether the parking sensors worked  as it was tricky to park where she would leave
the car. Ms W says she was told there were no issues with either of these things. Ms W also
says she told the dealer the steering wheel was vibrating on a test drive.
Later in May 2019 Ms W took the car to a local garage, who identified various issues. These
included corrosion to both sills, corrosion to rear suspension, worn front and rear anti roll bar
D bushes, and a BAD ENGINE OIL LEAK.
Ms W was unhappy with this and got in touch with the dealer who said they would rectify
everything. Around this time Ms W also reported the parking sensors werent working
properly, said there was a knocking noise from beneath the car and pointed out some
smaller issues with the trim, vanity mirrors etc. A couple of weeks later in June, she took the
car to a tyre centre who said it had a dangerous tyre as it had two previous repairs and a 
split in the side wall. Ms W paid for new tyres and says this fixed the vibration through the
steering.
Later in June 2019 the dealer took the car back and repairs were completed. Ms W has
provided a list of the repairs from the dealer that it carried out. These repairs included
welding to the sills, suspension parts being replaced, and a part replaced to fix the oil leak.
The parking sensors are also listed as being repaired. A new MOT was done on the car and
it passed with no issues. The mileage was recorded as 68,423. Ms W got the car back at the
end of July 2019.
At the beginning of August 2019 Ms W says the knocking noise was still present. She took
the car to a local mechanic again. Ms W says the mechanic said not all of the faults had
been corrected. Ms W says they told her suspension issues were still present, as was an oil
leak. Ms W also said the mechanic pointed out the engine management light (EML) wasnt
coming on when the ignition was turned.
The mechanic looked into this further a few days later. They said the dash showed signs of
tampering and they suspected the EML had been covered. They also said there were a lot of
stored fault codes. It was again agreed with the dealer to carry out repairs.
There was a delay in the dealer looking at the car again, and Ms W ended up ordering some
parts herself to speed this up. In mid-October 2019 Ms W got the car back, and the dealer
again gave her a list of the repairs carried out. This included fixing the EML, replacing
suspension parts, and replacing an oxygen sensor. In relation to the oil leak, the dealer said
there was no actual leaking found when it was inspected, but traces of oil leak which we
believe is from lose (sic) bolts. The dealer also said it did a diagnostic check with no faults
present.
At the end of October 2019 Ms W says she drove the car for the first time since getting it
back. She says the EML light was on and the parking sensors werent working. Ms W again
took the car to her local mechanic. They looked at the car and found two fault codes,
confirmed the parking sensors werent working and noted some minor issues. They also
noted a major oil leak which was dripping onto the exhaust and said this was a fire hazard.
Ms W told the dealer she wanted to reject the car. In early November 2019 the dealer got in
touch with Ms W and told her it wouldnt allow her to do this. It said the recent issues were
not present at the point of supply and had developed since Ms W had the car.
Ms W got in touch with Tesco about a S75 claim. It issued its response to this at the end of
December 2019. It said the car passed MOTs both before it was sold and then following
repairs. It also said the car had been driven around 2,000 miles. So, it said it wasnt able to
progress Ms Ws claim under S75.
Ms W was unhappy with this and complained to Tesco. In its final response it explained it
wasnt upholding the complaint. It said it had reviewed Ms Ws account but didnt think there
was a breach of contract or misrepresentation. It said it didnt think the faults reported by
Ms W were present at the point of supply. It said the car passed two MOTs, that there was
nothing to say what caused the oil leak and there was no evidence to back up that the EML
had been covered up.
Ms W remained unhappy and our service began to look into things. While we were
investigating, Ms W organised for an independent inspection of the car to be carried out.
This said, in summary, that the car was in a defective state at the point of supply. It said it
thought this because of the condition of the sills, the D bush and the oil leak. It also said it
thought it was likely the EML had been covered up to mask a fault. At this point the car had 
covered around 69,234 miles.
Our investigator issued an opinion upholding the complaint. He explained, in summary, that
he was persuaded by the independent report that the car was not of satisfactory quality
when it was supplied. He said this meant there was a breach of contract and so Tesco
shouldve handled Ms Ws S75 claim differently.
Our investigator recommended that various expenses Ms W has paid out for the car should
be reimbursed, as well as the cost of the car itself  a total of £4,755.03. He said Tesco
should collect the car from Ms W. And he said Tesco should pay Ms W £100 to reflect
distress and inconvenience caused, as he thought Tescos response to Ms Ws S75 claim
was short and didnt acknowledge the evidence she provided.
Tesco were unhappy with this. It said, in summary, our service shouldnt consider the
complaint as Ms W had started court proceedings. It said it hadnt seen the independent
report when it made its decision. It said the MOTs confirmed the car was road worthy. And it
said its response to Ms W was short as it tried to communicate in as simple a way as
possible.Ms W was also unhappy with the investigators view. She said the £100 was not punitive nor
representative of what happened. And she said if she continued to drive the car with the oil
leak it couldve had very serious consequences for her and any passengers.
I sent Ms W and Tesco a provisional decision on 11 January 2022. My findings from this 
decision were as follows:
I should firstly point out that there is a lot of information on this case. Ms W has provided
various pieces of evidence in relation to the car, detailed testimony about what happened
and a very detailed timeline of events. I wont reference everything in my decision  nor have
I included everything that happened in the background above.
Where I havent mentioned or commented on something, this isnt because I consider it
unimportant  this just reflects the informal nature of our service. Ill focus on what I think are
the keys facts here about the crux of Ms Ws complaint  but I want to reassure her, and
Tesco, that Ive carefully considered everything in relation to Ms Ws case.
Ms W complains about a S75 claim. I understand Tesco has raised concerns that the quality
of the car supplied is the subject of a court hearing, so it doesnt think our service should
investigate. Ms W has confirmed no court has yet made any finding about any subject matter
in relation to this complaint. And shes confirmed proceedings are not currently going ahead
or progressing. So, Im happy its reasonable for me investigate Ms Ws complaint about
Tesco.
When considering whats fair and reasonable, I take into account relevant law, regulations
and guidance. S75 is relevant to this complaint. This explains, under certain circumstances,
that a borrower under a credit agreement has an equal right to claim against the credit
provider if theres been a breach of contract or misrepresentation. I firstly need to consider if
Ms W had a valid claim under S75.
For a valid S75 claim to exist, the price of goods or services must be more than £100 but no
more than £30,000. Ms W paid £3,995 for the car. So, Im satisfied this transaction falls
within the relevant financial limits.
Ive also considered whether a valid debtor  creditor  supplier (DCS) chain exists here.
Im satisfied Ms W bought the car herself and used her own Tesco credit card to pay the
deposit. Ms W paid the deposit to an e-commerce account. But, Ms W paid directly from her
credit card to this account, which Im satisfied was the dealers, so Im satisfied this doesnt
break the DCS chain.
It follows that Im satisfied Ms W had a valid claim under S75.
The Consumer Rights Act 2015 (CRA) is also relevant to this complaint. This implies a term
into the contract for the supply of the car that it should be of satisfactory quality. Satisfactory
quality is what a reasonable person would expect  taking into account any relevant factors.
Relevant factors in a case like this involving a car would seem to me to be, amongst others,
the cars age, price, mileage, model and description.
So, I need to consider that the car Ms W acquired was around 14 years old and had covered
over 67,000 miles. This means I think a reasonable person would have lower expectations
for the cars quality than a newer car with a lower mileage.
In this case, Ive also considered that Ms Ws car was a large, luxury model from a premium
manufacturer  but she paid less than £4,000 for it. This represents a very significantdiscount on what the car wouldve cost new. So, I think a reasonable person wouldnt
necessarily expect the car to be in great condition. And they might expect minor or even
moderate issues to be present when it was supplied. But, that being said, I do think they
would expect the car to be road worthy, safe, and to have no significant issues present.
If I think the car wasnt of satisfactory quality, I would consider this to be a breach of
contract. So, Ill consider if this was the case.
As I previously explained, Ms W has raised a lot of individual issues with the car. Ill focus on
what I think are the key problems.
The independent report has a useful summary of its findings:
based on our examination, the vehicle was in a defective state at sale. This is supported by
the oil leak, the condition of the offside rear sill (which has since been incorrectly welded),
and the condition of the D bush. The MOT of 15/03/2019 shows the oil leak was highlighted
as an advisory and the corroded sill was listed as a major defect. We also note from
information provided that the engine warning light had previously been covered over, and
this is normally done only to mask an underlying fault.
Ill consider if I agree these conclusions are reasonable.
In relation to the sills, the independent report comments:
There is evidence of incorrectly spot-welded patches/plates to the offside rear inner sill
area, which we consider require seam-welding, as these are close to the suspension
mounting point prescribed area
Ive considered that the condition of the sills was mentioned on the invoice from the local
garage in May 2019 which commented:
SURFACE CORROSION ALONG FULL LENGTH OF BOTH SILLS
Ive also considered that sills are mentioned on the list of repairs sent to Ms W from the
dealer. And Ive thought about Ms Ws testimony about this.
Ive also seen the MOT from around two months before Ms W got the car. This says:
Offside Rear Outer Suspension component mounting prescribed area excessively corroded
significantly reducing structural strength sill
I do accept that two MOT tests were passed after this point. But, on balance, Im satisfied
the sills had a fault present or developing at the point Ms W got the car. Im satisfied this
issue wasnt successfully repaired. And, Im satisfied this is a potential safety issue, so Im
also satisfied this means the car wasnt of satisfactory quality when Ms W got it.
In relation to the oil leak, the independent report says:
Oil is leaking onto the exhaust and is considered to be a fire risk.
The invoice from the local garage from November 2019 says:
Engine has a major oil leak which is dripping, and also dripping on the exhaust: fire
hazard!!
The invoice from the local garage from May 2019 says:Bad engine oil leak
Work to an oil leak is mentioned on both lists of repairs the dealer gave Ms W. On the MOT
from around two months before Ms W got the car, it says:
Oil leak, but not excessive
Again, I accept two further MOTs were passed since this point. I also think, on balance,
there was not an oil leak which represented a fire hazard when Ms W got the car. But, I do
think that this was an underlying issue which was developing when Ms W got it. Im satisfied
this wasnt fully repaired. And Im also satisfied this means the car was of unsatisfactory
quality as it developed into a major safety issue.
Ive thought carefully about the EML. I need to consider that although the independent report
concluded this was done to pass an MOT, the EML itself had apparently already been fixed
when the author of the report saw the car. So, Ive thought about other evidence available.
Ms W has given some extensive testimony about this and about what the dealer said in
relation to it. The invoice from the local garage from August 2019 says:
Dash insert show signs of tampering suspect eml light has been covered over
The list of repairs from the dealer mentions they are investigating the EML.
The MOT test from March 2019 says:
Engine MIL inoperative or indicates a malfunction
Considering everything, Im satisfied its likely the EML was tampered with and wasnt
functioning when it went to the garage in August 2019. I now need to consider whether I
think the EML had already been tampered with when Ms W got the car.
Again, I appreciate the car passed two MOTs after the issue was pointed out in the MOT
from March 2019. I know Ms W feels very strongly about the validity of the subsequent
MOTs and what she thinks might have happened here. But, Tesco arent responsible for
these MOT tests. And I dont think I need to make a specific finding about what took place
during these tests.
Thinking about everything, including Ms Ws testimony, Im satisfied on balance its most
likely the EML wasnt tampered with when Ms W had the car. It follows Im satisfied it was
already covered when she got it. Having a covered EML could mask various issues with the
cars performance and safety and could be a dangerous problem. So, Im satisfied this
means the car wasnt of satisfactory quality when Ms W got it.
I have considered whether the EML was repaired. But, Ms W says the first time she drove
the car following this repair the EML came on and stayed on. Her testimony has been
detailed and consistent throughout the complaint and Im persuaded on balance this is the
case. Im satisfied its likely whatever the underlying cause for the EML coming on when
Ms W had the car was most likely the reason it was originally covered. So, Im persuaded on
balance that this underlying issue wasnt repaired.
In relation to the D bushes, the independent report says:
We inspected the front anti-roll-bar D bushes. The offside front D bush appeared to have
been replaced. However, the nearside front anti-roll-bar D bush displayed movement when
manipulated by a bar. A knocking noise was also evident.The invoice from May 2019 says:
FRONT & REAR ANTI-ROLL BAR D BUSHES WORN
The MOT test from March 2019 does mention some suspension parts but doesnt mention a
D bush or anti roll bar bush.
Ive also considered that Ms W mentioned she noticed a knocking noise very early on when
she got the car.
But, thinking about all of this, Im not as easily convinced here that this was a fault with the
car that meant it was of unsatisfactory quality. I say this as I cant see any evidence that this
issue was dangerous or causing any significant issues. And, I need to consider the age,
price and mileage of the car Ms W acquired. That being said, I dont think I need to make a
specific finding about this issue. Thats because Ive already found the car to be of
unsatisfactory quality for the other issues above, and this wont affect my decision nor any
redress.
Ive thought about all of the other issues Ms W has explained the car had, such as problems
with the parking sensors, trims, vanity mirrors etc. But, these smaller issues wouldnt affect
the conclusion Ive reached nor how I think its fair to put things right. So, I dont think I need
to comment further here.
In summary, Im satisfied the car Ms W acquired had faults present or developing at the
point of supply that meant it was not of satisfactory quality. Im satisfied that this amounts to
a breach of contract, and so Ms Ws claim under S75 should be upheld.
What I now need to consider is what I think is fair and reasonable to put things right. Given 
repairs have already been attempted unsuccessfully, Im satisfied Ms W has a right to reject
the car under the CRA. So, I think its fair and reasonable she should be allowed to do this.
I think its fair and reasonable that Ms W should be reimbursed for the cost of the car. I have
thought about whether it would be reasonable for Tesco to retain some funds for Ms Ws
usage of it. In total, the car covered around 1,300 miles when Ms W had it. She has given a
very detailed breakdown of this, and explains she only covered around 850 miles that
werent in relation to getting the car repaired or fixed.
Ive considered that for the time Ms W did drive the car, it also wouldnt have been
performing as shed have expected, so she only ever had impaired usage of it. Thinking
about all of this, along with the length of time she had the car, any use of it was relatively
negligible. And Im satisfied the use was balanced out by her having to pay out for alternative
travel. Rather than make any additional award for any travel costs, I think its fair and
reasonable that she should be refunded the whole amount for the car.
Ive also considered other things Ms W has paid out for. She has had to pay out for parts,
inspections and work to the car that I think she should be reimbursed for. I say this as she
wont have any future benefit of these.
For ease, Ive included a breakdown of these costs below. It should be noted this list differs
in places from what our investigator recommended. I have added some expenses, while for
others the amounts slightly differ to bring these in line with the invoices Ms W has provided. I
have also removed some items  such as the charge for the independent report  where
Ms W hasnt provided evidence of the costs such as a bill or receipt. I will however happily
reconsider any additional expenses if Ms W provides evidence before I make my final
decision.DATE DESCRIPTION
11/05/2019 Car £3,995.00
18/05/2019 Key pad £3.74
20/05/2019 Touch up paint £5.99
20/05/2019 Leather touch up pen £5.95
31/05/2019 Inspection £45.00
03/06/2019 Mount £20.98
16/06/2019 Tyres £220.00
19/06/2019 Sat nav fixed installation kit £41.72
27/06/2019 Sat nav installation £60
07/08/2019 Diagnostic £40.00
27/09/2019 Bushes £16.75
09/10/2019 Dart charge £2.00
16/10/2019 Dart charge £2.00
22/10/2019 Front mudflaps £32.95
22/10/2019 Rear mudflaps £32.49
22/10/2019 Number plate cap covers £1.16
08/11/2019 Diagnostic £40.00
22/11/2019 Sat nav and Bluetooth deinstallation £80.00
Total £4,645.73
Ms W has asked to be reimbursed for other costs. These include compensation for her time
in bringing her complaint and for what she says was lost work due to her gathering evidence
to support her case. I dont think its fair and reasonable for Tesco to be responsible for her
time in bringing her complaint to court, nor to ourselves. So, I dont think any award should
be made here.
Ms W has also asked to be reimbursed for expenses in relation to sending evidence to court
and for court fees. Our service is a free alternative to the courts. It was entirely Ms Ws
decision to begin court proceedings before deciding to progress things with our service, so I
dont think it would be fair for Tesco to reimburse anything here.
Ms W has mentioned she took a loan for the remainder of the cars purchase cost that she
has been paying interest on. I am going to recommend Tesco pay 8% simple interest on the
amounts above to compensate for the time Ms W was out of pocket. I have considered
whether this amount is fair here. I think its likely this is what a court would award. So, Im
happy this is a fair way of compensating for this.
Ms W was unhappy with our investigators opinion as she said £100 was not enough to
reflect the distress and inconvenience caused and said this was clearly not punitive. I should
point out that we are not a regulator and it is not our place to fine or punish businesses when
things have gone wrong. So, anything I might award here would not be punitive  no matter
what happened. That said, I have thought about whether any award for distress and
inconvenience is fair and reasonable.
Its important to say here that in this case, Im only looking very specifically at whether
anything Tesco has done when handling Ms Ws S75 claim has caused her distress and
inconvenience. In other words, Im not considering making an award for any stress or upset
caused by anything the dealer did, the car itself or any inconvenience caused in relation to
what went wrong with the car  for instance Ms W having to take the car back and forth forrepairs. Any distress and inconvenience caused by any of these issues fall outside of what
Tesco are responsible for under a S75 claim. I think its worth noting that I dont think its
likely a court would award for any non-financial losses against Tesco here. So, I think this is
a fair way of approaching things.
Our investigator felt an award here was fair as he thought Tescos response to Ms Ws
complaint wasnt detailed enough. I appreciate Tescos response didnt reflect the level of
detail Ms W went into when complaining. But, I dont agree with our investigator that this
shows it didnt consider evidence she provided. Tesco is free to do its own investigation how
it sees fit and to come to its own outcome about S75 claims and subsequent complaints. I
dont think it would be reasonable to make an award because I disagree with its outcome or
because of the level of detail in its response.
While I can absolutely understand that the overall situation must have been very stressful
and frustrating for Ms W, I dont think Tesco has done anything wrong in its handling of
Ms Ws S75 claim to specifically contribute to this. I should again point out that I am not
considering the impact of it declining the S75 claim. So, I disagree with our investigator here,
and I dont think Tesco need to make any award for distress and inconvenience.
Ive considered that Ms W said had she continued to drive the car this couldve had very
serious consequences for her and any passengers. I accept, given the oil leak was
described as a fire hazard, that this could well have been the case. But, I can only consider
what actually happened  not what couldve happened. So, no further action needs to be
taken here.
Finally, I have considered that Tesco said we shouldnt consider the independent report as it
didnt have this at the time it made the decision about the S75 claim. I appreciate this was
the case, but I think its fair and reasonable to consider all the available evidence to decide
what I think should now happen  even if Tesco didnt have it at the time. Ive also
considered that Tesco has now had the report for several months but hasnt told us it has
changed its opinion.
I gave both parties four weeks to come back with any further information or evidence. Tesco 
responded and said it didnt have anything further to add and so accepted the decision. 
Ms W responded and made various points for me to consider which Ill come on to below. 
She also provided a receipt for the independent report and provided insurance schedules to 
show her costs.
I got in touch with Ms W and Tesco and I explained I initially thought it was reasonable to 
reimburse the cost of insuring the car from the point Ms W couldnt use it. And I thought the 
cost of the independent report should also be reimbursed. Tesco accepted this and Ms W 
said she didnt have anything further to add to her earlier comments.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ms W made various points in response to my provisional decision for me to consider. I hope 
she wont find it disrespectful that I wont echo the length of her response here. But, I want to 
reassure her that Ive carefully considered everything shes said and I appreciate her taking 
the time to come back to me in detail.
Ms W mentioned getting an additional award for the times she couldnt drive the car. But, I 
dont think it would be fair to add any additional amount, given I think she should get the full cost of the car back.
Ms W explained, for various reasons, why she believed Tesco didnt do a reasonable 
investigation into her S75 claim. I do appreciate the point Ms W makes here and I can 
understand some frustration with Tesco. And I also understand it might have caused some 
concern for Ms W when Tesco gave her a short response. 
But, I should still point out that Tesco is free to do its own investigations how it sees fit. So, I 
dont think it would be reasonable of me to comment on what I think to the quality of the work 
it did here. I dont agree with the outcome it reached on its investigation for the reasons I 
explained above. But, I dont think it would fair and reasonable to make an award to Ms W  
because I dont agree with it. 
Ive also carefully considered what Ms W said about her being caused distress and 
inconvenience because of how Tesco handled her claim. But, I should reiterate that I dont 
think it would be fair to make an award for any distress caused by Tesco declining the S75 
claim. As Ive explained above, its entitled to do this, even if I dont ultimately agree with it. 
Having carefully thought about everything again, I still dont think Tesco need to make an 
award here.
I do think Tesco should reimburse Ms W for the independent report she paid out for as she 
provided an invoice for this. And I think its reasonable it should also pay for the cost of 
insuring the car after she was told not to drive it due to the oil leak. I say this as Ms W has 
now provided insurance schedules showing the costs. Ive also noted she mitigated some 
loses by switching to third party, fire and theft policies on renewal.
Ive thought about all of the other information and comments on this case again, along with 
everything else Ms W provided in response to my provisional decision. Having done so, I still 
think this complaint should be upheld. This is for the same reasons set out above and in my 
provisional decision.My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint. I instruct Tesco Personal Finance PLC to put 
things right by doing the following:
Collect the car at no cost to Ms W at a time and date suitable for her
Reimburse Ms W for all of the items and expenses set out in the table above  a total 
of £4,645.73*
Reimburse Ms W £240 for the independent report from 10 December 2020*
Reimburse Ms W the pro rata cost of insurance from 8 November 2019 to 13 May 
2020 at a yearly rate of £629.15*
Reimburse Ms W £484.10 for the cost of insurance from 14 May 2020 to 14 May 
2021*
Reimburse Ms W the pro rata cost of insurance from 15 May 2021 to the date of 
settlement at a yearly rate of £375.95*
*These individual amounts should have 8% simple annual interest added from the time of
payment to the time of reimbursement. If Tesco considers that its required by HM Revenue
& Customs to withhold income tax from the interest, it should tell Ms W how much its taken
off. It should also give Ms W a tax deduction certificate if she asks for one, so she can
reclaim the tax from HM Revenue and Customs if appropriate.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms W to accept or 
reject my decision before 15 March 2022.
 
John Bower
Ombudsman