DRN-4282480
The complaint
Mr M complains that Metro Bank PLC irresponsibly agreed loans for him.
What happened
Metro agreed two loans for Mr M. The first was taken out in May 2021, the second in June 
2022. Ive summarised some of the information Metro provided about its loans in the table 
below.
Mr M had taken out a previous loan with a lender that is now part of Metro and Ive borne 
this in mind and included some information about that loan in my decision. I havent come to 
any conclusion about whether or not the earlier loan was irresponsibly agreed as it is the 
subject of another complaint with us. 
Start date End date Amount 
borrowedMonthly 
paymentsLoan term 
(months)Total 
repaid
Previous 28/02/2019 5/05/2021 £2,500 £68.33 48 -
Loan 1 5/05/2021 26/09/2021 £1,350 £128.23 12 £1,437
Loan 2 29/06/2022 29/11/2022 £1,000 £43.80 24 £1,029
Mr M used some of the capital from his 2021 Metro loan to fully repay his previous loan. 
From the information Metro provided, Mr M met his repayments for his previous loan on time 
and he repaid both his Metro loans early. 
Mr M complained to Metro in early 2023 that it had been irresponsible to lend to him. He said 
that it hadnt assessed the affordability of the loans for him before agreeing them, that he 
had a high level of existing debt and a poor credit score. Mr M said that the loans werent 
sustainable for him as he had to take out further credit. 
Metro said that it took into account the affordability of the loans, his credit score and his past 
credit history and other factors before agreeing to lend to Mr M. It said that he met its 
minimum lending criteria and so it hadnt lent irresponsibly on either occasion. 
Mr M referred his complaint to us. One of our investigators looked into it and didnt 
recommended that it be upheld. They found that Metros checks were reasonable and that it 
made fair lending decisions. Mr M didnt agree with this recommendation and asked for his 
complaint to come to an ombudsman for a review and its come to me.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive also had regard to the regulators rules and guidance on responsible lending (set out in 
its consumer credit handbook  CONC) which lenders, such as Metro, need to abide by. 
Metro will be aware of these, and our approach to this type of lending is set out on our 
website, so I wont refer to the regulations in detail here but will summarise them. 
Before entering into a credit agreement, Metro needed to check that Mr M could afford to 
meet his repayments out of his usual means for the term of the loan, without having to 
borrow further and without experiencing financial difficulty or other adverse consequences. 
The checks needed to be proportionate to the nature of the credit (the amount borrowed, for 
example) and to Mr Ms circumstances. 
The overarching requirement was that Metro needed to pay due regard to Mr Ms interests 
and treat him fairly. CONC 2.2.2G(1) gave an example of contravening this as targeting 
customers with regulated credit agreements which are unsuitable for them by virtue of their 
indebtedness, poor credit history, age, health, disability or any other reason.
With this in mind, my main considerations are did Metro complete reasonable and 
proportionate checks when assessing Mr Ms applications to satisfy itself that he would be 
able to make his repayments without experiencing adverse consequences? If not, what 
would reasonable and proportionate checks have shown and, ultimately, did Metro make fair 
lending decisions? 
Metro provided the information it relied on which included Mr Ms applications and copies of 
his credit file from the time of each loan. Mr M said his salary was £60,000, in other words 
that he had a net monthly income of at least £3,400. Metro sense-checked what Mr M said 
about his income through a credit reference agency online tool. Mr M said he was paying 
£925 each month towards his mortgage, which was confirmed by his credit file information. 
Mr Ms credit file also showed he owed almost £17,000 on existing debts at the time of 
Loan 1 and over £19,000 at the time of Loan 2. Ive summarised some of the information 
Metro relied on in the table below. 
Income Mortgage 
repaymentExisting loan 
repaymentsExisting loan 
balancesExisting credit 
card balances
Loan 1 £3,611 £925 £451 £11,685 £5,308
Loan 2 £3,395 £925 £375 £6,349 £12,762
Mr M said that Metro should have declined his loan applications because of the level of 
existing debts he had. However, when Mr M applied for his first loan his existing loan 
repayments, along with his payment for his new loan, werent so large relative to his means 
that there was an obvious risk of him not being able to meet his repayments without 
difficulty. There was no adverse information such as defaulted accounts or court judgements 
shown on his credit record. I dont think there was anything in the information Metro had 
about Mr Ms circumstances that should have led it to automatically decline his first loan or 
prompted it to complete further checks before lending. 
In this context and considering the amount Mr M was borrowing, Ive concluded that the 
checks Metro carried out on this occasion were reasonable and proportionate, and it didnt 
do anything wrong by lending to Mr M on the basis of the information it had. Mr M repaid this 
first loan within a few months, paying less interest than agreed, and didnt borrow from Metro 
again until the following June. 
I can see from Mr Ms credit file that although he was repaying the loans hed taken out, by 
the time he applied for his second loan from Metro his credit card balances had significantly 
increased. While his existing loan repayments plus his repayment for his new loan would 
amount to around £420 which, as before, seems affordable given his income, he would also 
need to pay a certain amount towards his credit card debts in order to be able to repay them 
within a reasonable period of time. If Mr M was looking to take out a larger loan, it might be reasonable to consider that Metro 
would need to go further in its checks to ensure such a loan would be sustainable for him 
over the term. In this case, given the amount Mr M was borrowing, I think on balance the 
checks Metro carried out were proportionate and it wasnt irresponsible to lend to him on the 
basis of the information it had. As before, Mr M repaid this loan within five months and paid 
less interest than agreed. 
I appreciate that this will be disappointing news for Mr M but, having considered everything 
carefully, I have concluded that Metro wasnt irresponsible when it lent to him in 2021 or 
2022 and so I am not upholding his complaint. 
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I am not upholding Mr Ms complaint about Metro Bank PLC 
and dont require it to pay him compensation. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 30 October 2023.
 
Michelle Boundy
Ombudsman