DRN-3026926
The complaint
Mrs C complains that she was mis-advised by Portal Financial Services LLP (Portal) to
transfer her defined benefit (DB) occupational pension and a small personal pension into a
Self-Invested Personal Pension (SIPP). 
What happened
Mrs C approached Portal in late 2016 for advice whether she could access a lump sum
payment from her pension. Her husband had inherited a property which needed home
improvements which she needed some money for.
Mrs C was 61 and was working part-time with an annual income of £1,600 per year. She
said she was looking to retire at 66. She and her husband had no savings and had a monthly
disposable income of £60. Mrs C had no investments or other pensions. Her attitude to risk
was recorded as moderately cautious.
Portal advised her in 2017 to transfer her DB pension of around £192,000 and small
personal pension of around £2,000 into a SIPP. This would allow her to take around £48,000
in tax-free cash and leave the remainder invested which she could draw an income from
when she needed it.
Mrs C accepted the recommendation, transferred her pensions and received the maximum
available tax-free cash of around £48,000.
In 2019, Mrs C complained, through a representative, that the advice given to her was
unsuitable. She said the option to receive a lump sum from her DB scheme had not been
explored and she hadnt been given sufficient information about the benefits she had given
up, how the SIPP worked and what she was invested in and what the charges involved
were.
Our investigator thought Portals sale process had been flawed as they didnt explore the
possibility of Mrs C drawing benefits from her DB scheme instead. However, he thought
even if all relevant information had been given to Mrs C, on balance she would have
proceeded with the transfer. Mrs C had told him the initial quote they had received for the
home repairs was £30,000. She confirmed that she had no savings and borrowing money
was not an option either. Money from her pension was the only available option to do the
home improvements. The investigator asked Mrs C what she would have done if the
available lump sum had been lower than what she received. Mrs C said she would have
worked with the money that was available, i.e. shopped around, used cheaper materials,
only do essential works etc.
The investigator concluded that renovating the house was important to Mrs C and that
releasing a lump sum is what she wanted. The transfer value analysis report (TVAS) showed
that in her DB scheme she could have got a tax-free cash lump sum at age 63 of around
£33,000. The investigator stated this was six years away from the time of the advice [this
was incorrect as Mrs C was 61 and so this sum was available to her within two years] and
so if Mrs C took benefits immediately, the lump sum available would have likely been
significantly lower than £30,000. He thought on balance Mrs C wouldnt have been able to
do the required works on the property with a much lower sum. The investigator thought if
given those choices Mrs C would have decided to transfer so she could meet her objective
of renovating the property. As Mrs C would be in the same position she is in now, he didnt
uphold her complaint.
Mrs Cs representatives disagreed. They said Portal focussed on the renovation objective
and didnt consider Mrs C retirement income needs. Mrs C wasnt made sufficiently aware of
the impact the transfer had on her retirement.
As no agreement could be reached the complaint was passed to me for an ombudsman
decision. 
I issued a provisional decision upholding Mrs Cs complaint. Mrs Cs representatives agreed 
with the outcome and had no further comments. Portal did not respond.
As I have no further comments to consider I see no reason to change the decision I reached 
previously. Ive set out my reasons again below.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Its evident from the information I have seen that the transfer was solely recommended to
release a tax-free cash lump sum from Mrs Cs pension to pay for the home renovations.
The documents from the time of the advice vaguely refer to Mrs C wanting flexibility, control
of her funds and that she didnt want an annuity, but no real reasons are provided why this
was the case or what these statements were based on. So I havent put much weight on this.
In fact theres no evidence that Mrs Cs pension income needs and objectives in retirement
were properly discussed at all. The fact-find states she doesnt know what income she will
require in retirement and it seems this wasnt further explored by Portal. The suitability report
heavily focusses on releasing a cash lump sum to justify the transfer.
Having listened to the phone call between Mrs C and the investigator I agree that accessing
a lump sum was what she wanted and it was important enough to her to be properly
considered. However, when advising her, Portal also needed to consider the effect a transfer
would have on her retirement provisions and whether it was suitable in this respect. The fact
Mrs C wanted a lump sum and that this could be achieved by a transfer wasnt enough to
make a transfer suitable.
Like the investigator said, Portal didnt explore the option to access benefits from the DB
scheme immediately. Portal recorded that early retirement was possible from age 55, so Mrs
C could have taken benefits at the time the advice was given in 2017. The TVAS estimates
Mrs C could have received around £32,000 tax free cash from the DB scheme at age 63.
Having considered the cash commutation and early retirement factors Mrs Cs DB scheme
provided in the information to Portal, I think its reasonable to assume she would have been
able to receive a sum at 61 which wasnt too far from the £30,000 Mrs C originally said she
needed. Mrs C also could have taken her small personal pension scheme to increase this
sum. 
Of course a considerably higher cash lump sum achieved by a transfer would have looked
attractive. However, I think Portal failed to give a more balanced picture of the situation here.
Ill explain why.Mrs Cs new SIPP needed to achieve investment returns of 11.1% per year (critical yield) to
provide the same benefits as her DB scheme when compared at age 65 and 13.6% if
benefits were taken at 63.
The advice was given during the period when the Financial Ombudsman Service was
publishing 'discount rates' on our website for use in loss assessments where a complaint
about a past pension transfer was being upheld. Whilst businesses weren't required to refer
to these rates when giving advice on pension transfers, I consider they provide a useful
indication of what growth rates would have been considered reasonably achievable when
the advice was given in this case. The discount rate was 2.8% per year for 4 years to
retirement in this case. This was significantly lower than the critical yields here. Given Mrs
Cs relatively cautious attitude to risk its clear that she wasnt able to match her DB benefits
by a long way.
Portal tried to deflect from the critical yield saying Mrs C didnt want an annuity and that
when looking at growth rates she would likely achieve to match her DB benefits in the SIPP.
But as I said above what Mrs C needed in retirement and whether she had any clear 
reasons for not wanting a fixed and secured income with a guaranteed spouses pension
was not explored. The pensions were Mrs Cs only retirement provisions, so she didnt really
have much capacity for loss in relation to her pension. I think the suitability report gave the
impression she would likely receive the same benefits in the SIPP as she would in the DB
scheme. However, in my opinion this was misleading and didnt give the full picture. I think 
Mrs C was likely to receive benefits of a substantially lower overall value than the DB
scheme at retirement after the transfer. So based on this alone, a transfer wasnt in her best
interest.
Of course financial viability isnt the only consideration when giving advice and as I said
above I think one of Mrs Cs objectives was to release a cash lump sum. So it was
reasonable to consider options on how to achieve this. However, on balance Mrs Cs
objective of a cash lump sum could have also been met by taking benefits from the scheme
in 2017. And whilst the sum would have been lower than from the SIPP and her annual
income also would have been reduced as she was taking it earlier, Mrs C would have been
able to keep guaranteed and secure benefits in return. And given the high critical yield at
age 63, I think even after applying an early retirement factor for another two years (from 63
to 61) her benefits would likely have still been worth more than if she transferred. At the
same time the cash lump sum from the DB scheme would have likely enabled her to do the
needed renovation work-even if it was maybe on a slightly smaller scale.
It was recorded in the fact find that Mrs C didnt need any income in 2017, however I dont
think receiving an annual income would have been to her disadvantage. Mrs C and her
husband had no savings and a very low disposable income per month. Also, as Mrs C was
only earning 1,600 per month, the income from the DB scheme would have been tax-free.
So I think the additional income would have benefitted her.
Portal failed to explore this option. Instead they tried to meet Mrs Cs immediate need for a
cash lump sum without considering her long-term retirement needs and whether a transfer
was in her best interest overall. The starting point for a DB transfer is that it is unsuitable. I
think if they had recommended Mrs C to stay in the DB scheme and take benefits early, she
more likely than not would have accepted this advice.
There would have been no point in transferring the small personal pension on its own. I think
if Portal would have advised against the DB transfer, Mrs C would have more likely than not
taken the small pension as a lump sum to put towards the renovation work as well.
Putting things rightA fair and reasonable outcome would be for Portal to put Mrs C, as far as possible, into the
position she would now be in but for the unsuitable advice she was given. I consider she
would not have transferred from her DB scheme but would have taken benefits from the DB
scheme and her personal pension in its entirety immediately.
Portal must undertake a redress calculation in line with the regulators pension review
guidance as updated by the Financial Conduct Authority in its Finalised Guidance 17/9:
Guidance for firms on how to calculate redress for unsuitable DB pension transfers.
https://www.fca.org.uk/publications/finalised-guidance/fg17-9-guidance-firms-how-calculate-
redress-unsuitable-defined-benefit-pension-transfers
For the calculation I think its reasonable to assume Mrs C would have taken benefits from
the DB scheme at the time of the transfer in 2017 at age 61. Usually I would say the
calculation should only be based on the proportion of the SIPP value which relates to the
transfer from the DB scheme and not include the personal pension. However, if suitable
advice had been given I think Mrs C would have likely taken the small lump sum available
from the personal pension. Instead she has now benefitted from returns in the SIPP since
2017. So in the circumstances I consider it fair to base the calculation on the whole of
Mrs Ss SIPP and not strip out the personal pension value.
This calculation should be carried out as at the date of my final decision, and using the most
recent financial assumptions at the date of that decision. In accordance with the regulators
expectations, this should be undertaken or submitted to an appropriate provider promptly
following receipt of notification of Mrs Cs acceptance of the decision.
Portal may wish to contact the Department for Work and Pensions (DWP) to obtain Mrs Cs
contribution history to the State Earnings Related Pension Scheme (SERPS or S2P).
These details should then be used to include a SERPS adjustment in the calculation, which
will take into account the impact of leaving the occupational scheme on Mrs Cs SERPS/S2P
entitlement.
If the redress calculation demonstrates a loss, the compensation should if possible be paid
into Mrs Cs pension plan. The payment should allow for the effect of charges and any
available tax relief. The compensation shouldnt be paid into the pension plan if it would
conflict with any existing protection or allowance.
If a payment into the pension isnt possible or has protection or allowance implications, it
should be paid directly to Mrs C as a lump sum. As she is likely to be a non-tax payer in
retirement no notional deduction for income tax should be made.
The compensation amount must where possible be paid to Mrs C within 90 days of the date
Portal receives notification of her acceptance of my final decision. Further interest must be
added to the compensation amount at the rate of 8% per year simple from the date of my
final decision to the date of settlement for any time, in excess of 90 days, that it takes Portal
to pay Mrs C.
Its possible that data gathering for a SERPS adjustment may mean that the actual time
taken to settle goes beyond the 90 day period allowed for settlement above  and so any
period of time where the only outstanding item required to undertake the calculation is data
from DWP may be added to the 90 day period in which interest wont apply. 
My final decision
I uphold this complaint and require Portal Financial Services LLP to pay Mrs C the 
compensation as asset out above. Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs C to accept or 
reject my decision before 18 October 2021.
 
Nina Walter
Ombudsman