DRN-4377497
The complaint
Mr L is unhappy with the amount hes been asked to pay by Right Choice Insurance Brokers 
Ltd trading as Ladybird Insurance Services (RCIB) following the cancellation of his car 
insurance policy.
What happened
On 16 November 2022 Mr L purchased a car insurance policy via RCIB. 
On 10 December 2022, Mr L wanted to change the vehicle on his policy, however he was 
unhappy with the increase in price so didnt go ahead. He was also unhappy with the 
charges to cancel the policy and said he wouldnt pay the amount RCIB asked for.
Mr L says he shouldnt have to pay the cancellation fees or charges as he says RCIB forced 
him to cancel by being too expensive for his new car. Mr L approached this service.
One of our investigators looked into things but he didnt uphold the complaint. He didnt 
agree Mr L was forced by RCIB to cancel the policy, and he thought the amount being asked 
for by RCIB following cancellation was fair, and in line with the terms of the policy.
Mr L didnt agree and asked for a final decision from an ombudsman.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, whilst I appreciate it will come as a disappointment to Mr L, Ive reached the 
same outcome as our investigator.
Mr L took out a car insurance policy via RCIB. Mr L wanted to change the vehicle on cover to 
a new vehicle. RCIB said the new premium would be around £50 more each month.
However, this was more than Mr L wanted to pay. He said the maximum hed be willing to 
offer to pay would be an additional £15 per month. RCIB wasnt able to cover the new 
vehicle for the amount Mr L said he was willing to pay, so the policy was cancelled.
However, Mr L has refused to pay the cancellation fees and charges, as he says RCIB 
forced him to cancel the policy as they were too expensive. So, he thinks the charges and 
fees should be waived.
Whilst I appreciate Mr L found quotes elsewhere with other providers cheaper than RCIB 
offered, each provider is entitled to charge a premium they deem reasonable to cover that 
vehicle and risk. There isnt a set price that all insurers should offer for the same vehicle. 
And whilst I appreciate RCIB were more expensive than other providers, and more than Mr L 
wanted to pay, this doesnt mean they are acting unfairly.
I do appreciate Mr L was unhappy with the price, but I dont agree that RCIB forced him to 
cancel the policy as he says, it just so happened that the price with them was more than 
Mr L wanted to pay. 
RCIB clarified that they made an error in their original calculation when asking for £229.57 in 
cancellation fees and charges, and the correct amount was actually £202.41. 
The policy was cancelled on 10 December 2022, which was outside the 14-day cooling off 
period. The fees and charges applicable for cancellation at that point were:
Cost of time on cover £77.30
Breakdown charge £38.06
Set-up fee £75
Cancellation fee £60
Cancellation of finance fee £25
Commission retained (10%) £60.04
Mid-term adjustment fee £0
Non-disclosure fee £45
Total payable £380.40
Minus total already paid -£178
Remaining balance due £202.41
Whilst I appreciate Mr L is unhappy with this, as explained by the investigator, all the fees 
being asked for are in line with the policy terms Mr L agreed to when purchasing his policy. 
And Im satisfied they are being fairly asked for by RCIB and are correct and in line with the 
terms.
I dont agree with Mr L that the cancellation fees should only be applied if the price of 
insurance via RCIB is in line with other providers in the market that he was able to find. And I 
also dont agree with Mr L that these charges and fees should be waived on the basis RCIB 
caused them in the first place by being too expensive. 
Mr L has said he didnt drive for the full period he was insured for either so they shouldnt 
apply. Whilst that may be the case, the policy was in force for this period. So regardless of 
whether Mr L drove or not, he still had insurance cover for this time, and premiums 
applicable and due for that period.
Mr L has also said that hes been charged interest on the finance agreement by RCIB, 
despite this being cancelled and the finance company advising he didnt owe them anything 
and it was closed. As explained by our investigator, the above list of fees and charges 
doesnt include an interest charge. In addition, Mr L has also sent a screen shot of the online aggregator site he used and he 
says he input previous claim details correctly as non-fault and settled, so he doesnt think he 
should be charged the non-disclosure fee. However, RCIB has provided a copy of an email 
sent to Mr L in November 2022, after he took out the policy, which confirmed they had 
identified the named driver had an open and pending claim recorded from 2019 which hadnt 
been disclosed. 
Whilst this didnt change the premium, the policy needed to be updated to reflect this and the 
fee was applied for this (in line with the policy terms), but not paid for at the time, so was 
added to the overall balance at the point of cancellation. Whilst Mr L disputes there was an 
open claim, RCIB didnt record that information externally, instead they can only rely on what 
information is already recorded, so I dont think they acted unfairly. If Mr L thinks this is an 
inaccurate record, he (or the named driver) would need to approach their insurer from 2019 
to have this amended.
Mr L has also said that he received text messages from RCIBs debt collectors offering a 
50% discount on the outstanding balance if he contacted them to pay it, and he says this 
shows the amount being asked for isnt fair. I acknowledge Mr L has provided screen shots 
of this discount being offered, however, Im satisfied the £202.41 RCIB is asking for is in line 
with the terms and conditions. So, if Mr L has been offered a lower amount by the debt 
collectors directly to settle his account, its up to him whether he takes advantage of this, but 
I dont agree with Mr L that this proves RCIB are acting unfairly.
My final decision
Its my final decision that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr L to accept or 
reject my decision before 30 October 2023.
 
Callum Milne
Ombudsman