DRN-4259028
The complaint
Mr S says Harbour Rock Capital Limited (HRCL), trading at the time as Portafina Investment 
Management Limited, gave him poor service as soon as it became his financial adviser and 
was specifically responsible for delays when he tried to access some of his pension benefits.
What happened
An Investigator established the broad chronology of events in this case in his view of 20 April 
2023. Both parties were in broad agreement with this.
Mr S first called HRCL on 24 March 2022 to request a withdrawal from his pension with 
Aegon and a digital fact find was sent to him. On 7 April 2022, he enquired why he hadnt yet 
received a call. It explained it was waiting for him to complete and return the fact-find. He 
returned this on the same day. 
HRCL called Mr S on 25 April 2022 explaining there was a backlog for appointments to 
discuss his fact-find. The discussion took place on 11 May 2022. Following further enquiries, 
it issued its advice to him on 30 May 2022 with a recommendation that he shouldnt proceed 
with the withdrawal of funds hed requested and the reasons why.
In its letter HRCL said if Mr S still wanted to access his pension benefits he would have to 
sign forms confirming his understanding of its recommendation and explaining in his own 
words why he wanted to go ahead with the transaction. If he did this he would then be 
treated as an insistent client.
Mr S contacted HRCL on 21 June 2022 to discuss the report. He confirmed he wanted to 
proceed with withdrawing funds from his pension and that he would sign and return the 
report forms shortly.
Mr S called HRCL on 6 October 2022 because he hadnt heard anything about progress 
since he sent in his forms. It said it hadnt received the signed report confirming he wanted to 
proceed as an insistent client. He explained hed sent the forms to it in June 2022. He said 
he would resubmit the documents. During the call he also raised concerns about the lack of 
updates he was receiving about his pension performance and the charges it was making.
HRCL received Mr Ss insistent client documentation on 10 October 2022. As there were 
differences in the objectives noted by him on these compared to the earlier fact-find, it called 
him on 14 October 2022 to discuss and clarify. It also confirmed a suitability report would be 
issued shortly. 
Mr Ss case was marked as urgent and recommendation notes were completed. Following 
this HRCL began the process to complete the withdrawal for him. The suitability report was 
generated and was sent to him on 2 November 2022.
Mr S raised a complaint with HRCL on 4 November 2022 about the delays and issues he 
had experienced. He also removed it as the servicing agent for his pension and dealt with 
the withdrawal of funds from his pension directly with his provider.
HRCL issued its final response to Mr S on 3 January 2023. It accepted that it had got things 
wrong, for example the delay in issuing his suitability report and offered him £300 for the 
trouble and upset it had caused. It also said it would refund fees charged between 21 June 
2022 until 6 October 2022, to the value of about £400. It said this was because:
prior to the Pension Withdrawal Report stage, we had required a declaration form to be 
returned to us. This was the Recommended Not to Proceed (RNP) declaration. Without this, 
we were unable to proceed with your withdrawal request and this caused a delay of four 
months (from 30th May until 6th October).
However, we accept that we should have attempted to contact you during the period 
between 21st June 2022 and 6th October 2022This part of the service was unsatisfactory. 
We should have attempted to call you and we apologise for this lack of communication
Mr S wasnt satisfied with HRCLs response and he brought his case to this Service. An 
Investigator considered his case and upheld it. He didnt think it had fully compensated him 
for the delay it had accepted it had been partially responsible for. 
The Investigator noted Mr S hadnt received his pension funds until January 2023. He 
thought that had HRCL provided the sort of service it shouldve done then he wouldve had 
access to his money from September 2022. He proposed an award of interest on the sum 
withdrawn for the period between when he shouldve received it until when he did, to 
recognise his loss of use of the funds.
Both parties accepted the Investigators recommendations. But as far as this Service is 
aware HRCL has yet to settle. So, Mr Ss complaint has been passed to me to review afresh 
and provide a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Where theres conflicting information about the events complained about and gaps in what 
we know, my role is to weigh the evidence we do have and to decide, on the balance of 
probabilities, whats most likely to have happened.
Ive not provided a detailed response to all the points raised in this case. Thats deliberate; 
ours is an informal service for resolving disputes between financial businesses and their 
customers. While Ive taken into account all submissions, Ive concentrated my findings on 
what I think is relevant and at the heart of this complaint.
Ive considered the extensive regulation around transactions like those performed by HRCL 
for Mr S. The FCA Handbook contains eleven Principles for businesses, which it says are 
fundamental obligations firms must adhere to (PRIN 1.1.2 G in the FCA Handbook). These 
include:
- Principle 2, which requires a firm to conduct its business with due skill, care and 
diligence.
- Principle 6, which requires a firm to pay due regard to the interests of its customers.
So, the Principles are relevant and form part of the regulatory framework that existed at the 
relevant time. They must always be complied with by regulated firms. As such, I need to 
have regard to them in deciding Mr Ss complaint.Im upholding Mr Ss complaint. Ill explain why.
In its final response to Mr S, HRCL acknowledged it had got things wrong in its dealings with 
him, for example the delay in issuing his suitability report and its failure to follow-up the 
conversation it had had with him in June 2022. The Investigator thought that the offer it 
made to Mr S was reasonable. But that it needed to go a little further to put things right. In 
his view he said:
Mr S contacted [HRCL] on 21 June 2022 after he had been in hospital to discuss the 
report and he confirmed he would return the report signed. Ive also noted[HRCL] should 
have followed up with Mr S between 21 June 2022 and 6 October 2022, which I believe 
should have been done within four weeks.
Taking that into consideration, I believe the report would have been returned by Mr S earlier 
and received by [HRCL] on 25 July 2022. Mr S would have then been called on 29 July 2022 
to discuss the report and his objectives as they did not match.
From this point, the suitability report would have been generated and sent within three 
weeks, so 19 August 2022 at the latest. To allow time for postage both ways, I believe the 
signed suitability report would have been received by [HRCL] by no later than 2 September 
2022.
[HRCL] have confirmed to me that the signed suitability report would be the final step and 
once received the withdrawal would have been processed accordingly. [HRCL] have also 
confirmed Aegons timescales for a withdrawal is 3-4 working days or 5-7 working days for 
funds that are invested.
I believe it is fair to allow two days for the form to be processed and then the full 7 working 
days for the withdrawal to be processed, given Mr Ss funds with Aegon were invested. 
Then, allowing a further two days for the payment to be processed and received, I believe Mr 
S would have received his funds on 19 September 2022.
Both parties agreed to the Investigators findings and conclusions. HRCL did so on 17 May 
2023, so I recognise Mr S will be frustrated by its delay in settling matters. After reviewing 
the available evidence, I find no reason to disturb the Investigators recommendations.
Putting things right
Harbour Rock Capital Limited should honour the offer it made to Mr S of £300 for the 
distress and inconvenience its failings caused him, as well as the refund of fees it proposed. 
But it needs to go further.
Mr S lost the use of his pension funds between 19 September 2022 (the agreed notional 
date for when he shouldve received his money had the transaction gone smoothly) and mid-
January 2023 (when he actually received the sum), the relevant dates.
So, after Mr S has provided evidence to Harbour Rock Capital Limited of when he actually 
received his pension benefits, it should calculate and pay 8% per annum simple interest on 
the amount of £37,699 between the relevant dates.
Further, if Harbour Rock Capital Limited fails to settle within 14 days of the date of Mr Ss 
acceptance of this decision, from that point it will need to add a further 8% per annum simple 
interest to the sum already calculated (for the interest award) until it finalises matters.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive set out, Im upholding Mr Ss complaint. I now require Harbour Rock Capital Limited to put matters right in the way Ive directed. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 22 September 2023. 
Kevin Williamson
Ombudsman