DRN-1478257
The complaint
Ms H complains that Pinnacle Insurance declined a claim on her pet insurance policy.
What happened
In November 2018, Ms H purchased a pet insurance policy which was underwritten by 
Pinnacle. The policy was taken out to cover her pet dog, who Ill refer to as B.
In June 2019, B went to the vets with a swollen eye and received treatment. As a result, Ms 
H made a claim under the policy for the cost of the treatment.
Pinnacle reviewed Bs medical history and found that shed had problems with her eyes 
before. Pinnacle say Ms H didnt make it aware of this at the point the policy was sold. And 
that had it been aware of these problems, then it would have made an exclusion for any 
condition relating to the eyes. Pinnacle then retrospectively applied an exclusion for eye 
conditions to Ms Hs policy. And declined the claim on the basis that it wouldnt pay out for 
any claim arising from an eye condition. 
Pinnacle also applied another exclusion to Ms Hs policy, as there were other things on Bs 
medical history that it says it wasnt aware of.
Our investigator looked into things for Ms H. He found that Ms H hadnt disclosed that B had 
previously suffered problems with her eyes. And because of this, he thought that it was fair 
of Pinnacle to add in the exclusion. And so he didnt think that Pinnacle needed to pay the 
claim. 
Ms H disagreed with our investigators opinion and made a number of additional points, I 
have summarised these below:
She doesnt feel that the questions asked about pre-existing conditions were clear 
and that they were too vague.
She feels that Pinnacle ought to have asked for Bs full medical history before it gave 
her the insurance. This would have meant it could have said what conditions it was 
going to exclude before she took out the policy  so she could then make the 
decision as to whether or not she wanted to take the cover.
She has recently moved to a different insurer and they havent made the same 
exclusions. And the questions it asked her were clearer. Ms H would like us to 
compare the two insurers, as this shows Pinnacle hasnt acted fairly. 
The treatment that the claim was for wasnt related to the problems B had had with 
her eyes in the past.
Ms H feels she should be given the option to cancel the insurance and receive a 
refund.
Pinnacle took a long time to make a decision as to whether or not it was going to 
accept or decline the claim. Ms H says forms were lost in the process. And she feels 
that Pinnacle have purposely delayed the resolution of the claim.
 Because Ms H didnt agree, the complaint has been passed to me to make a decision on the 
matter. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having considered all the evidence available to me, Ive decided not to uphold Ms Hs 
complaint. Ill explain my reasons for doing so below.
The Consumer Insurance (Disclosure and Representations) Act 2012 (CIDRA) sets out the 
respective rights and responsibilities of consumers and insurers when entering into contracts 
of insurance. CIDRA places the consumer under a duty to take reasonable care not to make 
any misrepresentations (i.e. to say something untrue or misleading), provided the insurer 
has asked clear and specific questions. If the consumer doesnt take reasonable care to 
answer the questions accurately and this adversely affects the insurers ability to underwrite 
the proposed risk, this is treated as a qualifying misrepresentation, which may entitle the 
insurer to certain remedies depending on the nature and scope of the misrepresentation, i.e 
whether its regarded as careless, reckless or deliberate. 
I can see that Ms H purchased her policy online in November 2018. Pinnacle has provided 
me with a copy of a screen shot of the questions it asked Ms H at the time of sale. This 
shows that she was asked to consider a number of assumptions about B, which shed need 
to edit where required.
Looking at the screen shot, I can see that Ms H was asked to confirm the following 
assumption was correct:
Your dog has never shown any signs of illness or injury. This includes anything you have 
discussed with your vet or any other professional about [pet]s health or behaviour. Even if 
there was nothing to be concerned about or the issue was resolved quickly.
Ms H was then asked to do the following:
Please tick to confirm the above assumptions for your pet are correct. If any of this 
information is inaccurate or untrue, your policy may be cancelled, applications rejected or 
claims not fully paid.
Based on the information Ive seen, Ms H ticked to confirm that the assumption was 
accurate. And so, she hadnt declared that B had previously shown signs of illness or injury. 
There was the option for Ms H to edit the assumptions if they werent correct. So, Im 
satisfied that it wasnt made difficult for her to amend each assumption.
Ms H says she didnt disclose Bs medical history, or that she had seen a vet previously 
because the question she was asked wasnt clear and too vague. But I have to disagree 
here. Im satisfied that the question Pinnacle asked was clear. It states any sign of illness or 
injury. And I can see that Ms H has referred to one of Bs visits to the vets in relation to her 
eye was as a result of injury. So I think Ms H was aware that B had received treatment for 
illnesses and injuries relating to Bs eyes. 
Looking at the section where Ms H was asked to tick the box to confirm the assumptions 
were correct, I can see that Pinnacle has stated what could happen if the assumptions 
werent accurate. And so Im satisfied that Pinnacle made Ms H aware of the potential 
implications a wrong answer could have.As Ive said, Ms H didnt disclose that B had visited the vets for anything previously, and so I 
dont think Ms H answered the question/assumption accurately. So this would, in my opinion, 
qualify as a misrepresentation. 
Both parties have provided me with copies of Bs medical records. These show that B was 
previously treated for eye conditions. The veterinary records state the below:
Entry from 14 December 2016 states noticed pawing at right eye, blinking, inflamm and sl 
discharge..Right eye  conjunctivitis, episceriris, sl yellow discharge, chemosis, v sl 
fluresin positive lateral halfstarted eye drops
4 January 2017 states L eye acute concundtivitis this AM after playing roughly with the 
other dog. Fluoro -ve after local anaes drops
9 January 2017 states eyes back to normal. Still on chloramphenicolv slight entropion 
lower lids
Here you can see that Ms H had taken B to the vets on three separate occasions (before 
she took out the policy) specifically for illnesses/injuries relating to the eye. Im satisfied that 
Ms H would have been aware of this at the time she confirmed the assumptions. So I think 
Ms H failed to take reasonable care to avoid making a misrepresentation at the time of sale. 
Because of this, I now need to consider what Pinnacle would have done had it been made 
aware of Bs medical history. 
Pinnacle has sent me some of its underwriting guidance. This shows that where a dog has 
been diagnosed with Entropion, as the medical notes show B has, it would make an 
exclusion relating to all eye conditions  and this would not be reviewed at the renewal of the 
policy. Based on this, Im satisfied that had Pinnacle been made aware of Bs condition at 
the time it sold the policy, it would have excluded Ms H from being able to claim on the policy 
for any problems with Bs eyes.  
CIDRA allows for an insurer to void a policy altogether (treat it as though it never existed) if 
its determined that the misrepresentation was either deliberate or reckless. Pinnacle hasnt 
said that Ms H had made the misrepresentation deliberately or recklessly  and I think this is 
fair in the circumstances. Ive now looked at what CIDRA would allow Pinnacle to do where 
the misrepresentation was careless.
In relation to careless misrepresentations, CIDRA says, If the insurer would have entered 
into the consumer insurance contract, but on different terms... the contract is to be treated as 
if it had been entered into on those different terms if the insurer so requires. With this in 
mind, I think it is fair that Pinnacle retrospectively apply the exclusion for eye conditions. 
As the contract would have been entered on different terms had Pinnacle been aware of Bs 
eye condition. I now need to decide, whether it was fair for Pinnacle to decline Ms Hs claim 
for eye problems.
Looking at the claim form Ms Hs vet submitted to Pinnacle in June 2019, I can see that it 
states that the claim condition is described as sore left eye. I can see that B received 
treatment for the sore eye on 1 June 2019, again on 4 June 2019, 7 June 2019 and 11 June 
2019. Based on this, Im satisfied that Ms Hs claim has been fairly declined under the policy 
exclusion which Pinnacle is entitled to rely on due to the misrepresentation at the time of 
sale.Ive thought about what both Ms H and her vet has said about there being no link between 
the December 2016, January 2017 and June 2019 treatment for the eyes. But this doesnt 
make a difference to the outcome of this complaint. I say this because, Pinnacle hasnt 
declined Ms Hs claim on the basis that the incidents were linked. It has declined the claim 
on the basis that it wouldnt have covered B for any claims linked to eye conditions if Ms H 
had disclosed the fact that B had been treated for Entropion previously. 
After seeing Bs medical history, Pinnacle also applied an exclusion relating to skin wounds. 
I wont be making a comment on this in this decision. Ms H hasnt tried to make a claim for 
anything relating to this, and she has now moved insurers, so even if Pinnacle did do 
something wrong in applying this particular exclusion, I dont think that it has caused Ms H 
any detriment. And so I wouldnt be asking Pinnacle to do anything to put things right.
Ms H has stated that Pinnacle should have asked her for Bs full medical history before it 
agreed to insure B. But Pinnacle wasnt required to ask for Bs full medical history  this is 
because it relies on the information provided by the consumer to understand what risk its 
insuring. If Ms H had been in any doubt as to whether to disclose something or not, she 
could have always contacted Pinnacle to ask the question  and I cant see that she has 
done this. The process that Pinnacle has followed at the time the policy was sold isnt 
unusual. The reliance is placed on the consumer to let the insurer know if their pet has ever 
been ill or suffered injury  I dont find this to be unfair. 
Had Ms H let Pinnacle know about Bs medical history, then Pinnacle would have told her 
about the exclusions it was going to apply before she agreed to take it. And so she would 
have been able to decide if she wanted the policy before she took it out. But as she didnt do 
this, Pinnacle didnt have all of the information about B to be able to let her know this. 
Ms H feels she should be given the option to cancel the insurance and get a refund. But I 
dont agree. Ms H has still received the benefit of B being insured. And Ms H could have 
claimed on the policy for other things that werent excluded. 
Ms H has now changed insurers and she says the questions her new insurer asked were 
much clearer. And it hasnt placed any exclusions. But this complaint is about Pinnacle. It 
wouldnt be fair me to compare the two businesses in this decision. And Ive already 
explained why I think Pinnacle has treated Ms H fairly. So any comparison wouldnt make a 
difference to the outcome of this decision anyway. 
Finally, Ms H says that Pinnacle took a long time to look into her claim  and feels that this 
was deliberate. I havent seen anything that would suggest any delays were deliberate. 
Pinnacle says it didnt receive Bs medical history from the vets and this was the reason for 
the delay. Pinnacle have agreed that they could have done more to chase this information 
and have apologised for this. I think the apology it has already given to Ms H is a satisfactory 
resolution to the delay in investigation.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, Im not upholding Ms Hs complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms H to accept or 
reject my decision before 11 August 2020.
Sophie Wilkinson
Ombudsman