DRN-3099683
The complaint
Mr C complains that Fairmead Insurance Limited (Fairmead) has unfairly declined a claim 
he made under his property insurance policy.
What happened
The background of this complaint is well known to all parties, so Ive summarised events. 
In July 2019 Mr C made a claim under his property insurance policy following an 
escape of water. This caused damage to the annex of his home.
In July 2020 while works were still ongoing Mr C requested alternative 
accommodation from Fairmead. It declined this but provided him with certain costs 
and a disturbance allowance.
Mr C sought to claim under the policy for loss of rent for his annex but this was 
declined. 
Fairmead declined this claim for loss of rent. It said he first made the claim on 4 
August 2020. But the property was returned to a habitable state shortly after on 13 
August 2020. So, no loss of rent would be covered after this date. 
It said leading up until 13 August 2020, Mr C wouldnt have been able to rent the 
annex due to Covid-19 pandemic restrictions. And it said while Mr Cs policy covered 
him for cancelled bookings, hed been unable to provide any evidence to show this 
had happened and the policy was only for actual bookings cancelled, not 
retrospective costs for bookings which may have occurred. 
Mr C disagreed, saying restrictions wouldnt have impacted his ability to rent the 
annex to key workers and others. He said it was unreasonable to expect him to take 
bookings during the time the property was undergoing repairs. And he said 
Fairmeads actions prevented him from obtaining alternative renewal quotes.
Fairmead reiterated its position on the claim and said there had been nothing to stop 
Mr C seeking an alternative quote should he have wanted to.
One of our investigators looked at what happened and didnt uphold the complaint. 
She said while Mr C had been able to provide evidence of his income from across 
2020, he hadnt provided any evidence to show any actual bookings had been 
cancelled. And the policy wasnt designed to cover projected losses.
The investigator said Mr C had agreed to live in the annex and accept a disturbance 
allowance from Fairmead. So, she wouldnt direct it to cover any projected rent 
losses during this same time. She also said it didnt appear hed told Fairmead of his 
intention to rent the property during this time. The investigator also said shed been 
given nothing to suggest Mr C couldnt have obtained alternative quotes around the 
time his insurance was due to renew. So, she didnt ask it to do anything further.
Mr C disagreed, making the following points:
oHis policy provides up to 12 months loss of gross profit derived from the 
operation of the holiday home as a let property. And he had evidenced his 
losses based on actual income.
oIt was unfair to expect him to make bookings for holiday makers during the 
period the property was in disrepair  only to have these cancelled for the 
purposes of claiming under the policy.
Our investigator looked again, and she asked for details and evidence of when Mr C 
began renting his property (including statements or accounts). Mr C didnt provide 
anything further, so she didnt change her mind.
So, the complaint has been passed to me for an ombudsmans decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im not upholding this complaint. Ill explain why.
Scope of this decision
The complaint Ive been asked to consider concerns the loss of rent claim Mr C has made. 
This means I havent considered Fairmeads handling of the escape of water claim within 
this decision.
Claim for loss of rent
Mr C seeks to claim under his buildings policy for a loss of rent. The policy says: 
If you have to move out of your home because of any loss or damage covered under 
Section 1 buildings, we will pay you for one of the following expenses or losses we 
have agreed to:
Loss of rent due to you which you are unable to recover;
Additional costs of alternative accommodation, substantially the same as your 
existing accommodation, which you have to pay for while the buildings cannot be 
lived in following loss or damage which is covered under Section One.
We will only pay under this Section for the period your home is unfit to live in
The wording specifies that the loss of rent would be due to the policyholder. So, I think its 
clear this is not intended to cover speculative earnings and instead relates to a sum that is 
owed or due. 
Mr C has provided evidence to show his rental income from the property across 2020. And 
while I understand this may give an indication of earning potential, it doesnt show that any 
rent was due to him.
And despite numerous requests for evidence of the rental history of the property, Mr C has 
provided nothing to support that he was renting the property at the time of the claim or prior 
to this. On this basis, I think Fairmead has acted fairly by declining the claim. 
Premiums Mr C has said he was unable to seek out a more competitive premium as a result of the 
claims delay. 
Its not uncommon for a premium to increase while a claim is ongoing. However, Ive been 
given nothing to suggest this prevented Mr C from seeking out any alternative quotes. Nor 
has Mr C provided anything to support his allegations when our investigator has put this to 
him. For this reason, Im not directing Fairmead to do anything further.
My final decision
For the above reasons, Im not upholding this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 15 November 2021.
 
Jack Baldry
Ombudsman