DRN-1471584
The complaint
Mr M has complained that HSBC UK Bank Plc (HSBC) mis-sold him a fee-paying Plus 
account, which was sold to him in February 2007. This account was rebranded as an 
Advance account in February 2010.
Mr M says that he was led to believe that he could only have a fee-paying account and that 
fee-free accounts werent available to him. Mr M is represented by a claims management 
company (CMC).
What happened
Our adjudicators assessed the complaint and they didnt think that HSBC had mis-sold the 
Plus account to Mr M. His representative disagreed with the adjudicators assessments and 
asked for the complaint to be referred to an ombudsman for a final decision.
I note that Mr M has also raised concerns in relation to HSBCs treatment of Mr Ms financial 
difficulties and in relation to declined application for credit. In this instance, I can see that the 
adjudicator did briefly mention this in her responses. However, I cant see that HSBC has 
had an opportunity to look into this. So if Mr M wants to pursue this, we would need to deal 
with this as a separate complaint. This decision will therefore solely be looking at the sale of 
the Plus account.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve explained our approach to complaints about packaged bank accounts on our website. 
And Ive used this to help me to decide this case.
Mr M says that he was not given the choice of a fee-free account. And HSBC says that as 
Mr M was new to the country, didnt have a UK address and had no credit history, it was 
unable to offer him a fee-free account. 
So based on this information, and what I know about HSBCs sales practices, I dont think Mr 
M was eligible to open a fee-free account with HSBC in February 2007. As such, I cant 
reasonably conclude that the Mr M was deprived of having a fee-free account with HSBC 
when he wasnt eligible to have one.
HSBC has not said what paid accounts were presented to Mr M. But at the time the Plus 
account was taken out, the main benefits that it came with were Travel insurance, discounts 
on overdraft interest rates and cashback on personal loan. And Mr M did travel and went on 
to benefit from the discounted overdraft rates and cashback on loans. So overall, I think he 
was given the option of which paid for account he could choose and he went with the one 
with the benefits that he could use.
Mr M and HSBC say the account was sold on a non-advised basis. This means HSBC didnt 
have to check if it was right for him. But it did have to give Mr M enough information about 
the account, so that he could decide if it was right for him.
I think it is likely that the main benefits of the account wouldve been highlighted to Mr M 
during the sale. After all, explaining what benefits came with the account would have made 
the account seem more attractive to Mr M. 
Due to the lack of information available from the sale, I appreciate that Mr M may not have 
been given all of the important information about the account. But Ive not seen anything 
about his circumstances that makes me think he wouldve been put off from agreeing to the 
account, had he been given more information about it.
I appreciate that, with the benefit of hindsight, Mr M may now think that the account has 
been poor value for money. But that does not mean that HSBC was wrong to have sold it to 
him when it did. And taking everything into account, Ive not seen enough to say that the 
Plus account was mis-sold to Mr M.
My final decision
Because of the reasons given above, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 27 October 2020.
 
Charlie Newton
Ombudsman