DRN-4332292
The complaint
Mr S complains Nationwide Building Society blocked and later closed his accounts. Hes 
unhappy with how hes been treated by Nationwide and would like compensation.
What happened
The facts which led to Mr S bringing this complaint to our service are well known to both 
parties, so I am not repeating them in full here. 
I summary Nationwide blocked Mr Ss accounts and then closed them. Mr S was unhappy 
with the way Nationwide had treated him and the fact they had registered a CIFAS marker 
against him. He had requested digital copies of his account statements which he hadnt 
received.
Our investigator concluded that Nationwide could have done better and recommended that it 
remove the marker, refund Mr Ss funds together with interest from the date the funds were 
withdrawn until payment. Pay Mr S £75 offered in the final response letter as well as £800 
for the distress and inconvenience caused. Respond to Mr Ss subject access request 
(DSAR).
Nationwide agreed with the view, but Mr S was unhappy with the amount of compensation. 
He said Nationwides failures had prevented him from operating his business and getting 
contracts. He wanted the compensation to reflect these losses.
Our investigator looked at things again  she thought Mr S couldnt receive compensation for 
losses his company had incurred. She didnt think Mr S had been aware of the CIFAS 
marker for most of the time it had been in place. She acknowledged that Mr S had suffered 
stress as a result of the situation, but she thought the original compensation was fair.
Mr S disagreed so the matter has come to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im very aware that Ive summarised the events in this complaint in far less detail than the 
parties and Ive done so using my own words. No discourtesy is intended by me in taking 
this approach. Instead, Ive focussed on what I think are the key issues here. Our rules allow 
me to do this. This simply reflects the informal nature of our service as a free alternative to 
the courts. If theres something Ive not mentioned, it isnt because Ive ignored it. Im 
satisfied I dont need to comment on every individual argument to be able to reach what I 
think is the right outcome. I do stress however that Ive considered everything that Mr S and 
Nationwide have said before reaching my decision.
Mr S has submitted a large volume of material to us in support of his complaint, Id like to 
reassure Mr S that Ive reviewed all the material he has submitted.  Having done so Im 
satisfied that Nationwide could have acted better in dealing with Mr S. 
Block, closure, 
Mr S used his account and a trading platform to trade cryptocurrency. One of Mr Ss buyers 
reported to his own bank that he had been scammed. The buyers bank contacted 
Nationwide and Nationwide removed the funds from Mr Ss account. They blocked his 
account and then proceeded to close his account.
Mr S has maintained that he did sell the cryptocurrency to the buyer. He has provided 
evidence to this service of the trade and also that he reported his buyer to the 
cryptocurrency platform. I am satisfied that Mr S was innocent of any wrongdoing. 
Nationwide should have asked Mr S for evidence of his trades etc. Mr S provided Nationwide 
with information about his sale of cryptocurrency. Nationwide didnt look at the information 
and decided to exit Mr S with immediate effect.
Our investigator concluded that Nationwide could have done things better and she thought 
Mr S should be compensated for the immediate closure of the account.
I know Mr S is unhappy we didnt acknowledge that Nationwide hadnt taken the evidence he 
sent seriously and hadnt reviewed it. Id like to reassure Mr S that I have looked at all the 
information he has provided in reviewing his case and reaching this decision. Looking at the 
evidence Im satisfied Nationwide made an error when they closed Mr Ss account with 
immediate effect. The investigator awarded compensation for distress and inconvenience 
caused by the immediate closure. I have considered this in the section on compensation 
below.
CIFAS
Nationwide loaded a CIFAS marker against Mr S in December 2020. Mr S became aware of 
the marker in May 2022. On review of the evidence, Im not satisfied that Nationwide had 
sufficient evidence to load Mr S with a CIFAS marker. The investigator thought the CIFAS 
marker should be removed, and it has been. She awarded compensation for the fact the 
marker had been placed on Mr Ss record when it shouldnt have been.
I know Mr S has complained to CIFAS and looked at exchanges of information between 
CIFAS and Nationwide. He has sent us this information. I know Mr S is very unhappy with 
the way Nationwide and CIFAS conducted their exchanges. I accept Mr S is very unhappy 
with this whole situation. Unfortunately, we arent here to investigate CIFAS, so much of the 
information that Mr S has collected regarding interactions between CIFAS and Nationwide 
do not assist me in reaching the findings I am able to reach. By this I mean this service isnt 
here to punish CIFAS or Nationwide. Our remit as a service, is to establish whether there 
was sufficient evidence for a marker to be recorded and if not to direct the marker to be 
removed.  In this case I dont think there was sufficient evidence for the marker to be loaded. 
Im glad that the CIFAS marker was removed before the investigator issued her view. I know 
that Mr S wasnt aware of the existence of the marker until May 2022 when one of his other 
accounts was closed.
The investigator awarded compensation for the CIFAS marker being on Mr Ss file. Mr S 
didnt think the overall award was enough. I have considered the award for distress and 
inconvenience below under compensation.
I know Mr S has said that he has lost out on business as a result of the marker and not 
having access to his statements and I will deal with that below.DSAR
Mr S raised a data subject access request (DSAR) against Nationwide- he wanted to obtain 
all the information that Nationwide held about him including his statements of his account. 
Mr S has said he needs statements in electronic format in order to provide to future 
employers as evidence he has been trading for a long time. 
There were delays with Nationwide providing Mr S with the DSAR information he requested. 
I know Mr S complained to the information commissioners office (ICO) who upheld his 
complaint. 
Mr S has said the information isnt complete. Mr S has said he hasnt received copies of his 
statements in electronic format. Nationwide originally said they have sent these to Mr S. I 
have asked Nationwide to confirm when and where these electronic statements were sent. 
Having done so they confirmed that they hadnt sent Mr S statements in electronic format as 
requested. 
Having chased Nationwide, I have now heard from them, and they have confirmed that they 
will be able to provide Mr S with a copy of his statements in a csv format. 
I know that Mr S would be able to access these statements if he still had access to his 
account. Mr S is saying that the immediate account closure prevented him from downloading 
the statements in the format he needs. I know that the investigator asked Nationwide to 
provide the statements to Mr S, but they havent done so. As this is a consequence of the 
immediate closure which I have found to be unfair I require Nationwide to provide Mr S with 
the statements in csv format.
Mr S has said he needs information that Nationwide are withholding in order to bring a claim 
against Nationwide. This isnt something that I can comment on. If Mr S is unhappy with the 
information received through the DSAR, he should submit another DSAR to Nationwide. 
Mr S has said that not having his statements in electronic format has cost him jobs and he 
has lost out financially because of this. I will deal with Mr Ss financial losses below.
Compensation
The investigator awarded compensation for distress and inconvenience caused to Mr S. This 
was £800 together with £75 already awarded by Nationwide and £60 already paid by 
Nationwide. These amounts are to compensate Mr S for the distress caused.
Mr S is unhappy with the amount and has said he has suffered mental health problems and 
has had to consult his GP and mental health practitioners as a result of the stress. I am very 
sorry to hear of the issues Mr S has had. I have considered the compensation for distress 
and inconvenience that has been awarded so far. I consider it to be fair in the circumstances 
and in line with the sort of awards we would make. So, I see no reason to change it.
Other losses
Nationwide has accepted they could have done things better and have agreed with the 
original assessment of compensation our investigator came to. Mr S disagrees with the 
investigators assessment and would like other losses to be paid to him. Mr S has mentioned 
the losses relating to job opportunities missed or withdrawn due to not having access to 
electronic statements and to the CIFAS marker. He believes that he lost out on jobs because 
of these issues, and he has estimated his losses to be in the region of £100,000.I have seen from the evidence provided by Mr S that he has been extremely upset about the 
CIFAS marker and he has told us it has affected his mental health.
Mr S has said that the issues that he has had with Nationwide and the CIFAS marker have 
meant that he has lost two years of his life. He hasnt been able to get work for the past two 
years. He has said that he would like to be put back in the position he would have been had 
Nationwide reviewed the evidence he provided to them in November and December 2020. 
Mr S estimates these losses to be in the region of £100,000. 
The investigator asked Mr S for evidence of his losses, in particular evidence of jobs lost or 
withdrawn specifically because of the statements not being available or the CIFAS marker 
being registered.
Mr S has made some bold statements suggesting that his lack of work for a two-year period 
was a direct result of the CIFAS marker and the inability to provide electronic statements. 
Therefore, we would need to see proof of this. Mr S has said he has no concrete proof he 
can provide us, but he wouldnt normally be without work for that length of time. I appreciate 
Mr Ss position but there may be other reasons why Mr S didnt get the jobs he applied to 
including the global economic situation at the time and the pandemic. Mr S has also 
mentioned his company. I am aware that IT professionals can carry out their work through 
their own service companies. However, a company is a separate legal entity and as the 
investigator has explained we cannot compensate Mr S for losses incurred by his company 
as it isnt a customer of Nationwide.
Mr S has said he couldnt work for two years yet his It service company was trading at the 
time. Providing services through his company could have been an option for him that 
circumvented the need to provide account statements for his personal account. So, I think 
there were other ways in which Mr S could have engaged in work during that period and 
mitigated his losses.
I know Mr S will be unhappy with this but as an evidence-based organisation, I cannot award 
him compensation for personal losses he cannot evidence.  
I appreciate that Mr S has spent a long time trying to uncover what happened with his 
account closure and why Nationwide registered a CIFAS marker against him. He has had a 
difficult time trying to clear his name and show that Nationwide acted unfairly towards him. 
I know that Mr S will think that this decision doesnt go far enough in getting him justice and 
recompense. I know that Mr S would prefer for Nationwide to be punished or held to account 
in some way for what they have done and the way they treat their customers or run their 
business. Unfortunately, this isnt something that I can look into, and it isnt part of the remit 
of the Financial Ombudsman Service. I have however looked at the evidence and the 
circumstances of his particular case.
Having looked at the evidence I am satisfied that Nationwide acted unfairly in the way they 
treated Mr S and should pay him compensation for the inconvenience and distress that they 
have caused him.
In summary Mr S hasnt been treated fairly by Nationwide. To put things right Nationwide 
should pay Mr S £75 already promised in the final response letter together with a further 
£800 for his material distress. Return his funds to him and because he was deprived of his 
funds Nationwide should pay 8% interest on the balance in his accounts from the date the 
balance was removed until date of settlement. Nationwide must provide Mr S with his bank 
statements in an csv format. My final decision
For the reasons stated above I partially uphold this complaint. I direct Nationwide Building 
Society to:
pay Mr S £75 already promised in the final response letter together with a further 
£800 for his material distress. 
Return his remaining balance that they removed from his account and in addition, 
because he was deprived of his funds, pay 8% interest on the balance in Mr S 
accounts from the date the balance was removed until date of settlement. 
Provide Mr S with his bank statements in a csv format.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 3 January 2024.
 
Esperanza Fuentes
Ombudsman