DRN-4041872
The complaint
Mr A complains that West Bay Insurance Plc mishandled his claim on a motor insurance 
policy. 
What happened
The subject matter of the claim and the complaint is a hatchback car, first registered in 2003. 
In February 2022, the car passed an MOT test with a recorded mileage of about 178,000.
For the year from March 2022, Mr A renewed a comprehensive policy under which West Bay 
was the insurance company responsible for dealing with any claim.
Unfortunately, Mr A reported that in mid-October 2022, someone had damaged the car while 
it was parked.
West Bay said the car was likely to be a total loss. But in late October 2022, West Bay 
instructed an authorised repairer. That repairer didnt instruct a bodyshop until mid-
November 2022. No courtesy car was provided to Mr A.
By early December 2022, Mr A had complained to West Bay about the handling of his claim.
By a final response dated early December 2022, West Bay upheld the complaint in part and 
said it was sending Mr A a cheque for £100.00.
By a letter dated mid-December 2022, West Bay said the car was a total loss and its pre-
accident value had been £1,000.00. West Bay said Mr A could keep the damaged car if he 
accepted a £160.00 reduction for salvage value (a balance of £840.00). West Bay said it 
was reducing cover to third party fire and theft until Mr A provided evidence of repair and a 
subsequent MOT test.
Mr A brought his complaint to us in mid-December 2022.
Our investigator at first recommended that the complaint should be upheld in part. He 
thought that given the range of the market valuation sites, an average would be fairer. He 
thought that there were avoidable delays of some three weeks at the start of the claim. He 
recommended that West Bay should:
1. increase the valuation to £1,485.00; and 
2. pay Mr A £150.00 as redress to cover the trouble and upset the delays caused.
West Bay disagreed with the investigators opinion. It said it had valued the car at £1,000.00 
because of pre-accident damage.
The investigator changed his opinion. He didnt recommend that the complaint should be 
upheld. He said that West Bays engineers had provided a summary of the pre-accident 
damage and the costs to repair. They had discounted the repair costs in line with our 
guidance to arrive at the market value of the car which the investigator felt was reasonable. 
Given that, and the redress of £100.00 for the delay in progressing the claim, he didnt 
recommend that West Bay needed to do anything more.
Mr A disagreed with the investigators changed opinion. He asked for an ombudsman to 
review the complaint. He says, in summary, that:
He was passed to the West Bays repairer then several weeks later passed on to a 
bodyshop.
Between 1 December 2022 and 19 January 2023, West Bay was in possession of his 
car. During that time, he paid cab fares and additional expenses. This was due to the 
excessive time of four months the insurer took to prepare an assessment including 
the six weeks West Bay retained his vehicle.
The car passed an MOT test in mid-February 2023.
He wants his no claims bonus (NCB) reinstated.
He was paying about £350.00 per year. For the year from March 2023, West Bay 
quoted over £600.00, which he declined.
He will accept the settlement offer which West Bay have put forward of £1,000.00.
But £100.00 isnt enough compensation. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Scope of the complaint
The Financial Ombudsman Service is bound by the Financial Conduct Authoritys dispute 
resolution rules. One of those rules means that  before we can investigate a complaint  
the consumer must first have made that complaint to the business and waited for up to eight 
weeks for a final response. It follows that we cant usually investigate complaints arising from 
events after the most recent final response.
West Bays final response summarised Mr As complaint as follows:
Youre unhappy with the referral of your claim to [third party] and their 
handling of the claim.
You feel our Claims Department shouldnt make a decision on your vehicle 
prior to any inspection taking place.
Our Approved Repairer (AR) delayed your claim being processed.
Youre unhappy with [third partys] handling of your claim and the information 
they had to clarify.
Youve been passed between different departments and companies during 
the claims process.
Pre-accident valuationMr A has accepted that the pre-accident value of his car was £1,000.00. So I dont need to 
say any more about that.
Likely total loss
In the context of a car of its age and value, any damage with an estimate over about £650.00 
was likely to lead West Bay to treat it as a total loss.
Mid-October 2022 to early December 2022
From the file, I can see why Mr A felt West Bay was passing him around.
However, I find that he had wanted the car inspected before West Bay treated it as a total 
loss. And Mr A still had the use of the damaged car from mid- October 2022 to early 
December 2022. 
NCB
The policy schedule in March 2022 said that Mr R had six years NCB.
By mid-October 2022 he had made a claim. So I see no basis to direct West Bay to reinstate 
his NCB.
Communication
Ive noted some poor communication for which West Bay must take overall responsibility. 
That includes an inappropriate email on 24 October 2022 saying that that repair was 
underway and other confusing emails on 31 October 2022 and 1 December 2022.
1 December 2022 to 19 January 2023
I accept that Mr A incurred cab fares while West Bay had his car.
West Bays policy terms said that its authorised repairers would provide a courtesy car. But 
that was only if one was available, and only while the car was with them for repair and not if 
the car was a total loss. 
Notwithstanding the poor communication, West Bay didnt repair the car but rather assessed 
it as a total loss. So West Bay didnt have to provide a courtesy car.
The total loss also meant that West Bay could pay the pre-accident value (less any excess) 
and keep the damaged vehicle. If Mr A wished to keep the damaged vehicle then he would 
have to pay its salvage value, which West Bay put at £160.00. Im satisfied that West Bay 
had made that position clear by the time of its letter in mid-December 2022.
Quote for renewal from March 2023
Any claim is likely to affect the premium quoted for the next renewal. Different insurers will 
assess and price the risk differently.
West Bays final response was a few months before the renewal quote. In any event, Mr A 
didnt pay it. So I dont consider that I can say any more about that.
ConclusionI understand that Mr A wanted to claim on the policy and keep the car. He was willing to pay 
the salvage value.
More recently (since late April 2023) Mr A has accepted the pre-accident valuation of 
£1,000.00 and said that he will allow West Bay to collect the damaged car. I consider that he 
has changed his mind about keeping the car and paying the £160.00 deduction for salvage. 
So he wishes to have the pre-accident valuation, use of the damaged car until early 
December 2022, compensation for the cab fares and then further use of the damaged car 
from January 2023 to at least late April 2023, without paying the salvage.
I keep in mind the policy terms about courtesy cars. I also keep in mind that Mr A has had 
the use of the damaged car for some months after West Bay said it was a total loss. So I 
dont find it fair and reasonable to direct West Bay to pay compensation for the cab fares or 
other expenses for the weeks when it had possession of the damaged car.
Ive found  some poor communication for which West Bay must take overall responsibility. I 
accept that this caused Mr A some extra distress and inconvenience beyond that which I 
would expect from an insurance claim. I dont underestimate the extent of that. However, I 
consider that £100.00 is in line with our published approach. So I dont find it fair and 
reasonable to direct West Bay to pay Mr A any more compensation. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. I dont 
direct West Bay Insurance Plc to do any more in response to this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision before 9 June 2023.  
Christopher Gilbert
Ombudsman