DRN-3920113
The complaint
Mr F, who are represented by a firm I will call T, complain that GE Money Consumer Lending 
Limited (GE) unfairly rejected their claim under the Consumer Credit Act 1974 (CCA).
What happened
Mr F bought a timeshare with another person from a business I will call C in July 2008. This 
was funded by a loan in Mr Fs name and so I will refer to him as the sole owner in this 
decision.
The total cost was £9,369 and I gather this was repaid in 2014. I note that Mr F had made an 
earlier purchase from C in Mach 2008, but that is not include in this complaint.
In October 2017 T made a claim on behalf of Mr F against GE for problems he said he had 
with the timeshare. The claim was lengthy, but in summary, Mr F said that:
The nature of the timeshare had been misrepresented to him and he had been pressured 
into buying it.
He was unable to book holidays as he wished.
There was an unfair relationship as evidenced by the high rate of interest charged.
The agreement was a fraud and had been found to be such by a Spanish Court.
They said that C went into administration in November 2020.
GE rejected the claim and said the required debtor-creditor-supplier (DCS) chain had been 
broken as pay net has been made to a business I will call F. It also said the claim was made 
out of time and disputed the merits of the claim.
One of our investigators considered the complaint and didnt recommend it be upheld. He 
thought that GE had acted fairly in turning down the claim. However he did not consider the 
DCS chain had been broken.
He thought that there were two potential claims Mr F could have made under s.75 and 
s.140A CCA, but the former claims had been brought too late under the provisions in the 
Limitation Act 1980 (LA). He considered if there had been an unfair debtor-creditor 
relationship as required under S140A. He concluded that this had not been establishes and 
so he did not recommend the complaint be upheld.
T disagreed and asked for the complaint to be passed to an ombudsman for a decision. It 
said that C had been dormant since 1998. It referenced a Spanish Court judgement in 2020 
which it said supported Mr Fs claim that C acted in a fraudulent manner. It said C and GE 
should have disclosed this to Mr F. It argued that this service should accept that there was 
an unfair relationship.
I issued a provisional decision which read as follows:
In regard to the claim under S 140A it said that this service allowed complaints to be made 
outside the six year time limit.
Before I get on to the substance of my findings, I want to set out my role as an ombudsman. 
It isnt to address every single point thats been made to date. Instead, its to decide whats 
fair and reasonable given the circumstances of this complaint. And for that reason, Im only 
going to refer to what I think are the most salient points when I set out my conclusions and 
my reasons for reaching them. But, having read all of the submissions from both sides in full,
I will continue to keep in mind all of the points that have been made, insofar as they relate to 
this complaint, when doing that.
Under s.75 CCA, GE is required to consider claims for misrepresentation and/or breach of 
contract. And clearly allegations of misrepresentation are to do with information provided by 
the supplier of a product or service at the point of sale.
Having considered everything, I think there are several claims that Mr F is making to GE. I 
will consider each in turn.
Section 75
This complaint has been submitted as a claim under section 75 of the Consumer Credit Act 
1974. Section 75 offers protection to customers who use certain types of credit to make 
purchases of goods or services. Under section 75 the consumer has an equal right to claim 
against the provider of the credit or the retailer providing the goods or services, if there has 
been a misrepresentation or breach of contract on the suppliers part.
For section 75 to apply, the law effectively says that there has to be a:
Debtor-creditor-supplier chain to an agreement and
A clear breach of contract or misrepresentation by the supplier in the chain.
GE has disputed that the chain is broken and our investigator has disagreed as F was acting 
as a trustee for C and passed the money on to it. GE has not challenged this and I do not 
consider I need to explore this in further detail or take a definitive view. It seems to me that 
the DCS chain is most likely intact, but there remains a possibility that it was broken.
However, I do not consider this impacts my overall decision so I consider it appropriate to 
leave it open.
S 56 and 140A
Section 56 of the CCA is also relevant. In broad terms this means that any negotiations 
between Mr F and C are deemed to have been conducted by C as an agent for GE. This 
includes any representations made by C and any other dealings between them.
The statutory agency created by section 56 of the CCA is also relevant in the context of 
section 140A as the pre-contractual acts or omissions of C will be deemed to be the 
responsibility of the lender, and this may be taken into account by a court in deciding 
whether an unfair relationship exists between you and the lender.
The claim has been made in time and so I am able to consider the complaint about GEs rejection of it. I can only consider the matter which was the subject of the complaint i.e. the 
July 2008 purchase. If Mr F has a separate complaint about the earlier purchase then they 
have to take this to GE before this service can consider it.
Section 75 Claim
Mr F says that the timeshare supplier misrepresented the nature of the membership to them 
when they bought it. However, under both s.2 and 9 LA, Mr F had to make that claim within 
six years of when they entered into the timeshare and credit agreements  which was in July 
2008  because that is when they say they lost out having relied on false statements of fact.
I note that T has referenced the DISP rules by which we operate and the time limits for 
bringing a complaint to this service. Those rules are specific to complaints being brought to 
our service and those rules do not apply to claims under S 75 made to the bank. As such 
they do not assist this complaint and the claim under S 75 is out of time.
S 140A Unfair Relationship
This legislation allows me to consider if a court would be likely to agree that there was an 
unfair relationship between Mr F and C or GE. When considering if there was an unfair 
relationship I have taken due note of the sale and the process used by C. I do not consider it 
likely that court would conclude that Cs actions as an agent of CFS generated an unfair 
debtor  creditor relationship.
I appreciate that according to the T and Mr F was pressurised into taking out the agreement. 
I can understand why he has taken that view. My understanding is that these sales meetings 
ran on for many hours and the representatives of C would highlight the benefits of the 
product.
However, this service has learned that if a consumer said they did not want to purchase on 
the day, that representatives staff were instructed to take them back to their accommodation 
and the sales meeting would end. I have no doubt that the techniques used would have 
made saying no more difficult, but this does not mean that it was impossible to decline the 
offer.
In summary I do not have sufficient evidence to show Mr F was unreasonably pressurised to 
sign the agreement.
It is possible that the disclosure of information about the product couldve been clearer. So, 
Ive looked at whether this led to such an imbalance of information between the parties, that 
it gave rise to an unfair relationship.
I believe it was reasonable to regard Mr F as being aware he was buying a timeshare 
product. I note he says he wasnt told of this, but the paperwork he signed does make it fairly 
clear.. The paperwork set out the length of the contract term, how annual fees would be 
calculated, that it was subject to availability and should not be viewed as a financial 
investment.
I believe C supplied brochures that covered this information. So, while the sales meeting 
mayve been overly weighted towards the aspirational lifestyle owning a timeshare could 
provide, I dont think the gap in knowledge between what Mr F thought he was acquiring and 
what they actually got was so significant so as to suggest it could give rise to an unfair 
relationship.
I have also considered the matter of commission in relation to this transaction. My understanding that commission would have been paid, but based on the typical rates I have 
seen, I think its unlikely a court would find that the failure to disclose commission in this 
case created an unfair relationship under s.140A.
On balance I am not persuaded there is sufficient evidence to show that it would be likely a 
court would find there was an unfair relationship as set out in s 140A.
Nor do I consider it right that C or GE should have brought to Mr Fs attention a Spanish 
court decision in 2020 long after he had made the purchase.
Conclusion
I appreciate this decision will come as a disappointment to Mr F, but while I have every 
sympathy with his situation I cannot uphold this complaint.
T notified this service that it was no longer acting for Mr F and the case had been transferred 
to another professional representative. Despite issuing a reminder no response from the new 
professional representative was forthcoming. GE said it had nothing to add, but as its 
process had changed since the claim was first made it submitted a number of documents. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I have been given no reasons which would cause me to alter my provisional decision it 
remains unchanged.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr F to accept or 
reject my decision before 21 February 2023.
 
Ivor Graham
Ombudsman