DRN-3064623
The complaint
Mr A is unhappy with how Bastion Insurance Company Limited handled a claim he made 
under his motor breakdown insurance.
 
Bastion are the insurer for Mr As policy and while their agents have handled the claim on 
Bastions behalf, for ease, I have referred only to Bastion throughout this decision. 
What happened
Mr As car broke down on 6 March 2021 at around 6.45pm and he shortly after called 
Bastion to make a claim. 
Mr A recorded the call. In the call Bastion explained Mr As options to him as, a roadside 
assistance so someone coming out to your location and try to assist you and fix the vehicle 
there or someone will take your vehicle to a local garage or back to your home address 
Bastion then asked which option Mr A would prefer. 
Mr A replied to ask what would happen if the car could not be fixed at the roadside and 
Bastion explained no further assistance would be provided. In light of this Mr A opted to be 
collected and taken home. 
Bastion established where Mr A had broken down and told him they would cover the cost for 
the first 13 miles, but Mr A would have to pay for the remaining miles of the journey. Bastion 
confirmed payment for the additional mileage would need to be made directly to the 
operative. 
Bastion told Mr A the claim was approved and that an estimated waiting time would be 60-90 
minutes, but theyd update Mr A when they had more information from their contractors. The 
operative arrived with Mr A around 10pm. 
Mr A paid £70.20 to the operative. Bastion have more recently told us they paid £69.60 
towards the claim. They also told us theyve taken no payment from Mr A except £0.01 when 
Mr A arranged the policy which he purchased with the use of a voucher. 
Mr A and his representative complained as they didnt think Bastion had been helpful. They 
said Bastion had been obstructive when asking Mr A to provide proof of being an essential 
worker before accepting the claim, and they didnt think Mr A should have paid anything 
towards the additional mileage. Mr A said the delay in the recovery caused him to miss a 
shift at work which meant he lost £120 pay. Mr A and his representative also requested £30 
towards their call costs to deal with the matter and Mr A said that paying for the additional 
mileage had caused him to incur a bank charge of £25 which he was able to later rescind 
with his bank. 
Mr A and his representative declined Bastions goodwill offer of £70 as they didnt feel this 
was enough. Bastion said Mr A and his representative were seeking £300 in compensation 
which Bastion did not agree to. Bastion maintained theyd applied the policy terms correctly. 
Unable to resolve matters with Bastion, Mr A brought his complaint to our service. 
Our investigator upheld Mr As complaint as they didnt think at the time of the incident 
Bastion properly explained Mr As options to him and it seemed Mr A was entitled to National 
Recovery under his policy which had no mileage limitations. They said Bastion should 
therefore pay Mr A the sum of £70.20 (with interest). And they said Bastion should cover £20 
towards the cost of calls as well as £100 for the inconvenience the matter had caused Mr A. 
But they did not think Bastion should pay for Mr As loss of earnings due to missing his shift 
as they didnt think it fair to hold Bastion accountable for this. The investigator also noted Mr 
A had arranged for removal of the £25 bank charge (so there was nothing to put right here) 
and they let Mr A know that while perhaps Bastion went further than needed in terms of their 
checks, at the time, it wasnt unreasonable for Bastion to query if Mr A was an essential 
worker.
Bastion requested a copy of the invoice for the operatives charge of £70.20 and evidence of 
the cost of the phone calls Mr A made. Bastion also said the terms allowed for Mr As car to 
be taken to a local garage at that time and several were still open in the area. 
When asked, Mr A was unable to provide a copy of the invoice for the payment to the 
operative and explained the operative had refused to come out until hed made the payment 
over the phone. Mr A was also unable to provide details of the phone calls as he has a pay-
as-you-go phone so he has no itemised records. Bastion was informed of this and they 
asked for details of Mr As phone provider to consider the costs  this information was 
shared with them, but Bastion made no further comment on the call costs. 
Bastion also queried the phone call recording  as they did not have their own recording of 
the call. An extract of the call was shared with Bastion who then challenged its veracity. Our 
investigator explained what had been shared was relevant to the case.
 
Our service didnt feel Bastions submissions were enough to alter the view of the complaint 
and asked Bastion to let us know their position on the case in light of the information more 
recently shared. Despite reminders, Bastion did not provide any further submissions and as 
a resolution could not be reached between the parties the case came to me to decide. 
Following an initial review I set out my initial thoughts to both parties and requested their 
comments. 
My initial thoughts 
I explained I had listened to the call recording provided by Mr A (which I had no reason to 
doubt) and noted the Bastion staff member presented three options to Mr A (as I described 
earlier). I said it seemed clear Mr A did not wish to take the chance of the car not being fixed 
at the roadside and the option of being taken to a local garage had not been properly 
explained in the call. So I didnt think it wasnt unreasonable to see why Mr A had opted to 
be taken home. 
I noted Mr A had Gold cover which provided Local Recovery and National Recovery services 
and the policy wording suggested that Local Recovery was applicable between 8am and 
4pm when a customer would be taken to a local garage within a particular radius of the 
breakdown. I noted Bastions comments there were local garages open later than 4pm, but I 
said this hadnt been properly explored as an option with Mr A, and he had broken down and 
called Bastion around 6.45pm, which was outside the Local Recovery hours described 
above. 
I said it appeared Bastion had applied Local Recovery mileage limitations to a National 
Recovery service (to take Mr A home) and noted that Bastion had not clarified why 13 miles was selected  - I could only assume it related to the 25 miles roundtrip limitation under the 
Local Recovery terms. 
I noted that neither Bastion nor Mr A were able to say exactly what the £70.20 Mr A paid was 
for. And it hadnt been clear to me what Bastion had paid for towards the claim. Furthermore, 
neither Bastion nor Mr A provided a reason for the breakdown  i.e. what was wrong with the 
car. 
As I did not believe Mr As options had been properly explained to him, and in the absence 
of any other evidence, I said I was minded to say Bastion should pay Mr A £70.20 for the 
additional mileage costs as National Recovery terms applied in these circumstances and 
there was no mileage limitation under this section of the cover. I said 8% simple interest (per 
annum) should be applied to this sum from the date Mr A made the payment to the date 
Bastion settle the sum. 
I explained as this was Mr As complaint, only Mr As call costs could be considered. I 
thought it reasonable that Mr A would have had to call Bastion when he broke down, so this 
wasnt something Bastion should be responsible for paying. And while I considered the 
submissions about other call costs, I had not seen enough to say Bastion should pay for any 
calls Mr A made. 
I accepted at face value that Mr A had incurred a bank charge due to paying for the 
additional mileage because he had managed to resolve this himself and was not seeking the 
£25 as part of his compensation. 
I considered the £100 our investigator proposed to recognise the inconvenience of the 
matter to Mr A, but I didnt think this was fair in the circumstances. I therefore proposed £50 
to acknowledge the additional inconvenience Mr A had incurred to sort out matters with his 
bank. 
Responses 
Bastion replied and said they would be prepared to pay £70.20 (with no mention of the 
interest proposed), but they felt £25 better reflected any inconvenience Mr A incurred to sort 
out the charge with his bank as this was likely to have taken one phone call. Bastion also 
confirmed the sum of £69.60 they had paid towards the claim, but didnt break down what 
this represented. 
Mr As representative replied to give further comments to say they agreed with my initial 
thoughts about the complaint. Mr A and his representative did not provide any further 
evidence or information about what the £70.20 reflected, the reason the car had broken 
down or anything more about the cost of calls. 
Following a review of the additional comments, Bastions offer was put to Mr A and Mr A was 
also asked if he had any more detail or evidence about what had happened to resolve his 
bank charge. 
Mr A did not accept Bastions offer. He said the £70.20 was his money they were not giving 
back to him and they had charged him illegally. Mr A felt the £25 offered for the stress and 
hassle was not acceptable. Mr A did not provide any more submissions or evidence about 
what he had needed to do to sort out his bank charge.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, for the reasons above I think Bastion could have better handled the claim 
when Mr A first called them. So I now need to decide how Bastion should put things right for 
Mr A. To decide this is not an exact science, but our general approach is to put someone 
back in the position they would have been in, as far as is reasonably possible, based on the 
available evidence and what is fair and reasonable in the circumstances. I would note at this 
point, that Im mindful it is not now possible to know with any certainty whether Mr A would 
have opted to go to a local garage or not if this had been clearly explained to him. 
So for the reasons given earlier, Im satisfied Bastion should pay Mr A £70.20 to reflect the 
additional mileage he paid for. Bastion should also pay 8% simple interest per annum* on 
this sum from the date Mr A made this payment until the date Bastion settle this sum. Mr A 
should note that the 8% interest is to reflect the fact he has had the inconvenience of not 
having had access to these monies since he had to pay for the additional mileage. 
As no further evidence or submissions were provided in relation to call costs, I remain of the 
view that Bastion does not need to make any payment for these. And for completeness, I 
agree with our investigator that it would not be fair for Bastion to pay £120 for Mr As missed 
work shift. I dont think its fair to hold Bastion to account for Mr As car breaking down and 
unfortunately the delay in recovering Mr A from his location was not something within 
Bastions control. Bastion dispatched the job promptly after speaking with Mr A, and the 
delay in recovery was due to slow traffic following an accident. I also agree with the 
investigator that while Bastion perhaps went further than was necessary in asking Mr A for 
evidence of his essential worker status, at the time it wasnt unreasonable for Bastion to 
check that Mr A was an essential worker. Mr A was also able to provide the evidence while 
speaking to Bastion during the initial claim. So I dont think this impacted anything. 
So what remains for me to decide relates to the matter of Mr As bank charge. Mr A did not 
provide any evidence of the charge he incurred, nor did he provide any more detail around 
what he had to do to resolve the matter with his bank. In view of this its difficult for me to 
assess the level of inconvenience caused to Mr A in relation to this. So I think in the 
circumstances £25 is a fair sum to reflect the inconvenience caused to Mr A for this. 
I understand Mr A feels that overall a higher level of compensation is due because of the 
stress the whole matter has caused him. I have considered what Mr A has said on this point, 
but Ive not seen enough to say that more compensation is warranted. 
I realise that breaking down is stressful for anyone and unfortunately this does have an 
impact on an individual  for example, the initial recovery, repairing the car and the 
inconvenience of managing day to day while a car is being repaired. However, these matters 
are not the fault of the insurer. Im also mindful Mr As policy with Bastion was not the most 
comprehensive on the market, so limitations do apply to the cover it provides. That said, 
Bastion did approve Mr As claim and Mr A was taken home -so the policy did what it was 
required to do.
 
Theres also a general expectation that sorting out something that has gone wrong causes a 
degree of inconvenience, but this in itself doesnt automatically mean compensation is due. 
And the Financial Ombudsman Service is not the regulator, so we do not fine or punish 
businesses. 
Putting things right
Overall, for the reasons above I uphold Mr As complaint. To put things right Bastion 
Insurance Company Limited should pay Mr A £70.20 plus 8% simple interest per annum* from the date Mr A made the payment until the date the sum is paid. Bastion Insurance 
Company Limited should also pay Mr A £25 compensation.
  
*HM Revenue & Customs requires Bastion Insurance Company Limited to deduct tax from 
this interest. Bastion Insurance Company Limited should give Mr A a certificate showing how 
much tax theyve deducted, if he asks for one. 
My final decision
For the reasons above, my final decision is that Mr As complaint is upheld and Bastion 
Insurance Company Limited should pay Mr A the award I have set out above in the section 
Putting things right. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision before 17 March 2022.
 
Kristina Mathews
Ombudsman