DRN-4155527
The complaint
Mr K complains that Revolut Ltd (Revolut) is refusing to refund him the amount he lost as the 
result of a scam.
Mr K is being represented by a third party. To keep things simple, I will refer to Mr K 
throughout my decision.
What happened
The background of this complaint is well known to all parties, so I wont repeat what 
happened in detail.
In summary, Mr K found an investment opportunity on Facebook he found interesting. The 
business was called Expert Financial Solutions (X). Mr K completed a data caption form 
online so X could contact him and did some online research where he found X had many 
positive online reviews X was also registered on companies house.
X called Mr K and explained the investment opportunity. X also explained that all payments 
made into the investment would have to be made through a cryptocurrency exchange. 
Convinced by X and the research he had carried out Mr K agreed to invest.
X asked Mr K to download the screensharing application AnyDesk and X stayed in regular 
contact with Mr K giving him access to a platform where he could see trades being carried 
out in real time.
When Mr K attempted to make a withdrawal from the investment, he was told he would have 
to make further payments first which Mr K complied with. Mr K was then told that he would 
receive the withdrawal in cash via courier.
While waiting for the courier to arrive Mr K received a call from someone claiming to be the 
courier explaining Mr K would have to make yet another payment. At this point Mr K realised 
he had fallen victim to a scam.
Mr K made the following payments in relation to the scam:
Date Payee Amount Payment Method
30 November 2021 Wisenex £2,539.57 Debit Card
2 December 2021 Wisenex £1,700.95 Debit Card
15 December 2021 Wisenex £6,200.25 Debit Card
15 December 2021 Wisenex £3,798.90 Debit Card
15 December 2021 Banxa Banxa £6,000.00 Transfer
23 December 2021 Wisenex £3,300.15 Debit Card
28 December 2021 Wisenex £2,817.15 Debit Card
31 December 2021 Wisenex £4,630.50 Debit Card
24 January 2022 Wallbitex £5,548.20 Debit Card
27 January 2022 Wallbitex £6,000.75 Debit Card
27 January 2022 Wallbitex £1,200.16 Debit Card
31 January 2022 Wallbitex £3,000.90 Debit Card
1 February 2022 Wallbitex £2,999.85 Debit Card
3 February 2022 Wallbitex £5,499.90 Debit Card
Our Investigator considered Mr Ks complaint and thought it should be upheld. Revolut 
disagreed so this complaint has been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Recovering the payments Mr K made
Mr K made payments into the scam by transfer and via his debit card. All the payments Mr K 
made were initially sent to a cryptocurrency exchange before being forwarded to X.
I have considered if Mr K should have received a refund under the Contingent 
Reimbursement Model (CRM) code for the payments he made into the scam by transfer. But 
the CRM code only applies when domestic payments (as the result of a scam) are sent to 
another person. Here Mr K sent the payments to an account held in his own name and the 
scam occurred when he moved his purchased crypto from that account to the scammer. Im 
satisfied the CRM Code wouldnt apply in this scenario.
Revolut was unable to process a chargeback for the payments Mr K made via his debit card 
in relation to this scam to the various cryptocurrency exchanges.
The chargeback scheme is a voluntary scheme set up to resolve card payment disputes
between merchants and cardholders. The card scheme operator ultimately helps settle 
disputes that cant be resolved between the merchant and the cardholder.
Such arbitration is subject to the rules of the scheme, meaning there are only limited
grounds and limited forms of evidence that will be accepted for a chargeback to be
considered valid, and potentially succeed. Time limits also apply.
Mr K was dealing with X, which was the business that instigated the scam. But Mr K didnt 
make the debit card payments to X directly, he paid separate cryptocurrency exchanges. 
This is important because Revolut was only able to process chargeback claims against the 
merchant he paid, not another party.
The service provided by the cryptocurrency exchanges would have been to convert or 
facilitate conversion of Mr Ks payments into cryptocurrency. Therefore, they provided the 
service that was requested; that being the purchase of the cryptocurrency.
The fact that the cryptocurrency was later transferred elsewhere  to the scammer  doesnt
give rise to a valid chargeback claim against the merchants Mr K paid. As the cryptocurrency 
exchanges provided the requested service to Mr K any chargeback attempt would likely fail.
Considering the above I am confident Revolut was unable to recover the payments Mr K 
made into the scam.
Should Revolut have reasonably prevented the payments Mr K made?
Mr K has accepted he authorised the payments that were made from his account with 
Revolut, albeit on Xs instruction. So, the starting point here is that Mr K is responsible. However, banks and other Payment Services Providers (PSPs) do have a duty to protect 
against the risk of financial loss due to fraud and/or to undertake due diligence on large 
transactions to guard against money laundering.
The question here is whether Revolut should have been aware of the scam and stepped in 
to prevent the payments from being made.
The first two payments Mr K made into the scam were to a legitimate business, on separate 
days, and were for values I would not have expected to trigger Revoluts fraud prevention 
systems. So, I dont think it was unreasonable that Revolut didnt step in to prevent the 
payments being made.
Mr K made a further three payments into the scam on 15 December 2021, almost two weeks 
after the initial two payments were made without complaint from Mr K, so I am not surprised 
the first payment made on 15 December 2021 did not trigger Revoluts fraud prevention 
systems either. But by the time Mr K made the fourth payment into the scam he had made 
payments of close to £10,000 in a single day to a relatively new payee I think this would 
have been considered unusual activity on Mr Ks account and should have triggered 
Revoluts fraud prevention systems prompting it to step in and question Mr K about the 
payments he was making.
Had Revolut stepped in at the point the fourth payment into the scam was attempted I think it 
would have likely uncovered the scam was taking place. Afterall, Revolut would have been 
aware of similar types of scams taking place around the same time.
As I think Revlout missed an opportunity to step in and prevent the scam continuing it is 
responsible for Mr Ks loss from the fourth payment he made.
Did Mr K contribute to his loss?
I think this was a sophisticated scam and Mr K couldnt have reasonably foreseen that he 
was dealing with a scammer. Mr K was able to see balances on his trading account with X, 
and I dont think he could have reasonably known that the trading balance was likely fake or 
a simulation  unless prompted by his trusted bank.
Revolut has told us Mr K was presented with a warning when he made the payments into the 
scam, but I think this warning was generic and did not apply to Mr K specifically. Like I have 
said above I would have expected Revolut to step in and ask Mr K specific questions about 
his payments when they started to look unusual and if it had I think it would have been able 
to prevent the scam continuing.
Putting things right
Ive explained why I think that if Revolut Ltd had done what it reasonably ought to have 
done, Mr K would not have lost as much to this scam as he did.
Revolut Ltd should therefore refund Mr K all of the payments he made into the scam from 
the fourth payment of £3,798.90 made on 15 December 2021.
To compensate Mr K for having been deprived of this money, Revolut Ltd should also pay 
Mr K account interest on the loss (if applicable), calculated from the date of loss to the date 
of settlement.
My final decision
I uphold this complaint and require Revolut Ltd to put things right by doing what Ive said above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr K to accept or 
reject my decision before 26 July 2023.
 
Terry Woodham
Ombudsman