DRN-3639422
The complaint
Mr F has complained about his car warranty provider, London General Insurance Company 
Limited (LGI) as it declined a claim he made when his car broke down.
What happened
Mr F had a break down in July 2021. His garage said the crankshaft in the engineer had 
snapped. He made a claim to LGI. LGI had an engineer inspect the engine. The engineer 
said there was congealed oil, indicating that the oil had not been changed for a prolonged 
period of time and this may have caused blockages and oil starvation, which in turn 
damaged the crank shaft pot the pint of failure.
LGI considered its policy. It told Mr F that the policy offers cover for:
the cost of repair or replacement (including labour) of any Covered Components in the 
event that any such Covered Component (as listed in Schedule 1: Covered Components) is 
subject to sudden and unforeseen mechanical or electrical breakdown unless such 
component fails due to negligence or reaching the end of its working life due to expected 
deterioration.
So LGI told Mr F that based on the policy wording and the engineers report on the cause, it 
wouldnt be covering the claim. It said that was because oil starvation is not a sudden 
mechanical failure. 
Mr F had the car fixed and complained to us. His invoice was for £4,498.10 and he said hed 
had to use savings to pay for this. He said he had only serviced the car a couple of months 
before. And he provided a report which he said came from his garage.
Our Investigator felt LGI should be paying the claim. She felt Mr F had shown a sudden 
failure had occurred. LGI disagreed. Mr F provided a further report on the damage as well as 
proof of the service completed in April 2021. LGI was asked to review whether it would now 
accept the claim. 
LGI (though not its engineer) said the service details showed the car had only done 
133 miles since the service before it broke down  so it was possible the low mileage had 
caused the build-up of sludge in the engineer. Or, LGI said, that the congealed oil had been 
present even before the service. It wasnt minded to change its position on the claim and the 
complaint was passed to me for a decision to be made.
I issued a provisional decision, my findings of which were:
Due to the information that was shared with LGI since our Investigator issued their view, Im 
issuing a provisional decision. This will allow me to share my view on everything, including 
LGIs response to the shared information, with both parties. And they will have a chance to 
respond before a final decision is made. 
In short, I intend to uphold this complaint. As such Ill likely require LGI to reimburse Mr Fs 
repair cost and pay him £500 compensation. Ive set out my reasoning below.
Ive quoted the cover offered by this policy above. The broken part of the car is one of the 
covered components. LGI has said its failure appears to have been oil starvation and this is 
not a sudden mechanical failure. So this is the issue Ive considered.
LGIs engineer said the oil starvation had most likely occurred due to the oil not being 
changed over a prolonged period of time. But Mr F has shown the oil was changed. So Im 
not persuaded that he engineers opinion can reasonably relied upon.
LGI has said the contaminated oil might have built up in the two months since the service 
due to low mileage. Or that it may have been there before the car was serviced. But these 
comments havent come from its engineer. And they seem at odds with his view that 
contamination had built up over a prolonged period of time because the oil hadnt been 
changed.
Im also mindful that both Mr Fs garage and LGIs engineer agree that the crank shaft 
snapped. The crank shaft is a mechanical part of the car. The point that the shaft snapped 
was a sudden event. And we know it was unforeseen as the car was serviced only two 
months before, with no concerns having been raised by the assessing garage. So that 
seems to me to be something covered by the policy. I think LGI should reimburse Mr Fs 
outlay plus interest*.
Mr F has explained that he needed to get the car fixed  but to do so he had to use savings. 
Given the national pandemic and difficulties that this caused Mr F, hes explained that using 
his savings for the purpose of repairing his car has caused him some worry and 
inconvenience. He was also without the use of the car for about four months in total. Whilst 
the car broke down in July, it was August before Mr F got it to the garage, and it was the end 
of October before he was able to get it fixed. But I see that during August LGI was asking the 
garage for information and it then decided to send an engineer to assess the car. I think, if 
LGI hadnt unreasonably declined the claim, the claim and repair would have been 
completed by the end of September 2021. So Mr F was without his car for one month longer 
than he should have been. I accept that must have been frustrating for him. Taking all of this 
into account, I think LGI should pay Mr F £500 compensation. 
Mr F said he was happy with my findings. LGI did not respond.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As neither party objected to my provisional decision, Ive no cause to change anything I said. 
My provisional findings are now those of this, my final decision.
Putting things right
I require LGI to pay Mr F:
£4,498.10 as reimbursement of the repair costs, plus interest from 29 October 2021 (the 
date of the invoice), until settlement is made.
£500 compensation.*Interest is at a rate of 8% simple per year and paid on the amounts specified and from/to 
the dates stated. HM Revenue & Customs requires LGI to take off tax from this interest. If 
asked, it must give Mr F a certificate showing how much tax its taken off
My final decision
I uphold this complaint. I require London General Insurance Company Limited to provide the 
redress set out above at Putting things right.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr F to accept or 
reject my decision before 8 September 2022. 
Fiona Robinson
Ombudsman