DRN-4318528
The complaint
Mrs R complains that Novitas Loans Ltd is unfairly refusing to remove her name from a loan. 
Shes represented in her complaint by her daughter, Mrs H, though I hope she will 
understand that for ease of reading Ill refer to any correspondence or submissions made as 
being received from Mrs R.
What happened
In 2018 a loan facility was arranged with Novitas in connection with a potential no win, no 
fee legal claim Mrs R was considering against a cavity wall insulation company C. 
Although the legal action appears to have been discontinued at an early stage, legal 
disbursements were drawn on the facility in favour of a third party solicitor H, who was 
dealing with the claim. The total amount drawn was £3,220.80, though the loan has accrued 
interest since then.
Novitas has told Mrs R she is not liable to repay the balance and that it will never seek 
repayment from her. However, its unwilling to remove her name from the loan as it forms 
part of ongoing litigation against the loan insurer in which it is currently engaged.
As a consequence Mrs R continues to receive correspondence relating to the loan balance, 
leading to distress and the inconvenience of repeated requests to remove her name from the 
loan. She has previously raised the actions of H with the Legal Ombudsman, whose findings 
included that H ensuring she wasnt responsible for the loan and that it would be discharged.
Our investigator noted Mrs Rs concerns and the frustration she was experiencing but felt 
that Novitas wasnt acting unfairly given the wider circumstances. She considered the 
assurances Novitas had given were fair, and that the account statements it was issuing were 
due to its regulatory obligations. Mrs R didnt accept our investigators conclusions and 
asked for this review.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Part of my role involves considering whether a complaint can be resolved informally, without 
the need for a formal determination. With this in mind and given that Novitas has already 
acknowledged that it will not hold Mrs R liable for the loan, I approached it to see whether it 
would be willing to remove Mrs Rs name and cease further communication with her about 
the loan as a way of resolving the dispute.
Novitas remained unwilling to do so. By way of explanation it has provided me, in 
confidence, with additional information relating to the ongoing litigation against the insurer. 
Given the obvious sensitivities surrounding litigation, I cant share this information with 
Mrs R, though I appreciate her previous comments about the apparent lack of transparency 
from Novitas in this respect. I would like to reassure Mrs R and her daughter that in my 
discussions with Novitas we have explored other reasonable alternatives, including 
assigning the loan out of Mrs Rs name. Regrettably, this isnt a viable option.
I have to balance the competing positions of Novitas and Mrs R. On the one hand, I can fully 
understand the frustration and upset Mrs R is experiencing from having the loan in her name 
despite her extensive efforts to establish the accepted position that she is not responsible for 
paying it back. On the other, it would be unreasonable for me to require removal of Mrs Rs 
name from the loan if doing so prejudiced Novitass position in the litigation, as it could 
potentially happen here.
Novitas has provided Mrs R with assurances that it will never require repayment from her. 
Even if the loan documents permitted it to do so, the position Novitas has taken would be 
likely to prevent any attempt it did make to change that position. Ive no reason to think 
Novitas will change its stance. Theres no record of the loan on Mrs Rs credit file, and it 
doesnt appear to have had any impact on her credit score, which she confirms as very 
good. Novitas continues to send annual loan statements, though as our investigator noted, 
this is to comply with its regulatory obligations. While I acknowledge that Mrs R finds this 
upsetting, that doesnt mean I can fairly put Novitas in breach of that requirement.
The current situation is, I accept, far from ideal. But Im satisfied that the assurances Novitas 
has provided, along with the lack of material impact on Mrs Rs credit status, represent a 
reasonable balance when set against the concern she has at the loan remaining under her 
name. In the circumstances I consider that Novitas has demonstrated that it has had due 
regard for Mrs Rs concerns and is treating her fairly, even if it is unwilling at this time to 
agree to remove her name from the loan.
My final decision
I recognise that this outcome is likely to be disappointing to Mrs R and her daughter, though 
I hope my explanation goes some way to helping them to understand why Ive reached the 
conclusion I have. But for the reasons Ive set out here, my final decision is that I dont 
require Novitas Loans Ltd to take any further action to resolve Mrs Rs complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs R to accept or 
reject my decision before 1 December 2023.
 
Niall Taylor
Ombudsman