The complaint
Mr K complains about the investment advice Santander UK Plc gave him in 2006.
What happened
In 2006, Mr K took out a stocks and shares ISA with Santander. He paid a total of £11,210 
into the ISA via regular contributions of £333 per month, which he increased to £350 per 
month from May 2008.
In May 2009, Mr K cashed in the ISA. He received £9,086.92.
In February 2019, Mr K complained to Santander through a representative. 
His representative said Mr K was unhappy with the advice he'd been given in 2006, as he 
was an inexperienced investor and had been advised to take too much risk with his money.
The representative explained Mr K felt the investment recommended wasn't suitable for 
saving for a house deposit, which was his objective at the time. And that the monthly 
contributions meant too much of his savings were exposed to the risks of the stock market 
 with no recommendation to build cash reserves.
Santanders response was that the complaint had been brought too late, outside of the 
timescales which apply. So Mr K's representative brought the complaint to our service.
I issued a decision on 30 March 2020, where I explained why I thought Mr Ks complaint had 
been brought in time, and that it was one we could consider. 
Following this decision, the investigator went on to consider the merits of the complaint, but 
did not think it should be upheld. So the case has been passed to me to decide on its merits. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. 
When Santander advised Mr K to take out the ISA, Id expect them to have gathered 
information about his needs, appetite for risk and financial situation in order to provide him 
with suitable investment advice. Unfortunately, theres limited information available from the 
date of sale, although this is reasonable given the time that's passed since 2006. 
DRN-1757741I have been provided with an application form from the time. This shows Mr Ks income and 
the amount he chose to invest when he first took out the ISA, which was £333 per month. 
Ive also been told that he chose to increase his monthly investment to £350 in May 2008.
Aside from this, Ive been told by his representative that Mr Ks investment objective was to 
save for a house deposit. And that he cashed in the ISA in May 2009 because hed found a 
property and went on to purchase it. Mr K's representative has also told us Mr K was aware 
he could lose money by investing. Santander have explained the ISA was invested into a 
high risk fund. Both parties to the complaint agree that Mr K was willing to take some risk 
with his investment. 
I don't know what Mr K was told when he took out the ISA. In my previous decision, I made 
the reasonable assumption that at the point of sale, the adviser would've made Mr K aware 
of the fact he was investing into a high risk fund. I still feel this is the case. 
To uphold this complaint, Id need to be persuaded on balance that the ISA Mr K was 
advised to take out wasnt suitable for him. Both parties agree Mr K was willing to take some 
risk and I think its likely he knew hed invested into a high risk fund. Nothing in what has 
been provided shows me that he was unwilling or unable to take the level of risk this 
investment exposed him to. 
While I dont know precisely what Mr Ks approach was to risk when he invested, the most 
timely and persuasive evidence I have are his actions after he took it out. I know Mr K kept 
the ISA until he was ready to buy a property, and that he increased his contributions to the 
investment. Taking this into account, and given Im satisfied he understood his money was 
exposed to risk (as I think Santander told him it was a high risk fund, and because hed have 
seen the value of his investment fluctuate) I think on balance, its more likely than not that 
this investment represented a degree of risk Mr K was willing to take.
I dont know a great deal about Mr Ks financial situation at the time. However, I do know his 
income and the fact he was living at home with his parents. Given this, and in the absence of 
any other information, the monthly contributions dont seem, on the face of it, to be an 
unaffordable amount for him to save. This is further supported by the fact that he increased 
his contributions after 18 months, which persuades me that its likely this amount was 
something he was comfortable with investing each month.  
Ive carefully considered the fact Mr K has said he was saving for a house deposit, and the 
fact this may have meant he didnt intend to save for the long term. Its not been disputed 
that this was Mr Ks investment objective. And I appreciate this could have affected his 
capacity for loss. But it doesnt inherently mean it was unsuitable for Mr K to take any risk. 
And in the absence of any further information, I cant fairly uphold this complaint on this 
basis. 
Where so little evidence exists from the point of sale, its difficult for me to conclude Mr K 
was misadvised. For the reasons Ive given above, based on the information and evidence 
Ive been provided with, on balance I think its more likely than not that Santanders advice 
was suitable for Mr K. And so it wouldnt be fair for me to uphold this complaint.
My final decision
I do not uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr K to accept or 
reject my decision before 24 July 2020.Artemis Pantelides
Ombudsman