DRN-3173570
The complaint
Mr C complained that a claim made against him was settled by Admiral Insurance Company 
Limited (Admiral) without his authorisation under his motor insurance policy.
What happened
Mr C said his car was involved in a minor collision with another vehicle. Mr C said the 
accident was the fault of the other driver. Mr C explained in detail there was no visual 
damage to either vehicle, he said no one was injured in the incident and no evidence of 
injury was presented by the other party.
Mr C was later informed that the third-party had made a claim against him for the accident. 
Mr C said he heard nothing from Admiral for months. When he came to renew his policy, he 
found out that Admiral had settled the claim against him. Mr C felt this was unfair as he 
hadnt given authorisation for Admiral to do this. Mr C thought Admiral had overpaid the 
third-partys damage claim and disputed the third-partys injury claim
Initially, Mr Cs no claim bonus (NCB) was impacted but Admiral later decided to re-instate 
this and refunded the additional premium Mr C had paid. Admiral paid Mr C £25 for the 
inconvenience this caused. Admiral said it recognised that it didnt keep Mr C informed 
during the claim and paid £100 to Mr C for the distress and inconvenience this caused. 
However, it said under the terms and conditions of the policy, it had the right to accept a 
claim on Mr Cs behalf, so it didnt uphold the complaint. Admiral didnt think there was a 
liability dispute as the customer had admitted to hitting the third-party vehicle.
Our investigator decided not to uphold the complaint. He said Admiral had acted in line with 
the terms and conditions of the policy and settled the claim under its right of subrogation. He 
thought the compensation paid by Admiral was fair for its failings in not keeping Mr C 
informed during the claim and for its dealings with his NCB. Mr C disagreed, so the 
complaint has been referred to an ombudsman.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Admiral investigated Mr Cs complaint when his NCB was initially impacted, and it reinstated 
his NCB to what it was before the claim. I think Admiral has done this fairly and made 
amends for the error by paying some compensation, so I dont think there is anymore to 
consider on this point as Mr C is no longer financially impacted.
Mr C is unhappy as he didnt think Admiral shouldve settled the claim and in doing so, he 
feels it has removed his opportunity to take legal action of his own. Admiral said it has the 
right to settle the claim on Mr Cs behalf, so I have looked at the terms and conditions of the 
policy to check this. In the general conditions of the policy, it states: we are entitled to 
conduct the investigation, defence and settlement of any claim on your behalf. I understand 
that Mr C feels aggrieved the claim was settled as he didnt think it was his fault and he 
didnt think the costs that were settled were reasonable. However, as Admiral has acted in 
line with the terms and conditions of the policy, I dont think it has done anything wrong here.
This general condition is common in insurance contracts and allows insurers to use their 
experience to settle claims. It allows insurers to make commercial decisions to settle a claim 
early where it thinks its the likely outcome should it be put before a court of law. It mitigates 
insurers having to pay expensive legal costs.
Admiral has accepted it didnt keep Mr C informed during the claim and has paid him £100 
compensation for the distress and inconvenience this caused him. I think this is a fair 
amount of compensation as I can imagine this was frustrating for Mr C.
Ive considered that Mr C didnt think Admiral had reviewed the evidence of the accident 
properly. He thought the liability accepted by Admiral for the damage and the injury was too 
high. However, I dont agree. Admiral was presented with the costs of the repairs and 
accepted these on the basis it thought the costs were consistent with the type of accident 
that occurred. I have seen pictures of the damaged car and the description of the repair does 
appear consistent with the damage I observed in a photograph provided. Admiral chose to 
offer a holistic settlement for the repairs and injury without reviewing any medical records. Mr 
C is unhappy no medical records were reviewed. However, I think Admiral has taken a fair 
commercial view based on the circumstances of the claim, as is its right under the terms and 
conditions of the policy. It has followed a reasonable process in reviewing the repair costs, 
so I think it has acted fairly and so, I dont uphold this complaint. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. I dont require Admiral Insurance 
Company Limited.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 10 January 2022.
 
Pete Averill
Ombudsman