DRN-2512534
The complaint
Mr A is unhappy with a car supplied to him through a Hire Purchase (HP) Agreement, under 
a Personal Contract Purchase plan, with Black Horse Limited.
What happened
In July 2019, Mr A was supplied with a used car through a HP Agreement with Black Horse. 
The agreement was for £36,197 over 49 months; with 48 monthly repayments of £527.44 
and a final payment of £17,221. The car was a gift for Mr As wife, Mrs A. Mrs A was to be 
the sole driver of the car, and it was insured in her name.
In November 2019, Mrs A was involved in a road traffic accident, in which the rear of the car 
was damaged. When the car went in for repair it was discovered there was also damage to 
the right wheel house panel, which the repairing garage said was from a previous accident. 
And this damage needed to be repaired before the damage caused in Mrs As accident 
could be repaired. All of the repairs were completed under the claim Mrs A made under her 
motor insurance policy.
Mr A was unhappy the car had been supplied with previous, undisclosed, accident damage. 
And he wanted to return the car. He complained to the supplying dealership, but they never 
replied. So he complained to Black Horse. They said the previous damage only came to light 
when Mrs A had an accident, and this had now been repaired. They said the only cost to Mr 
and Mrs A was the insurance excess, which wouldve been paid anyway because of Mrs As 
accident. They also said there was always a chance that a previous owner may have 
repaired the car, and this didnt make it of an unsatisfactory quality. So they didnt think they 
needed to do anything more.
Mr A was unhappy with Black Horses response and brought his complaint to us for 
investigation. Our investigator explained that the car wouldve been misrepresented if thered 
been a false statement of fact, and if that false statement of fact had induced Mr A to choose 
that particular car.
She said that, while there was a lack of documentation for the pre-sale checks carried out by 
the dealership, she didnt think they were aware of the previous damage because of where it 
was; because the checks they did didnt reveal anything; and because there were no issues 
with the car until the accident happened. So she didnt think thered been any false 
statement of fact.
The investigator also said that the original advert made no reference to the condition of the 
car, and the dealership serviced the car in July 2019. And she didnt think that any standard 
pre-sale inspection wouldve uncovered the previous accident damage  it was only visible 
once body panels had been removed. So she didnt think Black Horse needed to do anything 
more. 
Mr A didnt agree with the investigator. He accepted the previous damage probably hadnt 
been disclosed to the dealership, but he didnt think it was fair that he should now have to 
accept liability for this. He thought this was the responsibility of the dealership and, at the 
very least, the value of the car should be reassessed because of the previous accident 
damage, and the instalment payments to Black Horse adjusted accordingly.
Mr A also said hed done an internet search for the car, and found it previously advertised for 
sale with a higher stated mileage than was recorded on the paperwork from Black Horse, the 
MOT history and the odometer when the car was supplied. And he thinks this shows that the 
checks the dealership carried out werent sufficient. So hes asked for an ombudsman to 
make a final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In considering this complaint Ive had regard to the relevant law and regulations; any 
regulators rules, guidance and standards, codes of practice, and (if appropriate) what I 
consider was good industry practice at the time. Mr A was supplied with a car under a HP 
agreement. This is a regulated consumer credit agreement which means were able to look 
into complaints about it. 
This complaint is mainly about misrepresentation. And, as explained by the investigator, 
when considering misrepresentation Im looking at two things  whether there was a false 
statement of fact and, if there was, whether or not the false statement of fact induced Mr A to 
choose this particular car.
was the damage to the car present when it was supplied?
The first thing I need to consider is whether the damage being complained about was 
already present when the car was supplied to Mr A, or whether it was caused in the accident 
Mrs A had.
Mrs As accident caused damage to the nearside rear of the car. Ive seen an email from the 
repairing garage which says that, after removing a damaged body panel, they discovered 
previous un repaired damage. They also explained that this damage would need to be 
repaired before a replacement body panel could be fitted.
Ive seen nothing to show me this damage was caused by Mrs As accident, or anything to 
show me that the car was involved in any other accidents between it being supplied to Mr A 
in July 2019 and Mrs As accident four months later. And Ive no reason to doubt what the 
repairing garage have said about the cause of this damage. So I think its more likely than 
not that the previous damage was present when the car was supplied to Mr A.
did dealership know, or should they have reasonably known, about the pre-existing 
damage? 
Given that Im satisfied that the damage to the car was present when it was supplied, I now 
need to consider whether the dealership knew about it. Or whether they shouldve 
reasonably known about it, because of the checks they carried out.
The dealership would likely have known about this damage if they were told about it by the 
previous owner; if it showed on any physical inspection they carried out on the car; or if 
showed through some other check carried out i.e. a HPI check.The dealership said they werent aware of any unrepaired accident damage, and I havent 
seen anything to show me that wasnt the case. While the car was likely to have been in a 
previous accident, I consider it unlikely that the previous owner wouldve known the damage 
hadnt been repaired as it wasnt visible damage. And, when a car has been damaged in an 
accident (and to the best of the previous owners knowledge that damage had all been 
repaired) I wouldnt necessarily expect it to be declared on sale, unless itd been declared as 
an insurance write-off. 
Its not disputed that the previous accident damage was only visible when body panels were 
removed. Regardless of what checks the dealership carried out, or any theyd reasonably be 
expected to have carried out, this wouldnt include removing all of the body panels to check 
for any undisclosed underlying damage. So any check the dealership wouldve carried out, 
including the service they did in July 2019, wouldnt have uncovered the previous damage.
Id also expect the dealership to carry out a HPI check, to make sure the car didnt have any 
outstanding finance or had been written off in a previous accident. The dealership said they 
carried out this check at the time, but they havent been able to evidence this. However, they 
have carried out a more recent check which doesnt show anything. So any check carried 
out at the time also wouldnt have shown anything.
So, for the reasons given, Im satisfied that the dealership didnt know about the pre-existing 
damage, and that their checks wouldnt have revealed this. And, as they didnt know there 
was any damage, they didnt make any false statement of fact about the condition of the car 
which couldve induced Mr A to choose this particular car. So Im satisfied that the sale 
wasnt misrepresented.
was the car of a satisfactory quality when supplied?
The relevant law  the Consumer Rights Act 2015 (CRA) - says, amongst other things, that 
the car shouldve been of a satisfactory quality when supplied. And if it wasnt, as the 
supplier of goods, Black Horse are responsible.  Whats satisfactory is determined by what a 
reasonable person would consider satisfactory given the price, description and other 
relevant circumstances. In a case like this, this would include things like the age and mileage 
at the time of sale; and the vehicles history. 
The CRA also says that goods must confirm to contract within the first six months. So, where 
a fault is identified within the first six months, its assumed that the fault was present when 
the car was supplied, unless Black Horse can show otherwise. So, if I thought the car was 
faulty when Mr A took possession of it, and this made the car not of a satisfactory quality, itd 
be fair and reasonable to ask Black Horse to put this right.
As Ive said, Im satisfied that there was previous unrepaired accident damage present when 
the car was supplied to Mr A. But this doesnt automatically mean the car was of an 
unsatisfactory quality because of this. In this case the wheel house panel hadnt been 
repaired properly and hadnt been sealed. So, over time, water could seep into the wheel 
house and cause rusting to take place. Because of the nature of the damage, Im satisfied 
that this doesnt mean the car was faulty  it was operating as it should have, and all 
components worked as a reasonable person would expect them to. But this doesnt mean 
that the damage shouldnt have been repaired.Mr A has referred to the dealership as having liability for the damage. And the CRA says that 
a repair should take place because the damage first came to light within six months. If it 
hadnt already happened, Id consider asking Black Horse to arrange for this repair. But a 
repair has taken place, and this was at no additional cost to Mr A  the repair costs were 
covered by the insurance on the car and, because Mrs A had been involved in a accident, 
the insurance excess would always have been payable. So Mr A is in no different a position 
now to what he wouldve been if Black Horse had arranged for the repair to the car. So I 
dont think Black Horse need do anything more about the damage and the repair.
Mr A has also raised the issue of the value of the car, and that he paid too much for it 
because of the previous damage. Ive not seen anything to show me that the car is worth 
less that it wouldve been had it not been involved in any accident and all the accident 
damage had been repaired satisfactorily  the current situation. So I dont think the cars 
value has been affected. 
Finally, Mr A has raised the issue of a mileage discrepancy. But this relates to an old advert 
where the car is advertised as having done a greater mileage than it has. The mileage 
recoded on the MOT record, the Black Horse agreement, and on the odometer, all indicate 
what everyone believes to be the correct mileage. And I havent seen anything to show me 
that the mileage recorded on the car has been altered in any way. So I dont agree that what 
could be an error on an old advert is a reason why Mr A should be allowed to reject the car, 
or a reason why Black Horse should pay any compensation.
My final decision
For the reasons explained above I dont uphold Mr As complaint against Black Horse 
Limited.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision before 23 April 2021.
 
Andrew Burford
Ombudsman