DRN-2824278
The complaint
Mr A complains that Valour Finance Limited trading as Savvy.co.uk was irresponsible in its 
lending to him.
What happened
Mr A was provided with a £1,200 instalment loan by Savvy.co.uk in August 2020. The loan 
was repayable over 13 four-weekly instalments of just under £185 each. Mr A says that 
Savvy.co.uk acted irresponsibly by providing the loan.
Savvy.co.uk says that before the loan was provided it carried out affordability and 
creditworthiness checks. It says Mr A had a monthly income of £1,500 and expenses 
(including other loan commitments) of £515. It requested pay slips and carried out a credit 
check which identified a further loan. It says based on the information it received the loan 
repayments were affordable.
.
Our adjudicator didnt uphold this complaint. He didnt think that based on the information 
received and loan provided that further verification was required.
Mr A didnt accept our adjudicators view. He said he had a lot of other credit outstanding at 
the time.
My provisional conclusions
I issued a provisional decision on this complaint. I concluded in summary:
As Mr A was only provided with one loan the initial checks carried out before the loan 
was provided seemed proportionate. However, I thought the information gained 
through these checks should have raised concerns.
I noted the payslips provided by Mr A suggested an average monthly income of 
around £1,300 - lower than the £1,500 recorded. Mr A s income and expenses were 
discussed on a call and I didnt think the affordability checks raised issues that would 
require further verification. But I thought the credit check information should have 
raised concerns that Mr A was struggling to manage his money. Because of this I 
upheld Mr As complaint.
Mr A agreed with my provisional decision. Savvy.co.uk didnt.
Savvy.co.uk noted my provisional decision said that Mr A had two accounts that had 
defaulted. It said this wasnt the case and had it confirmed by a credit reference agency that 
the two accounts hadnt defaulted.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
We've set out our general approach to complaints about short-term lending - including all of 
the relevant rules, guidance and good industry practice - on our website.
Savvy.co.uk needed to take reasonable steps to ensure that it didn't lend irresponsibly. In 
practice this means that it should have carried out proportionate checks to make sure that 
Mr A could repay the loan in a sustainable manner. These checks could take into account a 
number of different things, such as how much was being lent the repayment amounts and 
the consumer's income and expenditure. With this in mind, in the early stages of a lending 
relationship, I think less thorough checks might be reasonable and proportionate.
But certain factors might point to the fact that Savvy.co.uk should fairly and reasonably have 
done more to establish that any lending was sustainable for a consumer. 
I think that it is important for me to start by saying that Savvy.co.uk was required to establish 
whether Mr A could sustainably repay his loan - not just whether the loan payments were 
affordable on a strict pounds and pence calculation.
Of course, the loan payments being affordable on this basis might be an indication a 
consumer could sustainably make their repayments. But it doesnt automatically follow this is 
the case. This is because the Consumer Credit Sourcebook (CONC), defines sustainable 
as being without undue difficulties and in particular the customer should be able to make 
repayments on time, while meeting other reasonable commitments; as well as without 
having to borrow to meet the repayments. And it follows that a lender should realise, or it 
ought fairly and reasonably to realise, that a borrower wont be able to make their 
repayments sustainably if theyre unlikely to be able to make their repayments without 
borrowing further.
Ive carefully considered all of the arguments, evidence and information provided in this 
context and what this all means for Mr As complaint.
As I set out in my provisional decision Mr A was only provided with one loan by Savvy.co.uk 
and so it could be reasonable that less checks were required at this time. Affordability 
checks were carried out and while I noted the difference in the income figure compared with 
the payslips provided I think these checks were reasonable. However, I think that the credit 
check that was carried out raised concerns that Mr A was struggling to manage his money.
The credit report showed that Mr A had four credit card accounts, three of which had a 
balance higher than the limit. I noted in my provisional decision that the other credit card 
balance was recorded as a default in March 2020 and that another account was also 
recorded as a default at that time. Savvy.co.uk provided further information showing that the 
accounts were delinquent in March 2020 rather than defaulted and that the credit card 
account had since improved while there wasnt an explanation for the change in status of the 
other account.  
I appreciate the additional information that Savvy.co.uk provided in response to my 
provisional decision and note that Mr A also provided additional information showing historic 
defaults on his account. I have carefully considered all the additional information provided. 
Having done so I still think that the information gathered through Mr As credit search should 
have raised concerns that he was having difficulty in managing his money and that 
Savvy.co.uk should have been concerned that providing Mr A with a 12 month loan at this 
time wasnt sustainably affordable for him
 
Putting things rightIn deciding what redress Savvy.co.uk should fairly pay in this case Ive thought about what 
might have happened had it not lent to Mr A.
Clearly there are a great many possible, and all hypothetical, answers to that question. 
For example, having been declined this lending Mr A may have simply left matters there, not 
attempting to obtain the funds from elsewhere. If this wasnt a viable option, he may have 
looked to borrow the funds from a friend or relative  assuming that was even possible. Or, 
he may have decided to approach a third-party lender with the same application, or indeed a 
different application (i.e. for more or less borrowing). But even if he had done that, the 
information that would have been available to such a lender and how they would (or ought to 
have) treated an application which may or may not have been the same is impossible to now 
accurately reconstruct. From what Ive seen in this case, I certainly dont think I can fairly 
conclude there was a real and substantial chance that a new lender would have been able to 
lend to Mr A in a compliant way at this time.
Having thought about all of these possibilities, Im not persuaded it would be fair or 
reasonable to conclude that Mr A would more likely than not have taken up any one of these 
options. So, it wouldnt be fair now reduce Savvy.co.uks liability in this case for what Im 
satisfied it has done wrong and should put right.
Based on the above, Valour Finance Limited trading as Savvy.co.uk should:
waive any interest and charges outstanding on the loan and ensure all payments that 
have been made towards the loan are considered as payments towards the capital 
amount borrowed; and
remove any adverse information regarding this loan from Mr As credit file.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint. Valour Finance Limited trading as 
Savvy.co.uk should take the actions set out above in resolution of this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision before 5 July 2021.
 
Jane Archer
Ombudsman