DRN-1732185
 
The complaint
Mr M and Miss D complain that Legal and General Assurance Society Limited (L&G) 
declined Miss Ds claim for critical illness benefit. As this complaint is about L&Gs decision 
to decline Miss Ds claim, Ill refer only to her for ease of reading.
What happened
Mr M and Miss D bought two term assurance policies with critical illness cover from L&G in 
2011. As part of her application, L&G asked Miss D if she had, in the five years prior to 
applying for the policy, had medical advice about a lump. Miss D answered no.
Unfortunately, Miss D was diagnosed with breast cancer in April 2019. She made a claim to 
L&G for critical illness benefit in 2019. L&G contacted Miss Ds GP for more information 
about her medical history. Her GP said she had suffered a breast lump in 2008 and had 
referred her to a consultant. The consultant said Miss D had a benign feeling 2cm mass 
with no suspicious features I did a biopsy of this mass and this was confirmed to be 
benign (AC2) I have suggested that once she has completed this pregnancy and her 
periods are back to normal it might be worth just checking that the lump does not increase in 
size or cause any further symptoms so after her confinement she will get back in touch for 
one further review.
Having reviewed this evidence, L&G said Miss D hadnt answered its question about 
whether she sought medical advice for a lump correctly. L&G said if it had known Miss D had 
sought advice for a lump, it would have applied an exclusion to her policy preventing Miss D 
from making any claim for breast cancer. So, it applied the exclusion and declined Miss Ds 
claim.
Miss D complained about L&Gs decision to decline her claim. She said it was confirmed the 
swelling she reported was related to normal breast changes due to pregnancy. She felt she 
answered L&Gs applications to the best of her understanding and, if she had disclosed 
these normal, pregnancy related changes, L&G would have offered her cover with no 
exclusion for breast cancer. Miss D said she never said she had a lump in her breast. 
Instead, she went to her GP about swelling. She provided a letter from a consultant 
oncologist who treated her breast cancer, who said the term lump would not have been 
used in front of her. The consultant also said we would not have considered pregnancy 
breast changes as a risk for breast cancer.
L&G didnt change its decision about Miss Ds claim and issued its final response to her 
complaint. Unhappy with L&Gs response, Miss D referred her complaint to our service.
One of our investigators asked L&G to clarify what it would have done in 2008 if Miss D had 
disclosed she had a lump. L&G said its underwriting guidance at that time said it would have 
postponed the application until a lump had been excised. As the lump was not excised, it 
wouldnt have offered Miss D cover in 2008. But L&G decided to apply its recent underwriting approach and excluded any claim for breast cancer from Miss Ds policy 
instead of deciding to not offer her a policy at all.
Our investigator didnt think Miss Ds complaint should be upheld. He said Miss D was asked 
whether she had experienced a lump or other breast problem, and she answered no to both 
questions. Our investigator thought the answers Miss D gave were inaccurate, having 
considered the evidence provided by Miss Ds GP and consultant in 2008. L&G said it 
wouldnt have offered Miss D cover, so he didnt think it was treating Miss D unfairly by 
declining her claim or applying an exclusion to her policy.
In response, Miss D said if shed disclosed her breast problem, and L&G had applied an 
exclusion to her policy, she would have appealed it and provided evidence that the changes 
she was concerned about were solely related to normal changes during pregnancy. Miss D 
also said if L&G had declined her policy, she would have appealed its decision because 
there was no mass that could be removed from her breast.  As Miss D disagreed with our 
investigators view of her complaint, her complaint was passed to me to review.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I would first like to say how sorry I was to read of Miss Ds illness and I 
understand her complaint has been made against the background of a very difficult time for 
her. 
As this policy was sold before the Consumer Insurance (Disclosure and Representations) 
Act 2012 came into force, I havent considered it as part of this decision. Instead, Ive taken 
into account the appropriate industry guidance that was in place at the time L&G made their 
decision. This is called, Misrepresentation and Treating Customers Fairly  ABI Code of 
Practice Managing Claims For Individual and Group Life, Critical Illness and Income 
Protection Insurance Products April 2013. I will refer to this as the code.
As part of her application, L&G asked Miss D the following questions: 
In the last 5 years have you had medical advice for any of the following:
A tumour, lump, or growth of any kind? 
A cervical smear or gynaecological disorder or breast problem, for which you have needed 
further investigations, tests, advice, or for which you have not yet been discharged from 
follow up?
As Miss Ds consultant for her recent cancer treatment has said the term lump wouldnt 
have been used in front of her in 2008, I think the relevant question here is whether Miss D 
should have answered yes when asked if, in the last five years, she had a breast problem 
for which she needed further investigations, tests or advice. 
I think its reasonably clear a question about whether a potential customer had experienced 
a breast problem that required further investigation would be relevant to an insurer. So I 
think Miss D should have known it was important to L&G that she answer this question 
accurately, and to the best of her knowledge. 
I think the question asked was clearly worded. The question asked only if Miss D had a 
breast problem that needed further investigations, tests or advice. The question didnt ask about the outcome of any tests or investigations, only whether there had been any. I know 
Miss D says she didnt think she needed to answer yes to this question. But I think the 
question was clear that she needed to report any breast problem that required further 
investigations, tests or advice  regardless of the outcome of those investigations or tests. 
I think the evidence shows Miss D had a concern about her breast, sought advice from her 
GP and was referred to a consultant. The consultant diagnosed Miss D as having a benign 
mass and says he told her to monitor it for changes once she completed her pregnancy. The 
consultants letter doesnt support Miss Ds claim she was told she only had pregnancy-
related breast swelling. Instead, it says she was told shed had a benign mass. And whilst a 
diagnosis of a benign mass wouldve been reassuring, I still think she ought to have known, 
based on the question asked of her, that this was information L&G needed to know. So I 
think Miss D should have answered yes to this question. 
L&G hasnt suggested Miss Ds incorrect answers were given deliberately or without any 
care. I agree and because of this, I think L&G would have been entitled to treat Miss Ds 
answer as negligent under the code, which means it is entitled to put Miss D back in the 
position she would have been in if shed accurately disclosed the medical evidence 
surrounding her breast concerns.
And L&G has said if it had known about the breast problem at the time, it would have 
postponed cover until the lump was excised. Im satisfied the evidence suggests Miss D had 
a lump in her breast, so the guidance would have applied to her. I know Miss D says there 
was no mass to remove, but this is not what the letter from her consultant says. It says there 
was a benign mass in her breast, which Miss D should keep an eye on after she completed 
her pregnancy. Ive not been provided with any further medical evidence that shows the 
benign mass was no longer present once Miss D completed her pregnancy. 
Miss D says she thinks L&G would have changed its mind once she explained her concerns 
were investigated and she was assured that the changes experienced in her breast were 
normal and pregnancy related. Ive already outlined that the medical evidence actually says 
Miss D had a benign mass diagnosed, and doesnt say it was pregnancy related. But in any 
event, L&G wasnt given the chance to assess the medical evidence at the time, so I dont 
think I can now say its most likely it wouldve departed from its underwriting criteria. In fact, 
L&G has said if it had assessed her medical information more recently, it would still have 
applied an exclusion for breast cancer claims. Furthermore, I think L&G would have been 
entitled to void Miss Ds policy since its inception as it wouldnt have offered her cover until 
her breast lump was excised.
As Ive said above, instead of voiding Miss Ds policy, L&G offered to keep it in place with an 
exclusion for breast cancer related claims. This means Miss D still has critical illness cover in 
place if she suffers another specified critical illness covered by her policy. I appreciate this is 
of little comfort to Miss D now, but I dont think I can say L&G has acted unreasonably here, 
bearing in mind Miss D may find it more expensive or harder to find alternative cover 
elsewhere since her cancer diagnosis.
My final decision
For the reasons explained above, I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss D and Mr M 
to accept or reject my decision before 30 June 2020.
Victoria Blackwood
Ombudsman