DRN-3778289
The complaint
Mr H complains that Lloyds Bank PLC didnt do enough to protect him from losing money to 
an investment scam.
What happened
Mr H has explained that in 2020 and 2021 he made the following payments using his Lloyds 
debit card to Elastum-Simplex for what he thought was a legitimate investment with
FX GBP Markets.
Date Amount (£)
29 December 2020 500
22 January 2021 1,000
22 January 2021 2,000
22 January 2021 1,000
22 January 2021 2,000
22 January 2021 2,000
28 January 2021 2,000
Total 10,500
Mr H subsequently got in touch with Lloyds to report that hed been scammed. Lloyds didnt 
reimburse or recover his lost funds, although it did offer Mr H £40 for service issues. 
Remaining unhappy, Mr H referred his complaint about Lloyds to this service. As our 
Investigator was unable to resolve the matter informally, the case has been passed to me for 
a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided to not uphold the complaint for materially the same reasons as 
our Investigator. Ive explained why below.
Im sorry if Mr H lost this money to a scam. But in circumstances like this, this doesnt 
automatically entitle him to a refund from Lloyds. It would only be fair for me to tell Lloyds to 
reimburse Mr H if I thought it reasonably ought to have prevented the payments and/or if it 
unreasonably hindered recovery of the funds.
Prevention
I dont think Lloyds can reasonably be expected to have prevented the payments Mr H says 
he lost. This is because Lloyds would generally be expected to process payments a 
customer authorised it to make. And under the Payment Services Regulations and the terms 
and conditions of the account, Mr H is presumed liable for the loss in the first instance, in 
circumstances where he authorised the payments. That said, as a matter of good industry 
practice, Lloyds should have taken proactive steps to identify and help prevent transactions 
 particularly unusual or uncharacteristic transactions  that could involve fraud or be the 
result of a scam. However, there is a balance to be struck: banks had (and have) obligations 
to be alert to fraud and scams and to act in their customers best interests, but they cant 
reasonably be involved in every transaction. 
Here Im satisfied that Lloyds didnt seek to intervene in the payments; and that the 
payments werent sufficiently unusual or uncharacteristic for me to say it was unreasonable 
for Lloyds to process Mr Hs payment instructions without questioning him about them first. 
I understand the payments Mr H made to Simplex, a legitimate crypto exchange, were 
ultimately destined for FX GBP Markets. Whilst I consider banks like Lloyds ought to have 
been well aware of cryptocurrency-type scams like this since at least January 2019  where 
the customer moves the funds to a crypto exchange and then on to the scammer  not all 
payments made for cryptocurrency are a result of a scam. So I dont think Lloyds ought 
reasonably to have been obliged to block these payments automatically just because they 
were being made to Simplex. 
Instead, I can see from the account statements prior to Mr Hs payments to Simplex, that in 
November 2020 Mr H made five payments into his account and five payments out of his 
account for £10,000 each. Mr H has explained these were to an account in his own name for 
savings purposes. And I dont attach much weight to these; theyre not the same thing as 
payments to a crypto exchange. At the same time, I dont think they should be completely 
disregarded, as they still form part of the historical and recent account activity. 
More importantly in this case though, in my opinion, the first payment to Simplex for £500 in 
December 2020 just wasnt sufficiently large or otherwise unusual or uncharacteristic to 
reasonably oblige Lloyds to intervene. And then by the time of Mr Hs final six payments to 
Simplex near the end of January 2021, not only had Mr H made a legitimate payment for 
jewellery in December 2020 for over £2,500, but hed already made a string of legitimate 
payments for investments in January 2021 totalling over £8,500 (with the individual 
payments to the same merchant being for between about £500 and £3,000, which 
individually were generally equal to or greater than Mr Hs payments to Simplex).
Mr H has said these legitimate payments were unusual in their own right. But I also 
understand hes said he had traded before and he wasnt a novice. And as I understand 
these legitimate payments werent made as a result of a scam, Im satisfied there was no 
obligation on Lloyds to intervene in them. So Im satisfied its fair to say that Mr Hs 
subsequent instructions for payments to Simplex in January 2021 wouldnt have looked that 
unusual for Mr H, given the previous account activity. I wouldnt expect the individual 
amounts to have triggered Lloyds systems. And although Ive thought very carefully about 
the fact that payments two to six (which totalled £8,000) appear to have all been made on 
the same day, Im still not sufficiently persuaded it would be fair to say Lloyds ought to have 
been obliged to have intervened, bearing in mind the previous account activity in general. 
Mr H has also said Lloyds ought to have checked whether he could actually afford the 
payments. However, as our Investigator explained, Mr H made the payments from his 
current account. The first payment was relatively small at £500. And the account balance 
was over £10,000 at the time of the second payment. And there remained sufficient funds in 
the account for all subsequent payments. We arent looking at a lending scenario here. And 
it wouldnt generally be for a business to say in a situation like this what a customer can and 
cannot spend their money on. So I dont think this would have been a separate reason for 
concern to warrant intervention either. For the reasons Ive explained, Im therefore not persuaded that Lloyds unreasonably 
missed an opportunity to prevent the payments in this case.
Recovery
After the payments were made, I wouldnt reasonably expect Lloyds to have done anything 
until Mr H notified it hed been scammed. Then, because these were debit card payments, 
the only potential avenue for recovery of the payments would have been via the chargeback 
scheme.
However, Mr H made the payments from his Lloyds debit card to Simplex (and not directly to 
the scammers). This means the merchant here, for chargeback purposes, would be Simplex 
(and not the scammers). Simplex legitimately provided the services intended (which was the 
purchase of cryptocurrency and then moving it onto a wallet of Mr Hs choosing). The 
subsequent transfer of the cryptocurrency on to the scammers would not give rise to a valid 
chargeback claim through Lloyds. So I dont think these payments were recoverable through 
Lloyds once they had been made.
I realise this means Mr H is out of pocket. And Im sorry he lost this money. But I cant 
reasonably ask Lloyds to reimburse Mr H in circumstances where I dont think it ought 
reasonably to have prevented the payments or been able to recover them. Im also aware 
Lloyds previously offered Mr H £40 for service issues and Im satisfied this was fair and 
reasonable.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 16 February 2023.
 
Neil Bridge
Ombudsman