DRN-3366844
The complaint
Mr and Mrs G complain about how Bank of Scotland plc (trading as Halifax) has reported 
information on their credit file. 
What happened
Mr and Mrs G told Halifax that their circumstances had been impacted as result of the Covid-
19 pandemic. In response to the pandemic, the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA) released
specific guidance for mortgage lenders  including allowing customers to defer up to a
maximum of six-monthly mortgage payments. Where a payment deferral is offered, the
lender needs to ensure that a consumer is given adequate information to understand any
implications this may have.
In response to Mr and Mrs Gs circumstances and a request for a payment deferral, Halifax
agreed a six-month payment deferral from April 2020 to September 2020. Mr and Mrs Gs 
account would not be reported as in arrears during this time.
When Mr and Mrs Gs deferral period was coming to an end, they called Halifax to discuss 
their options as they still couldnt resume full payments. Halifax said a further extension 
could not be granted as the limit set by the FCA had been reached.
A payment arrangement was subsequently agreed for October and November 2020. It was 
agreed that Mr and Mrs G would pay £177.55 in those months as opposed to their 
contractual monthly payment (CMP) of £1,177.55.
From December 2020 Mr and Mrs G started making their CMP and on some occasions, 
more. Their account remained in arrears for some months after due to partial payments 
made in October and November 2020.
When Mr and Mrs G brought their complaint to our service in February 2021, they 
complained about a missed payment being reported on their credit files in January 2021. 
They later complained that a further missed payment was reported in April 2021.
Mr and Mrs G say that they were only ever told their account would be reported as in arrears 
with an arrangement in place due to Covid-19. They say they accepted this, and they 
understood the impact this could have on their credit files. They have never missed a 
payment and cant understand why their credit files show missed payments. 
The FCAs guidance said that after the six-month deferral period had ended, it expected 
lenders to resume normal reporting. So, the follow-on payment arrangement and any 
ongoing arrears would be recorded on their credit files, in line with the FCAs guidance.
Halifax said it told Mr and Mrs G that if their arrears balance exceeded £1,177.55 (their 
current CMP amount), arrears would be reported on their credit file. Halifax didnt accept that 
it had reported incorrect information.
Unhappy with Halifaxs response, Mr and Mrs G brought their complaint to our service. An
investigator looked into things and didnt think the complaint should be upheld. He thought 
Halifaxs reporting was correct. Mr and Mrs G didnt accept our investigators view and asked 
for an ombudsman to review their case. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I think its important to start off by explaining that Mr and Mrs G are relying on the information 
theyve retrieved from a free online credit score/report platform. The source used is not a 
credit reference agency (CRA) itself. It gives the public free access to the data that Equifax 
holds on them. Equifax is one of three main credit reference agencies in the UK. Experian 
and TransUnion being the other two. Retailers and lenders report to and rely on the 
information held by the main CRAs. 
Halifax says it has never reported missed payments to the main CRAs. An arrangement 
was reported in November 2020 and arrears without an arrangement was reported between 
December 2020 to February 2021 and in April 2021. 
Lenders have a duty to report accurate and up-to-date information to CRAs. Ive considered 
Mr and Mrs Gs account history to decide if Halifax has done something wrong or acted 
unfairly in the circumstances. 
Im satisfied Halifax responded appropriately to Mr and Mrs Gs request for a payment 
deferral. It offered the required support as set out in the FCAs guidance to lenders in 
response to the Covid-19 pandemic. 
The FCA guidance sets out that if customers are still unable to resume full payments after 
taking the full six-month payment deferral then lenders should provide ongoing tailored 
support. But, as mentioned previously, normal reporting would resume. 
Mr and Mrs G say they accept an arrangement and arrears being reported but not missed 
payments. From what Ive seen, Im satisfied Mr and Mrs G have not missed any payments 
during the period in question. Im also persuaded that Halifax hasnt reported any missed 
payments to the main CRAs. 
In response to Mr and Mrs Gs complaint about the refusal for an extended payment deferral 
(for longer than six months), Halifax explained that any arrears in excess of their CMP 
amount would be reported to CRAs. The potential impact on their credit scores and the 
effect this could have on future borrowing was also explained and expanded on in their 
payment arrangement confirmation letter.  
No adverse information was reported in October 2020. Even though Mr and Mrs G had an 
arrangement in place at that time, their arrears balance was less than their CMP amount so 
there was no change to Halifaxs usual reporting. In November 2020 their arrears balance 
exceeded their CMP. An arrangement was reported that month. 
Although Mr and Mrs G resumed making their CMPs, if not more, from December 2020, their 
account remained in arrears until April 2021. No arrangement was in place and in those 
months where the arrears balance exceeded their CMP amount arrears without an 
arrangement were reported in accordance with Halifaxs terms. 
I must note that Ive not considered the position of Mr and Mrs Gs account post April 2021 
as the information Ive been provided from Halifax only covers until this point.Based on everything Ive seen Im persuaded Halifax has correctly reported to the CRAs and 
that Mr and Mrs G were given enough information about how arrears would impact their 
credit files. As explained, Ive seen nothing to suggest missed payments were reported to 
CRAs.
The online platform relied on here may have a different way of displaying the data held by 
Equifax but that is not something I can hold Halifax responsible for. The platforms complaint 
procedure is available online if this is something Mr and Mrs G wish to pursue.
My final decision
My Final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr G and Mrs G to 
accept or reject my decision before 13 April 2022.
 
Arazu Eid
Ombudsman