DRN-4480153
The complaint
Miss S complains that Studio Retail Limited acted irresponsibly in providing her with a 
catalogue account, and in increasing its credit limit.
What happened
Miss S opened a catalogue shopping account with Studio Retail Limited (Studio) in 
July 2018. The initial credit limit was £50.
Studio increased the credit limit as follows:
September 2018 - £200
October 2018 - £300
June 2020 - £400
September 2020 - £500
November 2020 - £1,000
In 2021 Miss S began to struggle to manage her repayments towards the account, as she 
lost her job due to Covid-19. Studio started reducing the credit limit in July 2021, initially to 
£980, and ultimately to £610 by July 2022.
Miss S, represented by a claims management company, complained that Studio had lent 
irresponsibly. In its final response letter, Studio said it undertook proportionate checks prior 
to offering the account, and prior to each limit increase, to ensure the credit limit offered was 
sustainable for her.
One of our Investigators considered the complaint and said she thought Studio had acted 
reasonably in agreeing to lend, and in each of the credit limit increases up to £500. But she 
thought that Studio should have conducted further checks before agreeing the final credit 
increase up to £1,000  to verify Ms Ss income.
Our Investigators opinion referred to the credit limit increase from £500 to £1,000 as having 
occurred in July 2021. Having considered Miss Ss bank statements in the three months 
prior, she saw signs of financial stress, so she thought that had Studio conducted further 
checks it should not have lent.
She therefore upheld the complaint in part. To resolve the complaint, she said that Studio 
should refund any interest and charges applied as a result of the increase in the credit limit 
from £500 to £1,000.
Miss S accepted our Investigators opinion. Studio disagreed. In summary, it said that it had 
reviewed the data it had gathered at the time it offered the limit increase and it continued to 
think it had acted reasonably. The case therefore comes to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In October 2023, I issued a provisional decision which said:
Weve explained how we handle complaints about unaffordable and irresponsible lending 
on our website. Ive used this approach to help me decide Miss Ss complaint.
Studio had a duty to conduct proportionate checks to ensure the level of borrowing it offered 
Miss S was affordable for her to repay in a sustainable way. It needed to do this when it first 
offered Miss S the account, and each time it agreed an increase in the credit limit.
Studio has provided evidence regarding the credit checks it completed on each occasion, 
and what information it found. Studio also considered the data it held internally, such as how 
Miss S was managing the catalogue account.
Studios checks on application showed that Miss S had one other open credit account. It 
found some historic missed payments, but that shed kept her accounts up to date in the 
preceding six months. The credit checks also estimated Miss Ss income to be around 
£16,000.
I think these checks were proportionate to the level of credit Studio initially offered, as the 
credit limit was low - £50, and for each increase up to £500. Those checks continued to 
show that Miss S was generally managing her existing credit commitments well, and that she 
hadnt taken further credit elsewhere. In terms of the Studio account, there was a period in 
early 2019 where Miss S struggled to make her payments on time  and during which Studio 
didnt increase the credit limit further. Otherwise Miss S usually managed to make more than 
the minimum payment, on time.
For each credit limit increase from £50 to £500, I dont think there was any information that 
should have caused Studio concern that the borrowing wouldnt be sustainably affordable for 
Miss S.
I agree with our Investigator that Studio should have conducted further checks before 
offering the credit limit increase up to £1,000. This was a significant increase, doubling the 
amount of credit Studio were making available to Miss S. Studio considered what it knew 
about Miss Ss income from her application, the conduct of the account, and also information 
from external credit reference agencies including the amount of credit Miss S had elsewhere, 
what level her available credit limit was being used to, and whether her accounts were up to 
date.
Given the significant increase in the credit limit, and Miss Ss income declared at the opening 
of the account I dont think the internal and external checks Studio conducted were 
proportionate. I think it should have done more, such as asking her more about her income
and expenditure at the time. 
As Ive explained above, the credit limit increase to £1,000 took effect in November 2020. 
Not, as the Investigator said in their opinion, in July 2021. In July 2021, Studio decreased the 
credit limit from £1,000 to £980.
From the data Studio has provided, it offered Miss S the further credit limit increase on 
19 October 2020, and she accepted the credit limit online on 29 October 2020. That means that if Studio had conducted further checks it would have considered information from prior 
to 19 October 2020.
Ive therefore considered the bank statements Miss S has provided in the three months 
leading up to that date. Unfortunately, the statement provided to us covering the period from 
24 September  23 October 2020 isnt legible and Miss S hasnt provided a further copy. But 
Ive considered the prior bank statements. To be clear, I dont think Studio necessarily 
should have obtained bank statements from Miss S, but in the absence of it having 
conducted further checks at the time  such as asking her more about her income and 
expenditure, I have considered the information shes provided to our service now.
Having done so, I think that had Studio conducted further checks  as I think it should have 
done  it still would have thought that increasing the credit limit to £1,000 was sustainably 
affordable for Miss S.
I say that because Miss Ss bank statements verify the information about Miss Ss income 
and other credit commitments that Studio found by conducting credit checks. Her bank 
statements show her net income was around £1,600 per month, and her expenditure on 
essential spending and other credit commitments looked to be around £750. Sustainable 
monthly payments to the Studio account would have been around £50. So, I think that if 
Studio had asked further questions of Miss S about her income and expenditure, it would 
have thought the credit limit increase was sustainably affordable for her.
Our Investigator saw signs of financial stress, citing returned direct debit payments. 
However, our Investigator was looking at bank statements from 2021  after Studio 
increased the credit limit to £1,000. I cant see signs of significant financial stress in the 
statements Ive been able to review, and I dont think Studio could reasonably have known 
her circumstances were about to change due to being made redundant.
Im sorry to hear Miss S lost her job. I think its likely that was the cause of her difficulties 
making her repayments to the account, rather than because Studio lent irresponsibly. I think 
Studio acted responsibly in offering the credit limit increase from £500 to £1000, based on 
the information that would have been available to it at the time on 19 October 2020.
Studio accepted my provisional decision. Neither Miss S nor her representative responded. 
So, having reviewed the full file again, I see no reason to depart from my provisional 
findings.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, my final decision is that I dont uphold Miss Ss complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss S to accept 
or reject my decision before 25 December 2023.
 
Frances Young
Ombudsman