DRN-4211421
The complaint
Miss C and Mr W are unhappy with the car valuation provided under their car insurance 
policy by Advantage Insurance Company Limited (Advantage), following their car being 
written off.
What happened
The background of this complaint is well known to both parties, so Ill summarise the key 
points Ive focused on within my decision.
Advantage paid a settlement of £9,019 minus £95 policy excess, (total £8,924) for the car.
Miss C and Mr W carried out their own valuations which showed higher figures than what 
Advantage had offered. Advantage didnt increase their offer therefore they asked our 
service to investigate the complaint.
Our investigator upheld the complaint, and his final opinion was that Advantage had based a 
valuation on an incorrect date of loss, therefore this could lead to an increased pay out of 
£446. The investigator recommended that Advantage pay that amount, plus 8% interest from 
the date the first payment was made to Miss C and Mr W, to the date the additional amount 
was paid.
Advantage agreed with this outcome however Miss C and Mr W disagreed. They said that 
theyd spent time researching car adverts for similar cars which showed their car was worth 
more than the guides Advantage and our service had relied upon. They also said that they 
would like compensation from Advantage due to how theyd handled the claim. Our 
investigator maintained their view of the complaint therefore its been passed to me, an 
Ombudsman, to make a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with our investigators view and that the complaint should be 
upheld, broadly in line with what hes already set out.
As our investigator has previously informed Miss C and Mr W, calculating the value of a car 
isnt based on a set formula. To help insurers, and our service, to review the value of a car at 
the time of loss, we use trade guides which are based on extensive nationwide research. Its 
not the role of this service to come to an exact valuation for the car, but we review the 
insurers calculations to see if it acted reasonably when calculating what we would expect to 
see, - a fair market value of the car at the time of loss.
I appreciate that Mr W says hes provided information of dealer prices and adverts for similar 
cars to his, around £10,981. However, our service puts less weight on this type of evidence 
as cars dont usually sell for the advertised prices, and we have to take into account that the 
sale price advertised isnt determined by valuation guides, and rather by an individuals own 
valuation of their car. By using trade guides, we can see up to date guides of the value of the 
car in question.
Ive reviewed the quotes that Advantage obtained, and I agree with our investigator that 
CAPs valuation figure is less than it should be. By putting in the correct date, you can see 
that this increases the valuation. So, I think this increased figure should be used when 
working out the average.
Our investigator calculated an average of the two Glasss and Cap figures of £9,465 which 
means Miss C and Mr W shouldve received a total valuation of £9,465 minus the excess. 
He put forward that Advantage pay an additional £446 which, means the total received by 
Miss C and Mr W would be £9,370 (£9,465 less the £95 excess). 
Im satisfied that this is a reasonable offer to settle the claim and I appreciate that Miss C 
and Mr W took time to research the car value and communicate this with Advantage. 
However, I havent seen that Advantage actions warrant a compensation payment as I dont 
consider it has caused unnecessary distress or inconvenience to Miss C or Mr W.
Putting things right
My final decision is that Advantage Insurance Company Limited must pay the additional 
£446 to settle the claim. Interest * must be added at 8% a year simple from the date 
Advantage Insurance Company Limited paid the initial settlement on the claim to the date it 
provides this additional amount.
*If Advantage Insurance Company Limited considers that its required by HM Revenue & 
Customers to take off income tax from that interest it should tell Miss C and Mr W how much 
its taken off. It should give Miss C and Mr W a certificate showing this if they ask for one, so 
they can reclaim the tax from the HM Revenue & Customs if appropriate.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss C and Mr W 
to accept or reject my decision before 26 July 2023.
 
Angela Casey
Ombudsman