DRN-2540760
The complaint
Miss M says Bank of Scotland plc (trading as Halifax) mis-sold her a payment protection
insurance (PPI) policy.
What happened
Miss M took out a Total Mortgage Protection Plan (TMPP) in October 2009. At that time she
bought life and critical illness cover. In November 2009 she added PPI to her plan. The bank 
cant confirm where or how the sale took place, Mrs M recalls it was in one of the banks 
branches. The PPI gave her accident, sickness and unemployment cover and she paid a 
monthly amount for it. This complaint looks solely at the sale of the PPI.
Our adjudicator didnt uphold the complaint. Miss M disagreed so the complaint was passed
to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Where the evidence is incomplete (as some of it is here), Ive based my decision on the 
balance of probabilities  so, on what I think is most likely given the available evidence and 
what we know about how Halifax sold PPI at the time.
Our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI is on our website and Ive followed
it here.
Ive decided not to uphold Miss Ms complaint. Ill explain why.
Miss M cant recall if PPI was mentioned to her. She didnt take out PPI when she applied for 
her mortgage in 2007. She took it out as part of her TMPP around two years later. And 
initially she didnt select PPI as part of her TMPP, only life and critical illness cover, despite 
Halifax recommending it to her. Halifax has provided screenshots that show Miss M  
accepted a Mid Term Amendment quote to add PPI to her protection plan on 11 November 
2009. There are also notes on the screenshots that suggest Miss M had decided to add PPI 
when the fixed rate expires on her mortgage (which was November 2009). As Miss M didnt 
take PPI out either when her mortgage started or when she set up her TMPP, I think she 
would have known it was a separate optional product.
So, overall, I think its most likely Halifax made it clear Miss M had a choice about PPI - and 
she opted to take it out. 
Halifax recommended the PPI to Miss M. And I think it seems to have been right for her
based on what Ive seen of her circumstances. Miss M told us she was entitled to
six months full pay and six months half pay if she was sick. But the PPI wouldve paid out in 
addition to her work benefits for up to 12 months for each successful accident and sickness 
claim. Miss M says she would have received a good redundancy package, but the PPI would 
have paid out in addition to this for up to 12 months. It would have allowed her to protect the 
lump sum redundancy payment from her employer giving increased financial security at an 
already difficult time. Miss M says she had around £8000 in savings but the PPI would have 
allowed her to use these for other living costs whilst not working, or to keep them intact for 
her future needs. She also had a death-in-service benefit, but this offers a different kind of 
protection and wouldnt help with mortgage payments in the same way as PPI.
Miss M had a significant debt, secured on her home. So the effects of not keeping up the
repayments could have been serious for her. Overall, I think the PPI wouldve been
useful if she was sick or lost her job.
Its possible Halifax didnt give Miss M all the information she needed before deciding to
buy PPI. I dont know though that it pointed out the main things the policy didnt cover.
But Miss M doesnt appear to have been affected by any of the main exclusions. She had a 
pre-existing medical condition, but it was under control and from what shes told us it wasnt 
something she would have expected to need to make a related claim for. I dont know when 
the cost was first made clear, but the PPI was reasonably priced for the benefit it offered and 
apparently affordable. So I dont think better information about the policy wouldve changed 
her mind about buying it.
It follows I dont think Miss M has lost out because of any problems with the sale.
My final decision
I am not upholding Miss Ms complaint for the reasons set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss M to accept 
or reject my decision before 23 March 2021.
 
Rebecca Connelley
Ombudsman