DRN-2783340
The complaint
Miss L complains that Barclays Bank UK PLC, trading as Barclaycard, failed to apply her 
credit card repayments to her account for several years, leaving her with an enormous bill to 
pay, and about related issues.
What happened
Miss L has a credit card account with Barclaycard. She set up a direct debit to make her 
monthly repayments. After a couple of years, an unexplained error occurred on 
Barclaycards systems which resulted in the direct debit somehow being transferred to a 
third partys account, but in such a way that Miss L still had access to it via her online 
banking. Barclaycard has accepted that it is responsible for this error, whatever it was.
This meant that the third party was now making Miss Ls credit card repayments for her. At 
the time, Miss L received a text message from Barclaycard telling her when her first direct 
debit was due. She was puzzled by this, since she hadnt set up a new direct debit, so she 
phoned Barclaycard to check if everything was alright. Barclaycard checked her account and 
assured her that everything was fine  she had a direct debit set up for £180 a month. 
Reassured, Miss L thought no more about it.
This situation was allowed to continue for around seven years, unnoticed by Miss L, by 
Barclaycard, or by the third party. Miss L says she didnt notice it because she doesnt check 
her bank statements, so she didnt see that the payments were not leaving her current 
account. Its not clear why Barclaycard and the third party didnt notice it.
The matter finally came to light in 2020, when the third party died. Barclaycard froze Miss Ls 
credit card and sent a letter to her parents, addressed to the executors of their late 
daughters estate.
Miss L was without her credit card for a few months while Barclaycard looked into it 
(although she did have another credit card with another bank). Then Barclaycard told her 
that she owed them about £14,600 in unpaid credit card bills, presumably because it had 
reimbursed the third partys estate. Due to the nature of Miss Ls job, she had to tell her 
employer.
By way of apology, Barclaycard offered Miss L £200 for her trouble. It also removed the debt 
from her credit file, and cancelled or waived interest and charges. But this still left her with 
about £13,000 to repay. So she brought this complaint to our Service.
Barclaycard argued that Miss L should have noticed what was happening, since it would 
have been obvious if she had checked her bank statements. Our investigator pointed out 
that Barclaycard hadnt noticed it either, and it had been Barclaycards error in the first place. 
So he recommended that Barclaycard pay Miss L £500 in compensation, instead of £200.
Barclaycard accepted that opinion, but Miss L did not. She argued that both she and 
Barclaycard were jointly responsible, and so half of her debt to Barclaycard should be written 
off. The investigator did not agree that this would be fair, because Miss L had had the benefit 
of spending that money, and so she should pay it back. So this case has been referred to 
me for an ombudsmans decision.
By then, Barclaycard had offered a repayment plan for the debt. It is willing to offer Miss L an 
interest-free loan over ten years (or such shorter time as she asks for), without reporting it to 
her credit file. That will replace her credit card account, and the monthly repayments on the 
loan will actually be slightly cheaper than the monthly payments she has been making 
towards the debt since the mistake came to light. This arrangement would still leave her with 
some disposable income. So Barclaycard has argued that she is slightly better off under its 
repayment plan (in terms of her monthly budget) than she is now.
I wrote a provisional decision which read as follows.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
 It is not in dispute that this sorry state of affairs came about as a result of Barclaycards 
error, so it only remains for me to decide what would be fair compensation. To do that, it is 
not necessary for me to establish exactly how this error came about, and we may never 
know. Miss L may not find this to be entirely satisfactory, but my role here is only to resolve 
this complaint, and I think I can fairly do that without learning more about what went wrong.
I have considerable sympathy for the unfortunate and unenviable situation in which Miss L 
now finds herself, as a result of a mistake which was not hers. It must have come as a great 
shock to her to learn that she owed so much money, after having been under the honest 
impression that she had kept on top of her financial position and had been keeping her credit 
card up to date. I am quite certain that she would never have allowed such a large debt to 
accrue if she had been aware of the true position. And I think that Barclaycards error is 
compounded by the undisputed fact that Miss L called Barclaycard to query the text 
message she received at the time, only to be reassured that everything was alright.
For the avoidance of any possible doubt on the matter, I accept that Miss L did not know 
what had happened or that she was unaware that she had not actually been making her 
credit card payments. (This finding is based not only on the evidence I have summarised 
above, but also on other matters which I have omitted for the sake of brevity.)
I have carefully considered Miss Ls proposal that her debt be reduced by half. It is not an 
entirely unreasonable proposal and I can see how she arrived at it. However, I do not agree 
that it would be fair to adopt it. I have come to that conclusion for two reasons. Firstly, that 
debt represents money which she spent, and my starting point in every case about a debt is 
that a debt should, generally, be repaid by the person who incurred it. That is a rebuttable 
presumption, of course, but it is nevertheless a strong one. Secondly, every complainant has 
a duty to mitigate her loss, and it is strongly advisable that everyone with a bank account 
should check their statements sometimes. If Miss L had checked her bank statements from 
time to time, she would have seen that the direct debit was missing, and then she would 
have realised that she had been misled by Barclaycard on the phone call I have referred to 
above. The debt would then not have grown to its current, formidable size. I rather regret 
that this reason sounds like criticism of Miss L; it is certainly not intended to be. It is simply a 
factor which I am obliged to take into account in determining what is fair. To be clear, I agree 
that Barclaycard is primarily responsible for what happened, but I dont think it automatically 
follows that I should compel it to write off half of the debt (or some other fraction of it).Instead, I am minded to increase the compensation that Barclaycard should pay Miss L for 
her distress. It must have been quite a shock to be told that she owed so much money when 
she thought she had been making regular payments. It must also have been embarrassing 
to have to tell her employer about it. And while I cannot compensate her parents for the 
undoubtedly distressing letter they received, because they are not eligible complainants in 
this case, I can still compensate Miss L for her own distress which I am sure she felt on their 
behalf when they told her about it. Taking all of these matters into account, I am firmly of the 
view that £500 is not enough. I am provisionally of the view that £2,000 would be fair, and so 
I will award that amount unless either party changes my mind.
My provisional decision is that I intend to uphold this complaint. Subject to any further 
representations I receive from the parties by the date below, I am currently minded to order 
Barclays Bank UK PLC, trading as Barclaycard, to pay Miss L £1,500 (instead of the £200 or 
£500 previously proposed).
Responses to my provisional decision
Barclaycard argued that the award I had proposed was excessive. It said that once the direct 
debit had been set up, there would have been no way for it to realise that there had been an 
error, other than by Miss L or the other customer telling it. It suggested that not enough 
consideration had been given to the fact that Miss L had spent so much money, over so long 
a period, without ever noticing that she wasnt paying for it. Barclaycard specifically referred 
me to a page on our Services website which summarises our approach to cases where a 
complainant could have done more to mitigate their loss. It emphasised that Miss Ls failure 
to check her statements in seven years had contributed very significantly to the  position in 
which she now found herself.
Miss L reiterated that Barclaycard had sent a letter to her executors at a time when it had 
known, or should have known, that she was still alive. She said she had spent a lot of time 
on the phone with Barclaycard sorting the matter out. She reminded me that the matter had 
been started in the first place by Barclaycards error. (She also questioned whether 
Barclaycard had accurately calculated her outstanding debt, but because I dont think that 
has been part of this complaint before, I think she would have to raise that with Barclaycard 
before our Service could consider it.)
Putting things right
I dont entirely agree that Barclaycard had no opportunity to discover its error. I think that 
when Miss L queried the text message about the new direct debit shortly after the error 
happened, it ought to have been discovered then. After that, I accept that Barclaycard would 
not have picked up on it until it was reported by one of its customers. But balanced against 
that mitigation is the magnitude of the error in the first place.
I completely agree with Barclaycards point about Miss L failing to mitigate her loss by not 
checking her statements, but I have already taken that into account in my provisional 
findings. That is why the compensation is not higher than I have proposed.
I have reconsidered that point anew, In the light of both of Barclaycards arguments, in case 
I was too generous, but on further reflection I still remain of the view that £1,500 is fair.
My final decision
My decision is that I uphold this complaint. I order Barclays Bank UK PLC, trading as Barclaycard, to pay Miss L £1,500.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss L to accept or 
reject my decision before 26 May 2021.
 
Richard Wood
Ombudsman