DRN-4321436
The complaint
Mrs T complains that Metro Bank PLC wont refund the money she lost when she was the
victim of what she feels was a scam.
What happened
The payments in dispute here were made from an account belonging to a trust (which Ill call 
T). Mrs T and her husband Mr T are the signatories of that account. But given that Mrs T is 
the main party involved in the complaint I will largely just refer to her, to keep things simple. 
Mrs T was looking to get some work done to her new home. She found details for a local 
builder and got in touch with him to discuss what she needed. The builder discussed the 
work in detail with Mrs T and provided a quote. Mrs T agreed for the work to go ahead.
The builder started the work and completed some of the work agreed in the quote. Over the 
following three months Mrs T made seven payments to the builder from Ts account, totalling 
nearly £40,000.
Mrs T says she was increasingly dissatisfied with both the work that had been done, and the 
failure of the work to progress. She says the builder worked at her home for five months but 
made very limited progress. Mrs T has said other trades who were also working at her home 
commented on the poor quality of work the builder had done, and that her friend commented 
that the work was taking an unusually long time. Ultimately, the builder stopped coming to 
Mrs Ts property, and Mrs T was unable to contact him. 
Mrs T then reported the payments she had made to Metro as a scam and asked it to refund 
the money she had lost. Metro investigated but said that, as the builder had done some 
work, it felt this was primarily a civil dispute between Mrs T and the builder, rather than a 
scam. So, it didnt agree to refund the payments Mrs T had made. Mrs T wasnt satisfied with 
Metros response, so referred a complaint to our service.
One of our investigators looked at the case. They said they felt this was a civil dispute 
between Mrs T and the builder, as the evidence suggested the builder was operating as a 
genuine business at the time and hadnt intended to scam Mrs T. So, they didnt think Metro 
should be responsible for the money Mrs T had lost or should have to refund the payments 
she had made. Mrs T didnt agree with our investigator, so the complaint has been passed to 
me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I dont think it would be fair to require Metro to refund the money Mrs T has 
lost. Ill explain why below.
In broad terms, the starting position at law is that a firm is expected to process payments 
and withdrawals that a customer authorises, in accordance with the Payment Services 
Regulations and the terms and conditions of the customers account. However, where the 
customer made the payment as a consequence of the actions of a fraudster, it may 
sometimes be fair and reasonable for the bank to reimburse the customer even though they 
authorised the payment.
Metro is a signatory of the Lending Standards Boards Contingent Reimbursement Model 
(the CRM code). This requires firms to reimburse customers who have been the victim of 
certain types of scams, in all but a limited number of circumstances. But customers are only 
covered by the code where they have been the victim of a scam.
The CRM code says that it doesnt apply to private civil disputes, such as where a customer 
has paid a legitimate supplier for goods or services but has not received them, they are 
defective in some way or the customer is otherwise dissatisfied with the supplier. 
So, in order to determine whether Metro should refund the money Mrs T lost under the CRM 
code, I need to consider whether she has been the victim of a scam  or, in other words, 
whether the builder set out from the beginning with the intent to defraud her.
The builder started the work at Mrs Ts property, apparently after extensive discussions, and 
appears to have worked there for a number of weeks. Mrs T has said the builder did some 
demolition work  stating that he essentially pulled everything out of the property so it was 
left as just a shell  and that some materials were delivered for the renovations but appeared 
to either be poor quality or werent ultimately used for her works. Mrs T has commented that 
often the builder would appear to be doing very little work when he was there, but 
nonetheless he appears to have been regularly attending the property for several months.
Id usually expect a scammer to do as little work as possible in order to get the maximum 
possible profit in the shortest period of time. So the builder here did more work than Id 
expect from a scammer who never intended to complete that work. The bank the payments 
were sent to has also told us that it hadnt received any other scam reports against the 
builders account around this time. And from what Ive seen of the activity on the account the 
money was sent to, it appears to have been run as I would expect a legitimate account to 
have been.
So, while the builders actions may suggest he was unprofessional or not working to the 
standards Mrs T expected, I dont think the evidence necessarily suggests he intended to 
scam her.
I appreciate how Mrs T feels about this case, and that the work at her property was left 
unfinished. But based on the evidence Ive seen, I think its more likely the builder here was 
attempting to operate as a legitimate business at the time and that other factors ultimately 
meant the building work wasnt completed. I dont think the builder appears to have had an 
intention to defraud Mrs T during the period he was working on the house, or that Mrs T has 
been the victim of a scam here.
So I dont think the payments Mrs T made to the builder are covered under the CRM code, 
or that Metro should be required to refund the money she lost.
I sympathise with the position Mrs T has found herself in, and Im in no way saying that she 
doesnt have a legitimate grievance against the builder. But, for the reasons Ive explained 
above, I dont think it would be fair to hold Metro responsible for the money shes lost.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I dont uphold this complaint.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask T to accept or 
reject my decision before 23 November 2023.
 
Sophie Mitchell
Ombudsman