DRN-3853168
The complaint
Mrs S complains that Santander UK Plc (Santander) made errors on an international 
payment.
What happened
On 18 March 2022, Mrs D visited a branch of Santander and asked to transfer £10,000 from
her account to a relative in Serbia. On 21 March 2022, Santander sent the payment in euros.
The recipient bank received Euros 11,469.07 and then converted these to local currency and
charged a fee of Euro 42.85.
Mrs S complained. She said she asked for the payment to be made in GBP, and Santander
made an error by sending it in Euros. She said that because the beneficiary then had to
convert the euros into local currency and then to GBP, there had been a loss of £500.
Santander accepted theyd made an error. But theyd offered Mrs S the option of asking for
the payment to be recalled, but shed declined that. Theyd not received evidence from Mrs
S which showed the loss she had suffered. They offered a refund of the fee charged by
Santander - £25.
Mrs S brought her complaint to us. Our investigator said Santander didnt need to do
anymore. Without any evidence of the losses suffered by Mrs S, he couldnt recommend any
compensation other than the refund of the fee of £25.
Mrs S asked that an ombudsman look at her complaint.
I reached a provisional decision where I said:
Santander admit they made an error in sending the payment in euros and not in GBP  so I
wont go into any detail of how that happened as its not relevant to how this complaint might
be resolved.
So, the crux of Mrs Ss complaint is now  what compensation she should receive.
I noted that Santander offered to recall the payment after it had been sent  and therefore
that wouldve given Mrs S the opportunity to send the payment again in GBP. Mrs S declined
to do that. Ive thought about this - and I dont think it wouldve resolved Mrs S issue.
Because very likely that in recalling the payment, the euros wouldve been converted back to
GBP. And therefore, there wouldve been an exchange rate loss and a fee to pay  so if Mrs
S had taken that option, she wouldve ended up with less than £10,000 back into her
Santander account. So  thats not a mitigating factor in favour of Santander here, or a
reason to not uphold Mrs S complaint. So, I discount this point.
Mrs S argues that the beneficiary had to pay two lots of fees or exchange losses in Serbia.
Firstly, to convert the Euros 11,469.07 to local currency (dinar); and then to convert this to
GBP.
We have asked Mrs S for evidence of the losses incurred. She has shown us there was a
fee of Euro 42.85 to convert to local currency. So, I think its only reasonable that Santander
pay this.
Mrs S has said that there was another loss for changing the money from local currency to
GBP. She says that in total, there was a loss of 5% - i.e. £500. But she hasnt shown us any
evidence of this second loss; and as our investigator has told her, we must see evidence of
this if Mrs S wants to make a case for a higher amount of compensation. For example, a
copy of the bank statement (showing the charges) of her relative who was the beneficiary; or
a document from their bank to show this. In responding to this provisional decision, I invite
her to come forward with this  otherwise, we cannot say the compensation can be
increased for that.
Mrs S has argued strongly that this was upsetting and stressful for her. The branch
testimony says she was in the branch for an hour  which is much longer than would
normally be the case. And she then had to visit the branch on several occasions since then
to try to resolve the problem. And Im persuaded that she did suffer some stress and
inconvenience.
Santander have offered the refund of the payment fee of £25 which Mrs S hasnt accepted. I
think its reasonable that Santander pay compensation for stress and inconvenience of £150,
to include the fee paid at the recipient bank in Serbia (Euros 42.85  about £36) and the £25
already offered. This is in line with the amount of compensation our service would expect to
see for what happened.
In responding to this provisional decision, if Mrs S can come forward with evidence of further
losses  as Ive described  then I may review this figure.
Responses to the provisional decision:
Santander had nothing further to add. We asked Mrs S if she had any evidence of the losses 
she says her relative suffered at their bank in Serbia. But unfortunately, she couldnt provide 
that. She repeated how she has suffered stress and anxiety and sleepless nights because of 
what happened.
I now need to make a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In the provisional decision, I said I would look at further compensation if Mrs S could give 
evidence of the further losses at the local bank in Serbia. But she told us she cant get this  
and without that, I cant in all fairness pay more compensation without that evidence. She 
repeated the stress and anxiety that shes suffered. I accept what shes said  that what 
happened was a difficult time for her. But Ive already considered that in the provisional 
decision. 
.
And so  my final decision is the same as the provisional decision.
My final decision
I uphold this complaint. Santander UK Plc must:Pay compensation of £150 to Mrs S for distress and inconvenience. This to include 
the £25 already offered; and includes the refund of the fee paid at the receiving bank 
in Serbia.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs S to accept or 
reject my decision before 17 January 2023.
 
Martin Lord
Ombudsman