DRN-4198367
The complaint
A limited company, which Ill refer to as B, complains that Barclays Bank UK PLC obstructed 
its attempts to clear the arrears on its Bounce Back Loan (BBL). B also complains that 
Barclays withdrew its online banking and made it difficult for it to use its current account.  
B is represented by one of its directors, who Ill call Mr B. 
What happened
B took out a BBL in May 2020. Under the BBL Scheme, no repayments of capital or interest 
were due for the first twelve months. 
When repayments became due in 2021, B successfully paid the first few instalments. 
However, in September 2021, the loan fell into arrears and no monthly repayments were 
made after this date. 
On 27 January 2022, Barclays withdrew Bs overdraft facility, as a result of the arrears on 
the BBL. Internet banking was also withdrawn. 
On 28 January 2022, Barclays issued a formal demand, requiring the immediate repayment 
of the outstanding BBL balance of £19,216 in full. 
On 30 March 2022, Mr B phoned the bank and explained that he was now in a position to 
make up the arrears on the BBL and keep it in order. The bank informed him that this wasnt 
possible at that point and the account was in the process of being outsourced to a debt 
collection firm. 
Bs Member of Parliament complained to Barclays on its behalf. But the bank said they had 
followed their procedures correctly and had therefore not done anything wrong. They said B 
could continue to use its other accounts as normal. 
On 8 April 2022, Barclays says it transferred Bs BBL to the debt collection firm, although on 
9 April, Barclays sent a letter saying they would be transferring Bs loan shortly. The debt 
collection firm sent a letter of introduction on 20 April 2022. 
Mr B continued to write to both Barclays Recoveries Department and the debt collectors to 
try and arrange to repay the arrears and bring the BBL back to order. 
On 21 October 2022, the bank exercised their right of set-off to use the balance in Bs 
current account to repay the BBL.  
One of our investigators looked into what had happened. She took the view that the bank 
hadnt done anything wrong in telling Mr B that it was too late to make up the arrears 
because a formal demand had been sent and the loan was about to be outsourced. She also 
thought Barclays were within their rights to set off the current account balance against the 
loan. But she did feel that the banks service regarding the restrictions on the current 
account had been poor. She recommended Barclays pay compensation of £100. 
B disagreed with our investigator and asked for an ombudsman to look at the matter again. 
Over a series of emails, Mr B has made a number of points. In summary, he said:
On 30 March 2022, Barclays had told Mr B that it was too late to pay the arrears 
because the loan had already been transferred to the debt collectors. This wasnt 
true. 
The bank statement for the BBL said it was for a Barclayloan for Business and 
showed an opening balance as at 5 May 2022. The directors therefore thought that 
Barclays had paid down the BBL and created a new loan in the companys name 
without telling them and without providing any rationale. 
Without ever communicating about this new loan, Barclays had then taken Bs money 
to repay the new loan. 
The letter confirming the repayment of the loan didnt mention the type of loan.
The BBL agreement didnt quote an account number. 
Barclays had failed to supply a continuous statement for the BBL from inception to 
closure. 
The act of set off had left B in a very difficult position. 
As at January 2023, B still didnt have online access to its current account. Barclays 
refusal to reinstate this was likely to force B out of business. 
He thought Barclays should pay for an independent report to define the costs to B 
caused by Barclays errors, along with an assessment of the level of reputational 
damage. 
The document properties of the documents sent by Barclays showed that they had 
been altered. This proved that their Recoveries department had failed to send 
originals and had instead been altering documents before sending them to our 
service.  
B had no record of receiving some of the letters Barclays claimed to have sent. 
Amongst these, B hadnt received the letters Barclays claimed to have sent saying 
they had missed payments from September to December 2021. 
Given the alterations, there was no way of proving the banks letters had been sent. 
He considered that several of them had been falsified and some might be complete 
forgeries. 
Bs current account statements didnt show any attempt to debit B for the loan 
instalment due in August 2021, or September 2021 to December 2021. On each 
occasion, there was enough money in Bs current account to cover them. 
In responding to a letter from Bs MP, Barclays Corporate Affairs department made a 
number of inaccurate statements. Did they not perform any checks? 
Mr B was also the director of another company that obtained a BBL from Barclays 
and had never made any repayments, but the loan hadnt been passed to debt 
collectors. Barclays had singled out B for unfair treatment. I asked the bank for some more evidence regarding the loan repayments, following which 
they provided a letter dated 28 August 2021 confirming the amount for Septembers 
instalment and a letter dated 4 September confirming the direct debit had been cancelled. I 
shared these with Mr B and also explained that I could see the August repayment had been 
paid. Mr B accepted that the non-payment of the monthly BBL instalments was due to the 
direct debit being cancelled. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Did Barclays act unfairly in making formal demand and then declining to discuss 
monthly repayment proposals? 
A large number of arguments have been made in the course of this complaint. But I believe 
the core of it remains about the fairness of the banks actions relating to the repayment of 
the BBL. 
Mr B suggested recently that the arrears were caused by Barclays failing to claim the 
monthly instalments by direct debit even though funds were available. However, Barclays 
have now provided evidence that the direct debit was cancelled in early September 2021 
and Mr B has accepted this. In any case, B was responsible for making these loan 
repayments, whether by direct debit or other means, and Im satisfied that after August 2021, 
B failed to make them. Bs BBL thus went into arrears in September 2021 and by the time 
the bank issued a formal demand, it was five months in arrears.
Failure to make a repayment when it falls due is an event of default, as detailed in the BBL 
loan agreement. I have considered this agreement carefully to decide if the bank acted fairly. 
Following an event of default, the agreement says that the bank will give the borrower a 
reasonable period to remedy any breach. Depending on the circumstances of the arrears, it 
is usually considered good practice for banks to permit loans to go three payments in arrears 
before issuing a formal demand. In Bs case, Barclays allowed longer than this, so I dont 
consider they were unreasonable in making formal demand in January 2022. 
A formal demand is a legal document requiring repayment of the debt in full. It marks the end 
of the original loan agreement, under which monthly instalments were payable. 
I understand that B was ready to resume monthly repayments on 30 March 2022  or at 
least, thats when Mr B communicated that readiness to the bank. However, this was some 
two months after the formal demand had made the loan repayable in full. My conclusion is 
therefore that the bank didnt make any error in declining to discuss re-establishing 
instalments at that point. 
Did the bank act fairly in relation to the timing of the transfer to debt collectors? 
I appreciate that B may feel that Barclays could have been more patient and shown more 
forbearance in its case. Mr B has also referred to another business where a different 
approach has been taken. But I can only consider whether Barclays have made any errors in 
this particular case. Banks are under obligations to take prompt action with regard to unpaid 
lending and in particular, not to delay matters while customers get further into debt. Given 
that it was around seven months from B going into arrears to being transferred to debt 
collectors, I dont think I can fairly conclude that Barclays acted unreasonably or prematurely 
here. Its clear that, even if B had not received Barclays letters and not realised it was getting into 
arrears in late 2021, by early 2022, Mr B was aware of the arrears. I have listened to his 
telephone conversation with Barclays on 30 March 2022, in which he told them he was in a 
position to clear the arrears. In this call, he also says that he wasnt in a position to make 
payments earlier because he needed the agreement of Bs shareholders. In my view, this 
shows that he had been aware of the arrears on the loan for some time. 
I dont think Barclays made an error on the 30 March 2022 phone call. Barclays said that Bs 
loan was going to be sent to the debt collectors and B therefore needed to await 
correspondence from the new firm. They didnt say it had already been transferred. 
I note, however, that there is an inconsistency between Barclays statement that they 
transferred the loan on 8 April 2022 and their letter of 9 April 2022 saying the account would 
be transferred shortly. But I dont think this is of particular significance, as I dont think it put 
B in a worse position. I say this because Barclays had made formal demand on 
28 January 2022, following which the full loan balance became due. It was therefore already 
too late to make good the arrears and resume paying in instalments by the end of January, 
over two months before the transfer to debt collectors. 
Did Barclays tamper with documents to disadvantage B? 
The allegation that the bank has falsified the evidence theyve provided to the Financial 
Ombudsman Service in the course of our investigation is a very serious one. I dont consider 
that the evidence supports this. I accept that Mr B has provided screenshots showing that 
the document properties have been amended. But I dont think this proves that the contents 
of the documents have been altered. 
I need to reach my conclusions on the balance of probabilities, in other words, what I think is 
more likely than not to have happened. Whilst I accept theres no firm proof that the 
documents havent been altered, Im satisfied that its far more likely than not that they 
havent. I say this partly because they tell a consistent story and are automated letters sent 
in a format we frequently see. Even if Barclays wanted to falsify evidence or create letters 
that didnt previously exist - which I dont accept - its not clear what they would have to gain 
by doing so. Rather, I consider it was in the banks interests to remind their customer of 
overdue debts promptly and frequently. 
In my opinion, the changes to the document properties are simply a side effect of the way 
documents are stored and handled in large organisations. The changes to dates simply 
reflect the dates on which the information was sent to us. 
I also dont think there is any bad faith indicated by the absence of a statement for the BBL 
from inception to repayment or in the fact that the statement and some other 
correspondence describes the BBL as a Barclayloan. I dont believe this shows that the bank 
chose to repay Bs BBL and create an identical business loan instead. This is not, in my 
view, the most likely explanation and it would be against the banks interests to take such 
action.  
The BBL scheme was set up in a hurry and banks therefore often used processes already in 
place for other loan products, such as standard letters. As a result, not all paperwork actually 
identifies the product as a BBL, but that doesnt mean that it isnt one.  
I can see that the letters Barclays sent about the missed payments were sent to the correct 
address and the same address B used when referring its complaint to our service. My 
conclusion is therefore that its more likely than not that they were sent, even if Mr B cant 
locate them. So I dont think Barclays made an error in relation to these letters. I think its also worth noting that B took out the loan and was aware of its terms and 
conditions. It was therefore Bs responsibility to ensure repayments were made as they fell 
due  and to make good any arrears - whether or not it received Barclays letters about 
them. 
Did the bank unfairly exercise its right of set-off? 
I dont doubt that the bank choosing to use Bs current account balance to repay the loan left 
B in a difficult position. However, I consider that this was an action that the bank was entitled 
to take. The terms and conditions applicable to Bs current account said:
If you owe us money under an agreement with us and you havent paid it back when 
you should have done, then we can use the money in any of your accounts with us 
including personal accounts to pay off some or all of the money you owe usThis is 
called set-off  
Im satisfied that this covers the position here. B owed Barclays the balance of the BBL, 
which had all become due following their formal demand. From that point on, Barclays were 
within their rights to set-off the balance in the current account against the loan. This of 
course didnt alter the net position of B with Barclays, although it clearly had an immediate 
negative impact on Bs cashflow. 
Did the bank act unfairly in withdrawing internet banking? 
Mr B has suggested that Barclays is consciously trying to put B out of business by depriving 
it of access to its current account. I dont agree that the bank has been deliberately making 
things difficult, although I do agree with our investigator that Barclays customer service and 
particularly communication in relation to the withdrawal of internet banking was inadequate. 
I think its worth pointing out that the terms and conditions for Bs current account said: 
We may also end this agreement or stop providing services or close your account 
immediately if we reasonably believe that you are unable to repay debts as they 
become due 
I consider this entitled the bank to stop providing internet banking if it so chose, in the light of 
the BBL default. But the bank should have communicated this clearly. Mr B shouldnt have 
been left with an inconsistent message as to whether the current account was with Barclays 
or the debt collectors and Barclays shouldnt have acted inconsistently with regards to 
whether they would permit payments to be arranged in branch. They also shouldnt have 
said in their letter to Bs MP that B could continue to operate other accounts as normal, if 
they didnt intend to allow this. 
I can see that there was also a period starting October 2022 when the banks records show 
the account was restricted because Barclays were awaiting the answers to a request for up-
to-date information. This was to complete regulatory know your customer checks and I 
dont consider the bank was at fault in taking this action.  
I note that Mr B told us in January 2023 that B still didnt have online account access. I am 
unclear if this remains the case, but if so, I dont consider I can investigate this as part of this 
complaint, as I think it would need to be the subject of a separate complaint to the bank.
B has also suggested that Barclays should pay for the preparation of an independent 
lawyers and accountants report into the financial impact of Barclays errors, including on Bs 
reputation. I dont think it would be reasonable to expect the bank to pay for such a report in this case, particularly given the limited nature of the errors I have found here. 
Summary
I can see that B has been going through a difficult trading period. It was very unfortunate that 
during this time, B couldnt make arrangements to bring the BBL back into order before 
Barclays placed it into default. But I have concluded that Barclays made no errors in doing 
this. 
In my view, all the other events complained of here, other than the banks poor 
communications, then flowed from that failure to make repayments on time. Included in this 
are the withdrawal of internet banking and the setting off of the current account balance 
against the loan, which undoubtedly made life much harder for B. 
Putting things right
Taking everything into account, I take the view that Barclays errors here were limited to 
some inconsistent and unhelpful communications. I havent been persuaded that these 
caused significant detriment to B. I therefore agree with our investigator that a payment of 
£100 is sufficient and fair to compensate for these minor failings. 
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I am not upholding the part of the complaint about the arrears 
on Bs BBL. I am upholding the part about internet banking and direct Barclays Bank UK 
PLC to pay B £100 as compensation. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask M to accept or 
reject my decision before 7 December 2023.
 
Louise Bardell
Ombudsman