DRN-2332811
The complaint
Mrs A feels that Swinton Group Ltd (Swinton) mis-sold her motor insurance policy. 
Mrs A has made a separate complaint against her insurer. But I wont discuss that complaint 
here.
What happened
Mrs As friend had offered to give her a car. So she looked at a comparison website for an 
online quote for motor insurance on 14 August 2019. Mrs A decided to accept one of the 
quotes and took out motor insurance cover online through Swinton on 14 August 2019. 
On 1 October 2019, she was involved in an incident with a parked vehicle. The third party 
contacted Mrs As insurer to make a claim against her policy.
Mrs As insurer avoided her policy from inception on 1 November 2019 because she wasnt 
the registered keeper, as had been stated in the Statement of Fact document issued by 
Swinton at the start of the policy. Unfortunately Mrs As friend hadnt yet completed the 
transfer of ownership of the vehicle. 
But Mrs A believed that when shed applied for the motor insurance shed answered the 
questions shed been asked accurately. She noted that the information in the Statement of 
Fact Swinton had issued was different from the information shed provided online. And that 
this had caused her insurer to cancel the policy from inception. So Mrs A felt that the policy 
had been mis-sold and that Swinton was responsible for the avoidance of her motor 
insurance. So she complained to Swinton about the avoidance and about them not being 
able to offer her alternative cover. 
Swinton didnt uphold her complaint. They said it was clearly stated that any incorrect 
answers or omissions could invalidate the policy. So Mrs A brought her complaint to this 
service.
Our investigator didnt uphold her complaint. She said Mrs A shouldve reviewed the
information at the point she purchased the policy through Swinton. So the complaint has 
come to me for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In this decision I havent addressed every point Mrs A raised. Instead Ive focused on what I 
consider the key issues of the complaint. But I would like to reassure her that Ive considered 
everything shes provided.
Unfortunately, I dont uphold this complaint. Ill explain why.
Ive considered whether Swinton did anything wrong that unfairly caused Mrs A to have an 
unsuitable policy that was avoided. I havent found any evidence that they did. Ill explain 
why. 
I can see that Mrs A answered Yes to the question on the comparison website Are you (or 
will you be) the registered keeper and legal owner?. From what Ive seen, this was a truthful 
response, as Mrs A expected to be the registered keeper and legal owner very soon.
I know Mrs A is frustrated at the way this question was asked. She feels that the question 
was ambiguous and that it misled her. But I have to ask if Swinton did anything wrong when 
it asked the question and it was answered correctly. 
I cant see that Swinton provided clear or misleading information. Or that they failed to ask a 
clear question. Swinton clearly made Mrs A aware of the need to answer the questions 
correctly. And Swinton passed Mrs As answers on to the insurer correctly.  So I cant say 
that Swinton did anything wrong that caused the avoidance. 
I note that the quotation was arranged through the comparison website on 14 August 2019 
and that the policy was then purchased online. Swinton said they didnt have access to how 
the questions regarding ownership were asked and answered by Mrs A. They noted that the 
Swinton product mustve been selected through the comparison website and then purchased 
online with them. Swinton said that their website allows customers to view the Statement of 
Fact before purchase and asks customers to check this information. 
I note that some of the information from the comparison website did get transferred through 
to Swintons website. As Mrs A has already highlighted with Swinton, she noticed some 
inconsistencies in the Statement of Fact shed been sent during the complaint process. For 
example, she said she hadnt inputted that she was the registered owner or keeper onto 
Swintons online form. But I would expect information inputted through the comparison 
website to feed through once a customer decided to purchase a particular policy. And 
Swinton have also sent screenshots from their website showing the situation when 
information has been input (whether directly by the customer, or indirectly by the customer 
through the comparison website), cover selected and the premiums been presented. These 
show that the customer can review all the information thats in there. And that the customer 
still has the option to edit the details.  Swinton also shared a screenshot of the final part of 
this process. This asks the customer to confirm theyve reviewed the information and confirm 
it to be correct. So Im persuaded that Mrs A had the opportunity to amend the information 
provided to Swinton at the start of the policy. 
Swinton also sent Mrs A a welcome letter dated 14 August 2019. Under the section What 
you need to do next, it says:
Check your documents: Its really important you read the documents weve provided to make 
sure everything is correct. If youd like to change anything, or if somethings not quite right 
please call us straight away so we can correct it for you, otherwise your cover might be 
affected and some claims may not be paid.
The Statement of Fact was included with the welcome letter. It states the following:
Important Information
This statement of fact details the answers supplied by you to our questions which we use to 
determine whether to offer you a policy and your premium, and should be read alongside 
your policy wording, schedule and certificate of insurance.
If any information contained within this statement of fact is incorrect or not true to the best of 
your knowledge or belief, or you are unsure, please contact Swinton Insurance as soon as 
possible as this could affect your insurance cover and the terms we offer. If any of the 
information is incorrect we may take one or more of the following actions: Cancel your policy;
 Declare your policy void (treating your policy as if it never existed);
 Change the terms of your policy;
 Refuse to deal with all or part of any claim or reduce the amount of any claim payment.
So its clear that this information needs to be read. Its marked as Important Information 
and is right at the top of the Statement of Fact, indicating its the first thing a customer should 
read.
Noting all the evidence, I cant say that Swinton treated Mrs A unfairly when it sold her the 
policy that ultimately got avoided. It gave opportunities to confirm the information it held for 
her. And it gave her clear information about what to do if the information wasnt right. 
I understand Mrs A is also complaining that Swinton havent been able to provide an 
alternative quotation or cover. Swinton have said that they have a limited panel of insurers, 
and that those insurers view an avoided policy as an unacceptable risk. Theyve said that 
they have no influence on their panels choice of risk. Therefore they have no power to 
change this outcome. Im satisfied that theres nothing more Swinton can do here.
Its unfortunate that Mrs A has had to face these consequences when she answered the 
online questions truthfully. But she didnt confirm her details online with Swinton before she 
bought the policy. And she didnt check the details when they were sent to her. So I cant say 
the policy was mis-sold. And I cant ask Swinton to do anything else. I know this isnt what 
Mrs A was hoping to hear. 
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I dont uphold Mrs As complaint.
 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs A to accept or 
reject my decision before 14 April 2021.
 
Jo Occleshaw
Ombudsman