DRN-1963911
The complaint
Mr R complains General Insurance Distribution Limited (GIDL) mis-sold him a GAP policy.
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again 
here. Instead Ill focus on giving the reasons for my decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the conclusions reached by the investigator for these reasons:
During the sales call, I agree GIDLs adviser read out exclusions under the policy, 
and this included the fact the policy didnt cover finance carried over from a previous 
agreement. However, I dont consider this was made clear enough to Mr R.
I appreciate Mr R said his previous finance agreement had been cleared. However, 
he also mentioned there was finance outstanding when he traded in his previous car.
I dont consider GIDLs advisor intentionally mislead Mr R. However, the status of 
Mr Rs finance agreement was discussed after the exclusions were explained. So, 
I consider GIDLs adviser had enough information to probe further to ensure he 
answered Mr Rs questions about the scope of the policy correctly. As he didnt do 
that, GIDLs adviser mistakenly confirmed to Mr R that the policy would cover the full 
amount of his new finance agreement.
Given the questions Mr R asked, Im persuaded he wanted the total amount of his 
finance agreement covered by the policy. And had it not been for the mistake of 
GIDLs adviser, its most likely Mr R would have looked elsewhere for a GAP policy.
On this basis, I conclude the GAP policy was mis-sold to Mr R.
Putting things right
To put things right, General Insurance Distribution Limited needs to:
settle Mr Rs claim for his outstanding finance, minus the refund Mr R received for his 
policy premiums.
pay interest on the amounts Mr R has paid towards his finance agreement, following 
the claim, at an annual rate of 8% simple a year from the date of each payment to the 
date of settlement.
HM Revenue & Customs requires General Insurance Distribution Limited to deduct tax from 
the interest payment referred to above. General Insurance Distribution Limited must give 
Mr R a certificate showing how much tax its deducted if he asks it for one.
My final decision
My final decision is to uphold Mr Rs complaint about General Distribution Limited, and his 
claim should be settled as detailed above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision before 19 October 2020.
 
Sarrah Turay
Ombudsman