DRN-2160844
The complaint
Mr S complains that Barclays Bank UK plc (Barclays) recorded a default on his credit file 
relating to a debt that wasnt his, and that hed never applied for. 
What happened
Mr S explained that whilst trying to apply for a mortgage in 2019, he discovered that 
Barclays had registered a default on his credit file relating to an outstanding debt. Mr S 
explained that he had never been a customer of Barclays, so any account in his name must 
have been opened fraudulently. He contacted Barclays to complain, and they initially said 
they would remove the default within six weeks. When this didnt happen, Mr S contacted 
Barclays again and a case was opened to investigate whether Mr S had been the victim of 
identity theft. 
Barclays reviewed what had happened and concluded that Mr S had been their customer 
and so the default was correctly recorded. They explained that they had followed the correct 
procedures when opening the account and in defaulting the account, and as such they would 
not be removing the default. They did accept that there had been delays in their investigation 
of the matter, so they offered him £250 by way of compensation for these service issues. 
Mr S remained dissatisfied, so he came to our service. Our investigator looked into what 
happened and recommended that Mr Ss complaint not be upheld. They said that on balance 
it seemed most likely that Mr S had opened and operated the account, and he had not been 
the victim of identity theft. They concluded that Barclays had followed the correct procedures 
and so didnt recommend that they need to anything more with regard to the complaint. They 
also felt that the £250 compensation was fair and reasonable in the circumstances of the 
complaint. Mr S remained unhappy, so the case has come to me to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I am not upholding this complaint. Ill explain why. 
The first question I must consider is whether I think it is most likely that Mr S opened and 
operated the account with Barclays. I have reviewed the application that Barclays say Mr S 
made in September 2013 for a cash card account and a savings account. The application 
was made using Mr Ss genuine details including his name, date of birth, address, and what 
appears to be a genuine copy of his passport from the time. The application also stated that 
Mr S was living with his parents, which he was, and listed employment history that lines up 
with what Mr S has told us. I have also reviewed the spending on the accounts that Barclays 
opened. The account activity appears to be in line with normal day to day spending. There 
was activity on the account between when it was opened and May 2014 which included 
credits into the account, direct debits out, as well as ATM withdrawals, payments for petrol 
and cash withdrawals in branches. The account only became overdrawn due to a card 
payment for petrol in March 2014, and the subsequent fees. The savings account wasnt 
utilised. 
When considering all of this, I think it is most likely that Mr S opened and operated this 
account. I say this because: 
Mr S did say that hed had a lot of fraud around this time with other banks. But other 
than this he hasnt been able to provide any plausible explanation for how an 
unknown third party would have been able to access his personal details. Further, 
when initially asked Mr S said he hadnt lost his passport. He later said he had lost it, 
but could not provide any further details about this due to the passage of time. 
Even if I were to accept that an unknown third party had managed to obtain all of the 
personal details and passport required for the account opening process, it still seems 
highly unlikely that they would have used them to open a cash card account and a 
savings account. It seems unusual that an unknown third party would have opened 
these accounts, and utilised funds that they had credited to it rather than say, 
opening a credit card account or applying for loans and utilising these funds as 
quickly as possible. This seems particularly unusual in this case, as Mr Ss correct 
address was listed and so he could have become aware of the accounts in his name 
easily when correspondence was sent there. 
Whilst the account was defaulted due to an outstanding credit balance  this was for 
a petrol transaction on the account that took Mr S into an unarranged overdraft, and 
the fees for going into this. If an unknown third party opened these accounts 
fraudulently, this seems like a rather inconsequential financial gain for someone who 
has gone through the effort of gaining Mr Ss personal details and opening fraudulent 
accounts. 
In addition to this, Barclays would have sent statements to his address  though he 
says he did not receive them. He has confirmed the address they said they sent them 
to was his address. On balance I do think it is most likely that these were sent to the 
address Mr S lived at, so it seems likely that he would have received them. If this 
happened and he had not ever opened an account with Barclays as he suggests, I 
think he would have likely noticed and contacted them when he received the letters. 
Mr S said he had suffered fraud around this time with other bank accounts of his, so I 
would imagine he would have been particularly vigilant with regard to any financial 
abnormalities. 
When considering all of this, I think it is most likely that Mr S did open and operate this 
account and therefore it is fair and reasonable for Barclays to hold him responsible for 
anything that happened on these accounts. 
Mr S hasnt complained that the default was incorrectly registered against this account, 
simply that the account was not his so it was unfair to register it against him. But for 
completeness, Ive also considered whether Barclays acted fairly in registering this default. I 
can see that the account did go into an unarranged overdraft due to a payment, as outlined 
above. There was also a charge added to the account for this, which was in line with the 
terms and conditions of the account. This balance remained unpaid, and so Barclays 
followed their processes by closing and defaulting the account when the balance remained 
unpaid. They reported this to the credit reference agencies. This is in line with what I would 
expect them to do, and fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. 
I have also considered the compensation paid to Mr S for the customer service issues he 
experienced when trying to raise his complaint. He was paid £250 in recognition of the 
delays he experienced when trying to complain about this account being opened fraudulently. Whilst this wont undo the delays, I think this represents a fair and reasonable 
offer in recognition of the distress and inconvenience caused so I wont be asking Barclays 
to do anything further.   
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 2 November 2021.
 
Katherine Jones
Ombudsman