The complaint
Mr and Mrs H say Nationwide Building Society (Nationwide) mis-sold them a regular 
premium payment protection insurance (PPI) policy.
What happened
Mr and Mrs H took out a PPI policy with a loan in February 2001. They paid £10.80 each 
month for the policy and it provided a monthly benefit that would cover their loan repayments 
in the event of a successful claim. This wouldve covered Mrs H for up to 12 months if she 
lost her job, or 24 months if she wasnt working because of sickness or an accident. 
Our adjudicator didnt uphold the complaint. Mr and Mrs H disagreed so the complaint 
comes to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding Mr and Mrs Hs case. 
This is not an easy complaint to decide; the documentary evidence from the time of the sale 
is incomplete, but this isnt surprising given the fact that the sale took nearly 20 years ago 
and the loan and policy were closed and cancelled some time ago. So, I must carefully 
weigh up the evidence that is available to me and consider carefully what I think is more 
likely to have happened based on the paperwork Ive seen and the testimony from both 
parties. And having done so, Ive decided the policy wasnt mis-sold.
The PPI was sold in 2001 when Mr and Mrs H took out a secured loan of just over £6,000. I 
understand the loan and the policy were taken out on the telephone and then some 
paperwork was given to Mr and Mrs H. Nationwide hasnt been able to provide a copy of any 
call recording. So its very difficult for me to know what happened when Mr and Mrs H took 
out the loan and the PPI policy and what was said in that telephone discussion.
I accept it is possible Nationwide didnt give Mr and Mrs H a choice about taking PPI. I also 
accept it is possible Nationwide gave them the impression they had to take it out. But it 
seems equally likely it gave Mr and Mrs H the opportunity to take out the policy or decline it 
as part of their loan application, and that they chose to take it out, but have simply forgotten 
in the years that have now elapsed. I say this because Ive seen a copy of the secured 
personal loan agreement that Mr and Mrs H signed in 2001 and this refers to the PPI as 
optional. So based on this, together with what I know about Nationwides sales process, Im 
satisfied that the PPI was optional; it wasnt a condition of the loan and Mr and Mrs H 
wouldve had a choice about purchasing it. 
DRN-1124078Nationwide didnt recommend the PPI to Mr and Mrs H, so it didnt have to check if it was 
right or suitable for them. But it still had to give them enough information about it so that they 
could decide themselves whether or not they wanted it. 
Its possible Nationwide didnt point out the main things the policy didnt cover. But Mrs H 
doesnt appear to have been affected by any of those things  she told us he was employed 
and in good health. And although she had some sick pay from her employer, this policy 
wouldve paid out in addition to her sick pay and for longer. So I think it wouldve been useful 
for Mr and Mrs H especially given that the loan was secured on their home. So I dont think 
better information about it wouldve stopped Mr and Mrs H from buying it.
It doesnt look as though they bought the PPI because Nationwide gave them the wrong 
information about it. The personal loan agreement shows that Mr and Mrs H wouldve known 
the cost and the benefit of the policy and what it covered. So in this instance Im not 
persuaded that Nationwide doing something wrong led to Mr and Mrs H buying something 
without knowing what it was.
Ive thought carefully about everything else Mr and Mrs H have said. But for the reasons Ive 
explained I dont think the PPI was mis-sold.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs H and Mr H to 
accept or reject my decision before 26 December 2019.
Andrew Macnamara
Ombudsman