DRN-4201030
The complaint
Mrs W complains about Zurich Insurance Companys handling of her buildings insurance 
claim.
All references to Zurich also include its appointed agents.
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again 
here. Instead, Ill focus on giving my reasons for my decision.
My decision focusses on the actions of Zurich. So, I will not comment on anything that 
relates to works completed by private contractors. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the conclusions reached by the investigator for these reasons:
The completion of repairs took several months. However, I can only hold Zurich 
responsible for delays that were avoidable
Looking at the information available to me I cant see Zurich have caused any 
avoidable delays. Mrs W was out of the country for approximately one month, so 
repairs couldnt proceed during this time.
Following this Zurich arranged for a portable toilet to be installed at the property and I 
can see from claim notes that Mrs W would use this and relatives bathrooms 
facilities. I can see Mrs W raised concerns around a month later and asked for the 
toilet to be reinstated. I can see Zurich did so around three weeks later.
Mrs W said she felt alternative accommodation should have been offered instead of a 
portable toilet. Our service asked Zurich for information regarding Mrs Ws claim, in 
particular regarding whether a disturbance allowance or alternative accommodation 
was explored  or covered under the terms of the policy. This has not been provided. 
So, Im not persuaded Zurich explored whether this was relevant in the 
circumstances.
Mrs W was without access to her toilet and washing facilities and I can see she has 
described the distress she experienced in using a dark portable toilet and having no 
access to her own indoor facilities. So, in the circumstances, I agree that £150 
compensation fairly recognises the distress and inconvenience caused.
Mrs W has mentioned in her submissions that she incurred the cost of the excess 
fee. But an excess would have been applicable in any event as part of a successful 
claim under the terms of the policy. So its not unreasonable Mrs W had to meet this 
cost.
So, for these reasons, I uphold this complaint.
Putting things right
To put things right Zurich should pay Mrs W £150 compensation. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold Mrs Ws complaint.
To put things right I direct Zurich Insurance Company to do as Ive set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs W to accept or 
reject my decision before 20 July 2023.
 
Michael Baronti
Ombudsman