DRN-2870592
The complaint
Mr Us complaint relates to the transfer of his Self-Invested Personal Pension (SIPP) from 
James Hay (JH) to True Potential (TP). As part of the transfer, his investments with Brewin 
Dolphin Limited (BDL) were liquidated, and the proceeds were transferred too. Mr U says 
the transfer process was unduly delayed and that BDL contributed to the delay by failing to 
provide JH with a disclaimer confirming completion of the liquidation when that happened.
Mr U has a separate complaint about JHs role in the transfer process. The present 
complaint is only about BDL.
What happened
One of our investigators looked into the complaint and concluded that it should be upheld. 
She mainly found as follows:
Mr U instructed the transfer on 6 November 2019 and on 8 November BDL was told 
to liquidate his investments. The instruction from JH to BDL included the following 
request  
Please confirm you have received and completed this request by signing and faxing 
back the attached disclaimer to us  once the portfolio has been fully surrendered 
and the monies have been returned. We acknowledge that you may retain a minimal 
balance to cover any charges and that the account may not be able to formally close 
for a given period pending receipt of any future dividends.
Mr Us BDL investments were liquidated by 25 November and the proceeds of 
around £320,000 were sent to JH, but the disclaimer was not.
On 2 December JH asked BDL for confirmation that Mr Us account was closed; on 5 
December BDL replied to say the account would be closed after additional 
investment income that had been received was remitted; additional income payments 
were received on 5, 10 and 12 December; and on 16 December the closing 
statement was sent to JH.
JH thereafter completed the transfer on 17 January 2020.
The disclaimer that JH requested from BDL was needed once it had liquidated the 
investments (and sent the proceeds), and JHs request made allowances for 
dividends and charges. As such, it was not necessary for BDL to wait until all income 
had been received before it provided the disclaimer. Having transferred the 
liquidation proceeds on 25 November BDL should have provided JH with the 
disclaimer by 27 November. Had it done so, based on the 10 working days it 
normally took JH to process a transfer, the transfer (to TP) would have been done by 
11 December. 
JH concedes some liability for the delay in its transfer to TP. It says the transfer 
ought to have been done by 3 January 2020, so it is responsible for the delay 
thereafter. BDL is responsible for the period of delay between 11 December 2019 
and 3 January 2020.
BDL disagreed with this outcome. It said the investigator had wrongly treated JHs request 
as one that was fixed and binding upon BDL; it was neither and it was no more than a 
reflection of JHs internal process; in contrast, it was BDLs internal process to send closure 
statements only after it was satisfied that all residual income from an investment had been 
received and that its relationship with the relevant client was at an end; it was entitled to 
follow its own internal process and not to defer to JHs; the crux of the complaint is the 
delayed SIPP transfer, JH was in receipt of the liquidated funds as soon as they became 
available, so JH is solely responsible for the delay in transferring those funds; and BDL  
cannot reasonably share that responsibility.
The complaint was referred to an ombudsman. Mr U responded to the investigators view to 
raise a query about compensation for the period after the delay that JH has conceded 
responsibility for.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Consideration of BDLs role in the transfer process, and in Mr Us complaint about the overall 
delay in that process, rests mainly on the request it received from JH (dated 8 November 
2019) and on the effect of that request. I disagree with BDLs argument that the request 
was wrongly given the weight of a binding requirement in the investigators view. I read the 
view differently and I do not consider that was the case. As I explain next, I also do not 
consider that there was any suggestion for BDL to neglect or compromise its internal 
process in this matter.
It is important to recall the wording of JHs request of 8 November. I quoted part of it in the 
previous section above, but for the sake of convenience I repeat that quote as follows: 
Please confirm you have received and completed this request by signing and faxing back 
the attached disclaimer to us  once the portfolio has been fully surrendered and the 
monies have been returned. We acknowledge that you may retain a minimal balance to 
cover any charges and that the account may not be able to formally close for a given period 
pending receipt of any future dividends.
The request also included the following:
Its first paragraph simply asked BDL to liquidate Mr Us portfolio and to remit the 
proceeds to his JH account.
One of the subsequent paragraphs said  Any dividends received after you have 
completed and returned this disclaimer should be returned to James Hay by cheque 
 
Fair conclusions from the above are that JH did not seek to impose its internal process on 
BDL; it conveyed Mr Us liquidation instruction to BDL; it asked BDL to sign and return the 
disclaimer in order to  confirm [BDL had] received and completed ; and it asked for this 
to be done  once the portfolio has been fully surrendered and the monies have been 
returned .
Nothing in JHs request interfered with BDLs portfolio/account closure internal process. The request did not even ask for confirmation of portfolio/account closure, only for confirmation 
that the portfolio had been surrendered and that the proceeds had been remitted. The 
request showed awareness that BDL could continue to conduct activities in the account with 
regards to future dividend receipts, so JH implicitly acknowledged that actual account 
closure  after all such activities had concluded  could happen after return of the disclaimer. 
That did not matter because JHs request was concerned with confirmation of liquidation and 
remittance of proceeds, which was distinct from the final closure of the account.
The above analysis therefore makes redundant BDLs argument that the request wrongly 
sought to compromise its internal account closing process. The request did not seek that.
The question that follows is whether (or not) JHs request was reasonable. If it was and in 
the absence of good reasons for which BDL could not meet the request, its failure to meet 
the request would arguably be unreasonable.
I am satisfied that the request was reasonable. I note and acknowledge an argument BDL 
has made, in which it says that upon receipt of the liquidation proceeds (on 25 November) it 
ought to have been obvious to JH that liquidation and remittance had taken place  so that 
begs the question of why JH needed the signed disclaimer to progress the transfer. The 
answer to this question appears to be JHs need to ensure formalities and records are 
satisfied. It is common in financial services, and beyond, to have formal and recorded 
confirmations of transfers of assets and to have such confirmations take place alongside the 
actual transfers. In this context, I consider that JHs disclaimer request (to BDL) was 
reasonable.
Despite the request to sign and return the disclaimer for the purposes I quoted above and 
despite concluding the liquidation and remittance by 25 November BDL did not sign and 
return the disclaimer at the time. It sent its closing statement on 16 December. I am not 
persuaded that it misunderstood JHs request as one for a closing statement after all 
account activities had concluded and after the account was finally closed. The request 
clearly stated otherwise and was limited to confirmation of portfolio liquidation and 
remittance only. I have not seen evidence of a good reason for which BDL failed to meet the 
request. Consequently, I consider that it unreasonably failed to meet the request.
The next question to address is whether (or not) BDLs failure to return a signed disclaimer 
around 25 November contributed to the SIPP transfer delay that Mr U has complained about. 
I understand BDLs dispute about this and its argument that it was JHs inaction, after 
receiving the liquidated proceeds, that caused the delay. However, it appears that within 
such an argument it would be BDL that seeks to unfairly compromise JHs internal process. 
That internal process needed the signed and returned disclaimer. As I said above, 
formalities and records are important in the transfers of assets, so I do not consider it 
unreasonable for JHs internal transfer process to have included the need for the signed and 
returned disclaimer. 
Overall and on balance, I am persuaded that BDL would have known the disclaimer was 
important to JH because JHs request essentially said it was; and, for the above reasons, I 
am persuaded that its failure to return a signed disclaimer to JH at the time of the remittance 
on 25 November contributed to the SIPP transfer delay that Mr U has complained about.
BDLs role in the transfer does not relate to the period after the delay that JH has conceded 
responsibility for. Therefore, the query Mr U put to the investigator in this respect is not 
relevant to the present complaint and I have not addressed it in this decision.
Putting things rightfair compensation
The aim of my redress order is to put Mr Us SIPP into the position it would be in but for the 
delayed transfer, for which BDL is partly responsible. Mr U has shared with this service 
summary evidence of the investments made in his TP SIPP following the transfer and 
calculations of loss over different periods between 26 November 2019 and 17 January 2020. 
This has provided helpful insight for my consideration of the complaint, but I find that he 
must share an actual account statement(s) of the SIPPs investments with BDL for the 
purpose of redress  and especially for the reason given in my first order below. 
I order as follows:
BDL must use the TP SIPPs investments as the benchmark for calculating whether 
(or not) Mr U has incurred investment loss and, if so, for calculating the amount of 
any such investment loss. I am satisfied with evidence that suggests the same 
investments made in the TP SIPP would probably have been made earlier, but for 
the delayed transfer.
Mr U must provide BDL with a SIPP account statement(s) that covers, and provides 
details of, all the investments made in his TP SIPP following the transfer. 
I agree with the investigators findings (and reasons) on BDLs partial responsibility 
for the delay from 11 December 2019. JH accepts that its contribution to the delay 
began after 3 January 2020, based on its concession that it should have concluded 
its part of the transfer on this date, instead of doing so on 17 January 2020. As such, 
3 January 2020 becomes a natural end date for BDLs partial responsibility. BDL 
delayed the transfer between 11 December 2019 and 3 January 2020.
BDL must use the TP SIPP information provided by Mr U to calculate whether (or 
not) he incurred an investment loss within the SIPP, based on the lost opportunity to 
invest the SIPP on 11 December 2019 and at prices on this date. 11 December 2019 
is the start date for this calculation and, as I said above, 3 January 2020 is the end 
date. As I also said above the benchmark that BDL must use is the collection of 
investments made in the SIPP. 
In the calculation, the SIPPs invested value on 11 December 2019 (based on this 
dates prices) will be the a and its value on 3 January 2020 (based on this dates 
prices) will be the b. If b is greater than a, the difference must be paid to Mr U as 
compensation for the gains between a and b he lost due to BDLs part of the transfer 
delay. Otherwise no compensation is payable.
If compensation is due and BDL does not pay it to Mr U within 28 days of being 
notified of Mr Us acceptance of this decision, BDL must also pay interest on the 
compensation at the rate of 8% simple per year from the date of this decision to the 
date compensation is eventually settled. This provision is to compensate Mr U for a 
delay caused by BDL in paying the compensation. 
BDL should pay the compensation (and any interest) into Mr Us pension plan, to 
increase its value by the amount of the compensation. The payment should allow for 
the effect of charges and any available tax relief. The compensation should not be 
paid into his pension plan if it would conflict with any existing protection or allowance. 
If the compensation cannot be paid into his pension plan, BDL should pay it directly 
to him. Had it been possible to pay it into the plan, it would have provided a taxable 
income, so the compensation should be reduced to notionally allow for any income tax that would otherwise have been paid. The notional allowance should be 
calculated using his actual or expected marginal rate of tax at his selected retirement 
age. For example, if he is likely to be a basic rate taxpayer at the selected retirement 
age, the reduction would equal the current basic rate of tax. If he would have been 
able to take a tax-free lump sum, the reduction should be applied to 75% of the 
compensation.
BDL must provide a calculation of the compensation to Mr U in a clear and simple 
format. 
compensation limit
Where I uphold a complaint, I can make a money award requiring a financial business to pay
compensation of up to £150,000, £160,000, £350,000 or £355,000 (depending on when the
complaint event occurred and when the complaint was referred to us) plus any interest that I
consider appropriate. If fair compensation exceeds the compensation limit the respondent
firm may be asked to pay the balance. Payment of such balance is not part of my 
determination or award. It is not binding on the respondent firm and it is unlikely that a
complainant can accept my decision and go to court to ask for such balance. A complainant
may therefore want to consider getting independent legal advice in this respect before
deciding whether to accept the decision. 
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I uphold Mr Us complaint. I order Brewin Dolphin Limited to 
calculate and pay him compensation as set out above, and to provide him with a calculation 
of the compensation in a clear and simple format.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr U to accept or 
reject my decision before 22 November 2021.
 
Roy Kuku
Ombudsman