DRN-2027238
The complaint
Mrs M complains that TransUnion International UK Limited (Callcredit) recorded inaccurate
information on her credit file. She wants compensation for the trouble and upset this matter
has caused.
What happened
I set out the background to this complaint in my provisional decision. I summarise it again 
below. 
Mrs M was very upset to find a bankruptcy order had been recorded on her credit file and
she approached Callcredit to find out who had placed this in her name. Callcredit said it had 
received several notifications from various organisations such as; Accountants in 
Bankruptcy, Scottish Insolvency Service, and Trust Deed Scotland. It told Mrs M to contact 
them if this information was incorrect.
Mrs M contacted the various organisations Callcredit had mentioned. Each organisation said
there was no record of a bankruptcy being recorded against Mrs M and said they hadnt
reported anything to credit reference agencies, they referred her back to Callcredit. Mrs M
contacted Callcredit again, it said there had been an error and the information had been
received from Edinburgh Gazette but couldnt provide any evidence to confirm this. It agreed
to remove the record from Mrs Ms credit file but didnt agree to pay compensation. It said
the information was received from a third party in good faith and it hadnt done anything
wrong.
An investigator looked onto things for Mrs M and contacted Edinburgh Gazette and Trust
Deed Scotland; they both said there was no record of a bankruptcy in Mrs Ms name. The
investigator found that Callcredit had given Mrs M incorrect information which had resulted in
Mrs M having to spend a great deal of time chasing up information from organisations that
hadnt imparted any information to Callcredit. When Callcredit acknowledged its
error and said the notification had come from Edinburgh Gazette, it still couldnt provide any
evidence to support this and this had caused Mrs M distress and inconvenience. 
Our investigator felt Callcredit should pay Mrs M £100 in recognition of this. Both parties 
disagreed with the investigators view and asked for an ombudsman review. Callcredit said it 
had received the Insolvency notification from the Gazette and as such, it had acted in good 
faith and didnt agree it should compensate Mrs M.
Mrs M said the bankruptcy record on her credit file had affected the funding she required for
her business and this had to close in October 2019. She said the financial impact of this
incorrect recording played a huge part in this. She also said the time it had taken her to get
Callcredit to correct her record caused considerable trouble and upset. She felt £100 didnt
reflect the seriousness of the situation or the impact on her and her business.
In my provisional decision, I agreed with the investigators findings but reached a different 
view on how I thought Mrs M should be compensated.
Firstly, I considered whether an error has been made. Callcredit said it shouldnt have to
compensate Mrs M as it received the information from the Gazette in good faith and it has a
responsibility to record accurate information. I agreed this would be the case, but it hasnt 
provided any evidence of a bankruptcy notification from any of the organisations it originally 
cited nor indeed the Edinburgh Gazette. All the organisations Mrs M followed up said they 
hadnt reported a bankruptcy order to Callcredit, and it has now removed the notification 
from Mrs Ms credit file. So, on balance I said, that suggests to me that an error was made, 
as Callcredit hasnt shown otherwise.
Having established an error was made, I said Im now required to look at the impact the 
incorrect recording has had on Mrs M and decide, what I consider appropriate redress.
Mrs M has said the impact of having a bankruptcy recorded on her credit file, affected the
funding she was able to achieve for her business. She has said this forced her to close the
business and as such, there has been a financial loss to her. But I said I hadnt seen any
evidence of a financial loss as a result of Callcredits error.
I explained in assessing any award of compensation, the intention is not to punish a 
business. Its to recompense a consumer for actual losses incurred and - in appropriate 
cases - to recognise the inconvenience and distress which was caused. But as Ive already 
indicated I havent seen any evidence to show there has been a financial loss due to the 
error by Callcredit.
I said, I dont wish to underestimate the overall impact this had on Mrs M. I agree a 
Bankruptcy notification is serious matter and I think any award of compensation for distress 
and inconvenience must be proportionate and reflect this.
I said from what Id seen Callcredit didnt provide Mrs M with correct information in the first
instance. This led to her having to contact several different organisations who, by
Callcredit own admission were unconnected with any bankruptcy notification. I can see this
took a great deal of time and effort on Mrs Ms part and must have become increasingly
frustrating, as she was no further forward with resolving the matter.
When Mrs M, notified Callcredit of disputed information on hr credit file, I said, it should have 
taken action to confirm this, rather than expecting Mrs M to chase it up. It gave incorrect
information in the first instance leading to a great deal of inconvenience for Mrs M and then
didnt provide any evidence to support its assertion that the bankruptcy notification came
from the Gazette. In all it took Callcredit over 48 days to remove the adverse information and
I said Im persuaded it could and should have acted sooner. In failing to do so, it caused Mrs 
M a great deal of trouble and upset.
In summary, I said I intend to uphold this complaint. But, as I dont think, theres enough
information to show Mrs M suffered any financial loss I cant make any award in that respect.
If Mrs M can provide me with evidence to substantiate her claim of a financial loss, I will of
course consider any evidence before making a final decision.
I said as Callcredit gave Mrs M incorrect information and then failed to substantiate any
evidence for reporting a Bankruptcy notice on her credit file. And, it unfairly left Mrs M to 
chase up several different organisations, Im persuaded £350 is a fair and reasonable award 
in respect of distress and inconvenience caused.
I invited both parties to make any further submissions they wished me to consider before 
making a final decision in this matter.
Both parties responded.TransUnion disagreed with my provisional findings it provided a data transcript which it feels 
shows the information was received in good faith.
Mrs M provided further information which she feels shows the incorrect recording of a 
bankruptcy notification directly led to her business being unable to secure funding and its 
ultimate failure.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive looked at all the information afresh, including the additional submissions from both 
parties. Having done so, I havent found anything to change my view and as such Im going 
to uphold this complaint. Ill explain why.
Where the information Ive got is incomplete, unclear or contradictory, as some of it is here, I 
have to base my decision on the balance of probabilities. That is to say, what I think is more
likely to have happened.
TransUnion have provided a data note from their records which indicates information was 
received from Scottish Insolvency. The information is very limited, it doesnt say what it is 
or have any detailed personal information. It is a record of a data load. Im not persuaded it 
makes a material difference to my earlier findings. All the organisations Mrs M was directed 
to said they had no record of a bankruptcy notification and remain of that view. The 
information provided to Mrs M was incorrect and led her to chase around several 
organisations trying to establish why TransUnion had recorded. In my view, once Mrs M 
reported the error to TransUnion, it should have taken steps to verify the information it 
reported, but it did not. As I said in my earlier decision, I dont find this fair or reasonable. It 
has admitted an error was made and in failing to act sooner, it caused Mrs M a great deal of 
trouble and upset in leaving her to sort it out.
Mrs M has provided me with evidence from a business funding group to show her business 
was unable to secure the funding it needed to continue. I can see the response indicates 
alternative suggestions for funding, including trying again after the credit profile has been 
cleared. But it also suggests applying for funding on a secured basis and whilst I accept a 
bankruptcy notification will have had an impact, and, whilst not wishing to underplay the 
upset in failing to secure the funding the business needed, I cant say the evidence shows 
the business failing was as a direct result of TransUnions error. 
Putting things right
In my view, as I have already said, Callcredit gave Mrs M incorrect information and then 
failed to substantiate any evidence for reporting a Bankruptcy notice on her credit file. It 
unfairly left Mrs M to chase up several different organisations to no avail and left the 
incorrect information on her credit file for 48 days. Im not persuaded it has acted fairly or 
reasonably and in failing to do so it has caused Mrs M significant trouble and upset for which 
she should be compensated.
My final decision
For the reasons I have given, I uphold this complaint and I direct TransUnion International 
UK Limited to:Pay £350 for the trouble and upset this matter has caused
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs M to accept or 
reject my decision before 14 September 2020.
 
Wendy Steele
Ombudsman