DRN-3547853
The complaint
Miss C complains that Harvey & Thompson Limited was irresponsible to lend to her.
What happened
Miss C had six loans from Harvey & Thompson between December 2013 and February 2018 
as follows:
Loan Date Amount Term Max Monthly 
Repayment*Due Repaid
1 16 Dec 2013 £800 12m £84.16 30 Nov 2014 6 Mar 2014
2 21 Feb 2014 £2,000 24m £201.01 28 Feb 2016 17 Nov 2014
3 17 Nov 2014 £2,000 24m £116.85 31 Oct 2016 1 Feb 2016
4 1 Feb 2016 £2,000 24m £116.69 31 Jan 2018 23 Nov 2016
5 23 Nov 2016 £2,000 24m £117.38 30 Nov 2018 23 Feb 2018
6 23 Feb 2018 £2,000 24m £113.57 28 Feb 2020 Outstanding
* Including overlapping loans
Miss C says she should never have been given the loans as her credit file would have 
shown multiple debts that she was already struggling to repay. She says she was on a low 
income and it was spent within days of receiving it. Miss C adds that the lending has left her 
in severe financial difficulty.
Harvey & Thompson says it verified Miss Cs income and employment details and reviewed 
her credit file and bank statements. It says the information provided, and Miss Cs credit 
score, both met its lending criteria. However, it offered to uphold the complaint about loans 4 
to 6.
Miss C did not accept this offer.
Our adjudicator did not recommend the complaint should be upheld. As Harvey & Thompson 
had agreed to uphold the complaint about loans 4 to 6, he did not consider those loans any 
further. For loans 1 to 3, she was satisfied Harvey & Thompsons checks went far enough 
and there was nothing in the available information that should have indicated to Harvey & 
Thompson that the repayments were unsustainable.
Miss C responded to say, in summary, that she failed each of the credit checks so should 
not have been given the loans. She says she had around £10,000 of debt and believes she 
was in an Individual Voluntary Arrangement (IVA) or a debt management plan around that 
time.
Harvey & Thompson subsequently clarified that one of the loan applications was initially 
declined, although not due to Miss Cs credit score, but that it was then reviewed by an 
underwriter.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about short-term lending - including all of 
the relevant rules, guidance and good industry practice - on our website. 
Harvey & Thompson needed to take reasonable steps to ensure that it didnt lend 
irresponsibly. In practice this means that it should have carried out proportionate checks to 
make sure Miss C could repay the loans in a sustainable manner. These checks could take 
into account a number of different things, such as how much was being lent, the repayment 
amounts and the consumers income and expenditure. With this in mind, in the early stages 
of a lending relationship, I think less thorough checks might be reasonable and 
proportionate.  
But certain factors might point to the fact that Harvey & Thompson should fairly and 
reasonably have done more to establish that any lending was sustainable for the consumer. 
These factors include:
the lower a customers income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make 
any loan repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income);
the higher the amount due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income); 
the greater the number and frequency of loans, and the longer the period of time 
during which a customer has been given loans (reflecting the risk that repeated 
refinancing may signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, 
unsustainable).
There may even come a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly 
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable.
I think that it is important for me to start by saying that Harvey & Thompson was required to 
establish whether Miss C could sustainably repay her loans  not just whether the loan 
payments were affordable on a strict pounds and pence calculation. 
Of course the loan payments being affordable on this basis might be an indication a 
consumer could sustainably make their repayments. But it doesnt automatically follow this is 
the case. This is because the Consumer Credit Sourcebook (CONC) defines sustainable 
as being without undue difficulties and in particular the customer should be able to 
make repayments on time, while meeting other reasonable commitments; as well as without 
having to borrow to meet the repayments. And it follows that a lender should realise, or it ought fairly and reasonably to realise, that a borrower wont be able to make their 
repayments sustainably if theyre unlikely to be able to make their repayments without 
borrowing further. 
Ive carefully considered all the arguments, evidence and information provided in this context 
and what this all means for Miss Cs complaint.
Loan 1
When Miss C applied for this loan, she was working for Harvey & Thompson and therefore 
her income was known. Harvey & Thompson also received multiple bank statements from 
Miss C which showed her expenditure and also additional income, including from benefits.
As this was Miss Cs first loan and the repayment was just over 10% of her employment 
income, Im satisfied Harvey & Thompson carried out enough checks. There was nothing to 
indicate Miss C had significant existing debts, nor that she was making payments to a debt 
management company, and the repayments appeared affordable to her.
So I dont find Harvey & Thompson was irresponsible to have approved loan 1.
Loan 2
Loan 2 was approved whilst loan 1 was still active, but Miss C used some of the money to 
repay it. As the loan term had increased to 24 months, I consider proportionate checks 
should have included obtaining a full understanding of Miss Cs financial circumstances.
Although I cant see that Harvey & Thompson carried out a credit check for this loan, I can 
see that it had Miss Cs bank statements. As before, these show additional income and an 
affordable level of regular expenditure. There appear to be two credit repayments on the 
statements, and large cash withdrawals, but I cant see any evidence that Miss C is 
struggling to manage her money, or that she is over-committed to debt repayments.
So, although Im not satisfied Harvey & Thompson carried out proportionate checks for this 
loan, I havent seen any evidence that leads me to conclude Harvey & Thompson was wrong 
to approve it.
Loan 3
Again, Miss C applied for £2,000 over 24 months and used some of the money to repay loan 
2. She continued to work for Harvey & Thompson, earning £810 per month and also 
received around £1,000 per month in benefits, as shown in her bank statements.
I cant see that Harvey & Thompson carried out a credit check for this loan either, and so Im 
not satisfied its checks went far enough. But the checks it did do showed the repayments 
were sustainable and the bank statements dont indicate Miss C was repaying multiple other 
debts at the same time. As Miss C also had a good repayment record, there is no evidence 
to show she was struggling to manage her money, and I dont find Harvey & Thompson was 
wrong to have approved loan 3.Loans 4 to 6
Harvey & Thompson has already agreed to uphold these loans, however, on further 
analysis, I found the redress calculation was not in line with our standard approach. It has 
now confirmed it will offer appropriate redress and has recalculated its offer. This enhanced 
offer has been presented to Miss C, but she still feels she should not have been approved 
for any of the loans.
As I dont find Harvey & Thompson was irresponsible to have approved loans 1 to 3, Im 
satisfied that its offer for loans 4 to 6 is now fair and I uphold Miss Cs complaint about those 
loans.
Putting things right
In deciding what redress Harvey & Thompson should fairly pay in this case Ive thought 
about what might have happened had it refused to lend to Miss C, as Im satisfied it ought to 
have.
Clearly there are a great many possible, and all hypothetical, answers to that question. 
For example, having been declined this lending Miss C may have simply left matters there, 
not attempting to obtain the funds from elsewhere  particularly as a relationship existed 
between her and this particular lender which she may not have had with others. If this wasnt 
a viable option, she may have looked to borrow the funds from a friend or relative  
assuming that was even possible.
Or, she may have decided to approach a third-party lender with the same application, or 
indeed a different application (i.e. for more or less borrowing). But even if she had done that, 
the information that would have been available to such a lender and how they would (or 
ought to have) treated an application which may or may not have been the same is 
impossible to now accurately reconstruct. From what Ive seen in this case, I certainly dont 
think I can fairly conclude there was a real and substantial chance that a new lender would 
have been able to lend to Miss C in a compliant way at this time.
Having thought about all of these possibilities, Im not persuaded it would be fair or 
reasonable to conclude that Miss C would more likely than not have taken up any one of 
these options. So it wouldnt be fair to now reduce Harvey & Thompsons liability in this case 
for what Im satisfied it has done wrong and should put right.
My final decision
My decision is that I uphold this complaint in part. Harvey & Thompson Limited should:
A. Refund all the interest and charges Miss C paid on loans 4 and 5;
B. Pay interest of 8% simple a year on any refunded interest and charges from the date 
they were paid (if they were) to the date of settlement*;C. Remove any interest and charges still outstanding on loan 6 and treat all the 
payments Miss C made towards this loan as payments towards the capital;
D. If reworking Miss Cs loan 6 account as Ive directed results in Miss C effectively 
having made payments above the original capital borrowed, then Harvey & 
Thompson should refund these overpayments with 8% simple interest calculated on 
the overpayments, from the date the overpayments would have arisen, to the date of 
settlement* along with the refund calculated (A+B) for loans 4 and 5;
E. If reworking Miss Cs loan 6 account leaves an amount of capital still to be paid, then 
Harvey & Thompson can use the total refund for loans 4 and 5 (after the deduction of 
tax) to offset this. Any surplus then needs to be refunded to Miss C. But if there is still 
an outstanding capital balance then I remind Harvey & Thompson that it should take 
a sympathetic view when seeking to agree an affordable repayment plan with Miss C;
F. Remove loans 4 and 5 from Miss Cs credit file and remove any adverse information 
about loan 6 up to the date the complaint is settled. Loan 6 should also be removed 
from Miss Cs credit file once it has been repaid.
* HM Revenue & Customs requires Harvey & Thompson to take off tax from this interest. 
Harvey & Thompson must give Miss C a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if 
she asks for one.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss C to accept 
or reject my decision before 14 July 2022.
 
Amanda Williams
Ombudsman