DRN-1318876
The complaint
Mr P complains that Liverpool Victoria Insurance Company Limited (LV) wont fully repair his 
car after a claim made on his motor insurance policy. 
What happened
Mr P was involved in an accident and repairs were made to his car. But Mr P said there was 
still damage from the accident that hadnt been repaired. LV said three inspections of the car 
hadnt found any further accident-related damage. It said Mr P could obtain a main dealers 
report at his own cost and it would consider this. But Mr P said he wasnt able to do this. LV 
offered Mr P £200 compensation for the trouble and upset caused by its communication and 
delays in the claim. 
Our investigator didnt recommend that the complaint should be upheld. He thought LV had 
considered three inspections, including one from an independent engineer, that said there 
was no further accident-related damage to the car. He thought LV had reasonably offered to 
consider a dealers report, but it was for Mr P to obtain this. And he thought LVs offer of 
£200 compensation was fair for the communication issues and delays in the claim. 
Mr P replied that he intended to take his car to a main dealers for inspection. He said he 
was out of pocket because hed had to pay for repairs. He thought the cars service history 
showed there was no previous damage. He said hed been badly injured in the accident and 
his car was unroadworthy.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I was sorry to hear about Mr Ps accident and that hed been injured. I can understand that 
he wants his car to be roadworthy and he wants to feel safe whilst driving it. I can also 
understand that he feels frustrated that LV wont repair all the damage he says was caused 
by the accident.
As the investigator has explained, were not engineers. We dont assess whether or how 
damage to a vehicle would be caused as this is a matter for the experts in these situations, 
the insurance companies and engineers. Our role in these complaints is to determine 
whether an insurance company has considered all the available evidence and whether it can 
justify its decision to not pay for additional repairs.
LV said its own engineers and an independent engineer considered the collision to be light 
to moderate impact. And the engineers said this wouldnt have caused the steering or 
suspension issues that Mr P was worried about. It said the car that hit Mr P had minimal 
damage. 
I can see that LV inspected Mr Ps car three times. Its own engineer drove Mr Ps car and 
found the steering and brakes to be fine. LV said this was confirmed by a vehicle alignment 
report which it sent to Mr P.
Mr P remained unhappy, so LV instructed an independent engineer to inspect the car. He 
said that none of the issues reported by Mr P were related to the accident. But he did say 
that a vehicle alignment should be completed as a duty of care. However, he didnt know 
one had already been completed and so he was satisfied by this. 
Mr P still found problems with the steering. A further inspection by an engineer found that 
this was due to wear and tear. 
Mr P provided reports from his own garage and a dealer that showed that there were 
problems with the steering. But I agree with LV that these dont say what caused the 
problems. And they were made a year after the accident and after Mr P had driven more 
than 3,000 miles. Also, LV had a vehicle alignment report from after the repairs were done. 
This didnt show any steering problems. 
So I dont think it was unreasonable for LV to consider that the reports didnt show damage it 
was responsible for. LV said it would consider a report from a main dealer that linked 
steering problems to the accident. 
I think this was fair and reasonable as LV didnt have any evidence of further accident-
related damage that contradicted that provided by its three inspections. I think its 
reasonable for Mr P to obtain this report at his own cost as he disagrees with the 
independent engineers report. I think LV reasonably said it would refund any costs if the 
steering problems were shown to be related to the accident. 
Mr P told our investigator that he was taking his car to a main dealers for an assessment. 
This was over a year ago, but I havent seen any evidence that hes done this. So I think LV 
hasnt had any further evidence to consider and I think its justified its decision to not pay for 
further repairs. 
LV agreed that its communication with Mr P could have been clearer. And it said it could 
have come to its decision sooner. It offered Mr P £200 compensation for this. I think that was 
very fair and reasonable in the circumstances and I dont require LV to increase this.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision before 11 March 2021.
 
Phillip Berechree
Ombudsman