DRN-3067268
The complaint
Mr B complains about the actions of Wise Payments Limited (Wise) when he was the victim 
of a scam in which he lost £60,000.
What happened
The detailed background to this complaint is well known to both parties. So, Ill only provide 
a brief overview of some of the key events here. In February 2019 Mr B was sadly the victim 
of a scam. He was tricked into believing he was making an investment with a regulated firm 
Ill refer to as P. 
He conducted his due diligence on P, which all appeared legitimate. But unfortunately, he 
was in contact with scammers who were impersonating the genuine firm. Mr B was taken 
through a convincing process prior to investing which (common with many investments) 
involved him sharing personal identification documents. 
Mr B then went on to make transfers from his own bank account to the details provided by 
the scammers. These took place over three days and totalled £60,000. All the payments 
concerned went to Wise. Mr B later discovered hed been the victim of a scam and reported 
this to his own bank. 
Ultimately no money was recovered and Mr B complained. Mr Bs initial complaint was that 
Wise had allowed criminals to open and operate accounts with them. He believed theyd 
failed in their obligations as a regulated firm and that this had caused his loss. One of our 
investigators considered the complaint but didnt recommend it should be upheld. 
In response to her view on the complaint, Mr B said that he was aware the account with 
Wise was in his name and that any withdrawals from that account were unauthorised. Our 
investigator explained that she wasnt persuaded that was the case and that Mr B wasnt an 
eligible complainant in relation to payments made from the Wise account. Mr B remained 
unhappy and asked for an ombudsman to make a decision. 
Ive already issued a jurisdiction decision which explained the limits of what our service can 
consider in relation to Mr Bs complaint. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im sorry to disappoint Mr B, but Im not upholding this complaint. I dont 
doubt the significant impact being a victim in this way has had on him. Particularly due to the 
personal nature of the funds concerned which I understand were an inheritance from his late 
wife. But it would only be fair for me to direct Wise to reimburse Mr B his loss if I think they 
are responsible for acts or omissions which caused it. 
The account with Wise (and to which his funds were paid) was opened in Mr Bs name. At 
different times in his complaint journey, Mr B has said that he both was and wasnt aware of 
this. Ive considered this carefully, but I think its most likely that the account was opened by 
the scammers, using the documents Mr B provided in the course of dealing with them. 
Wise have shared with our service the steps they take upon opening an account and the 
information with which they were provided. I cant see that they reasonably could have 
known at the time that they werent dealing with the genuine Mr B. And I dont think there 
was anything untoward in their opening of the account that resulted in Mr Bs loss. 
Mr B has highlighted industry guidance which broadly says businesses should be alert to out 
of character and unusual transactions with a view to protecting their customers from financial 
harm through fraud. I agree that is the case. But where Wise are concerned the majority of 
their business is in performing international transfers. So an account held for that purpose 
will likely look very different to a regular bank account used for daily expenditure. It isnt 
uncommon for such accounts to be used for one off (or as here a series) of payments and 
for those payments to be for significant sums. And in this context, I dont think I can fairly say 
that there was anything about these transactions that ought to have prompted Wise to have 
intervened at the time. 
Importantly, even if I thought Wise ought to have intervened, Im not persuaded this would 
have made a difference in any case. Wise would have used the contact details provided by 
the scammer who was pretending to be Mr B. And the scammer would no doubt have 
provided a plausible and legitimate reason for the payments, which would have ultimately 
resulted in them being made. So overall, I dont think Wise reasonably could have done 
anything to prevent the fraud. 
Ive also considered what Wise did once made aware that the payments had been made as 
a result of the scam. Im satisfied they acted appropriately in response to both notification 
from the genuine P (who had contacted them directly) and also in response to Mr Bs own 
bank when they too later reported the matter to them. Unfortunately, the actions they took 
didnt result in the recovery of any of Mr Bs funds. 
I appreciate that Mr B seems to have been more diligent then most when entering into the 
initial investment. And Im in no way blaming him for the situation hes found himself in. But 
similarly (within the confines of my jurisdiction to consider this complaint), Wise couldnt 
reasonably have prevented or done more to recover Mr Bs loss.  And because of this, Im 
not going to tell them to do anything further to resolve this complaint. 
My final decision
For the reasons outlined above, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 21 October 2021.
 
Richard Annandale
Ombudsman