DRN-4342083
The complaint
Mrs M complains about Aviva Insurance Limited (AIL) and their refusal to reimburse the 
cost of her furniture damaged by a fire at her property. Mrs M also complains about the 
service AIL provided during the claim process.
Mrs M has been represented by her two daughters during the claim and complaint process. 
For ease of reference, where appropriate, I will refer to the actions taken by both daughters 
as though they were taken by Mrs M as she was the policyholder on this occasion.
What happened
The circumstances of the claim, and the timeline of events, are well known to all parties. So, 
I dont intend to list them chronologically in detail. But in summary, Mrs M held a home 
insurance policy underwritten by AIL when her home was damaged by a fire. So, she 
contacted AIL to raise a claim on this policy. When raising this claim, Mrs M appointed a loss 
assessor, who Ill refer to as B, to manage the claim on her behalf.
AIL accepted the claim, and alternative accommodation was arranged for Mrs M, although 
there were some difficulties in agreeing what both parties felt was suitable. And B submitted 
a content list of the damaged items Mrs M was claiming for, which included certain items of 
furniture. But after investigating this further, AIL felt the claim for this furniture had been 
exaggerated and so, they relied on an exclusion in their policy to decline this aspect of the 
claim. But as they didnt think Mrs M herself was aware of this exaggeration, they paid the 
rest of the list as a cash settlement and didnt record any fraud markers. Mrs Ms daughters 
were unhappy about this, so a complaint was raised on Mrs Ms behalf.
This complaint included, and is not limited to, their unhappiness with AILs decision not to 
pay for the furniture, and their belief AIL failed to act pragmatically, considering Mrs Ms 
vulnerabilities. They were also unhappy with the reasoning for the decline, and what they felt 
was blame attributed to Mrs Ms daughter, Ms L. So, they wanted AIL to overturn their 
decision and pay the correct value identified for the furniture. They also complained about 
the level of service AIL provided to them, which included difficulties faced when arranging 
and extending the alternative accommodation, and AILs failure to respond to the complaint 
in a timely manner.
AIL responded to the complaint and didnt uphold it. They thought the level of service they 
provided was fair. And that their decision to decline part of the claim on the basis it had been 
exaggerated was reasonable, considering the claim circumstances and the information they 
were given. But they were empathetic to Mrs Ms situation and the claim circumstances. So, 
they offered to send flowers as a gesture of goodwill. Mrs M remained unhappy with this 
response and so, her daughter referred her complaint to us.
Our investigator looked into the complaint and didnt uphold it. They explained as Mrs M was 
the policyholder, we were only able to consider the impact on her. So, while they accepted 
Ms L was unhappy with being alleged to have acted fraudulently, the upset this caused 
wasnt something we would be considering. And our investigator felt AIL had acted fairly 
regarding the decline of the furniture costs anyway. But they did think there had been some 
worry caused to Mrs M regarding the extension of the alternative accommodation she was in 
and so, they recommended AIL pay Mrs M £150 to recognise this.
AIL accepted this recommendation. And Mrs M, through her daughters, accepted this 
payment for the alternative accommodation aspect of the complaint. But it was maintained 
that AILs decision to decline the claim for the furniture was unfair and unpragmatic. And Mrs 
Ms daughter provided several comments explaining why they thought this to be the case, 
and why she felt Ms L should be absolved on blame and an apology offered. As Mrs M didnt 
agree, the complaint has been passed to me for a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im upholding the complaint for broadly the same reasons as the 
investigator. Ive focused my comments on what I think is relevant. If I havent commented 
on any specific point, its because I dont believe its affected what I think is the right 
outcome.
Before I explain why Ive reached my decision, I think its important for me to set out clearly 
what Ive been able to consider, and how. I note Mrs M has been represented throughout the 
claims and complaint process by both her daughters, and B. And I recognise that during 
these processes, Mrs Ms representatives may feel as though theyve been inconvenienced, 
or negatively impacted. But crucially, Im only able to consider, and compensate for, the 
impact to Mrs M directly, as she is the policyholder and so, customer of AIL. Because of this, 
while I do appreciate Mrs Ms representatives may want AIL to take actions that resolve their 
own situations and upset, this isnt something Im able to direct.
Im also unable to consider Mrs Ms complaint regarding AILs handling of her complaint, as 
complaint handling is an unregulated activity as determined by the rules set by the industry 
regulator, the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA). So, while I appreciate how delays during 
the complaint process may have impacted Mrs M, this isnt something I can think about or 
compensate her for.
I also want to make it clear that, as Mrs M appointed to B to act as the claims loss assessor 
on her behalf, and B arranged the contractors who completed the repair work to her home, 
any issues relating to delays caused by these contractors are ultimately the responsibility of 
B, and not AIL. So, I wont be considering any of these issues as part of my decision.
So, what I have considered is the service AIL provided to Mrs M directly, through her 
representatives, and whether this service and the actions they took were reasonable.
I note our investigator identified a short delay relating to the extension of Mrs Ms alternative 
accommodation, where they felt AIL couldve done more. And, that their failure likely 
inconvenienced and upset Mrs M. As both AIL and Mrs M, through her representatives, 
accepted this finding surrounding the entirety of the alternative accommodation issues, I 
wont be commenting on the merits of this any further as I think its reasonable for me to 
assume its no longer in dispute. I will discuss what I think AIL should do to put things right 
later within the decision.
So, Ive focused on the main point that remains in dispute. And this centres around AILs 
decision not to pay Mrs M for certain items of furniture she originally claimed for, as they felt 
the initial claim put to them for these items was fraudulent, false or exaggerated.Having reviewed all the evidence available to me, I dont think its in dispute by either party 
that the costs for this furniture included in the original content list put forward by B were 
higher than they shouldve been. And, that these costs were based on the costs of furniture 
made by an entirely separate manufacturer to the ones the damaged items were made by. 
Whenever an insurer receives a claim, they are entitled to take reasonable steps to validate 
it. And this includes ensuring any costs claimed for are reasonable and in no way false or 
exaggerated. I can see that upon receipt of the original content list, AIL had concerns about 
the items in question. And Ive seen emails where they returned to B to query these costs, 
giving plausible reasoning as to why they were doing so.
And following this questioning, I can see B returned to AIL, maintaining that the costs 
claimed for were correct. And B stated that any content list is sent to the policy holder, or 
their representatives, to confirm they are happy with the list before it is submitted to the 
insurers.
AIL proceeded to consider this information, as well as inspecting the furniture themselves as 
it was being held in storage. And having done so, they noted the furniture was of significantly 
less value that what was being claimed for. So, they decided to refuse payment for these 
items, referring to the policy terms and conditions which state under the heading fraud that 
if your claim is dishonest or exaggerated, we will not pay you for anything under this policy 
or return any money you have paid. We may also cancel your policy immediately.
As the claim submitted by B, on Mrs Ms behalf and agreed to my Ms L, is accepted to have 
been wrong initially, and when considering B continued to assert the claim was correct after 
being questioned directly by AIL about this, I dont think Im able to say AIL acted unfairly 
when relying on the exclusion above, as I can understand why they deemed the claim to be 
exaggerated. So, I dont think I can say this decision should be overturned or revoked.
I understand Mrs M, and her daughters, are unlikely to agree with this. And I want to 
reassure them I have considered their comments about Mrs Ms vulnerabilities, and what 
they feel should be a pragmatic approach.
But I do think AIL have been pragmatic here. As you can see, the term above allowed AIL to 
decline the entirety of Mrs Ms claim. But AIL fairly took into consideration the fact Mrs M 
was being represented due to her vulnerabilities and decided to continue to pay the rest of 
the claim accepting she wasnt directly aware of the exaggerated claim herself. I think this is 
more than fair, as this isnt something AIL were required to do.
And while I appreciate there may be some dispute between B and Ms L about who was 
responsible for the exaggeration, and Ms L is unhappy that AIL made her feel as though she 
was to blame, ultimately both parties were acting on Mrs Ms behalf. So, whoever was at 
fault for the exaggeration, the fact remains that furniture of a different manufacturer, at a 
significantly increased cost, was claimed for and continued to be claimed for, after AIL 
queried it. So, I dont think I can say AIL have done anything wrong, or unfairly, when taking 
the actions they have.
I note Ms L may disagree, and I appreciate why shes upset and receiving what she feels like 
is the blame for the situation. But AIL have confirmed no fraud markers have been reported 
against Mrs M, or anyone else. So, I cant see that Ms L has been negatively impacted by 
AILs decision moving forward in terms of obtaining future insurance. And even if she had, 
Ms L is not AILs customer here, it is Mrs M. So, I am, and would be, unable to direct AIL to 
take any action for Ms L or pay her any compensatory amount. 
Ive then turned to what I think AIL should do to put things right for the service failures they are responsible for. 
Putting things right
As I explained earlier, I do think there was a slight delay in arranging the extension of Mrs 
Ms alternative accommodation. So, I do think Mrs M should be compensated for the worry 
she wouldve no doubt felt when it appeared uncertain whether she would remain in the 
accommodation shed be in for a significant length of time.
Ultimately, her accommodation was extended. So, I dont think Mrs M was inconvenienced. 
But I do think it wouldve been a worrying and frustrating time for Mrs M. Our investigator 
recommended AIL pay Mrs M £150 to recognise this, and I think this recommendation is a 
fair one, that falls in line with our services approach and what I wouldve awarded had it not 
already been made.
I think it fairly addresses the emotional impact to Mrs M, while also taking into consideration 
the fact the delay was relatively short overall, and that the accommodation was extended as 
she wanted it to be. So, this is a payment I am directing AIL to make.
I recognise Mrs Ms representatives have made comments about the way AIL handled the 
alternative accommodation overall, and how they should take feedback from the claim and 
alter their procedures accordingly. But its not our services remit to comment on, or direct 
businesses to change, their internal procedures and policies. This would fall under the remit 
of the FCA. So, should Mrs Ms representatives wish to escalate this feedback, they would 
need to contact the FCA directly.
My final decision
For the reasons outlined above, I uphold Mrs Ms complaint about Aviva Insurance Limited 
and I direct them to take the following action:
Pay Mrs M £150 to recognise the impact the caused by the delay in extending the 
alternative accommodation she was in.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs M to accept or 
reject my decision before 2 January 2024.
 
Josh Haskey
Ombudsman