DRN-4197908
The complaint
Mr B feels that American Express Services Europe Limited has treated him unfairly with 
regard to bathroom units which he says are not of satisfactory quality.
What happened
In August 2021 Mr B bought units for his bathroom from a supplier. He had arranged for 
them to be installed by an installer (who wasnt linked to the supplier). Mr B says he was 
unhappy with the units once theyd been installed and noted issues with the doors and one 
of the units moving. He then talked to the Supplier but wasnt happy with the Suppliers 
position on the matter, which was an offer of replacing the bowing unit. So he took his 
complaint to American Express Services Europe Limited (Amex for short).
Amex didnt agree with Mr B as it felt there wasnt sufficient evidence to consider there was a 
breach or misrepresentation, bearing in mind the offer the Supplier had made. So he brought 
his complaint here.
Our investigator considered the matter and didnt uphold the complaint. Mr B did not agree, 
and so the complaint was passed to me for a decision. I issued a provisional decision in May 
2023 saying that I didnt uphold Mr Bs complaint.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Neither Mr B nor Amex responded to my provisional decision within the timescale set out. 
Ive allowed time for postal issues and am now satisfied that it is safe to proceed. And I 
consider it in both parties interests to bring finality to this dispute. As neither party has 
chosen to provide further arguments on the matter I see no persuasive reason to deviate 
from my rationale in my provisional decision. Accordingly Mr Bs complaint is unsuccessful 
for the reasons given in this decision.
My rationale on this complaint as described previously
Where the information Ive got is incomplete, unclear or contradictory (as some of it is here) I 
base my decision on the balance of probabilities  in other words, what I consider is most 
likely to have happened in the light of the available evidence and the wider circumstances.
Mr B used his Amex credit card to pay for the bathroom units. This means that if certain 
criteria are met Amex can have certain responsibilities to Mr B which arise from the relevant 
law, specifically, Section 75 of the Consumer Credit Act 1974 (the CCA). In summary, in 
certain circumstances, Section 75 has the effect of allowing Mr B to hold Amex liable for 
breaches of contract, or misrepresentations made in relation to the agreement made. In 
essence Amex can be held responsible for a like claim against the Supplier. But Amex is 
only responsible here for breaches of contract or misrepresentation by the Supplier. It isnt 
responsible for other things such as the work of the Installer.
Also Mr Bs Amex credit card is part of a card scheme. And this scheme has rules which 
includes giving Amex a route for card transactions to be disputed with Merchants such as 
the Supplier, namely through the Chargeback process. This isnt a right for consumers. and 
it is possible that chargeback could be ultimately unsuccessful without Amex having done 
anything wrong.
I should also add at this juncture that this decision is solely about Amex and whether it did 
what it should have and whether it treated Mr B fairly. This decision isnt about the Supplier 
or the Installer, neither of which are within this Services remit for complaints about 
Chargeback and S75. I hope this important distinction is clear.
could Amex challenge the transaction through a Chargeback? 
Mr B doesnt dispute the amount, date, or any other details about the transactions here or 
that he authorised them. So I dont think Amex couldve challenged the payments on the 
basis Mr B didnt properly authorise the payment transactions, given what Ive just set out.
When Mr B took his complaint to Amex it didnt raise a chargeback. However I dont think Mr 
B lost out because of this. By the time Mr B had contacted Amex hed already reached 
deadlock with the Supplier. And the Supplier had put forward an offer to Mr B to replace one 
of the units hed purchased which Mr B refused. So I think had Amex raised a chargeback 
with the Supplier it would have likely defended the chargeback and pointed to the offer it had 
made to Mr B.
Ive considered the scheme rules and the other chargeback reasons which could have been 
applied here. But based on the position of the Supplier and the following comments about 
the evidence Im going to make, Im not persuaded on balance that a chargeback would 
have been successful. So I dont think Mr B has lost out due to the position of Amex 
regarding chargeback.
Section 75
Before deciding on whether there is breach or misrepresentation here, there are some 
requirements set out in the CCA which also have to be met before these issues can be 
considered. I think both the DCS arrangement is in place for the services provided by the 
Supplier and the financial limits criteria are met also. So Amex does have to consider 
whether there is a breach of contract or a material misrepresentation when considering the 
claim. And for Amex to be held accountable under a like claim under s75 it has to be shown 
that the Supplier either breached the contract or materially misrepresented something to Mr 
B which was untrue and that led to loss.
Having considered what happened here Ive seen no persuasive evidence of a breach of 
contract here. I shall explain why. Ive considered the evidence Mr B has provided 
particularly the photographs and video evidence. The test here is whether the goods 
delivered here were of satisfactory quality. The quality of goods is satisfactory if they meet 
the standard that a reasonable person would consider satisfactory, taking account of any 
description of the goods, the price and all the other relevant circumstances.
It should be noted that Mr B accepts that the units were fitted by his installer and not the 
Supplier here. Mr B also says that soon as they were installed he raised the issue of the 
quality of the goods with the Supplier. However the Supplier says the issues werent raised 
with it until October, with Mr B having made the purchase in August and the units being delivered to him in August. And the earliest evidence Ive seen of Mr B raising the issue with 
the supplier is from October (albeit I dont see this particular point as definitive in this case).
The Supplier says that all goods leaving its premises for delivery are checked prior to 
dispatch and only leave if meeting its standards. Ive considered the suppliers website and 
its detailed images and descriptions of the hundreds of products it offers in its vanity units 
ranges. Ive considered the video Mr B has supplied and I can see the doors are closing 
properly, however they do appear marginally misaligned so that the gap between the doors 
is bigger at the bottom of the door than at the top. To my mind this minor misalignment 
should be fixable through adjustment of the doors. It would seem to me that this could 
equally be caused by installation and or is adjustable through the door mechanisms. It would 
only take a marginal misalignment in its installation/hanging for such misalignment and from 
my understanding of the product any such misalignment in hanging would likely be 
evidenced by such a misalignment in the doors. So Im not persuaded what Mr B has 
provided is persuasive evidence of manufacturing defect or unsatisfactory quality. It seems 
likely to require adjusting/proper installation.
Ive considered the video Mr B has provided. His audio commentary with the video is that 
there is bowing in the unit and he presses down on the unit to demonstrate this in the video. 
However to the naked eye I cannot see any bowing in the video having watched the video 
repeatedly. It would seem that there might be some give in the unit that Mr B is unhappy 
about. But Im not persuaded that isnt either due to installation either. And I dont consider it 
persuasive of manufacturing defect or unsatisfactory quality.
Mr B points to some scratches which he says he couldnt have seen until installation. The 
photograph provided is unpersuasive on this albeit I appreciate taking photographs of such 
evidence can be challenging in itself. And it would seem in the months between purchase 
and installation there is plenty of opportunity for such scratches to have occurred either 
during storage or installation.
Having considered the evidence Mr B has put forward Im not persuaded that there is 
persuasive evidence here of the goods being of unsatisfactory quality at the point of delivery. 
Its quite possible the issues here are due to installation or handling post the point of 
delivery.
The Supplier has offered to replace one of the units as a gesture here. Amex has pointed to 
this and noted that in the absence of a breach here that this seems a fair solution. Im not 
persuaded there is a breach here either but in any event considering the facts Im not 
persuaded that Amex has treated Mr B unfairly by pointing to this offer as well and relying on 
it in its position.
summary
So I have decided that Amex has nothing further to do here and that Mr Bs complaint should 
be unsuccessful.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I have decided to not uphold Mr Bs complaint about 
American Express Services Europe Limited. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 17 July 2023.
 Rod Glyn-Thomas
Ombudsman