DRN-4260765
The complaint
Mr R complains about Aviva Insurance Limiteds handling of his Car Insurance claim.  
All references to Aviva also include its appointed agents.
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again 
here. Instead, Ill focus on giving my reasons for my decision.
My decision focusses on events following Avivas final response of January 2023 to its final 
response of April 2023. I understand Mr R has additional concerns about Aviva and its 
agents, but I am only able to cover the issues brought to Aviva as part of this complaint and 
covered in the final response of April 2023. 
Im aware Mr R has spoken of raising a further complaint with Aviva, and he may wish to 
bring this our service should he be dissatisfied with its response.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
My role as an ombudsman is to decide how a complaint should be resolved, quickly and 
informally. That means I will focus my investigation and decision on what I consider the crux 
of the issue to be. I dont intend to comment on everything Mr R has said or asked, unless I 
consider it relevant to the decision I need to make. But I can confirm I have thoroughly read 
and considered all the evidence presented by both parties.
Having done so, I do not uphold this complaint. Ill explain why.
Some repairs have been carried out on the vehicle; however, one part remains to be 
replaced which at the time was unavailable. Alongside earlier issues with a previous 
assigned repairer, the vehicle had been in for repair for some time.
So, I can appreciate Mr Rs frustration and disappointment at the length of time 
taken. However, I can only hold Aviva responsible for delays that were avoidable. As 
the part was unavailable due to an industry wide issue, I dont think this was an 
avoidable delay.
The policy says it will provide a courtesy car during repairs. 
Due to the length of time for it to obtain the missing part, Avivas repairer informed 
Mr R it was taking the courtesy vehicle back and returning his. 
When it became available, Avivas repairer said it would prepare the remaining part, 
and then collect, fit, and return the vehicle with a same day turn around. 
I understand Mr R feels strongly matters have been imposed on him by Aviva, but I 
think its acted fairly and in line with the terms and conditions of the policy. 
The vehicle is roadworthy, and as repairs were not being carried out at that time, I 
think it was reasonable for the courtesy car to be returned and for Mr R to be given 
his car back. I also note Aviva arranged and covered the cost of the vehicles MOT 
whilst it was in the garages possession. So, I dont think its acted unreasonably 
here. 
I can see Mr R also commented on the payment arrangements between Aviva and 
the garage. Our service isn't a regulator, so it is not for me to comment on how a 
business operates more broadly. However, I will say its not unusual for an insurer to 
have such arrangements with its suppliers and approved repairers. And paying an 
excess for a claims fulfilment to be initiated is a normal part of a claims process. So, 
I dont think Aviva has acted unfairly for asking Mr R to make payment when he did.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold Mr Rs complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision before 12 October 2023.
 
Michael Baronti
Ombudsman