DRN-3161371
The complaint
Mr H is unhappy with the service he received from Carole Nash Insurance Consultants Ltd
(Carole Nash) when he asked for a rebate on his motorbike insurance policy in February
2021.
What happened
The background to this complaint is well known to both Mr H and Carole Nash. I wont repeat
in detail what is already known to both parties, instead Ill focus on what I consider to be
materially relevant to the complaint.
In February 2021 Mr H got in touch with Carole Nash via email to request a refund on his
insurance premiums as he says he hadnt used his motorbike between 1 October 2020 and
26 February 2021.
Mr H says he didnt receive a response to his query. But Carole Nash say they dont have
any record of receiving it. Shortly afterwards, Mr H then tried to call Carole Nash and says
he was on hold for around 8 minutes. Mr H ended the call and emailed Carole Nash again.
He was advised that hed receive a call back but this never happened. Carole Nash
apologised for this and offered £20 for the service theyd provided.
Mr H expressed unhappiness at not being given the name of the adviser who had been
answering his queries. Carole Nash explained that the reply had come from a group email
box.
The main part of Mr Hs complaint was about his request for a rebate on the previous years
insurance premiums as hed not been using the motorbike for approximately three months
and had declared it off the road. Carole Nash explained that they were the broker rather than
the insurer who sets the insurance premiums. They did however provide an explanation as
to why Mr Hs lower than expected mileage may not affect his insurance premiums.
As Mr H was unhappy with Carole Nashs response he referred his complaint to our service
for an independent review. Our investigator considered all of the evidence but didnt
recommend that the complaint be upheld. As Mr H didnt accept our investigators findings,
the complaint was passed to me for a decision.
I issued a copy of my provisional findings on 28 October 2021 and both parties were given 
an opportunity to respond.
Mr H responded and said my decision failed to address or mention the following complaint 
point; Their refusal / failure to provide a copy of their Complaints Handling Procedure. 
Carole Nash responded to the decision to say they had nothing further to add. 
Ive now reconsidered the complaint for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive included a copy of my provisional findings below as they also form part of my final 
decision. But first, Ill address the response from Mr H.
Mr H has referred to Carole Nash not providing him with a copy of their complaints handling 
procedure. In a decision, an ombudsman will consider the entirety of a complaint but might 
choose not to comment on every complaint point. This was explained in my provisional 
decision. 
In my provisional decision I did consider this point under the overall service provided by 
Carole Nash. Our investigator had already addressed the point raised. But for completeness 
and transparency Ill also address it in this decision.
Im satisfied that Carole Nash acknowledged Mr Hs complaint on 3 March 2021 and the 
same email explained the complaint process and next steps. Carole Nash also later gave 
Mr H referral rights to our service in their final response letter. This is what Id have expected 
to happen and I cant fairly say that Mr H has lost out. The information about how Carole 
Nash handles complaints is also accessible on Carole Nashs website: 
https://www.carolenash.com/about-us/complaints-procedure
Overall, Im satisfied that theyve treated Mr H fairly. 
As no new evidence has been provided by either party, I see no fair and reasonable reason 
to deviate from my intended findings as set out in my provisional decision. 
Copy of provisional decision 
Although a number of issues have been raised, this decision only addresses those issues
I consider to be materially relevant to this complaint. However, Ive given careful
consideration to all of the submissions made before arriving at my decision. As there are a
number of different parts to Mr Hs complaint, Ill deal with them under the headings below.
The service provided by Carole Nash
In their final response letter Carole Nash accept that the service theyve offered fell below
their standards. Therefore I dont need to make a finding on the service provided but I do
need to make a finding on the impact of the service provided on Mr H. That is, ultimately,
whether the compensation offered by Carole Nash (£20) is fair.
Carole Nash have no record of receiving the first email Mr H says he sent them (prior to 22
February). But Im satisfied that they did receive the email on 22 February and they replied
to Mr H on 23 February. I dont find that this has caused a significant delay to Mr Hs
complaint or has affected the outcome.
Its unfortunate that Mr H had to wait approximately 8 minutes when he then tried to call
Carole Nash - and eventually he ended the call. But Ive kept in mind that these events were
happening when the COVID-19 pandemic was presenting challenges for almost all
businesses as they continued to try and offer their services against the backdrop of remote
working. I note that Carole Nash has already apologised for the wait. In any case, I dont
consider the 8-minute wait overly excessive - to the extent that further compensation is
warranted.
Carole Nash has already apologised for Mr H not receiving a call back from theiradministration team as hed been promised. I accept that this wasnt good service and will
have caused Mr H annoyance and frustration. Carole Nash have said as they operate an
inbound contact centre call backs cant always be guaranteed, but in Mr Hs case theyve still
let him down.
Mr H also raised a point about wanting to know who was dealing with his queries as the
emails he received had a mail box signature rather than an advisers name. Im satisfied
with Carole Nashs explanation and would point out that - although less personable, its
extremely common across many businesses for a mail box signature rather than an
individual advisers name.
This means that any adviser with access to the mailbox can respond rather than relying on
one individual and the aim is for faster overall responses to customers. Ultimately, this is
down to Carole Nashs own business operation and not something I could interfere with or
provide a direction on.
Overall, having carefully considered the service provided, I find that the £20 offered to be
fair, reasonable and proportionate to impact on Mr H. In their final response letter Carole
Nash said:
 by way of apology I have arranged for £20.00 compensation to be returned to the
payment card we hold on file.
Mr H should speak to Carole Nash if he wishes to accept their offer or it hasnt already been
paid.
The rebate requested by Mr H
Mr H felt that as his motorbike hadnt been in use from 1 October 2020 to 26 February 2021
and hed therefore covered less miles than hed intended when taking the policy out, he
should receive a rebate on the insurance premiums he was charged. Mr H has also said he
declared it off the road and it had been securely stored.
Mr H thinks that the risk had decreased due to the above. Carole Nash didnt agree to a
rebate and said that Mr H was still covered for fire, theft and accidental damage.
Its important to point out that Carole Nash are the insurance broker here, with delegated
authority from the insurer who underwrote Mr Hs policy. Carole Nash dont set insurance
premiums or decide what risk factors/weightings should be. Our service also cant tell
insurers how to set their insurance premiums.
However, as Carole Nash have taken responsibility for this complaint, we asked them for
evidence to support what theyve said about the risk not being less to the insurer. I
appreciate that Mr H wanted to see this evidence, but as its commercially sensitive
information it wont be shared with Mr H.
I can reassure Mr H that the evidence Ive seen shows that the lower than expected (up to
9999 miles) mileage didnt influence the insurance premiums Mr H was charged. That is,
whether Mr H had told Carole Nash at policy inception that he expected to ride his motor
bike for 6000 miles or 9999 miles during that policy year - the premium charged wouldve
been the same. I havent seen any supporting evidence that Mr H has been treated
differently to another customer in the same position.
Mr H has referred to the motorbike being stored in a secure garage when not in use. But as
our investigator has said, hed declared that his motor bike would be stored in a garagewhen he took the policy  so no change occurred that was different to the risk hed insured.
SORN status
In a recent response to our service, Mr H has referred to our investigator not commenting on
his perceived lower risk to the insurer because of the vehicles SORN (Statutory Off Road
Notification) status. But I find that if Mr H made the SORN notification in October 2020 he
couldve reasonably also contacted Carole Nash to update them.
Although Carole Nash are the broker here, there was still some responsibility on Mr H to
update them if anything changed during the course of the policy year. This was set out under
his policy:
You must let your broker know if your circumstances change either before your
policy starts or during the period of insurance.
Mr H didnt let Carole Nash know until February 2021 shortly after receiving a renewal invite
for the coming year. Had Mr H contacted Carole Nash in October 2020, he couldve possibly
discussed either:
cancelling his insurance and receiving any refund due; or
keeping it in place to ensure he was covered for fire and theft or if he decided to     
re-tax and start driving the motorbike again.
For Mr Hs argument to be successful, Id have to find that Carole Nash should now,
retrospectively, refund him because Mr H considers that the risk presented was lower.
Whilst I completely understand the argument about risk that Mr H is making, for me to say
his complaint succeeds because of this argument, in effect Id be finding that if towards the
end of a policy term the policy holder lets the broker or insurer know that the actual risk was
less than the expected or perceived risk as set out at the start of the policy, then the policy
holder should be refunded accordingly. I dont consider that fair or reasonable or in the spirit
of what insurance was designed for.
Other insurers actions
Mr H has pointed out that some other insurers offered premium rebates because of the
COVID-19 pandemic and reduced driving. This is correct and it received some media
coverage.
I appreciate that Mr H feels Carole Nash should also be doing the same here. But my
decision only considers if Carole Nash have treated Mr H fairly and reasonably and doesnt
consider the actions of any other insurer.
As set out above, with the benefit of hindsight, if Mr H knew in October 2020 he was unlikely
to use the motorbike for a number of months, he couldve spoken to Carole Nash about
cancelling the policy and then reinsuring when he decided to start using it again.
Fees and discounts offered
Carole Nash can make their own business decisions about what fees it charges customers
or what discounts it offers at renewal. Our service cant interfere in this.Overall, although disappointing for Mr H, I dont uphold his complaint. My final decision 
brings to an end what we as a service - in trying to informally resolve Mr Hs dispute with 
Carole Nash, can do for him. 
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 13 December 2021.
 
Daniel O'Shea
Ombudsman