DRN-2875820
The complaint
Mr and Mrs R are unhappy that Royal & Sun Alliance Insurance Plc (RSA) have avoided 
home insurance policies they had with it in 2018 and 2019. And, they are dissatisfied that 
RSA is seeking to recover its outlay for claims made during this time. 
All references to RSA in this decision also include any representatives it appointed to handle 
the claim on its behalf. 
What happened
In July 2019 a drain had overflowed at Mr and Mrs Rs property  causing water damage to 
items stored in their shed and garage. Given the damage to their items Mr and Mrs R 
contacted RSA to make a flood claim under their contents insurance policy. 
On notification of the loss, RSA began to look into the claim. And, during this process Mr and 
Mrs R told them, during an interview, that Mr R had been convicted of a criminal offence in 
2015. On becoming aware of this information, RSA noted that this conviction was not as yet 
spent under the relevant legislation. So, they said they should have been informed of the 
conviction when Mr and Mrs R took out their policy in 2018, as well as when it renewed in 
2019.
RSA said if Mr and Mrs R had told them about this unspent conviction when the policies 
were taken out, it would have made the decision not to offer cover to Mr and Mrs R. So, it 
said that now it was aware of this information, it would be avoiding their insurance policies 
(2018 and 2019), so that it was as if the policies have never existed. 
Given this, RSA confirmed it would not be dealing with the flood claim made. And, it would 
be seeking to recover costs it had incurred by investigating this claim. As well as seeking to 
recover costs it incurred for investigating and settling two previous claims for accidental 
damage in 2018. RSA confirmed it would be refunding Mr and Mrs Rs premiums for these 
years but said this would be offset against the amount owed to it. 
Mr and Mrs R didnt think this was fair. During an interview with RSA they had said the 
criminal conviction had not been in relation to dishonesty, and so didnt think the matter 
needed to be disclosed. But they also explained that Mr R suffered from some neurological 
conditions, which made it difficult for him to retain and provide information. And this also led 
to the conviction not been disclosed.
RSA maintained its position on the matter. And so, Mr and Mrs R referred their complaint to 
this service for an independent review.
Our investigator considered this complaint and felt that it should be upheld in part. She 
explained that this complaint was one about misrepresentation  and therefore one in which 
The Consumer (Disclosure and Representations) Act 2012 was relevant. So, she considered 
the complaint with this in mind.
The investigator noted that Mr and Mrs R had been asked, in 2018, about whether they had 
any criminal convictions. But they had answered no to this question, when this wasnt 
correct. And, whilst she did note Mr Rs medical conditions, she felt RSA had acted 
reasonably in saying that it had been careless not to disclose this information. The policy 
was in joint names, and both parties to the policy were aware of the conviction. So, she 
though it was reasonable for RSA to avoid the 2018 policy. And therefore, to seek recovery 
for the claims RSA had settled in that policy year.
However, she didnt think RSA had acted fairly in respect of the 2019 policy year. She said 
that at renewal RSA needed make it clear to Mr and Mrs R that they needed to check the 
questions and answers they were asked the previous year, to make sure these were right. 
But, it didnt. 
Because she didnt think RSA has made the above clear, she didnt think Mr and Mrs Rs 
had failed to take reasonable care not to make a misrepresentation under CIDRA. So, she 
recommended that RSA reinstate this policy and remove all records of its voidance. She also 
said RSA should deal with the claim Mr and Mrs R had made in 2019. And provide them with 
£100 compensation for the distress and inconvenience caused by the incorrect voidance of 
the 2019 policy.
RSA responded and didnt agree. It raised three points in respect of the findings made about 
the 2019 renewal. It said;
There was no requirement under CIDRA for RSA to re-ask Mr and Mrs R the 
questions it had in 2018, in 2019. But instead, it was entitled to assume the answers 
given the previous year were correct. RSA said it thought it had made clear to Mr and 
Mrs R that they needed to check their previous answers, and let it know if anything 
wasnt right.
Unless there was a change in RSAs acceptance criteria between the two policies, 
the unspent criminal conviction would have rendered the risk unacceptable in 2019, 
as well as in 2018. And there was no change in criteria in this respect.  
Because RSA didnt agree with our investigators view on the matter, this complaint has been 
referred to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided to uphold this complaint in part. Ive explained my reasoning 
below. 
The relevant law in this case is The Consumer Insurance (Disclosure and Representations) 
Act 2012 (CIDRA). This requires consumers to take reasonable care not to make a 
misrepresentation when taking out a consumer insurance contract (a policy). The standard 
of care is that of a reasonable consumer.
 
And if a consumer fails to do this, the insurer has certain remedies provided the 
misrepresentation is - what CIDRA describes as - a qualifying misrepresentation. For it to be 
a qualifying misrepresentation the insurer has to show it would have offered the policy on 
different terms or not at all if the consumer hadnt made the misrepresentation. 
CIDRA sets out a number of considerations for deciding whether the consumer failed to take 
reasonable care. And the remedy available to the insurer under CIDRA depends on whether 
the qualifying misrepresentation was deliberate or reckless, or careless.So, Ive considered this when coming to my decision. And for ease of reference, Ive 
considered the 2018 and 2019 policies separately. 
2018 policy
RSA thinks Mr and Mrs R failed to take reasonable care not to make a misrepresentation 
when they didnt tell it Mr R had an unspent criminal conviction. This conviction, under the 
relevant legislation, not being spent until January 2020. 
RSA has let me know this policy was sold in a branch. And it has provided a screen shot of 
eligibility questions it says the advisor selling the policy would have asked Mr and Mrs R. Ive 
reviewed these questions, and I can see the following is included;
You and your family have NOT
()
Ever received a conviction for any offence other than driving.
Given that this was a standard set of eligibility questions the advisor was required to go 
through, I do think its most likely these questions were asked during the sale of the policy.
And so, Mr and Mrs R were provided with the opportunity to disclose the unspent criminal 
conviction.
In addition to this, Ive seen a copy of the statement of fact, which would have been provided 
to Mr and Mrs R in branch following the sale. This lists the questions Mr and Mrs R were 
asked, with the above question being included. And the statement of fact has the answer no 
in relation to this question. 
Given the above question was clear that RSA wanted to know about the unspent criminal 
conviction, Im satisfied that Mr and Mrs R failed to take reasonable care when answering 
this question. 
As I think Mr and Mrs R failed to take reasonable care here, Ive needed to think about 
whether this misrepresentation was a qualifying one under CIDRA. And Im satisfied it was. 
As above, in order for the misrepresentation to be qualifying, RSA need to have shown that it 
would have offered the policy to Mr and Mrs R on different terms. Or, that it wouldnt have 
offered cover to them at all, if it had known the full facts. 
RSA has said it wouldnt have offered cover to Mr and Mrs R in this instance. And its 
provided me with evidence to show this was the case.  This means Im satisfied Mr and Mrs 
Rs misrepresentation was a qualifying one. 
RSA has said that Mr and Mrs Rs representation was careless because they knew of the 
correct information and just didnt provide it when asked. I agree its reasonable for RSA to 
say this misrepresentation was careless. Mr and Mrs R did know of the information, and so I 
think it was careless not to think back and provide the correct answer when asked. I do 
appreciate Mr R has explained his neurological conditions. And I have thought about that 
here. But I havent seen anything to show these conditions mean Mr R wouldnt recall the 
conviction. And in any event, Mrs R was aware of the conviction. And being a joint 
policyholder, she was also obliged to think about, and make sure the answer here was 
correct too.
 As Im satisfied Mr and Mrs Rs misrepresentation should be treated as careless, Ive looked 
at the actions General Insurance can take in accordance with CIDRA.
In the case of a careless misrepresentation, RSA is able to do what it would have  had it 
known of the unspent conviction when the policy was taken out in 2018. RSA has said it 
wouldnt have offered cover to Mr and Mrs R. And, its provided me with evidence to show 
this was the case.
Because RSA has shown that it wouldnt have offered cover in 2018, it is entitled to avoid 
the policy, treating it as if it never existed. And this is what it has done. So, Im satisfied it has 
acted fairly here. 
Mr and Mrs R made two claims during 2018. And, because the policy shouldnt have been in 
existence, I think its fair that RSA are asking Mr and Mrs R to return the money paid out on 
those claims. The total amount for these two claims, based on the claims notes Ive seen, 
was £662.23. So, Im satisfied that Mr and Mrs R owe this to RSA, minus a refund in the 
premiums paid for this policy. The premium for this policy year was £256.20. So, this would 
mean £406.03 due back to RSA.
2019 policy
Mr and Mrs Rs policy, purchased in 2018, was renewed in March 2019. And as above, it 
was after information came to light during a claim in this policy year, that RSA avoided both 
this policy and the one before.
So, Im now going to think about whether RSA acted fairly in relation to its decision to void 
this policy, and therefore not deal with Mr and Mrs Rs claim in July 2019.
The same legislation, CIDRA, applies to this policy too. 
Again, RSA has said here that Mr and Mrs R failed to take reasonable care not to make a 
misrepresentation, when this policy renewed. And it said that if it had been told at renewal 
that Mr R had an unspent criminal conviction, it wouldnt have offered cover to Mr and Mrs R.
Because this policy was a renewal, a renewal notice was sent in the post to Mr and Mrs R. 
There wasnt any conversation between the parties at the time of this policy sale. So, when 
thinking about whether Mr and Mrs R took reasonable care or not, Ive needed to think about 
the documents sent, and what they were asked in these at this time.
RSA has said that because this was a policy renewal, it didnt need to ask Mr and Mrs R the 
same eligibility questions as before. And, looking at CIDRA, Id agree. 
CIDRA does explain that a consumers failure to confirm or amend particulars previously 
given is capable of being a misrepresentation. Meaning that Mr and Mrs R, at renewal have 
a duty to ensure information they provided before is correct. And if it isnt this can be 
considered as a misrepresentation.
But, CIDRA also explains that when considering whether a consumer has taken reasonable 
care, all the circumstances must be taken into account. Including at renewal, how clearly 
the insurer communicated the importance of answering those questions (or the possible 
consequences of failing to do so).
So, Ive considered whether RSA made it clear that reviewing the previous questions and 
checking those was important. And I dont think it did. Ive seen the renewal documents sent 
to Mr and Mrs R in 2019. And Im aware the cover letter does ask Mr and Mrs R to check the 
the cover continues to meet your needs and contact us if you need to make any changes. As well as saying please remember to read all the enclosed documents carefully and let us 
know if your circumstances have changed during the year.
But I can see that none of the documents enclosed mentioned the questions asked the 
previous year. And there was no reminder to Mr and Mrs R that it was important to check 
that previous information, or about where to find it. And so, I dont think, in line with CIDRA, it 
was made clear that there was other information Mr and Mrs R needed to check, from the 
previous year, in order to take reasonable care not to make a misrepresentation. 
Based on the above, I dont think Mr and Mrs R failed to take reasonable care here. 
Because I dont think Mr and Mrs R failed to take reasonable care at this renewal, Im 
satisfied there wasnt a misrepresentation. And so, I dont consider the actions RSA took in 
relation to this policy to be fair, or in line with CIDRA. It isnt able to avoid the policy and 
therefore fail to deal with the claim, on that basis. 
RSA has said that as the 2018 policy was avoided, there wouldnt have been a policy in 
2019 to renew. But, 2019 was a new policy year, and this service considers it as such. And 
being a new policy year, Mr and Mrs R needed to be clearly communicated with, in relation 
to the information RSA needed to know, or needed to be checked. And I dont think this 
happened.
In light of the above, RSA should reinstate Mr and Mrs Rs policy for the 2019 year. If RSA 
has refunded the premium Mr and Mrs R paid for this year (though I cant see it did), RSA is 
entitled to receive this back in order to deal with the claim. 
Because Im satisfied the policy shouldnt have been avoided, RSA will need to remove any 
record of this voidance, from any internal and external databases.
And, because the policy should have been in place, RSA will now need to deal with the claim 
Mr and Mrs R made in July 2019, under the remaining terms and conditions of the policy. 
Mr and Mrs R have said RSA picked up their damaged contents and took them away. And 
after their policies were avoided, they asked for these items to be returned to them. Its my 
understanding that RSA let Mr and Mrs R know these items were beyond economical repair 
and had therefore been disposed of. Given Im satisfied Mr and Mrs Rs claim now needs to 
be dealt with  in line with the remaining terms and conditions of the policy  RSA will need 
to factor these items into the claim going forward.
Our investigator considered that the unfair avoiding of this policy, added to the distress and 
inconvenience Mr and Mrs R experienced  at what was, because of the flood in July 2019, 
an already distressing time. I do agree that the unreasonable avoidance caused trouble and 
upset to Mr and Mrs R, bearing in Mr and Mrs Rs particular circumstances (this being the 
flood they needed to deal with, and Mr Rs health). And so, I require RSA to pay £100 
compensation to Mr and Mrs R to recognise this. 
My final decision
In light of the above, my final decision is that I uphold Mr and Mrs Rs complaint in part. So, I 
require Royal & Sun Alliance Insurance Plc to;
Reinstate Mr and Mrs Rs policy, taken out in 2019. If the premium has been 
refunded to Mr and Mrs R for this year, this should be paid back to RSA, or taken off 
any claim settlement.Remove all records on the 2019 voidance from any internal and external databases.
Deal with Mr and Mrs Rs claim, in line with the remaining terms and conditions of the 
policy. 
Pay Mr and Mrs R £100 compensation. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr R and Mrs R to 
accept or reject my decision before 27 August 2021.
 
Rachel Woods
Ombudsman