DRN-2918032
The complaint
Mr R complains as a director of C (a limited company) that Advanced Payment Solutions 
Limited trading as Cashplus (Cashplus) has held him liable for transactions hes said were 
carried out fraudulently.
What happened
Three transactions equalling around £4,000 left Cs account at around 1am on 1 April 2020. 
The payments were to a gambling site that Mr R has said hes never used.
The next morning, at around 8 am, when he tried to make a purchase his card wasnt 
working and he received several text messages from Cashplus asking him to verify the 
transactions Mr R is disputing. He contacted Cashplus and confirmed he hadnt authorised 
them but after investigating the matter Cashplus felt it was likely he did.
Mr R made a complaint, but Cashplus maintained it felt he likely authorised the transactions. 
He brought the complaint to our service and our investigator didnt uphold it as overall there 
didnt seem to be a plausible explanation as to how someone else couldve carried out the 
transactions. Mr R didnt accept the investigators findings so the complaint has been passed 
to me to make a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The regulations relevant to this complaint are the Payment Services Regulations 2017 
(PSRs). I wont quote them directly here but, broadly speaking they set out when a customer 
is responsible for the transactions on their account  typically when theyve been authorised 
by the consumer in some way. And where theres a dispute about whether a customer 
authorised a transaction there needs to be evidence to support the banks case if it wishes to 
hold the customer liable.
Having considered the evidence available in this case very carefully, overall, Im not 
persuaded its more likely than not Mr R has been the victim of fraud. So I think its 
reasonable that Cashplus has held him liable for the transactions. 
Mr R has said someone else mustve stolen his card details and used them to make the 
transactions online. But I dont think hes been able to provide a plausible explanation as to 
how this mightve happened. 
Mr R has said he still has his card and there isnt anyone he knows of that mightve had 
access to it. Hes said he recalls using an ATM about a week before the transactions took 
place and he couldnt make withdrawals. So he thinks his card mightve been compromised 
then. But, what hes said about this incident doesnt reflect what we know about how ATM 
scams tend to work. And, its not clear why if someone had obtained his details they 
wouldve waited to try and use them until a week later. So it doesnt seem like this offers a 
plausible explanation as to how someone has been able to carry out the transactions.
Mr R also said he recalled accidentally disclosing his card CVV number to a Cashplus staff 
member over the phone about a week before the transactions took place. He seems to have 
suggested they stole his card details. He hasnt provided much information about how this 
came about or why he gave them this information to someone. Cashplus records dont show 
any contact with Mr R around this time, and theres no record of Mr R raising this when he 
reported the fraud or since. 
And it seems strange a staff member would opportunistically commit fraud, given the risks 
involved and the measures Cashplus likely has in place to protect the sensitive data it holds. 
Ive also noted Mr R only said this happened someway through our investigation into his 
complaint and after he was told the ATM situation hed described wasnt consistent with our 
understanding of how ATM scams worked. So overall, given theres no evidence aside from 
Mr Rs testimony this conversation took place, Im not persuaded this does provide a 
plausible point of compromise.
Although I dont feel Ive seen sufficient evidence of how a fraudster mightve stolen Mr Rs 
card details, I accept this couldve happened without his knowledge. But there are other 
points in this case Ive considered when reaching the conclusion Mr R more likely than not 
authorised the transactions. 
Cashpluss records show Mr R checked his account eight minutes before the transactions 
started. Mr R doesnt appear to have disputed this and said he regularly checks his account 
as its a business account. But it seems unusual he would be checking a business account 
at around 1am and I think its relevant he was checking his account minutes before a series 
of fraudulent transactions were made. 
The disputed transactions themselves also dont reflect what we tend to see in cases where 
someones card details have been stolen. After the transactions were carried out there was 
over £500 left available in the account. It seems unusual someone would go to the trouble of 
stealing Mr Rs details but then not take or attempt to take all the funds available. And based 
on what Ive seen, there doesnt seem to be a way the fraudster couldve known the account 
balance before carrying out the transactions but Cashplus has confirmed there were no 
failed attempts at any additional transactions.
It also seems unusual they wouldve deposited money to a gambling website. I say this 
because the fraudster wouldve needed to have set up an account with someones personal 
details, that likely wouldve been verified in some way to check their age. And whilst this is 
possible, it seems strange given there are other ways a fraudster couldve used the same 
details to obtain more direct access to the funds in Mr Rs account. It also appears Mr R 
claimed hed been the victim of fraud around one month before the transactions that form 
part of this complaint that he was held liable for.
Mr R has said he has never used the particular gambling site payments were made to, but I 
havent seen any information that might support this. And Im mindful that as this account is 
his business account, it may not reflect his personal use of this, or any similar sites.
Our investigator has tried to contact the gambling site used in this case to try and establish 
what details have been linked to Mr Rs card but didnt receive a response. And, as the site 
doesnt fall within our remit and it isnt party to this complaint its not been appropriate for our 
service to pursue this any further. Mr R later tried to contact the site himself but hasnt 
received any response. And Im satisfied hes had sufficient time to pursue this matter further 
if he wished to.There isnt much substantial evidence in this case and it is finely balanced. But overall, on 
the balance of probabilities, and based on the information available, I think its more likely 
than not Mr R authorised the transactions. So I dont think Cashplus is acting unfairly in 
holding him liable for them.
Im surprised in this case to see that although Cashplus says it found the transactions 
unusual and blocked Mr Rs card, its not been able to provide any evidence it tried to stop 
the payments going through. From what I understand, it contacted Mr R several hours after 
the transactions had left his account to ask if they were genuine, by which point it was too 
late to prevent them. So despite recognising the transactions as unusual it didnt take any 
effective action to prevent them from leaving the account.
But, as Im not persuaded Mr R has been the victim of fraud, I dont think Cashplus has 
failed to protect him from a financial crime or prevent the payment being made as Im not 
persuaded any crime has taken place. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask C to accept or 
reject my decision before 16 September 2021.
 
Faye Brownhill
Ombudsman