DRN-2729512
The complaint
Ms E is unhappy that Barclays Bank UK PLC sold her account to a debt collection agency 
without informing her.  
What happened
Ms E had a loan with Barclays which she was struggling to repay. Ms E contacted Barclays 
who took details of her income and expenditure and who then agreed a 12-month payment 
plan for Ms E. When setting up the payment plan, Barclays explained to Ms E that at the end 
of the 12-month period they would contact Ms E and have another conversation with her to 
see what her financial circumstances were at that time.
However, when the 12-month payment plan ended, Barclays didnt contact Ms E like they 
had said they would, but instead sold Ms Es account to a debt purchasing company. Ms E 
wasnt happy about this, so she made a complaint.
Barclays looked at Ms Es complaint, but they explained that they had no record of stating to 
Ms E that they would contact her at the end of the 12-month payment plan, and so they 
didnt feel that they had acted unfairly by not doing so. So, they didnt uphold Ms Es 
complaint.
Ms E wasnt satisfied with Barclays response, so she referred her complaint to this service. 
One of our investigators looked at this complaint. They listened to the recording of the 
telephone conversation between Ms E and Barclays where the 12-month payment plan had 
been agreed, and they noted that the Barclays advisor did tell Ms E that Barclays would 
contact her again at the end of the 12-month payment plan, as Ms E had claimed. 
So, our investigator recommended that the complaint be upheld in Ms Es favour and that 
Barclays should buy back Ms Es account from the debt collection agency as well as pay Ms 
E £100 compensation for the inconvenience she had incurred.
Barclays didnt accept the recommendation put forward by our investigator and cited the fact 
that restrictions with their internal systems would make buying the account back from debt 
collection agency problematic. So, the matter was escalated to an ombudsman for a final 
decision.    
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive listened to the recording of the telephone conversation between Ms E ad Barclays where 
the 12-month payment plan was agreed, and I can confirm that Barclays advisor does clearly 
explain to Ms E that Barclays would contact her at the end of the 12-month payment plan to 
discuss her financial situation at that time. So, its understandable that Ms E would have 
expected Barclays to contact her at the end of the payment plan, as they had promised that 
they would.
However, instead of contacting Ms E at the end of the 12-month payment plan, Barclays sold 
the debt to a debt collection agency. This action  the sale of an account which has fallen 
into arrears to a debt collection agency  isnt unusual and isnt in and of itself problematic. 
But it would be expected by this service that a business wouldnt sell an account to a debt 
collection agency when they had previously explained to that customer that they be taking a 
different course of action, such as is the case in this instance. 
It also must be noted that Ms E has health and financial issues which mean that its 
reasonable to consider her as being in a vulnerable position. And Ms E has explained to this 
service that she finds her interactions with the debt collection agency to be particularly 
distressing.
So, while I commend Barclays for taking due account of Ms Es financial circumstances and 
reacting positively and sympathetically toward her by agreeing the initial 12-month payment 
plan, I feel that, had Barclays contacted Ms E at the end of the 12-month payment plan, as 
they had said that they would, and learned of Ms Es continuing difficulties, I believe that its 
more likely than not that Barclays would have recognised that Ms E was in a vulnerable 
position such that it wouldnt have been appropriate to sell her account to a debt collection 
agency.
For this reason, I feel that a fair and reasonable resolution to this complaint would be for 
Barclays to buy back the account from the debt collection agency and agree a payment plan 
with Ms E based on her current income and expenditure information.
Barclays have explained that their internal systems make the buying back of accounts such 
as this problematic. I can understand how this may be the case. But instructing a business to 
buy back an account from a debt collection agency is an instruction that its within this 
services remit to make. And I dont feel its fair or reasonable to ask Ms E to consider 
continuing her interactions with the debt collection agency, which she has explained causes 
her distress, because of internal difficulties that Barclays own systems present and which 
are no fault of Ms E. 
Additionally, given that Ms E has incurred both distress and inconvenience here, I also feel 
that its fair that Barclays should pay Ms E £100 to compensate her for this.
I realise that this wont be the outcome that Barclays were wanting, but I hope that they can 
understand, given everything I have explained above, why I have made the final decision 
that I have. 
Putting things right
Barclays must repurchase or recall Ms Es account from the debt collection agency and 
arrange a suitable repayment plan with Ms E based on her income and expenditure 
information.
Barclays must also pay Ms E £100 to compensate her for the distress and inconvenience 
she has incurred.  
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint against Barclays Bank UK PLC on the basis 
explained above.  Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms E to accept or 
reject my decision before 4 June 2021.
 
Paul Cooper
Ombudsman