DRN-3286014
The complaint
Mr C complains that Aviva Insurance Limited mis-sold him an income protection insurance 
policy.
What happened
In November 1998, Mr C met with an adviser from a broker Ill call W. The broker was an 
appointed representative of another insurer at this time, although that insurers book of 
business was subsequently taken over by Aviva.
The adviser carried out a financial review with Mr C. This fact-find established that Mr C had 
a need for income protection in the event he became incapacitated through illness or 
accident. Based on the financial review, the adviser recommended that Mr C should take out 
an AXA Assurance Healthcare Income Plan. The policy would be in force until Mr C reached 
the age of 62 years; had a deferred period of 13 weeks and attracted a monthly premium of 
£32.46. The policy would provide Mr C with a monthly benefit of £1304 if he became 
incapacitated and was unfit to work. It also included an investment element, although the 
contract itself was a protection policy, rather than an investment contract. 
Mr C accepted the advisers recommendations and the policy started on 27 January 1999. 
Mr C went on to cancel the policy in 2004. 
In 2019, Mr C complained about the sale of the policy, together with a payment protection 
insurance (PPI) policy, which he says was sold to him by W alongside this policy, in 
connection with his mortgage. Mr C said the policy wasnt right for him. He felt that the 
benefits of the income protection policy wouldve been affected by any benefit payments he 
received under the PPI policy.
Aviva said that it wasnt responsible for the sale of the PPI policy but accepted that it was 
responsible for the sale of the AXA Assurance Healthcare Income Plan policy. And it didnt 
agree that the policy had been mis-sold to Mr C. It considered that based on the information 
set out in the financial review and the advisers recommendation letter, the policy had been 
suitable for Mr C.
Mr C was unhappy with Avivas stance and so he asked us to look into his complaint.
Our investigator didnt think that Aviva had treated Mr C unfairly. Based on the available 
evidence, he was satisfied that the advice Mr C had been given was broadly suitable and in 
line with his demands and needs. He didnt consider that Aviva had been responsible for the 
sale of the PPI policy. And he didnt think any successful claim on the PPI policy wouldve 
affected Mr Cs available benefits under the income protection policy. 
Mr C disagreed. He felt that it was impossible to separate the sale of the income protection 
and PPI policies, as they were both sold by W at the same time. He also felt the sales 
evidence contained an error, as it referred to him cohabiting at the time he received the 
advice. This hadnt been the case.
The complaints been passed to me to decide. Its important I make clear that this decision 
will only consider the sale of the AXA Assurance Healthcare Income Plan. Thats because 
Im satisfied that given the evidence Ive seen; Aviva was not responsible for the sale of the 
PPI policy. And Im aware that weve set-up a separate complaint about the financial 
business it appears was more likely responsible for the sale of the PPI contract. If Mr C 
would like us to consider the PPI complaint further, he should get back in touch with the 
relevant team.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, whilst Im sorry to disappoint Mr C, I dont think Aviva has done anything 
wrong which it needs to put right and Ill explain why.
Theres no dispute that Avivas adviser recommended that Mr C should take out the income 
protection policy. This means they needed to check it was suitable for Mr Cs needs. So Ill 
explore whether I consider Aviva met this obligation.
First, Ive looked carefully at the Financial Review or fact-find that the adviser carried out 
with Mr C in November 1998. It seems this was an in-person meeting to establish Mr Cs 
financial needs. I can also see that Mr C signed and dated the form, so I think its most likely 
that he was aware of and happy with the contents of it.
In brief, the fact-find document sets out Mr Cs personal details. A box has been ticked to 
say that Mr C was in good health at the time of sale. The form states that he is employed 
full-time; his occupation and salary, as well as existing sick-pay provisions. It also sets out 
that his planned retirement age was 65 years. Mr Cs mortgage details are specified as well 
as the fact that he wanted specific advice about protection. The form questioned whether, if 
Mr C became ill or had an accident, hed have sufficient income to meet his outgoings. This 
question was answered no and the form indicates that Mr C wanted a review of this area at 
that particular time. It was also indicated that Mr C wanted a more detailed review of income 
protection. 
Following the review, the adviser sent Mr C a recommendation or reasons-why letter, 
explaining why he felt the AXA Assurance Healthcare Income Plan met his needs. So Ive 
carefully considered this. The adviser stated that they had discussed the range of assurance 
products available at that time and that Mr C had chosen the Income Replacement specific 
service. He explained that hed recommended the Plan, as he felt it best fit Mr Cs needs. In 
my view, this letter, taken together with the illustration document it appears Mr C saw clearly 
set out the available benefits under the policy and how it would work.
Ive carefully considered the available evidence to decide whether Im satisfied the advisers 
recommendation was suitable. Its clear from both the fact-find and the reasons-why letter 
that Mr C didnt have enough income to cover his outgoings if he became incapacitated. And 
he indicated that he wanted income protection. So I think it was reasonable for the adviser to 
recognise a gap in Mr Cs financial situation and to recommend a policy which would fill it.  
Mr Cs monthly mortgage payment was £1304  the same monthly benefit which the policy 
would pay out if Mr C became incapacitated and needed to claim. The adviser noted that Mr 
C would be left with a shortfall in his overall outgoings, but their letter suggests that Mr C 
was aware of this and was comfortable with the proposed contributions. In my view, this ties 
in with what Mr C has previously told us about taking out the income protection policy to 
protect his mortgage. While Mr C now says he had an existing back problem at the time, the fact-find suggests that 
Mr C told the adviser he was in good health. And given the clear gap in Mr Cs financial 
situation, I think its most likely hed still have gone ahead with taking out income protection 
even if he had been aware that back-related claims could potentially fall outside of cover.
I can see from the fact-find that Mr C indicated that his employer would only pay full sick pay 
for 10 days and then potentially for longer at its discretion. At first glance, this appears at 
odds with a deferred period of 13-weeks. However, the adviser made specific reference to 
this in the reasons-why letter. It appears that Mr C had gone on to speak to his employer 
about its sick pay provision and had been told that persons in his particular role would 
normally be paid for a minimum of 3 months. On this basis then, it seems that the overall 
deferred period was broadly suitable for Mr C.
And Im also mindful that the fact-find indicates that Mr C didnt want any investment advice 
but was recommended a policy with an investment element. So Ive considered whether this 
led to Mr C paying more for a policy if a broadly equivalent income protection policy with no 
investment element was available at a cheaper price. Aviva has told us that at that point, 
based on Mr Cs situation at the time of sale, it wouldve offered either a pure protection 
policy with the term ending upon Mr C turning 60 with monthly premium of £25.21. Or a 
policy with a term ending when Mr C turned 65 which attracted a monthly premium of 
£37.95.
Ive thought carefully about this. As Ive set out above, the fact-find indicated that Mr C 
intended to retire at the age of 65, although the policy he ultimately took out was due to end 
when he was 62. So it seems he wanted to be covered beyond the age of 60 years  
potentially to cover the term of his mortgage. And given the pure protection alternative policy 
which wouldve offered cover until Mr C was 65 years was more expensive than the plan Mr 
C actually took out by broadly £5 per month, I think its less likely that hed have opted to 
take out the more expensive option. I say that because the adviser noted that Mr C was 
comfortable with the recommended level of contributions, which suggests he wouldve 
preferred to pay less for broadly the same level of cover. This means I dont think Mr C lost 
out as a result of the recommendation of a policy with an investment element and Im 
satisfied it seems the policy he was advised to take fitted his budget.
Its clear Mr C has concerns that any ability to claim on the income protection policy wouldve 
been affected by the PPI policy, which also covered accident and sickness. The product 
information Ive seen says that the maximum a policyholder can receive might be affected by 
whether a policyholder has any other Permanent Health Insurance (PHI) policies in force 
under which theyre claiming. And the information also says that the amount of maximum 
benefit a policyholder can opt-for when setting-up the policy will take into account any other 
PHI policies they hold. 
Theres no suggestion on the basis of the evidence available to me that Mr C had any other 
PHI (income protection) policies when he was advised to take out this plan. It seems to me 
that it was only the benefits of other income protection policies, which are long-term in 
nature, which might potentially have had an impact on any benefit Mr C could receive. And 
the PPI policy he took out was a short-term policy, which would only likely pay-out for a 
maximum 12-month period. So I dont think Mr Cs potential ability to claim wouldve been 
affected by him holding a PPI policy at the same time as this policy. As such, I dont think 
this made the recommendation unsuitable either.
Mr C has referred to the fact that he wasnt cohabiting at the time of sale, although the fact-
find form suggests he was. A code has been entered into the relevant box to say that Mr C 
was cohabiting, although I accept this couldve been an error. But even if it was, I dont think 
this is material to the outcome of this complaint. Thats because only Mr Cs own financial circumstances were taken into account during the review and it was only his liabilities and 
income upon which the suitability assessment was made. 
Overall, while its clear Mr C feels strongly about the advice he was given, I find that the 
recommendation was broadly suitable for his identified needs. This means Im not directing 
Aviva to do anything more.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 26 May 2022.
 
Lisa Barham
Ombudsman