DRN-2663593
The complaint
Mr G and Ms P have complained that HSBC UK Bank Plc (HSBC) have blocked access to 
their account and are refusing to remove the block  so they cant access the money in the 
account.
What happened
Mr G and Ms P are from an EU country.  When they were living in the UK, they opened an 
account with HSBC.  Theyve since returned home.  But their account with HSBC remains 
open.
At the end of 2020, Ms P found the account had been blocked.  She contacted HSBC to find 
out why.  HSBC told her that they didnt have up to date information for Mr G. 
Ms P complained.  HSBC investigated her complaint and wrote to Ms P explaining theyd 
blocked the account because it was held jointly with Mr G.  And post theyd sent to the 
address they held for him had been returned marked gone away.  So the account had been 
blocked while they checked and updated his details.
HSBC also explained what they needed to remove the block.  They told Ms P that Mr G 
would have to send certified copies of his identification and address documents to a specific 
HSBC office.  And they provided a link to their website with further information.
Mr G and Ms P werent satisfied with HSBCs response.  So they brought their complaint to 
us.  Our investigator considered it and concluded that HSBC didnt need to do anything more 
to resolve the complaint.  He said that HSBC had told Mr G and Ms P what they needed to 
do to get the block removed.  And he explained it to them again.
Mr G and Ms P said theyd sent everything needed to get the block removed to HSBC two 
months earlier.  And they said Mr G was receiving mail at his non-UK address and his bank 
card was still valid. 
As Mr G and Ms P didnt agree with the investigators view, Ive been asked to make a 
decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done that, Im not upholding Mr Gs and Ms Ps complaint.  Ill explain why.
Post sent to the address HSBC hold for Mr G was returned.  So I think it was reasonable for 
HSBC to take steps to check they had the right contact details.  And  given HSBC have to 
take steps to prevent misuse of their customers accounts  I think it was reasonable for 
them to block the account while they did that.  
And when Ms P contacted them about the block, Ive seen they replied quickly and explained 
what had to be done to remove it.
I can understand Mr Gs and Ms Ps frustration with the situation.  As they now live outside 
the UK, they cant just go to a branch with the documents needed to get the block removed.  
But Ive seen that HSBC also explained how to get it removed from overseas  by sending 
certified copies of the identification documents to a particular HSBC office in the UK.  And 
they provided a link to their website for more information.
Ive followed that weblink.  For non-UK, EU customers (which Mr G and Ms P are), it gives 
details of what documents are acceptable forms of identification and proof of address, 
explains who can certify them, and what the certifier needs to say.  I think that information is 
clear.
Mr G and Ms P have said theyve sent the information.  HSBC say they havent received it.
Ive thought about this.  But nothing Ive seen shows me that Mr G and Ms P sent HSBC the 
information needed in the form they needed.  Theyve sent us copies of what they sent 
HSBC and proof that theyd been posted.  But none of the documents Ive seen were 
certified.  So, even if HSBC have received them, they wont be enough to get the block lifted. 
HSBC have said that theyll arrange for the block to be lifted when they get the documents 
they need to do that.  Id urge Mr G and Ms P to send them to HSBC in the form HSBC have 
requested because, while I know theyre unhappy with whats happened, I dont think that 
HSBC needs to do anything differently to deal with their complaint.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, Im not upholding Mr Gs and Ms Ps complaint about HSBC 
UK Bank Plc.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr G and Mrs P to 
accept or reject my decision before 18 May 2021.
 
Helen Stacey
Ombudsman