DRN-3616905
The complaint
Mr F complains that Bank of Scotland plc trading as Halifax didnt carry out sufficient checks 
when a third party called to change the address on a credit card in his name and then asked 
for a new card and PIN number. Following this, the third party spent money on the credit 
card which effected Mr Fs credit file and a mortgage application. 
What happened
The detailed background to this complaint is well known to both parties. So, Ill only provide 
a brief overview of some of the key events here. In 2021 Mr F had a mortgage application 
turned down. He was advised to check his credit file to see if there was any adverse 
information on it. When he was checking his credit file, he saw that a credit card with Halifax 
had an outstanding debt on it. 
Mr F contacted Halifax who reviewed the credit card application and the spending on the 
account that started in 2020. Halifax said a debt of around £14,500 was accrued on the 
account with some monthly payments also being made on the card. Halifax said that a third 
party had called it in 2020 to change the address (which wasnt linked to Mr F) on the card 
and asked for a new card and PIN to be sent to that address. Halifax pursued the 
outstanding debt in Mr Fs name, but its letters were sent to the address it was given by the 
third party. After conducting its review Halifax decided that it wasnt Mr F who spent the 
money on the card. It agreed to wipe the debt and clear Mr Fs credit file of the account. 
Mr F remained unhappy, so he brought his complaint to this service. He said that the 
outstanding debt meant he lost a good interest rate on his mortgage application which he 
said cost him £590 in extra interest. Mr F questioned if Halifax did thorough enough checks 
when the third party was able to change the address, ask for a new card and then a new PIN 
without any further checks being made. 
Our investigator didnt think the complaint should be upheld. She said that Halifax didnt treat 
Mr F unfairly when it changed the address on the credit card. And that she wouldnt expect 
Halifax to complete further checks to verify if it was Mr F who was changing the address, if 
the third party was able to pass the security questions they were asked when they called 
Halifax to make the necessary changes on the account. 
Mr F disagreed and has asked for an Ombudsmans review. He said that if Halifax had done 
more to verify if it was him that asked for the address to be changed (such as checking the 
electoral register) then the debt wouldnt have been accrued and it wouldnt have affected 
his mortgage application. He said the account wasnt used for three years, so Halifax 
shouldve flagged the address change in 2020 as suspicious. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive reached the same conclusion as our Investigator. And for largely the 
same reasons. 
Ive read and considered the whole file. But Ill concentrate my comments on what I think is 
relevant. If I dont mention any specific point, its not because Ive failed to take it on board 
and think about it, but because I dont think I need to comment on it to reach what I think is a 
fair and reasonable outcome.
It doesnt appear to be in dispute from either party that Mr F most likely took out the card in 
2017. He has confirmed to this service that it was probably him but that he never spent any 
money on the card. The main complaint Mr F says he has is related to the address on the 
card being changed in 2020 and the subsequent issues this caused. 
Mr F says that Halifax shouldve done more to verify that it was him that wanted the address 
to be changed in 2020 and that this led to him losing a better deal on his mortgage. So, I 
need to be satisfied that Mr F wasnt treated unfairly here when the address on the credit 
card was changed. 
Halifax has confirmed that when the call from the third party took place in 2020 it asked 
some security questions from the caller and that the address wouldnt have been changed 
without security being passed. Mr F says more shouldve been done here and wants to know 
what security questions were asked. But I dont agree, and I cant ask Halifax to release the 
call to him, under the Data Protection Act 2018, because both sides have agreed that it 
wasnt Mr F who made the call and its the Information Commissioners Office that is 
responsible for the release of information that businesses, such as the Halifax, hold. 
I cant be certain how the third party was able to access Mr Fs personal information so they 
could pass Halifaxs security questions, but I cant say Mr F was treated unfairly because 
further checks werent completed, such as checking the electoral register as he has 
suggested, when an address has been changed and a new card requested. Its common for 
people to hold a credit card account for any given period of time without spending money on 
it. And for them to update addresses every few years. Changing the address and asking for 
a new card after three years isnt necessarily a suspicious sign either if the third party was 
able to pass the security questions Halifax asked on the phone call. So, I can understand 
why further checks werent completed in the circumstances. 
Ive reviewed the spending that was subsequently made on the account and I can 
understand why Halifax didnt flag this. The transactions were for relatively small amounts 
(under £500) and the fraudster made monthly payments on the account. So, I dont think it 
was unreasonable for Halifax to think this was Mr F making the payments and then paying 
off the debt. 
Ultimately, it was the fraudster who obtained Mr Fs details and was able to spend the 
money on the account. And Halifax has correctly written off a debt of around £14,500 and 
cleared Mr Fs credit file. 
As a result, I dont think Halifax made an error here and doesnt need to do anything more.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr F to accept or 
reject my decision before 11 October 2022.
 
Mark Dobson
Ombudsman