DRN-4454378
The complaint
Mr H has complained that HMCA/S Plc (HMCA) mis-sold a private medical insurance policy 
to him.
What happened
Mr H bought a private medical insurance policy through HMCA and he authorised his wife to 
act on his behalf. He transferred from another insurer and said he thought the policy would 
work in the same way as his previous policy did. He also says his wife wasnt advised that 
he only had a 14-day cooling off period or that the contract was an annual contract. He 
believes he did cancel within 14 days of receiving the membership certificate as he didnt 
receive the post until a long time after HMCA had posted it.
Mr H complained to HMCA but it didnt uphold the complaint. It said Mr H was given all of the 
information within time and he tried to cancel the policy more than a month after the cooling 
off period ended. Unhappy, Mr H referred his complaint to the Financial Ombudsman 
Service. 
Our investigator looked into the complaint but didnt think the policy had been mis-sold. And 
he didnt think Mr H had requested cancellation within 14 days of the cooling off period.
Mr H disagreed and in summary, said, he didnt receive the membership certificate dated 12 
May until the end of May and so he did cancel within the cooling off period. 
And so the case has been passed to me for a final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I dont think this complaint should be upheld. Ill explain why. 
The relevant rules and industry guidelines say in a non-advised sale, HMCA should 
provide clear and not misleading information so that Mr H can make an informed 
decision about buying a policy. 
Ive carefully considered everything Mr H has said but I wont detail everything here. 
Instead, my decision will focus on what I consider to be key.
Mr H says HMCA did not tell his wife during the phone calls before he bought the 
policy that he only had a 14-day cooling off period and that the contract was for a 
year. He says this made the policy unsuitable and it was therefore mis-sold. 
Ive reviewed the documents provided by HMCA after the initial phone call but before 
the policy was bought which included the policy information and a product 
information document. This clearly refers to a 14-day cooling off period and confirms 
when Mr H can cancel: the right to cancel within 14 days of receipt of your 
membership certificate. In addition, this section refers to an annual renewal date. 
During the call with Mr Hs wife, the adviser did confirm the renewal date would be 12 
months after the start date of the policy. Even if the adviser didnt mention a 14-day 
cooling off period during the phone calls, I am satisfied that Mr H was provided with 
clear and not misleading information about the policy. 
Mr H says he didnt receive the membership certificate dated 12 May until the end of 
May. However, the letter he received on 12 May was not the membership certificate 
and does not refer to any enclosures which is what I would expect if that was when 
the membership certificate was sent. The letter dated 12 May confirms Mr H had sent 
the confirmation he had been asked to send from his previous provider. The subject 
is certificate which confirms his membership number so I think Mr H is mistaken 
because of this. 
The certificate has the title membership booklet at the top of it and includes Mr Hs 
date of birth, the certificate number, his date of enrolment, the next renewal date, his 
name and subscription. This was sent to Mr H on 13 April with the welcome pack and 
the enclosures referred to in that letter include the membership certificate. Mr H 
accepts he received the welcome pack in April. And so I am satisfied that he received 
the membership certificate at some point in April. This would mean his cooling off 
period would end in the middle of May, at the latest. But Mr H didnt try to cancel until 
early June and so I agree with HMCA that he did not cancel within the cooling off 
period. 
Mr H has also said that he thought the policy would work in the same way as his 
previous policy. But I dont think HMCA alluded to this in the sales call. Instead, the 
information provided to Mr H shows a clear claim guide which sets out the steps that 
would be needed to make a claim. So I dont think HMCA misled Mr H in relation to 
this. 
Additionally, Mr H is unhappy about the way his complaint was dealt with. And says 
HMCA did not follow its own complaints procedure. Complaints handling isnt a 
regulated activity and so I cannot consider a complaint about this. 
Overall, I am satisfied that HMCA provided clear and not misleading information to 
Mr H and so I dont agree that the policy was unsuitable or mis-sold.
Mr H is also unhappy about the insurer but my decision is limited to the actions of the 
seller only. Any complaint about the insurer would need to be dealt with separately. 
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 27 December 2023.
 
Shamaila Hussain
Ombudsman