DRN-2343033
The complaint
Ms C and Mr G say they were mis-sold legal expenses cover by Aviva Insurance Limited 
and that, as a result, theyve lost the opportunity to make a claim in relation to an ongoing 
legal dispute with their neighbour. All references to Aviva include its claims handling agents. 
What happened
The dispute with the neighbour related to the planting of a hedge in 2009. Ms C and Mr G 
felt the hedge encroached upon their side of the boundary. They were concerned about the 
height and width of the hedge and worried that its roots might damage their greenhouse and 
the concrete base on which it stood. In around 2016, the neighbour agreed to cut the hedge 
down to a particular height annually.
In July 2017, Ms C and Mr G were considering switching their home insurance provider. 
During a call with Aviva, they asked about legal expenses cover. They talked about the 
dispute with their neighbour and sought reassurance from Aviva that it would be covered. 
Aviva accepts that it told Ms C and Mr G they would be covered if legal action became 
necessary in the future.
Things came to a head in September 2019 when Ms C and Mr G observed that the hedge 
had caused damage to their fence, that its height had again become problematic and that its 
roots had probably started to affect the concrete base to the greenhouse. Their letters to the 
neighbour about these issues werent responded to, so they tried to make a claim under their 
legal expenses cover. 
Aviva considered the claim but didnt accept it. Despite what it had said to Ms C and Mr G 
during the sales call, it said the policy excluded claims where the initial dispute or series of 
incidents leading to a claim happened before cover started. It felt the series of incidents 
leading to this claim had started before July 2017. It thought the fact that Ms C and Mr G had 
asked about cover for the dispute during the sale showed they were already aware that legal 
action against the neighbour might become necessary, so it wasnt an unexpected event.
It did accept it hadnt given Ms C and Mr G the right advice in July 2017. So, as an apology, 
it refunded the total premium for the first policy year, and the premium for the legal expenses 
cover for the subsequent policy years, with interest. It also added £100 compensation, which 
brought the total redress to £401.16. Ms C and Mr G felt this was insufficient and wanted 
Aviva to agree to fund the legal action against their neighbour.
Our investigator didnt think the complaint should be upheld. She felt that the claim wasnt 
covered by the terms and conditions of Avivas policy, and that Ms C and Mr G probably 
hadnt lost out as a result of the incorrect advice they received in July 2017. She also felt, 
taking the premium refund into account, that Avivas offer of redress reflected the impact its 
errors had on Ms C and Mr G. She encouraged Ms C and Mr G to explore whether they 
could make a claim with their previous insurer.
Ms C and Mr G continued to think Aviva should agree to cover the claim to make good the 
incorrect advice it gave them in July 2017, and pay increased compensation for the distress 
and inconvenience its handling of the matter had caused. 
They didnt think there was value in approaching their previous insurer because its policy 
contained a similar exclusion. Given that the series of incidents arguably started in 2009, 
and their previous policy hadnt started until 2013, they thought their previous insurer would 
likely decline the claim for the same reasons. 
I need to make a final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Is the claim covered? 
Insurance is intended to cover unexpected events. Therefore, its common for before the 
event legal expenses insurers to exclude claims where the dispute giving rise to the legal 
action started before the policy began. Avivas policy says it doesnt cover:
any claim we reasonably believe you knew was likely to happen when you took out 
this insurance, e.g. where you were already in a disciplinary process at work before 
taking out this policy, which then led to you making a claim.
It also says that it doesnt cover: 
claims where the initial dispute or series of incidents leading to a claim on this policy 
happen before this cover starts.
In the first instance, I need to decide whether Aviva has shown, on balance, that either one 
of these two exclusions apply to the claim. 
Ms C and Mr G say they could never have predicted the neighbour would fail to maintain the 
hedge or that this would cause damage. But Aviva need only show that Ms C and Mr G were 
aware of something in July 2017 that might lead to legal action. It doesnt need to show that 
legal action (or physical damage) was a certainty. 
I also need to consider whether Ms C and Mr G could reasonably have thought the dispute 
had concluded prior to July 2017.
In the chronology produced by Ms C, the entries from 2009 effectively set out the issues she 
now wants to claim in relation to. The first says the planting of the hedge raised concerns 
for us in terms of potential height / width. The second says Ms C and Mr G were concerned 
about the branches and roots affecting the greenhouse and describes the hedge spreading 
over their side of the boundary. 
In early 2009, Ms C and Mr G researched their rights online and exchanged letters with the 
neighbour. They spoke to local community police and the local council. They also sought 
legal advice through their insurer. Theyve subsequently exchanged various letters with the 
neighbour and have repeatedly tried to arrange some form of mediation, without success. 
It appears that Ms C and Mr G foresaw in 2009 that the hedge might damage their property. 
And its clear they intended to hold the neighbour liable if that happened. Its also evident they considered the neighbour had infringed upon their legal rights with respect of the 
boundary, and the height and width of the hedge. And that they considered theyd have 
recourse in law if these issues werent amicably resolved. 
I dont think the chronology suggests Ms C and Mr G could reasonably have thought the 
dispute had concluded prior to July 2017. In 2016 the neighbour agreed to cut the hedge 
down to a particular height annually. But in writing to the neighbour to thank them for this 
reassurance, Ms C says she restated her concerns re height and light to the greenhouse. 
In January 2017, the neighbour wrote to Ms C and Mr G after they cut back the hedge on 
their side of the boundary, saying that if it happened again theyd see it as criminal damage. 
And the note of this period in Ms Cs chronology says, the trunks are now on our land 
because they moved the boundary in 2009 without legal consent or advice from the council. 
So, although Ms C and Mr G had received reassurance in respect of the height of the hedge, 
they dont appear to have considered this a satisfactory resolution to the dispute overall. 
They seem to have had residual concerns that the hedge infringed on their land and 
interfered with the greenhouse. And there was an ongoing dispute about their right to 
maintain the hedge where they perceived that it spread over their side of the boundary.
I think its also relevant that they specifically mentioned the ongoing dispute in the context of 
legal expenses cover during the sales call in July 2017. This suggests they still anticipated at 
that point that the dispute might lead to some form of legal action, to the extent that funding 
for such legal action was a priority in their decision to switch insurers. 
Taking everything into account, Im satisfied that Aviva has shown the claim isnt covered 
because it has arisen from a series of incidents which started before the policy began, and 
because Ms C and Mr G were likely aware before the policy start date that the dispute with 
their neighbour might lead to some form of legal action. 
Have Ms C and Mr G lost out on the opportunity to make a claim in relation to the dispute 
with their neighbour as a result of incorrect advice they received from Aviva?
Aviva accepts that it ought to have told Ms C and Mr G that the dispute would be considered 
as pre-existing and therefore not covered under the policy. However, this doesnt in itself 
mean that it needs to pay the claim. It needs to put Ms C and Mr G back in the position they 
would have been in had they received the correct advice. I therefore need to think about 
what Ms C and Mr G would have done if theyd understood Aviva wouldnt cover the dispute.
As Ive said, its common for before the event legal expenses insurers to exclude pre-existing 
disputes. So, if having received the correct advice, Ms C and Mr G had decided they werent 
prepared to insure themselves with Aviva, its unlikely they could have found an alternative 
insurer that would have covered the claim either. After the event insurance is available but 
isnt generally purchased until legal action begins (and Ms C and Mr G might therefore want 
to explore that now). 
The other option would have been for Ms C and Mr G to remain with their previous insurer. 
Their previous policy ran from 2013 to 2017 and contains similar exclusions to those relied 
on by Aviva. Ms C and Mr G havent approached their previous insurer as they assume their 
claim will be declined for the same reasons, the series of incidents leading to the claim 
having arguably started in 2009. 
Thinking about the above carefully, and without wishing to pre-empt the previous insurers 
decision on the claim, I dont think I can fairly direct Aviva to pay the claim as things stand. Thats because I dont think Ms C and Mr G have shown the incorrect advice they received 
from Aviva caused them to lose out on the ability to make a claim. Ill explain why.
If Ms C and Mr Gs assumptions are correct, and their previous insurer would have declined 
the claim on the same grounds, then they havent lost out on the ability to claim as a result of 
Avivas advice (because the claim would still have been declined even if theyd decided 
against switching to Aviva in July 2017). So, to ask Aviva to pay the claim wouldnt be 
reflective of the loss they have actually suffered. 
I also note that Aviva has said it will reconsider its position depending on the previous 
insurers response. So alternatively, if Ms C and Mr G do approach their previous insurer, 
and the insurer says it would have accepted the claim if the policy was still live, Id expect 
Aviva to be pragmatic about that, given the misleading advice it gave in July 2017. And I 
think Ms C and Mr G would have renewed complaint rights if it wasnt. 
Is there anything else Ms C and Mr G can do if their previous insurer also declines the claim 
based on the exclusion for pre-existing disputes?
If Ms C and Mr G can show theyve held continuous legal expenses cover throughout the 
series of incidents leading to their claim, Id expect one of the insurers to deal with it under 
the principle of treating customers fairly (depending on the terms of each policy). It wouldnt 
be fair for the claim to fall between stools just because Ms C and Mr G shopped around. 
It seems likely they were insured in 2009, given that the entries in the chronology from that 
time make reference to legal advice obtained through their insurance company. But they 
would need to track down some confirmation of who they were insured with from then until 
the date their previous policy started in 2013. They may be able to find some useful 
information through the Claims and Underwriting Exchange. 
In the above scenario, the insurers would need to decide between them which of them 
should deal with the claim (again, depending on the terms of each policy).
Ms C and Mr G may also wish to ask Aviva to consider any physical damage under their 
buildings insurance. 
Has Aviva offered fair compensation?
I accept Avivas advice gave Ms C and Mr G an expectation the claim would be covered. 
And having their expectations raised in this way would have meant Avivas letter declining 
the claim caused more disappointment than it otherwise would have done. And I think 
Avivas handling of the situation, which involved Ms C being passed between staff 
responsible for claims, sales and complaints, probably compounded that. 
Having said that, I think Avivas offer of compensation does enough to reflect the impact of 
these failings. It means, in effect, that Ms C and Mr G received a full years home insurance 
and three years legal cover for free, in addition to £100 compensation. And its offered to 
reconsider the claim pending responses from previous insurers. Overall, I think this is a fair 
offer in the circumstances. 
My final decision
For the reasons given above, Ive decided not to uphold Ms C and Mr Gs complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms C and Mr G to 
accept or reject my decision before 12 February 2021. 
Mike Walker
Ombudsman