DRN-3597583
The complaint
Mr A complains that Monzo Bank Ltd has declined his request for a refund of payments he 
says he didnt make.
What happened
Mr A contacted Monzo in September 2021 saying hed identified some transactions that he 
didnt recognise when he was going through his statements for tax purposes. Mr A reported 
multiple transactions to the same retailer over the months May to July 2020. He says hes 
never bought anything from this retailer, and he didnt notice the payments at the time. Mr A 
says the payments add up to around £1,500 which he cant afford to lose.
Monzo said that it wouldnt provide a refund for these payments because Mr A had raised his 
claim too late. It said it had been over 13 months between each payment debit date and the 
date Mr A disputed them with Monzo and so he wasnt entitled to a refund. It also noted that 
Mr A had raised an issue with Monzo in May 2021 but hadnt mentioned any of the payments 
to this retailer that had already taken place at the time, and that hed regularly used his 
banking app over the time period when the transactions occurred. 
When Mr A complained to our service the investigator didnt uphold the complaint. They 
thought Monzo had acted fairly in declining Mr As request for a refund in the circumstances.
Mr A didnt agree, so the matter has been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im not upholding this complaint. Ill explain why.
The relevant law here is the Payment Services Regulations 2017  this sets out when a 
customer is entitled to redress for unauthorised transactions. It says that the payment 
service user (here Mr A) is only entitled to redress if he notifies the payment service provider 
(here Monzo) without undue delay, and in any event no later than 13 months after the debit 
date. 
The terms and conditions of Mr As account also says in relation to disputed payments:
If you don't let us know within 13 months from the date the money leaves your account you 
might not be able to get the money back.
This means that Monzo are able to decline to refund disputed transactions which are raised 
more than 13 months after the debit date of those payments on this basis. 
Ive thought about whether Monzo has applied this fairly to Mr As circumstances and I think 
it has. This is because:
It was over 13 months between the latest disputed payment and when Mr A first 
raised the dispute.
Mr A does have a responsibility to monitor his own account activity and raise and 
concerns without undue delay.
Mr A was actively using this account and using his app throughout May-July 2021, 
which would have shown his account activity.
Whilst Mr A says he didnt notice the activity, this isnt sufficient to say Monzo hasnt 
acted fairly in the circumstances. Mr A hasnt made us aware of any extenuating 
circumstances that would mean it would be unreasonable to expect him to have been 
able to report the disputed transactions sooner, and within 13 months of the 
payments.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision before 2 November 2022.
 
Stephanie Mitchell
Ombudsman