DRN-2516735
The complaint
Mr C and Mrs B complain that Insure Group Limited (Insure) mis-sold a home emergency 
policy and that an exclusion clause, wasnt made clear. 
  
What happened
 Mr C and Mrs B purchased a home emergency policy with Insure, with an annual premium 
of £135. Mr C and Mrs B chose to pay this on a monthly instalment basis, costing £11.25, for 
a period of 12 months.  
They contacted Insure several times to make sure that the cover was suitable for their 
needs. Especially as they wanted to ensure that the pipes, radiators, thermostat amongst 
other parts were covered. They were told by several different agents that those parts and the 
thermostat were covered. 
Once Mr C and Mrs B were satisfied by Insure that the thermostat and other parts were 
covered, they proceeded to purchase the policy. A few months later they had cause to make 
a claim as the thermostat failed. Insure declined their claim as it said that the thermostat 
wasnt covered under the policy. 
Mr C and Mrs B complained to Insure. In its final response, it accepted that during the sales 
calls, the advisors had given Mr C and Mrs B incorrect information, in that, the agents 
confirmed that the thermostat would be covered. So, it offered to refund all the premiums 
paid which totalled £33.75. As well as a goodwill gesture of a £20 voucher by way of an 
apology for the trouble and upset it had caused. 
Unhappy with this outcome as they wanted the thermostat costs to be covered by Insure, Mr 
C and Mrs B referred their complaint to this service. One of our investigators considered the 
complaint and thought that it should be upheld. He said that Mr C and Mrs B chose the 
Insure policy as they were advised that the thermostat would be covered. So, to put matters 
right, Insure ought to reimburse the cost to repair the thermostat, less the refund already 
provided. He also said that the £20 voucher was enough. And he asked Insure to liaise with 
Mr C and Mrs B about the annual service cost, as this hadnt been addressed in its final 
response. 
Insure didnt agree with our investigator. It said that Mr C and Mrs B were provided with the 
terms and conditions of the policy and it clearly stated that the thermostat wasnt covered. 
Further, that during one of the sales calls, the advisor specifically asked Mr C and Mrs B if 
they had read the terms and conditions of the policy to which they answered yes. Finally, the 
quote provided wasnt legally binding. So, Insure asked for a decision from an ombudsman.
 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I will be upholding this complaint and I hope my findings go some way in 
explaining why Ive reached this decision.
I have reviewed the policy documents as well as the sale calls and information provided to 
me by both sides. The main issue of the complaint I think relates to what took place during 
the sales call and in particular how the policy was sold to Mr C and Mrs B. I should say at the 
outset that my role is to determine whether Insure treated Mr C and Mrs B fairly. Also, with 
regard to the annual boiler service this isnt a regulated product, so I wont be able to look at 
that aspect of the complaint. But the sale of the policy is something that I can consider. 
Mr C and Mrs B purchased a policy over the phone with Insure. During the first sales call 
(which I have listened to) the sales advisor compared Insures policy with other providers on 
the market showing the differences in Insures product and advising that its policies were 
very competitive.  The advisor then went through the quote and the cost of the premium.
Finally, the advisor discussed the terms and conditions of the cover as well as confirmed that 
the thermostat as well as other parts would be covered under the policy. It is of note that on 
more than one occasion Mr C asked whether the boiler thermostat in particular was covered 
to which the advisor said: its covered sir. 
I have reviewed the policy schedule and I can see that it clearly states that Mr C and Mrs B 
should read the policy booklet to ensure that the cover meets their needs. So, on the face of 
it this would have been what we call a non-advised sale, which means that Insure would not 
be advising or recommending that they buy the policy. 
But, during the call, I think that Mr C and Mrs B took the opportunity to raise issues that 
concerned them about the policy. And I think that the advisor inadvertently advised Mr C and 
Mrs B and gave the impression that Insure was recommending that they buy this particular 
policy. At one point he said: when you call us you get what you expect. I think that Insure 
needed to give clear, fair and not misleading information about the policy to enable Mr C and 
Mrs B to make an informed choice about whether to take it out. In this case, the call handler 
gave misleading information about the thermostat. Given Mr C specifically asked about the 
thermostat, it seems it was important to him. So, it looks like the misinformation he was 
given led him to take out the policy when he may not otherwise have done. 
I understand that Insure has said that there was a warning on the policy documents and that 
one of the advisors asked Mr C and Mrs B of they had read the terms and conditions of the 
policy. But this doesnt prevent Insure making it clear to Mr C and Mrs B that there were 
restrictions on the cover  which it couldve done by asking more questions to find out Mr C 
and Mrs B needs. Im satisfied that Insure didnt give enough clear, fair and not misleading 
information for Mr C and Mrs B to make an informed choice. And post-sale documents arent 
enough to put right failures in the sales process. 
Putting things right
Given the circumstances, I think its fair that Insure put matters right, by it reimbursing Mr C 
and Mrs B expenses for the instillation of the new thermostat, less the £33.75 already paid, 
on presentation of an invoice from Mr C and Mrs B. I think the £20 voucher for the trouble 
and upset caused is fair and I dont recommend a separate further award. 
My final decision To put matters right Insure Group Limited should reimburse the cost of the new thermostat, 
less the £33.75 already paid, on presentation of an invoice from Mr C and Mrs B.
Insure Group Limited should pay the £20 voucher for the trouble and upset caused, if it 
hasnt done so already. 
Insure Group Limited should also pay interest on the amounts above, at a rate of 8% simple 
a year from the date of payment, to settlement. 
If HM Revenue & Customs requires Insure Group Limited to deduct tax from the interest 
payment referred above, Insure Group Limited must give Mr C and Mrs B a certificate 
showing how much tax they deduct if they ask them for one.
 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs B and Mr C to 
accept or reject my decision before 19 April 2021.
 
Ayisha Savage
Ombudsman