DRN-3387491
The complaint
Miss O has complained that AvantCredit of UK, LLC trading as AvantCredit was 
irresponsible in lending to her.
What happened
In January 2016 AvantCredit provided Miss O with a loan of £1,500. The loan was repayable 
over 36 months and the monthly repayments were £66.21. 
Miss O said the purpose of the loan was to consolidate her debts. The loan was repaid in 
May 2017.
In June 2017 Miss O took out another loan from AvantCredit. She borrowed £2,526.32 
repayable over 36 months and the monthly repayments were £115.74. This loan is still 
outstanding.
Miss O complained that AvantCredit hadnt properly checked she could afford the loans. Our 
adjudicator upheld Miss Os complaint. He thought AvantCredit was wrong to have offered 
the loans to Miss O. 
As AvantCredit didnt agree, the complaint has been passed to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about unaffordable/irresponsible lending - 
including all of the relevant rules, guidance and good industry practice - on our website. 
Taking into account the relevant rules, guidance and good industry practice, I think the 
overarching questions I need to consider in deciding whats fair and reasonable in the 
circumstances of this complaint are:
Did AvantCredit complete reasonable and proportionate checks to satisfy itself that 
Miss O would be able to repay the loan in a sustainable way?
If not, would those checks have shown that Miss O would have been able to do so?
Did AvantCredit act unfairly or unreasonably in some other way?
The rules and regulations in place required AvantCredit to carry out a reasonable and 
proportionate assessment of Miss Os ability to make the repayments under the loan 
agreement. This assessment is sometimes referred to as an affordability assessment or 
affordability check.
The checks had to be borrower-focused  so AvantCredit had to think about whether 
repaying the loan would be sustainable. In practice this meant that the business had to 
ensure that making the repayments on the loan wouldnt cause Miss O undue difficulty or 
significant adverse consequences. That means she should have been able to meet 
repayments out of normal income without having to borrow to meet the repayments, without 
failing to make any other payment she had a contractual or statutory obligation to make and 
without the repayments having a significant adverse impact on her financial situation.
In other words, it wasnt enough for AvantCredit to simply think about the likelihood of it 
getting its money back - it had to consider the impact of the loan repayments on Miss O. 
Checks also had to be proportionate to the specific circumstances of the loan application.
In general, what constitutes a proportionate affordability check will be dependent upon a 
number of factors including  but not limited to  the particular circumstances of the 
consumer (e.g. their financial history, current situation and outlook, and any indications of 
vulnerability or financial difficulty) and the amount/type/cost of credit they are seeking. Even 
for the same customer, a proportionate check could look different for different applications.
In light of this, I think that a reasonable and proportionate check ought generally to have 
been more thorough:
the lower a consumers income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make any loan 
repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income);
the higher the amount due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to meet a 
higher repayment from a particular level of income); 
the greater the number and frequency of loans, and the longer the period of time during 
which a customer has been given loans (reflecting the risk that repeated refinancing may 
signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, unsustainable).
Ive carefully considered all of the arguments, evidence and information provided in this 
context and what this all means for Miss Os complaint.
Loan 1
Miss O was entering into a significant financial commitment with AvantCredit for the next 
three years. Before granting this loan, AvantCredit verified Miss Os income figure using a 
standard industry tool. It found her average net monthly income was £789. Miss O also said 
her expenses were £643 a month. Its not clear to me how this figure was reached as I note 
from the credit search that her existing monthly credit commitments came to about £450 
which was over half her net income.
AvantCredit also carried out a credit search. That showed Miss O owed a total of £9,842. 
The balance on five of her credit accounts had gone up in the last three months and shed 
failed to keep up repayments on one account suggesting shed had some financial 
difficulties. I think this ought to have caused AvantCredit some concern as it appeared Miss 
Os finances might be strained and that any additional lending might not be sustainable. So, 
Id have expected AvantCredit to gather some more detailed information about Miss Os 
finances before it agreed to lend to her, for example, by asking for bank statements or 
similar. 
Although I dont think the checks AvantCredit did before agreeing the loan were sufficient, 
that isnt a good enough reason for me to uphold Miss Os complaint. In order for Miss Os 
complaint to succeed, I need to be able to say that proportionate checks would have shown 
AvantCredit that there was a real risk Miss O wouldnt be able to afford the repayments 
sustainably.Ive looked at what I think proportionate checks would have shown. 
Miss O has sent us some bank statements including those for the month before she took out 
the loan. It shows that in December 2016 Miss O spent over £600 being over three quarters 
of her income on various credit commitments and about £380 on household bills excluding 
rent. I think if AvantCredit had carried out proportionate checks it would have realised that 
Miss O had become over-reliant on credit she couldnt afford and she was unlikely to be able 
to sustainably afford the new loan repayment over a three year period. I dont think 
AvantCredit treated Miss O fairly in approving this loan.
I appreciate that the purpose of the loan was said to be for debt consolidation. Miss O could 
have used the £1,500 loan to repay some of her short-term loans which in turn could have 
reduced her credit commitments going forward. 
However, AvantCredit didnt pay off any of these loans directly. So it couldnt be sure it 
wasnt putting her in a worse position by increasing her overall indebtedness. The stated 
purpose of debt consolidation isnt enough in itself to make me think that the loan was fairly 
provided or that it proved helpful in the event to Miss O.
The fact that Miss O repaid the loan doesnt mean that she was able to do so sustainably or 
that this is a good enough reason for me not to uphold her complaint that the loan was 
unaffordable.
So, for the reasons set out above, I dont think AvantCredit should have provided Miss O 
with this loan. 
Loan 2
By the time she applied for this loan AnantCredits checks showed that Miss Os average net 
monthly income was £1,516. According to the credit search her existing monthly credit 
commitments came to about £737.41 which was almost half her income and the total 
amount she owed had risen sharply. Again I think this ought to have caused AvantCredit 
some concern that any additional lending might not be sustainable. So, Id have expected 
AvantCredit to gather some more detailed information about Miss Os finances before it 
agreed to lend to her.
Ive looked at Miss Os bank statements for the period before she took out this loan. It shows 
that in the previous two months Miss Os salary had been less than £1,000. In addition, in 
May 2017 Miss O had taken out loans of £5,000 and £1,500 with other lenders. I think if 
AvantCredit had carried out proportionate checks it would have been concerned that Miss O 
had become increasingly reliant on credit she couldnt afford and she was unlikely to be able 
to sustainably afford the new loan repayment over a three year period. I dont think 
AvantCredit treated Miss O fairly in approving this loan.
Ive also thought about whether AvantCredit acted unfairly in some other way and I havent 
seen any evidence that it did. 
Putting things right
I think it is fair and reasonable for Miss O to repay the principal amount that she borrowed, 
because shes had the benefit of that lending. But as I have concluded AvantCredit shouldnt 
have provided the loans, it should look to remove the interest and fees from the amounts 
due under the loan agreements. If AvantCredit has sold the outstanding debt, it should buy it 
back if it is able to do so and then take the following steps. If it is not able to buy the debt, it 
should liaise with the new debt owner to achieve the results outlined below.AvantCredit should:
  remove all interest, fees and charges applied to the loans;
treat any payments made by Miss O as payments towards the capital amount;
If Miss O has paid more than the capital then any overpayments should be refunded to 
her with 8%* simple interest from the date they were paid to the date of settlement,
But if theres still an outstanding balance, AvantCredit should come to a reasonable 
repayment plan with Miss O; and
remove any negative information about the loans from Miss Os credit file.
*HM Revenue & Customs requires AvantCredit to deduct tax from this interest. AvantCredit 
should give Miss O a certificate showing how much tax its deducted, if she asks for one.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I uphold Miss Os complaint and require AvantCredit of UK, 
LLC to put things right as detailed above. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss O to accept 
or reject my decision before 17 May 2022.
 
Elizabeth Grant
Ombudsman