DRN-3060156
The complaint
Mr K has complained on behalf of Mrs K.
Mrs Ks complaint is that UK Insurance Limited trading as Churchill Insurance (UKI) has 
declined a claim for damage to her car that occurred on 1 April 2021. 
 
What happened
Mrs Ks car was hit while parked. Mr and Mrs K spoke to the police and were advised that 
the other vehicle had been tracked.
Mr K contacted UKI on behalf of Mrs K but was told Mrs K was unable to make a claim as 
her motor insurance policy held with it had not been renewed. There was therefore no 
insurance policy in place at the time of the accident.
Mr K has explained that Mrs K did not receive any renewal documentation and he expected 
that the policy would have auto renewed. 
Mr K has also explained that the police had informed him that Mrs Ks car was showing as 
being insured on the motor insurance database (MID). Mr K has further explained that the 
third party involved in the accident was driving against the terms of their insurance.
Mr K has said that having looked at his bank statement, UKI had taken a payment for 
insurance after it was due to renew.
UKI explained that Mrs Ks motor insurance policy was not set up to automatically renew. 
The policy did not automatically renew in 2020. UKI sent Mrs K several letters before Mr K 
called to renew the policy just before it was due to lapse.
UKI have told us that in February 2021 Mr K called UKI to ask about the cost of the policy for 
the following year. During this call UKI explained to Mr K that the renewal price was not yet 
available and that a renewal invitation would be sent around 2 March 2021. The policy was 
due to renew on 31 March 2021.
UKI has also explained that it sent Mrs K the renewal invitation on 28 February 2021 and 
after it had no response it sent a chaser letter on 23 March 2021. UKI sent a final letter on 28 
March 2021 explaining that Mrs Ks policy was about to lapse. As no contact was made Mrs 
Ks motor insurance lapsed on 30 March 2021. 
Mrs K remained unhappy with UKIs decision to decline her claim, so Mr K brought her 
complaint to this service on her behalf.
Our Investigator considered Mrs Ks complaint. He thought UKI had acted fairly so he didnt 
ask UKI to do anything more. Mrs K didnt agree so this complaint has been passed to me to 
decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
It is clear that on the day of the accident (1 April 2021), there was no insurance policy in 
place with UKI to cover Mrs Ks car. I appreciate the police have told Mr and Mrs K that the 
MID showed the car as insured, and that a payment was taken from his bank account, from 
UKI after the accident took place. But UKIs systems dont show any valid policy in Mrs Ks 
name that covers her car. 
I have considered the information on the MID. But while this database did show cover was in 
place, as UKI has shown, the record was incorrect. I am unable to say an insurance policy 
was in place at the time due to the database not being up to date. 
I have also looked at whether the payment taken from Mr Ks bank account is evidence of a 
policy being in place. I dont think this is enough to say a policy was in place either. 
Insurance payments are often taken at different times in the month and the final payment 
can also be taken when a policy lapses.
As I have explained above, I am satisfied a policy wasnt in place at the time Mrs Ks car was 
damaged I am now going to look at whether UKI did anything wrong in allowing her policy to 
lapse on 30 March 2021.
UKI has explained that in February 2021 Mr K called UKI on behalf of Mrs K to enquire about 
the price of the insurance for the following year. UKI has provided a copy of this call to us. 
During this call the UKI representative explained to Mr K that the policy wasnt due to renew 
until 31 March 2021 and renewal terms were not yet available. The representative explained 
that renewal terms would be sent to Mrs K around 2 March 2021.
UKI has further explained that a renewal invite was sent to Mrs K on 28 February 2021 and 
when no response was received, a chaser was sent on 23 March 2021. When no response 
was received again, UKI sent a further letter explaining the policy would lapse. The policy 
then lapsed as no contact was made. UKI has provided evidence that these letters were 
sent.
UKI has explained that Mrs K insurance renewal journey followed the same pattern the 
previous year. A renewal invitation was sent, then a chase, followed by a warning that the 
policy would lapse. It wasnt until the final letter was sent that Mrs Ks policy was renewed in 
2020.
I appreciate Mr K has told us that none of the letters UKI sent in 2021 were received. But 
UKI has provided evidence from its internal systems that show the letters were sent on the 
dates outlined above to Mr and Mrs Ks address.
It is not uncommon for a motor insurance policy not to renew automatically. But UKI did have 
a responsibility to make Mrs K aware of this. Considering the renewal journey that took place 
the previous year, that Mr K called UKI a month before Mrs Ks policy was due to renew, and 
that UKI sent three separate letters to Mrs K before her policy lapsed I think Mrs K should 
have been reasonably aware that her policy was not set up to be automatically renewed and 
that it would lapse on 30 March 2021 if no contact with UKI was made.
It is unfortunate that Mrs Ks car was involved in an accident shortly after her policy lapsed 
but as I dont think UKI has done anything wrong in allowing Mrs Ks motor insurance policy 
to lapse. I dont think it has a responsibility to pay the claim she has made to it, and I am not 
asking it to do anything further.My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs K to accept or 
reject my decision before 17 November 2021.
 
Terry Woodham
Ombudsman