DRN-3356571
The complaint
Mrs B brings this complaint on behalf of the estate of her late son, Mr B. She says Aviva Life 
& Pensions UK Limited unfairly lapsed Mr Bs life assurance policy, for which she was 
paying the premiums. As a result, no claim could be made when Mr B later passed away.
What happened
The policy began in 2005 with Mr B as the policyholder. It offered life assurance of £186,000 
for a 22 year term and was set up alongside Mrs Bs mortgage lending. Mr B lived in the 
property. Premiums of £18.19 were taken on 3rd of each month, and paid by Mrs B.  
 
In 2019, Mrs B became unwell with a type of cancer and she went overseas to receive 
appropriate treatment.  Whilst Mrs B was away, Aviva was unable to collect the policys 
premium payment by direct debit from Mrs Bs confirmed bank account.  
Aviva wrote to Mr B as the policyholder to explain that payment was outstanding. It sent a 
letter dated 8 April 2019 explaining how the missing £18.19 premium needed to be paid. It 
then sent another letter on 13 May 2019 saying it would attempt to collect the missing 
premiums again. 
The premiums still could not be collected, so a final letter was issued to Mr B dated 11 June 
2019 explaining that the policy had lapsed, and Mr B had 30 days to reinstate it by paying 
the two missing premiums of £38.34. Aviva says it did not receive any reply to its letters. 
In late 2020, Mrs B contacted Aviva about the missed premiums as she had returned to the 
UK and realised that the payments had stopped. She explained that at the time, she had 
three accounts with her bank at the same branch. The account that payments used to be 
deducted from was closed without any notice by her bank and therefore the non-payment of 
the policy premiums was not deliberate. 
Mrs B told Aviva that she did not log into her internet banking for some time whilst she was 
severely unwell. When she did, she was shocked to find that there were only two accounts 
displayed. However, none of this was Mr Bs fault.  
Aviva rejected the complaint in November 2020 and issued its reply to Mr B as the 
policyholder. It said it was unfortunate that Mrs B didnt realise the premium payments had 
stopped but it had correctly lapsed the policy. The reinstatement window had now passed 
and there was nothing else it could offer. Aviva said Mr B could seek financial advice, or 
apply for replacement cover online with Aviva or by calling its sales department. 
In April 2021, Mr B passed away unexpectedly. Mrs B asked Aviva again if it would reinstate 
the policy if she repaid the missed premiums, so she could make the claim but it would not 
agree to that.  
Mrs Bs complaint was considered by one of our investigators. She said Aviva was not 
prepared to discretionarily reinstate the policy, and she was unable to order it to do so. She 
also looked carefully at the terms and conditions of the policy, but she concluded Aviva had 
acted reasonably in lapsing the policy when the direct debits could not be collected. As it 
hadnt done anything wrong, she couldnt ask it to pay the claim now.  
Mrs B disagreed and asked for the complaint to be passed to an ombudsman. She explained 
how she was concerned about what will happen to the house that she provided for her son 
(and therefore the life assurance policy to run alongside it) and her surviving grandchild. She 
also said that she was unwell herself and Aviva ought to have shown more care and 
compassion for an unfortunate set of circumstances.  
Mrs B explained how she tried to call Aviva as soon as she found out there was an issue 
with her bank account but it had told her that nothing could be done. Mrs B said she is 
elderly and vulnerable and she felt the matter had not been looked into fairly. She clarified 
that she is struggling to pay the mortgage and other household expenses, and any payment 
from Aviva would assist her in meeting that debt and providing security for her grandson. 
Aviva had no further comments to make, and the complaint has now been passed to me.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I am truly sorry to read about Mrs Bs situation and I can see that matters have been 
distressing for her and her family. 
Though I know this wont be what she has hoped for, I cannot uphold this complaint because 
Aviva has not acted unfairly or unreasonably in the circumstances surrounding the lapse of 
the late Mr Bs policy. Ill explain my reasons for this below.  
Im not able to decide complaints on a discretionary or compassionate basis. What I am 
required to do is to reach a fair and reasonable outcome to both parties looking at all of the 
circumstances and evidence. Aviva is only required to make life assurance benefit payment 
to Mr Bs estate where there was a contract of insurance in force between the parties at the 
time he passed away. And this was not the case, as the policy had lapsed two years earlier.  
So, what is key is whether Aviva acted fairly when it couldnt collect the premiums, and its 
response to that  by lapsing the cover in 2019, and not reinstating it on request in 2020.
I have looked at what the parties' obligations are under the terms and conditions of the 
policy. That is the start point. The policy terms say:
(b) Premiums will be due on the corresponding day in each month or year as 
appropriate and will cease to be due on either the payment of the Life Cover Benefit 
or the Terminal Illness Benefit or on the payment of the last premium due as 
specified in the Schedule.
(c) Monthly Premiums must be paid by direct debit instruction on a current bank or 
building society account unless otherwise agreed by the Company.
(d) Thirty days grace is allowed for the payment of each Premium after the first.
(e) If any Premium is not paid on the due date or within thirty days grace allowed, the 
Policy will be cancelled and all Benefits under it will cease.
The terms also go on to clarify that if the policy is ended by the policyholder, then no payment will be made by the Company and the Policy will cease.
The missing premium was due on 3 April 2019. On 8 April 2019, Aviva wrote to Mr B saying 
it would try to collect the premium again on 24 April 2019. However, this wasnt possible 
either. It therefore wrote to Mr B again on 13 and 14 May 2019 to say it would try a third time 
(for two missing premiums of 3 April and 3 May 2019 by now) on the usual premium 
collection date of 3 June 2019. 
The premium payments were not paid as Aviva could not collect them from Mrs Bs account. 
On 11 June 2019, Aviva told Mr B the policy had lapsed. It said:
Please make sure you call us before 11 July 2019 to restart this policy. If we
dont receive your payment and direct debit details by this date youll need to
apply again. 
Aviva has behaved fairly because it has acted within the terms applying to the late Mr Bs 
policy. The terms are explicit in setting out that it can terminate the policy after 30 days has 
passed from non-payment of any premium, and that it will not make any payment under the 
policy after it has ended.
The letters sent to Mr B were correctly addressed and I have not seen any clear evidence to 
conclude that Mr B didnt know the policy had ended. Its unfortunate that the missed 
premium payments were not identified in 2019 but I cannot hold Aviva responsible for that. In 
a call with Aviva in January 2021, Mr B explained he was aware the policy had ended and 
that Mrs B was particularly upset that the policy couldnt be put back as it was before. 
Unfortunately, the policy terms do not have any provision for reinstatement beyond the thirty 
day grace period set out above. So, I cannot conclude that Aviva has acted unfairly here 
either  there is no term by which it must allow a policy to be restarted once it has ceased. 
I know Mrs B suffered from severe health circumstances leading her to relocate overseas for 
treatment, which consequently meant she did not realise that her bank closed one of her 
accounts. I also realise how upsetting it is that Mr B passed away suddenly in April 2021, 
without life insurance in place. But Aviva has had no influence over those events. 
As I have set out above, Aviva has acted within the policy terms. Therefore, I cannot order it 
to reinstate Mr Bs policy such that a life assurance claim can be paid  the policy had ended 
two years before the insured event took place. If she has not done so already, Mrs B 
remains free to pursue a complaint with her bank regarding the account closure.  
My final decision
Despite my sympathy for Mrs B, I do not uphold this complaint or make any award.  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask the estate of Mr B 
to accept or reject my decision before 26 April 2022.
 
Jo Storey
Ombudsman