DRN-2501724
The complaint
Mrs. H complains that a car she obtained through a Conditional Sale Agreement with Close
Brothers Limited (CBL) wasnt fit for purpose. She would like to reject it.
What happened
Mrs. K says she took out a Conditional sale agreement on 13 July 2019. She says she
raised an issue of blue smoke coming from the exhaust, a noise from the back capillary, a
strong smell of fuel in the car and the fact the air conditioning wasnt working with CBL on 22
July 2019.
Mrs. H says all the problems were resolved except the problem with the blue smoke. She
had the car looked at on 1 August 2019. That diagnostic confirmed the presence of smoke
and believed the fault was due to a possible sticking injector or problem with the hydraulic
tappets. She says as the diagnostic report didnt make any comment about when the
problem might have occurred CBL arranged its own report.
CBL said its independent report didnt find any evidence of a fault for which it was liable. 
My provisional decision
I issued a provisional decision in which I found:-
Mrs K took out an agreement for a 6-year-old car with just over 79,000 miles on the 
clock. She might reasonably expect there to be more wear, tear and repair issues 
with a used car than  for example with a new one. However, we expected  cars to be 
fit for purpose at the point of sale.
Mrs. H took out her agreement on 13 July 2019 then on 22 July 2019 she contacted 
CBL . So, she was ,at this point, within  the 30-day limit to reject the car. At this point 
some issues were resolved by the supplying garage but not, according to Mrs. H the 
blue smoke emission. The garage was unable to replicate this but having seen some 
video evidence from Mrs. H it felt the problem might be fuel contamination which 
wouldnt be classified as a fault.
Mrs H had her car looked at by a local garage which checked for excess smoke, I 
saw a summary  of that garages view. It said it carried out a full diagnostic test, but 
no codes were stored. It  advised there was a possible sticking injector or problem 
with hydraulic tappets. Our investigator later spoke to the garage who confirmed in its 
view the problem would have been present at the point of sale.
However, as  the written information from the garage made no definitive diagnosis 
and no reference to point of sale issues CBL arranged its own inspection which I 
thought was a reasonable step for it to have taken
I read the independent report CBL arranged. The inspector had the benefit of seeing 
the video evidence of the smoke. However, that, coupled with his inspection which 
included a road test and no diagnostics showing, led him to conclude that there were 
no excess emissions and that the car was fault free. 
Based on that report I didnt  think it was unreasonable for CBL to conclude, that 
there was no fault that would be grounds for Mrs. H to reject the car.
I acknowledged Mrs H felt the emissions are an ongoing problem. She told us 
another garage carried out a full oil change which didnt work. It re generated the 
DPF which also didnt work.
Our investigator spoke to the garage who carried out this work  but having seen the 
record of that conversation I didnt share his assessment of it. The garage agreed the 
fault could be with the injectors or hydraulic tappets as the initial garage identified but 
stated it was equally likely the smoke could be caused by the car not being driven on 
long enough journeys to clear the soot from the DPF. Finally, that the fault could 
have been present since the point of sale but could equally be due to the use of the 
car.
It was  difficult in a situation like this where there was conflicting evidence.  I weighed 
up the information from up the three inspections. One was certain there was an issue 
at the point of sale, the independent inspection arranged by CBL conclusively stated 
there was no problem as the point of sale , and the third one was  inconclusive 
stating a number of possible causes but concluding the problem may be a point of 
sale issue but may be down to the use of the car.
It was likely  the independent inspection would have been more thorough than the 
two inspections Mrs. H arranged. The report was specifically commissioned to 
identify any point of sale issues and was independent of CBL. On that basis I was  
inclined to give more weight to that report
To allow  Mrs. H to reject the car I had to  be sure that there is a fault with the car and 
that it was reasonable to expect CBL to take the car back.  From the evidence I saw I 
didnt feel I could reasonably conclude that there was a point of sale issue. The 
inspections were contradictory and gave other possible reasons for Mrs. H having the 
problems that she has had. And the independent report specifically commissioned to 
identify if there was a point of sale issue was  clear that there is no point of sale 
issues with regard to the smoke emissions.
There were no grounds to allow Mrs H to reject the car
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
CBL has accepted my provisional view and made no further comments for me to consider.
Mrs H didnt accept my provisional view. She explained she had been unhappy with the car 
within the first few hours of having it, said she wanted to return the car as was her right 
within 30 days, two garages had found the car not fit for purpose and finally she had a car 
she could hardly use.I appreciate Mrs H wasnt happy with my provisional decision. Its difficult when , as in this 
case, our service originally found in Mrs Hs favour, but I came to a different conclusion.
I have considered the points Mrs H has made. I know she raised issues with the car within 
the first 30 days of having it but from what I have seen most of her problems were resolved 
at that point. And I dont believe I had any clear evidence of her asking to reject the car at 
this point.
I considered very carefully the three reports I had on the car. The reports were contradictory, 
but I felt on balance there wasnt sufficient  information from the total of all the reports to 
conclude the car was faulty at the point of sale. And that it would therefore  be reasonable to 
allow Mrs H to reject it.
Unfortunately I dont feel Mrs H has given me any new information that leads me to conclude 
that I should change my provisional decision. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss H to accept 
or reject my decision before 10 February 2021.
 
Bridget Makins
Ombudsman