DRN-4436629
The complaint
Miss K complains that The Original Holloway Friendly Society Limited (hereafter Holloway 
Friendly) unfairly declined her income protection claim.
What happened
Miss K has an income protection policy. It is underwritten by Holloway Friendly and designed 
to provide a regular benefit in the event of incapacity by illness or injury. 
Miss K made an income protection claim in March 2023. She explained she hadnt been able 
to work since February 2023 because of her mental health. And she provided Holloway 
Friendly with evidence she felt supported her position. That included certificates to show 
shed been signed off work by her GP for anxiety and depression, and stress at work, and 
medical evidence from abroad. 
Holloway Friendly declined Miss Ks claim in May 2023. It said the available medical 
evidence didnt sufficiently demonstrate how her illness prevented her from working, and the 
policy definition of incapacity hadnt been satisfied because of that. It maintained that 
position following further correspondence with, and ultimately a complaint from, Miss K too. 
Unhappy with Holloway Friendlys position Miss K referred her complaint to this service and 
one of our investigators looked at what had happened. But they didnt think Holloway 
Friendly had acted unreasonably so didnt recommend Miss Ks complaint be upheld. They 
also said the further evidence Miss K had told us she now had in support of her claim would 
need to be given to Holloway Friendly in the first instance. 
Miss K disagreed with that opinion and asked that her complaint be decided by an 
ombudsman. She said reaching an opinion based only on the information Holloway Friendly 
had available to it at the time was perplexing, Holloway Friendly hadnt sought any additional 
information when shed claimed beyond requesting a letter from her GP, and all requests 
had been complied with. Miss K also shared some wider detail about the difficulties shed 
faced with her ex-employer, and reiterated why she felt she had a valid claim.
So the matter is now for me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
While Im sorry to hear of the circumstances and difficulties Miss K has described I wont be 
upholding this complaint. 
Holloway Friendly had a responsibility to consider this claim promptly and fairly, and not 
reject it unreasonably. The income protection cover available to Miss K was set out in the 
relevant policy documentation. I wont recite these in full here, but I note the policys Key 
Facts said:
What does injury or illness mean?
Our definition of injury or illness is The total inability to perform all the essential duties of 
your own occupation and that you are not following any other occupation for profit or reward. 
We refer to this as incapacity.
The policy insurance certificate reflected that too, and the policy terms and conditions also 
said:
The following words are defined below because they have a special meaning.
Incapacity
Any illness or injury occurring during the cover period for which you seek treatment or 
consultation by a Doctor which prevents you from engaging in your normal occupation. 
So it wouldnt be enough for Miss K to show that she was unwell, she would need to show, 
by way of medical evidence, that her illness totally prevented her from performing all the 
essential duties of her occupation.
Miss K provided Holloway Friendly with much testimony about her health and how it affected 
her ability to work at the time of her claim. She also provided it with some medical evidence 
to support her position too, namely:
Certificates from her GP showing she was signed off work with depression, anxiety 
and depression, and stress at work. 
A letter from her GP which explained shed reported symptoms of low mood and 
stress. Miss K had told her GP shed been prescribed medication from a psychiatrist 
in a country Ill call P  shed complained of irritability, low mood, lack of 
concentration, and excessive worries, and had been diagnosed there with mixed 
anxiety and depression and emotionally unstable personality. 
The GP letter said Miss K continued to suffer from anxiety and depression and it was 
affecting her day-to-day life greatly to a point that she finds it very difficult to work or 
to maintain a job at present. She has been referred to our local mental health service 
for further psychological support.
Medical evidence from a psychiatrist in P which said Miss K had been diagnosed with 
emotionally unstable personality and depressive anxiety disorder, was undergoing 
psychiatric treatment, and was in receipt of medication. 
While Im sorry to read about the difficulties Miss K as described, I dont think it was 
unreasonable of Holloway Friendly to find that the medical evidence provided alongside her 
testimony didnt demonstrate incapacity in line with the policy terms. Let me explain why. 
Both the GP certificates and the documents from P lacked detail about the impact of Miss 
Ks health on her ability to perform the essential duties of her occupation. The GPs letter 
also made much reference to what Miss K had herself reported. And while it noted she was 
finding it difficult to work or maintain a job, it too contained little detail about the actual impact 
of her health on her ability to perform the essential duties of her occupation.
I understand Miss K says Holloway Friendly didnt seek any more information from her, but I 
think it important to highlight that it was for Miss K to demonstrate that she met the policys 
requirements. Holloway Friendly did give Miss K an opportunity to provide further evidence, when she appealed its decision, and it set out what that evidence would need to 
demonstrate too. 
Miss K says she has further medical evidence which will support her claim now, but while I 
thank her for providing it to us itd be inappropriate of me to comment on it here. As far as I 
understand matters this evidence didnt form part of her original claim or complaint to 
Holloway Friendly, and it hasnt been shared with it in the first instance either. 
For all of the reasons given above Im not persuaded that Holloway Friendly declined this 
claim unreasonably. I think it reached a reasonable position based on the evidence made 
available to it, and declined the claim in line with the relevant policy terms. So Ill not be 
interfering with its position.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint against The Original Holloway Friendly 
Society Limited.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss K to accept 
or reject my decision before 28 December 2023.
 
Jade Alexander
Ombudsman