DRN-4379388
The complaint
Mr A complains about poor service from Monzo Bank Ltd when he requested blocks on 
transactions linked to his gambling addiction. He said this led him to spend £1,839 on a 
gambling platform.
What happened
I set out the background to Mr As complaint in my provisional decision, and here. 
Mr A held an account with Monzo and said it was aware he was a vulnerable customer who 
struggled with a gambling addiction. He said he told Monzo that he used crypto currency 
exchanges for payments to gambling sites and requested blocks. He said hed previously 
complained about a block that wasn't put in place correctly and received compensation. 
Mr A asked Monzo in March 2022 to ensure he couldnt make payments to (the crypto 
service in question) any further. He said he didnt receive a reply and three days later made 
payments of £1,839 to the crypto service, all spent on gambling. Mr A said this was most of 
his monthly salary and was incredibly stressful and damaging to his mental health. 
Monzo messaged Mr A on 18 December 2022, while looking into your recent query we 
noticed you had a number of crypto payments, and I just wanted to make sure you're alright 
and not gambling more than you'd like to be? If you're struggling with this in any way, or find 
yourself in financial difficulties, please let me know. I can talk you through the support we 
may be able to offer you and point you in the direction of free advice, should you need it.  
Mr A responded that having noticed the transactions Monzo should have blocked them as 
requested. Monzo said it hadnt immediately recognised Mr As crypto currency transactions 
as related to gambling and this had delayed its action. 
Mr A complained to Monzo that it shouldve monitored his account due to his information 
about his vulnerabilities, and didnt put in place the block he requested. Monzo apologised to 
Mr A for not putting a block in place until 22 April 2022 and paid £140 compensation. 
Monzo said Mr A first raised concerns about crypto currency transactions in January 2021 
and named two crypto services in March 2021. Monzo explained these didnt fall under 
gambling as they have a different merchant code, but it blocked payments. This worked 
until Mr A changed his bank card and his complaint about this was resolved. Monzo said Mr 
A made payments to a different crypto service from May 2021 which he hadnt asked to be 
blocked, but was now blocked. 
As Mr A wasnt satisfied with Monzos response he referred his complaint to our service. He 
said the block was correctly applied in April 2022 and attempted transactions were blocked, 
but hed lost £1,839 after he previously requested the block. He said this caused significant 
stress and embarrassment of being without money at Christmas. He wants Monzo to refund 
the £1,839 and pay him £500 for the stress and embarrassment caused to him. 
Our investigator didnt recommend the complaint be upheld. He said Monzo explained that 
Mr As payments were card tokens, not conventional money, which could be converted to 
gambling chips and couldnt be blocked because of the initial money to token transfer. The 
investigator said Monzo explained that Mr A processed the transactions using a payment 
provider that would bypass the block. He said Monzos compensation for leaving Mr A 
waiting for responses for long periods of time on the chat function was fair. 
Mr A disagreed and requested an ombudsman review his complaint. He said Monzo failed to 
apply the block or show that it wouldn't have worked on the transactions, and he has shown 
the block was effective once it was put in place, paid via a payment provider. 
In September 2023, I issued a provisional decision for this complaint and explained why I 
was minded to partially uphold Mr As complaint as follows; - 
Mr A expected Monzo to monitor his account as it was aware of his vulnerability. Monzo 
said it doesnt manually monitor individual accounts. Ive looked at the communications 
between them to see what Monzo knew about Mr A and whether it should have acted 
differently. Mr A has complained separately about a block on a specific payment provider, 
and this involved the method of communication Mr A used. This complaint has been 
considered separately.  
Mr A has provided screenshots to show the block operating effectively once Monzo finally 
applied the block in April 2022. He said Monzo admitted that the block to the merchant had 
failed to be placed on two occasions between his message of 19 December 2022 and his 
transactions of £1,839. He said Monzo had told him that it wouldnt refund these payments 
as it couldn't guarantee that they would've been stopped if the block was in place, as the 
merchant changed its merchant ID.  
I understand that the transactions Mr A has complained about involve money to token 
transfers, which are different from normal payment transactions. Monzo has confirmed that 
the merchant block worked to the payment provider. However, it said that it couldn't have 
applied the block any sooner due to the payment rules of the card provider on Mr As 
account. It said this was because at the time when Mr A initially requested the block, there 
were pending payments on the account for the merchant. 
Monzo provided the response about this issue from its payments engineers:  
Using Payment Cancellation Service blocks clearing messages, so the payment would stay 
pending until it automatically reverses and merchants arent able to first present on it. This is 
against the rules.
 
My understanding from this is that payments already into the payment system with the 
merchant cant be reversed as a new payment post-block would be. I think this helps to 
explain why Monzo told Mr A that even if it was able to apply the block immediately, the 
payments already commenced would have bypassed any block. 
Monzo has also explained that any blocks that could be applied were at best short term and 
could be bypassed by using particular payment providers, though Mr A said that all his 
transactions used this method of payment. Monzos point is that even if it applied blocks to 
the merchant Mr A was using, he could bypass this by using a particular payment provider. 
Monzo did apply the block, albeit belatedly and this was the correct response to Mr As 
vulnerability.
From what I have seen, Monzo did attempt to meet Mr As requests to limit his ability to 
gamble and did respond to his communications, albeit with some delays. Although Monzos 
blocks werent comprehensive, it did explain the limitations of these to Mr A. I think Mr A could see Monzos difficulties in blocking his transactions and wouldve known theyd likely 
not be complete in preventing gambling transactions.    
I think it was reasonable for Monzo to consider crypto currency transactions to be normal 
spending, and not to monitor those transactions as a matter of course. It is, of course, where 
the money was spent after the crypto currency transaction that is the problem and the 
changed nature of the funds means that this was not entirely within Monzos control. 
I have concluded that Monzo has treated Mr A fairly and reasonably with regard to his 
gambling transactions and so I cant require it to refund the money he has lost. Monzo 
apologised to Mr A that it didnt respond to him twice on the chat function, which amounted 
to poor customer service and paid him £140 compensation. 
My provisional decision
Having considered the circumstances of this complaint and Monzos explanation, I currently 
think that £250 compensation would be a fairer reflection of the impact on Mr As wellbeing 
of the poor service he received from Monzo. I say this because Monzo was aware of Mr As 
vulnerabilities and offered support, and should have followed through on this by giving 
greater priority to dealing with his concerns about his gambling addiction. 
The parties responses to the provisional decision
Monzo accepted the provisional decision, but Mr A did not. 
Mr A was concerned about inaccurate information. He said on 18 December 2022 Monzo 
messaged him with its concerns, and by 22 December 2022 hed made a clear request to 
block further transactions to the specified crypto currency exchange he was using to 
facilitate gambling transactions. However, Monzo was slow to put a block in place, and he 
made further gambling transactions, which he now requests to be refunded.  
Mr A said Monzos other points are incorrect and wouldnt have made a difference. He said 
with regard to the money to token transfer, that his payments went directly to the crypto 
currency exchange to be converted to a crypto currency and sent onwards. He said if the 
block had been in place the payments would not have gone through.
Mr A said the payments were initiated on 22 December 2022 and would not have been 
pending or initiated any sooner, as Monzo had indicated. He said it isnt fair for Monzo to 
consider crypto currency spending as normal spending as its message of 18 December 
2022 shows a correlation between the crypto currency payments and gambling transactions.
Mr A said Monzo told him the block could be bypassed when his card was replaced, not that 
this might be short term and could be bypassed by using particular payment providers. Mr A 
agreed that where the money was spent after the initial money to token transfer was outside 
Monzos control, but after his requested block Monzo could have prevented the transfer. He 
said Monzo admitted the block wasnt in place after it was requested on 19 December due to 
operation failures and that the block worked subsequently.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I have thought again about my provisional conclusions and the response from Mr A, 
particularly concerning the period from 18 to 22 December 2022 and the account activity that 
took place. Having done so I remain of the view that the complaint should be upheld in part 
and for the reasons I have given. I understand Mr As point that it was Monzos delayed response to his request by 22 
December 2022 that enabled him to lose money gambling. As I said in my provisional 
decision, Monzo was aware of Mr As vulnerabilities but failed to respond to him twice on its 
chat function. Monzo has explained the difficulties it experienced in putting the block in place 
that Mr A requested, and I have considered its points again.
Although Mr A dismisses Monzos difficulties, I think there were practical problems that 
Monzo faced in putting the requested block in place. I think this is borne out by Monzos 
explanation to Mr A of the limitations of the block. Monzo has also explained that at the time 
when Mr A initially requested the block, there were pending payments on the account for the 
crypto service, and these couldnt be blocked as a new payment might be.  
Mr A applies the logic that since all of the transactions on 22 December 2022 were made to 
the crypto currency exchange via a payment provider, and this payment method was 
effectively blocked subsequently, had the block been applied without undue delay these 
transactions wouldnt have happened, hence Monzo are liable for these. 
I understand Mr As point, but I also accept Monzos explanation that the process wasnt as 
straightforward as he suggests. But notwithstanding this our consideration as to what is a fair 
and reasonable outcome of the complaint is more involved than Mr A has described and 
touches upon his determination to gamble. Even if Monzo had applied blocks to the crypto 
service Mr A was using, he could bypass this by using a particular payment provider. This is 
because of the lack of a direct gambling transaction  Mr A bought crypto currency which 
might then be used for any transaction he wished. 
Whilst I take Mr As point that Monzo clearly correlate the gambling problem with the crypto 
currency payments, that doesnt mean the transactions could have a different less harmful 
purpose, hence Monzos treatment of crypto currency transactions as normal spending.  
One of our considerations is the personal responsibility for the transactions of the consumer. 
I indicated in my provisional decision that I thought Mr A could see Monzos difficulties in 
blocking his transactions and wouldve known theyd likely not be complete in preventing 
gambling transactions. It would also have been open to Mr A to have self-excluded for 
gambling transactions with the gambling operators, and this might have provided a more 
effective block to the transactions.
Im pleased that Monzo contacted Mr A and offered support, but it should have followed 
through on this by giving greater priority to dealing with his concerns about his gambling 
addiction. And so I remain of the view that Monzo should pay Mr A £250 compensation for 
the distress and inconvenience he has been caused by its poor service. 
I sympathise with Mr A for the gambling problems he has faced, and I realise he will be 
disappointed with this decision, but I hope he understands the reasons I have reached it.
My final decision
For the reasons I have given it is my final decision that the complaint is upheld in part. I 
require Monzo Bank Ltd to pay Mr A total compensation of £250 for the distress and 
inconvenience its delayed response to his request for blocks caused him. Monzo can deduct 
from this sum any compensation already paid to Mr A under this complaint.  Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision before 7 November 2023.
 
Andrew Fraser
Ombudsman