DRN-2147180
The complaint
Miss P is unhappy National Westminster Bank Plc (NatWest) wont refund an online 
banking transfer made from her account, that Miss P says she didnt authorise.
 
What happened
On 19 February 2020 Miss P says a transfer was made from her account via online banking 
for £575. Miss P says she didnt authorise the payment. 
Miss P says prior to the disputed transfer she had been to the Job Centre in regard to her 
universal credits. Miss P says after this she checked her online banking a couple of times as 
she was expecting to received funds in relation to the universal credits.
Miss P says she then travelled to a petrol station and while at the petrol station checked her 
account from her car, saw the funds had been received and made a transfer of £500 to a 
savings account. This transfer was made at 14:09pm.
After this Miss P returned home. On the way home Miss P stopped at a shop that was just 
over half a mile away from her property, purchasing some items. Then at 14:30pm a transfer 
was made for £575 from Miss Ps account. This was made through Miss Ps online banking, 
which Miss P says she didnt authorise.
Miss P, at this time, had two devices in which she accessed her online banking  her phone 
and a laptop. Miss P, when she called NatWest about the disputed transfer said that at the 
time of the transfer it was only her and her children home as her partner hadnt been there 
and her eldest child was only six years old. Miss P says her partner knew the pass code to 
access both her phone and laptop, but he didnt know her online banking security details. 
Miss P said she had memorised her online banking security details and hadnt written them 
down or shared them with anyone. Miss P was unsure how the transfer could have taken 
place.
NatWest say the transfers were made through Miss Ps mobile device, and access to the 
internet showed the Internet Providers (I.P) address location, as Miss Ps wired internet. In 
other words, from Miss Ps home Wi-Fi. NatWest concluded that as Miss P had her mobile 
device within her possession, was at home and confirmed that no-one else was with her or 
hadnt disclosed her online banking security details to anyone  there was no other way for 
anyone other than Miss P to have authorised the transaction. Because of this NatWest said 
Miss P was liable for the transfer that was made.
Unhappy, Miss P referred the matter to our service. One of our investigators looked into the 
complaint and didnt uphold it. Broadly summarised they were persuaded that Miss P had 
authorised the transaction.
As Miss P disagreed with the investigators opinion, and as the matter hasnt been resolved, 
its been passed to me for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, my review of the evidence has led me to the same overall conclusions as 
the investigator reached, and for much the same reasons. Ill explain why.
When considering whats fair and reasonable I am required to take into account; relevant law 
and regulations; the regulators rules, guidance and standards; codes of practice; and where 
appropriate what I consider to have been good industry practice at the relevant time.
The relevant regulations in place at the time are the Payment Services Regulations 2017 
(PSR 2017). 
PSR 2017 say a payment transaction is regarded as authorised if the payer has given 
consent to the execution of the payment transaction. If a payment service user (customer) 
denied having authorised an executed payment  the payment service provider (in this case 
NatWest) has to prove the payment transaction was authenticated. And if it is deemed that a 
payment transaction hasnt been consented to, it isnt authorised. 
PSR 2017 goes on to say a payment service provider is required to refund the amount of an 
unauthorised transaction to the payer.
Miss P says she didnt consent to or authorise the transfer and is seeking a refund of the 
transfer made from her account. NatWest say it considers the evidence suggests the 
transfer was made by Miss P, and she is therefore liable for it. 
So, I need to think about whether the evidence I have suggests the payment was 
authenticated and whether its more likely than not Miss P, or somebody with her 
knowledge or authority, carried out the transfer Miss P is now disputing.
The disputed transfer  was it authenticated?
Ive looked at the technical evidence provided by NatWest. The disputed transfer was made 
at 14:30pm through online banking. And the evidence shows this was accessed through 
Miss Ps registered mobile device, with Miss Ps security details being entered to gain 
access to the online banking app. The internet location that the online banking was 
accessed from, shows that the I.P address is Miss Ps home WI-FI. In short, the transfer was 
made from Miss Ps mobile while she was at home with her security details being required to 
access the online banking app and make the transfer. 
So Im satisfied from NatWests technical evidence that Miss Ps registered mobile device 
was used when the disputed transfer was made, and that the transfer was authenticated as 
Miss Ps correct security details were entered to access the online banking app. 
This means I now need to determine whether Miss P consented to the transfer that was 
made. In order to do this, Ive looked at whether an unknown or known party to Miss P could 
have made the transfer without Miss Ps consent.
Could an unknown party have made the transfer?
Our investigator explored the possibility that someone may have identified Miss Ps security 
details while she was out (also known as shoulder surfing). But as the internet location, that 
the online banking was accessed from, was the location of Miss Ps home Wi-Fi and the transfer was conducted through her mobile device, alongside Miss P testimony that no-one 
had witnessed her security details  they thought it was highly unlikely the transfer was 
carried out by an unknown party. 
I agree. In short, an unknown party would have had to have identified Miss Ps security 
details while Miss P was either at the job centre, petrol station or the local shop. But Miss P 
didnt discuss or access her online banking while at the job centre, carried out the transfer of 
£500 to her savings account from the petrol station while in her car and said no one was in 
the local shop that she visited. So I cant reasonably conclude that her security details were 
compromised at any point.
Also, even if they had been compromised it would have meant that an unknown party would 
have had to then follow Miss P to her home, obtain Miss Ps mobile device while she was at 
home, carry out the transfer and then return the phone to Miss Ps possession all without her 
knowing. 
So I cant reasonably conclude that an unknown party to Miss P made the transfer.
Could a known party have made the transfer?
Miss P said, in her call to NatWest when she logged the disputed transfer, that only she had 
been home with her children at the time of the transfer. Ive listened to the call recording and 
Miss P states to the adviser my fellas not even been here and that her eldest child 
was only six years old... 
This indicates that her partner hadnt been at home when the disputed transfer took place. 
But when Miss P referred the matter to our service, she informed the investigator during a 
call that her partner had been home with the children while she was out. Ive listened to the 
call, and Miss P confirmed to our investigator that when she noticed the transaction, she 
discussed the disputed transfer and what had happened and then rang NatWest straight 
away. 
So there is a discrepancy in Miss Ps testimony as to what happened and who was around at 
the time of the disputed transfer. It may be that when Miss P rang NatWest, her phrasing of 
...my fellas not even been here, meant her partner wasnt currently there while she was 
on the phone to NatWest as it was nearly two hours after the disputed transfer had taken 
place.
I am mindful that trying to recall something in exact detail can sometimes be difficult  and 
the exact timings of a days event can become blurred. But despite the discrepancy, I dont 
think this makes a material difference to the outcome of this case. Ill explain why.
The disputed transfer took place when Miss P, and seemingly her partner, were at home. 
The online transfer was completed using Miss Ps mobile device  not the laptop. And 
Miss P has said that she had her mobile with her the whole time. Miss P has also said only 
she knew her online banking security details and her partner wasnt aware of them. Miss P 
also confirmed that she hadnt written them down anywhere and hadnt shared them with 
anyone. 
The evidence suggests Miss Ps device was in her possession at the time of the transfer, the 
online banking was accessed from Miss Ps home I.P address and the correct security 
details were entered to access the online banking app. So I agree with our investigator that 
the transfer could only have come about with Miss Ps knowledge, authority and consent.I am also mindful that Miss Ps testimony about what she did and when, isnt consistent with 
the records evidencing her online banking log ins. Miss P told our investigator that when she 
was at the petrol station, she noticed the funds from her universal credits had been paid into 
her account. And that is when she transferred money to her savings account. Miss P says 
she returned home from the petrol station and shop, put a few things away and then logged 
on to make a payment for her rent, and this was when she noticed her balance had gone 
down. Miss P says she checked the transaction history and saw the payment of £575 had 
gone out of her account and then informed NatWest pretty much straight away.
The evidence shows that Miss P checked her online banking app through her mobile device 
multiple times in the period straight after the disputed transfer at 14:30pm. Miss P logged on 
to her online banking at 14:32pm, 14:34pm, 14:36pm, 14:40pm. In fact, Miss P kept 
checking her online banking periodically all the way up to 15:42pm when she conducted 
some further transfers. These transfers were made through online banking, but via her 
laptop. Miss P doesnt dispute these transfers. It was at around 16:20pm when Miss P got in 
contact with NatWest. So the evidenced online banking activity doesnt tie in with Miss Ps 
version of events of her logging on to make her rent payment, seeing the disputed transfer 
and then calling NatWest straight away.
It seems to me that if Miss P hadnt made the transfer of £575 at 14:30pm  she would have 
identified it straight away given she was checking her account multiple times with an 
intention to make her rent payment. 
Miss P says she was checking her account periodically to see if she had enough funds to 
pay her rent. If Miss P had been specifically checking her online banking multiple times to 
see if she had enough funds to pay rent after 14:30pm, I fail to see how she wouldnt notice 
what her balance was  if that was the purpose of her checking her account. Im also mindful 
Miss P was aware of what had been paid in to account around 30 mins before which had led 
to her transferring some money to her savings account and wanting to return home to make 
the rent payment. 
So Miss P was aware at 14:09 pm that she had received the funds she was expecting from 
her universal credits, which led to her making a transfer of £500 to her savings account while 
in her car at the petrol station. Miss P says it left her with around £600 which, when she got 
home, she said she wanted to use to make a rent payment. When Miss P checked her 
account after 14:30 to make the payment for rent it seems to me she would have noticed her 
balance wasnt what it was 30 mins prior  as she seemingly would have been unable to 
make the payment she wanted to. But Miss P didnt contact NatWest until nearly two hours 
later  having logged on multiple times and having completed some further transfers in the 
interim.
Overall, I am not persuaded by Miss Ps version of events when I take into account the 
evidence of her online banking activity.
Finally, in response to our investigator, Miss P said that her mobile providers network signal 
went down on 19 February 2020 from 14:25pm until 15:01pm. Miss P thinks this may have 
something to do with what happened. But as our investigator pointed out to Miss P, the 
internet was accessed through Miss Ps home Wi-Fi  not her mobile providers internet. So 
the fact Miss Ps mobile network providers signal went down, doesnt make a difference.
Taking everything into consideration, its hard for me to see how somebody other than 
Miss P, carried out the transfer Miss P is now disputing. So, I dont think it would be fair or 
reasonable to ask NatWest to reimburse her. 
My final decisionFor the reasons given above, my final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss P to accept 
or reject my decision before 6 November 2020.
 
Matthew Horner
Ombudsman