DRN-2497274
The complaint
Mr and Mrs S are unhappy with the way that Union Reiseversicherung AG handled a claim
they made on their travel insurance policy.
What happened
 Mr and Mrs S were on holiday with their three young children in January 2018 in the USA.
Their eldest child, who was nine years old at the time, was taken to see a doctor as she was
very unwell. She was sent to the emergency room and then admitted to hospital for a
peritonsillar abscess to be drained  the notes say that she was at risk of her throat being
obstructed which could have fatal consequences. She was admitted to hospital and treated.
URV have settled directly with Mr and Mrs S some of the medical costs that they had paid
themselves. However, Mr and Mrs Ss young daughter has been receiving letters demanding
payment from the treating hospital and a Swiss debt recovery agent. The doctor has
invoiced URV but hasnt provided bank details for URV to make payment. However, Mr and
Mrs S arent being chased for payment of that bill.
The hospital invoice says that the hospital charged $2, 488.81 and URV agreed to pay
$722. 80 in May 2018. The hospital and the debt collector are chasing Mr and Mrs Ss
daughter for an outstanding balance of $1, 073.77. Theyve received a number of letters
about this which they have referred to URV. Mr and Mrs S also signed a consent form
instructing the debt recovery company to deal with URV. But theyve continued to receive
letters. Initially, Mr and Mrs S were reassured by URVs actions. However, they complained
to URV because of the length of time it was taking to resolve.
In their final response letter URV said this was matter between URV and the hospital. They
also said that they were unable to stop the debt collector chasing Mr and Mrs S because of
the lack of regulatory framework in Switzerland. URV said that this was a tactic by the debt
collector to put pressure on Mr and Mrs S to pay, the amount being claimed was excessive
and that it had evidence that US insurers would not be charged at anywhere near the same
levels so it was important to take a stand against abusive charging. Unhappy, Mr and Mrs S
complained to our service.
Our investigator looked into what had happened and asked URV for more information. He
asked URV to provide evidence to show where the congressional rates (which it had relied
on to settle the bill) including a breakdown of the specific procedures and costs which were
relevant to this complaint.
URV didnt provide this information so our investigator formed his opinion on the basis of the
available evidence. Our investigator upheld Mr and Mrs Ss complaint and directed URV to
settle the hospital bill that they were being chased for and pay them £100 compensation. He
explained that he wouldnt be asking URV to pay the doctors bill as they werent being
chased for it. However, he said that hed expect URV to take the same approach hed
outlined to this invoice but that any future issues in relation to this would need to be a
separate complaint.
URV didnt accept the investigators findings but did increase the offer of compensation to
£300. In summary they said:
When dealing with hospitals in the USA auditing the medical bills was essential to 
safeguard both the insurer and consumer from paying unrelated or excessive
charges made for the hospitals financial gain
The insurer has evidence that US insurers wouldnt be charged anything like the
same levels as URVs customers are facing
The hospital was using a Swiss debt collector to avoid US and UK regulation
If the debt collector made a compelling case for the payment of costs theyd consider 
it
In the very unlikely event the medical providers or the debt collectors pursue the
matter far enough to make a payment become necessary, the insurer would pay it in
full.
Mr and Mrs S didnt accept URVs increased offer. In October 2020 I issued a provisional 
decision upholding Mr and Mrs Ss complaint. I said: 
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im minded to uphold this complaint and award £400 compensation to Mr and Mrs S. 
Ill explain why.
The Financial Conduct Authority (FCA) Handbook sets out a number of Principles for
Businesses (Principles), which URV must follow, including:
Principle 6 - A firm must pay due regard to the interests of its customers and treat
them fairly.
Principle 8 - A firm must manage conflicts of interest fairly, both between itself and
its customers and between a customer and another client.
The relevant regulations also include ICOBS 8.1.1R which says an insurer must:
(1) handle claims promptly and fairly;
(2) provide reasonable guidance to help a policyholder make a claim and appropriate
information on its progress;
(3) not unreasonably reject a claim (including by terminating or avoiding a policy);
and
(4) settle claims promptly once settlement terms are agreed.
The Regulatory Guide, published by the FCA, entitled: The Responsibilities of 
Providers and Distributors for the Fair Treatment of Customers (RPPD) includes the 
Regulators guidance on what the combination of Principles and the detailed rules 
mean for providers and distributors of financial services. The RPPD explains that 
firms should consider the impact of their actions, or inactions, on the customer 
throughout the life-cycle of the service being provided.
Ive also taken into account what I consider having been good industry practice at the 
time of the claim. This was for underwriters of travel insurance - and their agents - to engage diligently with healthcare providers to try to resolve disputes over medical 
bills by actively seeking a compromise or adjudication of their bills. That includes 
actively engaging in negotiation.
The terms of Mr and Mrs Ss policy say URV can:
Take over and deal with in your name the defence/settlement of any claim made
under your policy
So, its for URV to take over the conduct of a claim against its policyholders. But, it 
has a responsibility to act in good faith when it takes over the defence or settlement 
of a claim. This means having regard to Mr and Mrs Ss interests as well as its own. 
This forms part of URVs regulatory responsibilities, as Ive set out above. In effect, 
this means URV has the right to take over the conduct of a claim  defending or 
settling it  in the name of Mr and Mrs S. But that isnt an unqualified right.
The hospital bill
URV says the cost of every type of medical treatment performed in the USA is 
reviewed at a federal level annually. URV says it uses the guidelines as a benchmark 
when deciding whether the amounts charged are reasonable. It says it then pays a 
certain percentage above this, which its disclosed to our Service.
URV has accepted responsibility for the sums due under the invoices and hasnt 
suggested that any of the procedures which are itemised, shouldnt have been 
charged for  or shouldnt be paid at all. It has simply said the amounts charged are 
unreasonably excessive. Its not provided a copy of the specific guidelines it has 
relied on to support the amounts it has paid to the healthcare provider for the medical 
care Mr and Mrs Ss child received in 2018.
This means I havent been provided with a clear explanation of how URV has used 
the information in the guidelines it has referred to in order to reach a conclusion on 
what reasonable payment would be. Its simply explained that theyve added a 
percentage figure to the amounts set out in the guidelines which they consider to be 
reasonable.
Without any clear information and data showing which figures URV has used for 
each code on the invoices, Im not satisfied that the items charged for on the invoices 
are equivalent to those drawn by URV from the guidelines or correspond to figures 
for the hospital where Mr and Mrs Ss child received emergency treatment. Nor, have 
I been shown anything to convince me that the guidelines establish a valid 
benchmark for the fair market value of services provided outside the US 
Medicare/Medicaid systems to which they relate. So, Im not persuaded the invoices 
are excessive or out of line with what might be charged. But in any case, even if the 
guidelines do support URVs decision to not pay the outstanding amount, Im not 
satisfied it has acted fairly and reasonably in the way it has handled this particular 
claim.
Mr and Mrs S said they planned to return to the same area of the USA and that if 
they needed to access treatment theyd probably be directed to the same doctor and 
hospital as it is in the vicinity of the tourist attraction theyd revisit with their young 
family. So, although URV has given them some reassurances, they remain worried 
and concerned by the outstanding bills.
The policy allows URV to take over, and deal with the defence/settlement of any 
claim made under the policy in Mr and Mrs Ss name. But I do expect it to do so in a fair and reasonable way  and I must have regard to the law, the relevant industry 
rules and regulations, and good practice. URV has a duty to deal with claims 
promptly and fairly and to act with due skill, care and diligence, paying due regard to 
Mr and Mrs Ss interests and treating them fairly. I dont think its done that in this 
case.
URV took a unilateral decision to only pay part of the invoices. I havent seen any 
evidence that it discussed its approach with Mr and Mrs S before doing so. In its final 
response to Mr and Mrs Ss complaint, URV said:
Please note that all medical invoices have been paid at a usual, customary and
reasonable rate for the service they provided to [redacted]. The amount being
claimed is excessive and we have evidence that US insurers would not be charged at
anywhere near the same levels. We hope you understand why it is important that we
take a stand against abusive charging.
We want to encourage [redacted] to engage with us in a bid to reach a resolution on
this matter. Unfortunately, it can be difficult to meet a common ground as [redacted]
are chasing very inflated medical charges and will only settle if the insurer pays in
marked excess of what the insurer is obligated to outlay per the terms and conditions
of the insurance contract
If [redacted] proves that their clients original charges were reasonable (which is very
unlikely) we will be the one who will be making further payment 
But, despite saying that they wanted to encourage the debt collector to engage with 
them to resolve the matter there is no evidence that is what has happened in this 
case. Instead, theyve told the provider what they are prepared to pay and have 
asked the other parties not to contact Mr and Mrs S directly in relation to the 
outstanding amount.
Whilst nobody could suggest that engaging with the other parties will lead to a 
reasonable settlement being achieved in every case, in many cases it may do so; 
and Ive seen nothing to suggest that it couldnt have been productive in this case. 
Before engagement with the other parties is abandoned in a case like this, I would 
normally expect to see an insurer explain and justify its position by reference to the 
particular items in dispute, take on board any response it receives and advance 
arguments addressed to the particular issues in dispute to try to persuade the 
healthcare provider to accept the sum being offered, or reach a mutually acceptable 
compromise.
Bearing in mind the rules and regulations set out above, I havent seen any evidence 
that URV has sufficiently engaged with the hospital or the debt collector. And it didnt 
actively seek a compromise or actively engage in negotiation even though it said it 
that is what it wanted to do in this case. So, I consider this to be unreasonable and 
unfair to Mr and Mrs S.
URV needs to act fairly in each individual case. It also has a duty to fairly manage 
any conflicts between its own interests and those of Mr and Mrs S. I dont think it has 
had due regard to their interests here. And I think it has unreasonably put its own 
commercial interests above Mr and Mrs Ss without considering their specific 
circumstances. I dont think its fair to continue to subject Mr and Mrs S to a 
protracted dispute considering that Mr and Mrs Ss child was admitted to hospital 
nearly three years ago and the continuing trouble and worry this is causing to them. I 
dont think URV has considered the impact of its actions as it is required to do.Ive considered everything URV has said as outlined above. But URV doesnt have 
the absolute right to partially settle or defend a case in accordance with its own 
practices or interests  it still must act fairly and reasonably when doing so  and 
must have regard to the interests of the policyholder. I dont think its done that here.
I dont think its fair and reasonable that Mr and Mrs S have been put in this position. 
They purchased travel insurance which covers medical attention and they dont 
expect to be exposed, without a very good reason, to continuing action from debt 
collectors years after visiting an overseas hospital and meeting the excess under the 
policy  and looking at the circumstances of this case, URV doesnt seem to have 
handled the claim in a way that sufficiently took account of the impact on Mr and Mrs 
S.
The doctors bill
I understand that this part of the claim has not yet been finalised due to the 
healthcare facility not providing bank account details. URV hasnt made concerted 
efforts to resolve this beyond asking for the bank details on two occasions since the 
claim was first made. So, I appreciate Mr and Mrs Ss concerns about what may 
happen if they need to use the services of this facility again as no payment has been 
made yet, even if the debt isnt being pursued.
My finding is that by the date of this decision, this particular part of the claim hasnt 
been sufficiently supported (because no bank account details have yet been given) 
for URV to be reasonably required to pay it. So, I make no findings as to the 
reasonableness of URVs conduct after this decision, and this could be considered by 
this service if there is another complaint about the doctors bill at a later date.
putting things right
DISP 3.7.1R says that where a complaint is determined in favour of a complainant 
the ombudsmans determination may include a direction to the respondent, which in 
this case is URV.
DISP 3.7.11R also provides that a direction may require the respondent, here URV to 
take such steps in relation to the complaint as the ombudsman considers just and 
appropriate whether or not a court could order those steps to be taken.
I accept that, because the healthcare providers bill hasnt been agreed or 
adjudicated, there isnt an ascertained legal liability on Mr and Mrs S to pay the 
balance of the bill to the healthcare provider, so URVs duty to indemnify them by 
paying that balance hasnt been triggered. But in this particular case, Im persuaded 
its fair and reasonable for URV to do so.
Thats because, for the reasons Ive set out above, I dont think there is sufficient 
evidence that the invoices were excessive, and, I dont think URV has acted fairly 
and reasonably in the way in which it has taken over the handling of the defence or 
settlement of the healthcare providers claim against Mr and Mrs S.
When making this finding, Ive taken into account that it may be possible for URV to
negotiate a reduction in the amounts charged by the healthcare provider and agree a 
figure less than the outstanding amount. However, its had since 2018 to do so, and 
hasnt. And so, in the circumstances of this particular case, Im satisfied it would be fair and reasonable for URV to be required to settle the outstanding amount without 
further delay.
URV had made an offer of compensation of £300. Bearing in mind the distress and
inconvenience caused by the unnecessary worry of their young daughter being sent 
a significant volume of correspondence by debt collectors, and the time Mr and Mrs S 
have spent dealing with this, I dont think this fairly reflects the distress and 
inconvenience caused.
Im intending to increase this to £400 as I think theyve been caused a lot of 
unnecessary worry over a, relatively, small outstanding invoice.
Within 28 days from the date on which we tell it that Mr and Mrs S accept our final 
decision I direct URV to:
pay the outstanding amount to the healthcare provider  together with any interest
due on the outstanding amount and any collection fees Mr and Mrs S are liable for,
and
pay Mr and Mrs S a total of £400 compensation for the trouble and upset caused, if
this hasnt already been paid.
Mr and Mrs S accepted my provisional decision. URV didnt make any further 
representations about my substantive findings but they did propose an alternative resolution 
to the complaint. URV said: 
They wanted to continue to dispute the unjust medical bill and asked for 
Mr and Mrs Ss help to do so. They said that Mr and Mrs S could forward on any 
correspondence to URV and, in recognition of the added distress and, as a thank for 
their support, they would increase the offer of compensation to £750 
They were willing to appoint and pay for a legal representative for Mr and Mrs S to 
stop further correspondence and so they could deal with the debt collector directly. 
They said they couldnt confirm that the debt collector would stop corresponding with 
Mr and Mrs S but it would hopefully provide them with reassurance. 
Our investigator put URVs proposed offer to Mr and Mrs S. They rejected the offer saying 
that they felt it didnt resolve the situation but prolonged it. They said it was nearly three 
years since the original costs were incurred and URV had ample time to resolve the 
situation. They asked me to make a final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
URV hasnt put forward any further evidence or arguments in relation to their handling of the 
claim, including their assertion that the medical bill is inflated or unjustified and their decision 
to only settle the claim in part. So, theres no reason for me to reach different conclusions on 
these points to those which I reached in my provisional decision. 
Ive taken into account URVs further offer to resolve this complaint which is to increase the 
compensation and appoint a solicitor. I dont think this is a fair and reasonable outcome in 
the circumstances and I remain satisfied that URV should settle the outstanding bills instead. It is approaching three years since these expenses were incurred. And, as I explained in my 
decision, URV accepted the claim and liability for those expenses. So, I think theyve had 
enough time to resolve this dispute via other methods and to take steps to give 
Mr and Mrs S reassurance about their handling of the claim. Theyve chosen not to do so 
and I dont think its fair and reasonable to expect Mr and Mrs S to give them more time to 
negotiate the bill. 
When making this finding, Ive taken into account that it may be possible for URV to
negotiate a reduction in the amounts charged by the healthcare provider and agree a figure 
less than the outstanding amount. However, its had since 2018 to do so, and hasnt. And so, 
in the circumstances of this particular case, Im satisfied it would be fair and reasonable for 
URV to settle the outstanding amount without further delay.
Putting things right
Within 28 days from the date on which we tell it that Mr and Mrs S accept our final decision I 
direct URV to:
pay the outstanding amount to the healthcare provider  together with any interest
due on the outstanding amount and any collection fees Mr and Mrs S are liable for,
and
pay Mr and Mrs S a total of £400 compensation for the trouble and upset caused for 
the reasons I set out in my provisional decision and above (if this hasnt already been 
paid).
My final decision
 Im upholding Mr and Mrs Ss complaint and direct Union Reiseversicherung AG to put 
things right in the way Ive outlined above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S and Mrs S to 
accept or reject my decision before 25 February 2021.
 
Anna Wilshaw
Ombudsman