DRN-3906891
The complaint
Mr P has complained that HSBC Bank Plc has unreasonably refused to refund him a total of 
£11,127.25 of disputed transactions when his drinks were spiked when he was abroad. Mr P 
says he doesnt remember doing any of these transactions. 
What happened
Mr P was abroad and visited a nightclub on 16 April 2022. He ordered some drinks and 
thought he was due to pay £60 odd but found out later he was charged over £600. 
He also later found out that several more transactions had been done on his card during that 
evening without his knowledge. They totalled over £11,000. He only found this out because 
HBSC sent him a text about pending transactions to which he answered N. Mr P said he 
was then instructed to contact HSBC which he did where his card and PIN were cancelled. 
Mr P still had his card on his person. And he said he was told HSBC would contact him the 
following day. At this stage the transactions were still pending. He didnt receive the call so 
phoned twice chasing the fraud team. Then he noticed the transactions left his account on 
19 April 2022. 
HSBC phoned him on 20 April 2022 and ultimately decided not to refund the transactions. 
He felt his drinks had been spiked as he had no recollection of these transactions occurring 
bar the initial one for the £60 odd. The police also explained this could be a possibility as it 
was a fairly common occurrence in the country he was visiting.
So, Mr P brought his complaint to us. The investigator partially upheld his complaint. The 
disputed transactions took place over a two-and-a-half-hour period, increasing in value all 
the time. He felt HSBC should have intervened earlier given the unusual spending pattern. 
Therefore, he was of the view that HSBC should refund a total of £9,801.79 plus interest and 
pay Mr P £100 compensation. 
Mr P agreed but as HSBC didnt Mr Ps complaint has been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so Im upholding this complaint along the same lines as the investigator. Ill now 
explain why. 
Given Mr P had his card the following day and it wasnt lost or stolen, I dont consider a 
fraudster would have taken his card and done the transactions and then put his card back 
again. The Payment Service Regulations (PSRs) are clear that being drunk or drugged 
doesnt invalidate Mr P consenting to these transactions which appear both authorised and 
authenticated. So, I consider the transactions were authorised under the PSRs on the 
unlikeliness of a fraudster taking the card and then putting it back. And they were 
authenticated because the chip and PIN were used.
And sadly although Mr P thought the first transaction should have been the cost of drinks at 
£68.00, the fact that £681.27 was debited instead is not something the PSRs hold a bank 
liable for as it is the responsibility of the consumer, Mr P here, to check the terminal for the 
amount before completing the transaction by inputting the PIN.
The transactions happened as follows:
17/4/22 at 02.25 £618.27 + £18.73
17/4/22 at 03.11 £626.06
17/4/22 at 03.32 £1,311.03
17/4/22 at 04.05 £1,504.57
17/4/22 at 04.30 £1,842.84
17/4/22 at 05.00 £5,142.75
17/4/22 at 05.30 £5,367.14 which was declined due to insufficient funds
17/4/22 at 05.32 £3,033.63 which HSBSs system declined for potential fraud
Looking at the pattern of these transactions, while the transactions were all authorised with 
the chip and PIN, it does look like something untoward was happening here. Ive seen no 
compelling evidence Mr P was purchasing goods or services for such a high value. And the 
value of spending is very out of character for the account from the statements. So, I think it 
more likely than not Mr P was authorising the transactions, but he was being presented with 
significantly inflated amounts in an unfamiliar currency.
The PSRs state that a bank is supposed to process authorised and authenticated payments 
without delay. However, it is good industry practice that banks have systems in place to 
monitor accounts and counter such risks as money laundering, financing terrorism, and 
preventing scams and frauds, regardless of which payment channel is used too. These 
systems should look for unusual transactions or unusual patterns of spending so that not 
only are payments declined due to insufficient funds but also declined to protect consumers 
from the considerable and increased risk of frauds of scams which the media reports virtually 
daily.  
Like the investigator I think HSBCs systems could have stepped in earlier to protect Mr Ps 
account. Whilst Mr P has made large transactions in the past, we can see from his 
statements that those transactions were made on line and made one at a time not several 
debit card transactions over such a short  period of time like here, or indeed when Mr P was 
abroad.  
HSBC said in its response to the investigators view that the transactions were not fraudulent 
because it was Mr P doing the transactions. HSBCs systems are a fraud detection system 
so isnt there to prevent genuine consumers from transacting. It did pick up when the 
transaction pattern began to mirror that of potentially fraudulent usage. It didnt agree that 
this service could interfere on how to operate its fraud detection systems. However, like the 
investigator said, I consider this sort of experience Mr P had is relatively common and put Mr 
P at risk of financial harm. This type of scam is well known to this service and obviously the 
banks too. And in the particular circumstances of this complaint I consider its reasonable to consider if HSBC could have done more to protect Mr P from financial harm given it did 
finally detect the potentially fraudulent usage and stopped it continuing. 
Mr P has confirmed that the police investigation is still continuing. If he had been spiked as 
he believes he was, any toxicology report may be fairly worthless since the drugs which tend 
to be used to spike are those that leave the body quickly so there is difficulty in detecting 
them. 
So, I consider it is reasonable to conclude that HSBC could have moved quicker to protect 
Mr P from financial harm. By the third transaction, the amounts being debited had doubled, 
and in just over an hour. So, in the circumstances I would expect HSBC to take action by the 
third transaction and attempt to gain an understanding of the activity on his account. If they 
had done so, I think it likely Mr P would have realised he was being overcharged and left the 
premises.
Ive also considered whether Mr P should bear some responsibility for the loss. He already is 
bearing some responsibility here, as Im not asking HSBC to refund the first two 
transactions. Mr Ps recollection of what happened isnt complete. But Im not persuaded that 
Mr P missed any obvious warning signs that he was being overcharged  being that in the 
circumstances he was using an unfamiliar currency. In any event HSBC have more 
knowledge and experience in these types of cases to notice when something is going wrong.
On that basis Im not minded to make any deduction for any contributory negligence, in this 
instance.
Therefore, in the particular circumstances of this complaint I consider its fair and reasonable 
for HSBC to refund Mr P from the third transaction onwards adding interest. That amounts to 
a total of £9,801.79 plus interest.
I also consider a payment of £100 compensation to Mr P for the inconvenience caused by 
HSBC not stepping sooner is also fair. 
My final decision
So, for these reasons its my final decision that I am partially upholding this complaint. 
I now require HSBC Bank Plc to do the following:
Refund Mr P the sum of £9,801.79.
Add interest of 8% simple per year from the date of the transactions to the date of the 
refund. If income tax is to be deducted from the interest, appropriate documentation 
should be provided to Mr P for HMRC purposes.
Pay Mr P the sum of £100 compensation. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision before 27 June 2023.
 
Rona Doyle
Ombudsman