DRN-4326494
The complaint
Mrs W complained because Santander UK plc refused to refund her for transactions on her 
credit card totalling £2,628.50, which she said she didnt make. 
What happened
On 30 April 2022, Mrs W received an email from Santander, saying that 90% of her credit 
card limit of £3,000 had been used. She couldnt get through to Santander by phone, so 
went to the branch where shed opened the account some years before. The transactions 
which Mrs W didnt recognise were:
- £20.90 at 4:36 am on 23 February to an international money transfer company;
- Four £301.90 payments to the same company at 20:10 pm on 27 March, 8 April (at 
16:54 and another at 18:29), and at 23:50 on 13 April;
- Two £300 payments to a cryptocurrency organisation on 20 April (two payments, one 
at 19:34 and another at 20:26);
- Two £300 payments to the same international money transfer company on 28 April 
(at 10:59 and 23:16), and one £200 payment to the same company on 29 April (at 
21:12). 
 Mrs W said the branch staff were very helpful and noted that these transactions didnt 
conform to her usual spending patterns. She normally used her card for food shopping at a 
number of the larger supermarkets which she used regularly. Mrs W didnt have paper 
statements, and paid her card by monthly direct debit.
In early May, Mrs W received a letter from Santander, saying it had tried to phone her and 
asked her to ring back. When she did, Santander told her that the last disputed transactions 
had been verified by a one-time passcode being sent to her mobile number, which had then 
been accurately typed into the device making each payment. 
Mrs W complained, saying she hadnt received a one-time passcode. She said her phone 
was a pay-as-you-go phone and wasnt a smart phone, so she questioned how the 
transactions had been authorised. She also said that the transactions didnt match her usual 
spending, so Santander shouldnt have let them go through.
Mrs W also contacted her phone provider, and the police, and her husband tried to contact 
the recipient organisations to try to find out where the disputed money transfers had been 
sent to. She also got her laptop reviewed by an IT professional who found no malware or 
viruses which could transmit information without her knowledge.
On 24 June, Santander wrote to Mrs W. It said that as Mrs W had said her phone didnt 
leave her, and that she hadnt given anyone else one-time-passcodes, there was no 
evidence that the payments could have been made by any third party. Santander 
acknowledge that the transactions didnt match Mrs Ws usual spending, but said the one-
time-passcodes sent to her mobile for all but the smaller initial payment, were a second level 
of security. And as the one-time-passcodes had been entered correctly, Santander had had 
no concerns about the payments.
Santander also said that before a one-time-passcode is sent out, its systems checked 
whether the SIM in a phone had been swapped. This came back confirming there hadnt 
been a swap. Mrs Ws phone provider had told her that this hadnt happened. 
Mrs Ws phone provider also told her that her phone showed no records either of incoming 
calls, nor of incoming text messages for one-time-passcodes. It explained that pay-as-you-
go phone didnt keep the records of text messages sent and received, but that wasnt the 
case for incoming phone calls. Santander said that using one-time-passcodes for 
authentication met with current banking regulations for fraud prevention.
Mrs W didnt accept this. Santander wrote again in late August, but didnt change its 
decision, because it said it had sent out one-time-passcodes.
Mrs W wasnt satisfied and contacted this service. She said that she hadnt authorised the 
transactions and hadnt received any one-time-passcodes. She said she didnt believe 
Santander had done enough to prevent fraudulent activity on her credit card, when the 
payments didnt match her normal spend. She also said that she didnt have access to online 
banking apps through her phone, and although Santander said it had tried to contact her 
several times on her mobile, she hadnt received any calls  which her phone provider had 
checked and confirmed. She said the transactions hadnt been made from her computer, but 
Santander still believed shed made the transactions. Mrs W said she lived with her husband 
and one of her sons, with her other son visiting and staying overnight occasionally.
Mrs W also said that shed contacted the two organisations which had received the funds, 
but they couldnt give her information about the recipients because of data protection. Shed 
paid the balance off the card so she didnt incur interest, and had a replacement card where 
shed reduced the credit limit to protect herself. But as well as the financial loss, she said it 
had caused her and her family a lot of stress, and had taken up a lot of time through visiting 
branches, phone calls, emails and sending correspondence.
Mrs W also told our investigator that her phone, which didnt have internet access and wasnt 
a smartphone, normally lived on a table in her living room, or in an inside coat pocket if she 
went out. But it wasnt normally switched on  so it would have been difficult for any one-
time-passcode to have been verified during the five-minute time limit shed been told was 
required by Santanders security system. She said no-one else had access to her phone 
apart from her husband and sons, but they had their own phones so wouldnt have any use 
for hers.
Mrs W also said that she and her family had looked up the IP addresses (a unique computer 
identifier) from where the payments had been sent. She said that they appeared to be in a 
city centre, a long way from her home address. She said shed mentioned this to Santander, 
but it still believed Mrs W had authorised the transactions.
Our investigator didnt uphold Mrs Ws complaint. She said that Mrs Ws mobile number was 
the same as the number on Santanders records, to which a one-time-passcode had been 
sent. The investigator said that based on what Santander, and Mrs Ws phone provider, had 
said, it wasnt likely that the SIM in her phone had been swapped. The investigator said that 
the transactions were properly authenticated using the one-time-passcode which had been 
sent to Mrs Ws registered mobile number.
Mrs W didnt agree. She said that the investigator had only considered the first seven 
transactions and not the three on 28 and 29 April. We contacted Santander, which agreed to 
these being considered, and Ive included them in the above information about what 
happened.Mrs W also said that:
- most of her normal transactions were for food shopping at local supermarkets. She 
said she had also made a very small number of transactions to companies for goods 
to be delivered to her home. But the large transactions to the international payment 
transfer company, and the cryptocurrency organisation, were so far removed from 
her normal spend that she couldnt understand why Santander believed shed 
authorised them; 
- her phone company and Santander had said her SIM within her phone hadnt been 
swapped, so she accepted that. But she said shed never received a text message 
containing a one-time-passcode to her phone. Mrs W said her son had been looking 
into possible technical answers to why shed never received the codes on her phone. 
She sent links to a number of articles which said that third parties could redirect text 
messages or calls, to another device  a phone or computer which the third party 
owned. She said that the articles mention that banks are aware of the security issues 
around the use of text messages as a way of sending verification to authorise 
transactions. And she said that this would explain why she never received either the 
one-time passcodes  or any of Santanders subsequent phone calls to her. For 
example, Santander had said it tried to ring her three times on 26 April to speak to 
her about the amount of credit left  and even if her phone had been switched off, 
thered have been a record of these calls on the phone. 
- Mrs W said Santander was basing the whole of its defence on the fact that one-time-
passcodes had been sent through text; that theyd reached her; and that shed 
submitted them. But if the information in the articles was right, it was possible that 
both she and Santander had been the victims of fraud.
Mrs W asked for an ombudsmans decision.
My provisional findings
I issued a provisional decision on this complaint. This was because Id come to a different 
conclusion to the investigator. Issuing a provisional decision gave both sides the opportunity 
to comment on it, by the date set, before I issued a final decision  
Before issuing the provisional decision, I considered all the available evidence and 
arguments to decide what would be fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this 
complaint.
Regulations
In my provisional decision, I explained that in these circumstances there are regulations 
which govern disputed transactions. The relevant regulations here are the Payment Services 
Regulations 2017. In general terms, the bank is liable if the customer didnt authorise the 
payments, and the customer is liable if they did authorise them. 
So I carefully considered who I thought was most likely to have authorised the disputed 
payments.
Is Mrs W likely to have authorised the payments herself?
I could see from Mrs Ws statements that it was clear that the disputed transactions were 
indeed very different in nature from Mrs Ws normal spend. Her credit card statements 
showed a pattern of supermarket spend and very occasional other small transactions, which looked like payment for goods to be delivered to her home, as she said. I saw no other 
transactions to international money transfer organisations, or cryptocurrency organisations. 
I also considered Mrs Ws circumstances. These included her mobile being with her at 
home, turned off, during the day unless shes going out. Mrs W didnt use any banking apps 
and only authorised small internet payments infrequently using her computer, for specific 
small purchases. This isnt a typical profile for anyone who is likely to be comfortable making 
large internet payments either to international money transfer organisations or to 
cryptocurrency organisations.
I also bore in mind the time of day when the disputed transactions took place. The first one 
took place at 4.36am and was a small payment for £20.90. I think its most likely that this 
was a test by whoever made the transactions, to see whether it would be spotted before 
making a further payment. The larger payments took place after Mrs W  who didnt have 
paper statements to check  didnt immediately raise the alarm. The later transactions then 
took place in the late afternoon or evening, and in one instance just before midnight. As Mrs 
W appears to have been generally at home during the daytimes, I thought that if shed 
authorised the payments herself, shed have done so during the day, not at these times.
Santander provided us with the IP addresses (a unique computer identifier) for the disputed 
transactions. There was a range of IP addresses, most of which were in a large city several 
hundred miles away from the rural area where Mrs W lives. There were some recorded log-
ins, on 22 February and 3 March, which used an IP address which had been used to log into 
Mrs Ws online banking before. There are no payments on those dates, so its possible that 
someone else was trying to log on to check access. IP addresses can be disguised or 
hidden, but its also possible that whoever carried out the transactions was away for work, or 
was being assisted by someone else.
Mrs W had also been very active in pursuing her claim. Shed gone to a lot of trouble:  
visiting her phone provider many times; going to her Santander branch many times; 
researching IP addresses and how secure one-time-passcodes are; trying to contact the 
firms which received the money from her account; as well as contacting the police and 
Action Fraud. She also got her laptop checked by an IT professional for any malware or 
viruses, which would have incurred a cost. Its not impossible that someone who had actually 
authorised the transactions themselves might do some of this to make their claim appear 
genuine. But I thought that going to all this trouble persuaded me that Mrs W was more likely 
than not unaware of the transactions shes disputing, and didnt consent to them in any way.
So for all these reasons I thought it was unlikely that Mrs W authorised the disputed 
transactions herself. 
Who else might have authorised the payments?
Mrs W said she hadnt had her phone or card lost or stolen. She hadnt received any cold 
calls, emails or texts, or divulged her card details to anyone. But the transactions did take 
place, so someone must have obtained her details. 
Mrs W provided links to online information, which she said one of her sons researched for 
her, which said that a one-time-passcode security system can easily be got round. These 
said that third parties can redirect text messages or calls, to another device  a phone or 
computer which the third party owned. Some of the website information provided by Mrs W 
is very general, and I wasnt persuaded that something so unusual was the answer here.  It 
was much more likely that whoever carried out the transactions had access to Mrs Ws 
phone, received the one-time passcodes, then deleted them from the phone.The key issue was that whoever carried out the transactions must have had regular access, 
over several months, to Mrs Ws card, Santander account details, and phone. Mrs Ws credit 
limit was £3,000, and the disputed transactions come to just over £2,600. Mrs W had some 
genuine spending too, so its likely that whoever carried out the transactions knew what Mrs 
Ws credit limit was, and stuck below that limit to avoid the transactions being stopped by 
Santander. 
So I asked for more information from the recipient organisations. One didnt reply, but we 
heard back from the international money transfer organisation to which eight of the ten 
disputed transactions had been sent. I asked it to tell us about the account to which Mrs Ws 
money had gone, and it sent us information about the name of the individual to whose 
account the credits went. For data protection, we arent allowed to provide Mrs W with the 
name of that person. But we could tell her that it was someone with the same surname as 
her, and the first name tallied with one of the names shed mentioned as being part of her 
household.
In the provisional decision, I recognised this was a very difficult message. But it also 
explained many of the features of these transactions. Someone who had access to Mrs Ws 
home was in the best position to obtain her card details, and her phone. For example, it 
would explain the odd times of day when they took place.
We gave Mrs W the limited information we could pass on and asked for her comments. Mrs 
W was understandably interested in exploring any other possibilities, instead of the 
conclusion to which the new information led. She suggested that Santander might have 
disclosed her information to a fraudster; she asked if we could force a reply from the 
cryptocurrency organisation to which the other two of the ten payments went; or thought 
someone unknown to her might have used the dark web to obtain her personal data to make 
the transactions.  
We exchanged several emails, but my view remained that it was most likely that someone 
known to Mrs W, with access to her home and her phone and security details, carried out all 
ten transactions. I explained that it wasnt my view that Santander had either carried out the 
disputed transactions itself, or disclosed her details to a third party. Clearly it would have 
been helpful to have a reply from the cryptocurrency organisation which received two 
payments, as well as the international payment organisation which received eight payments. 
But neither the cryptocurrency organisation nor the international payment organisation had 
been under any obligation to respond, and we were fortunate that the latter chose to be 
helpful. But it was unlikely that different individuals would have been able to take money out 
of Mrs Ws account, because the use of her phone, security details, and timing of the 
payments indicated it was someone with access to her home. So I considered it was likely 
that all ten payments were carried out by, and benefitted, the same person. 
I didnt think it likely that the dark web had been involved, as the evidence didnt point to this 
being likely. And if a third party fraudster had obtained her details, it wasnt at all likely that 
theyd have credited an account in the name of a person with the same name as one of Mrs 
Ws other three household members.  Whoever opened the account would also have had to 
provide identity in that name.
Transactions carried out by a household member without the account holders consent  
what the Regulations say
As I set out above, a customer is liable if theyve authorised the transactions, and I accepted 
on the evidence that Mrs W didnt authorise them. I thought it was most likely that they were 
carried out by a member of her family with access to her card and phone, so I looked at the 
Regulations about this situation. These transactions were carried out on a credit card, and slightly different rules apply from 
transactions on a debit card.  On a debit card, the account holder can be liable if theyve not 
kept their devices and details secure, as it can under certain circumstances count as gross 
negligence. But that doesnt apply on a credit card. And in any event, Mrs W wouldnt have 
expected to need to hide her phone and security information from a family member whom 
she trusted. 
As I had concluded that Mrs W was unaware of the disputed transactions and didnt 
authorise them herself, I found that she wasnt liable for the disputed transactions under the 
Regulations, so Santander should refund her. Nor could I see any other reason why it would 
be fair and reasonable for Santander to hold Mrs W liable for the transactions here. But, for 
completeness, I also considered whether Santander should have blocked the transactions 
as they were attempted.
Should Santander have blocked the transactions? 
Banks have an obligation to process the payments its customers authorise it to make. 
Theres a balance between intervening to prevent fraud, and the risk of unnecessarily 
inconveniencing or delaying legitimate transactions. I would expect a banks systems to take 
into account whether transactions were out of character and unusual. This uses a range of 
features, and as a security issue the exact algorithm wouldnt be made public. But Id expect 
it to include, for instance, whether the amount of the payments was out of character and 
unusual. 
The disputed transactions were out of character for Mrs Ws account, both in size and 
amount, but also in terms of going to an international money transfer organisation and to a 
cryptocurrency organisation. Santander sent one-time passcode for all but the smallest of 
the transactions, but that wouldnt be any protection if, as I considered likely, they were 
carried out by someone with access to Mrs Ws device. The one-time passcodes would have 
been received by, and the payments confirmed by, that person. 
So I considered that although the first, £20.90 payment, was small and might not have been 
stopped, I think Santander could have blocked the remaining nine payments in any case.  In 
practice, however, this makes little difference because Mrs W didnt authorise the payments, 
so under the Regulations, Santander has to refund Mrs W for all ten unauthorised payments. 
So my provisional decision was that I intended to uphold this complaint, and to order 
Santander UK plc to pay Mrs W:
- £2,628.50, representing her financial loss for the ten disputed transactions which she 
didnt authorise; and
- Interest at 8% simple on this amount, from the dates of each of the ten disputed 
transactions to the date of payment; and 
- If Santander deducts tax from the interest on the award, it should provide Mrs W with 
a tax deduction certificate to show how much it has deducted, in order to allow Mrs W 
to reclaim the tax from HMRC if appropriate to her personal circumstances.
Responses to my provisional decision
Mrs W didnt reply to the provisional decision by the date set.
Santander asked for some more information from Mrs W. It asked for the crime reference 
number from when Mrs W first contacted the police. It also asked, in order to reduce future risk, what security precautions Mrs W is now taking with her credit card and mobile phone to 
prevent this happening in future.
Mrs W answered Santanders questions, and we passed her reply on to Santander. 
Santander didnt comment further by the date set.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having reconsidered, I find that my original conclusions were fair and reasonable in all the 
circumstances of this complaint.
Its clear from the circumstances of this sad case, and Mrs Ws responses, that the theft 
which took place has had a significant impact on Mrs W, and has changed the way she and 
her family live. Im sorry that this has been so distressing, and I suggest that she might find it 
helpful to contact Victim Support. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint. I order Santander UK plc to pay Mrs W:
- £2,628.50, representing her financial loss for the ten disputed transactions which she 
didnt authorise; and
- Interest at 8% simple on this amount, from the dates of each of the ten disputed 
transactions to the date of payment; and 
- If Santander deducts tax from the interest on the award, it should provide Mrs W with 
a tax deduction certificate to show how much it has deducted, in order to allow Mrs W 
to reclaim the tax from HMRC if appropriate to her personal circumstances.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs W to accept or 
reject my decision before 28 September 2023.
 
Belinda Knight
Ombudsman