DRN-1438772
 
The complaint
Mrs J is unhappy that HSBC UK Bank Plc will not waive the early repayment charge (ERC) 
on her mortgage.
What happened
On 10 December 2018 Mrs J switched her mortgage product onto a new product with HSBC. 
She borrowed approximately £87,000 on a capital repayment basis over a term of 20 years. 
The first three years of the mortgage were at a fixed rate of 1.95%. If the mortgage was 
redeemed early, an ERC would apply of 1% of the amount repaid early (above any 
overpayment allowance provided for in the mortgage offer). 
The mortgage offer also said:
If you move house and buy another house during the fixed rate period we may agree 
to lend you up to the same amount as the balance of, and in the same proportions as 
your existing loan parts at the same fixed rate for the remainder of the fixed rate 
period of each part, provided that you met the conditions stated in the HSBC 
Mortgage Loan Terms.
In May 2019 Mrs J wanted to move house and port (transfer) her mortgage product onto the 
new property. In response to her enquiry, HSBC said it could lend her a maximum of 
£152,000, subject to meeting lending criteria. 
Mrs J was issued with a redemption statement which showed there would be an ERC of just 
under £1,600 to pay. For a suitable property meeting HSBCs lending criteria, the ERC 
would be reimbursed if the mortgage product was ported onto that property.
In September 2019 Mrs J she wanted to buy a property using the Governments Help To Buy 
(HTB) scheme. Under this scheme the Government grants an equity loan of up to 20% of the 
value of a new build home (40% in London). For the first five years, no interest is charged 
and then after that interest is payable. The loan is repayable after 25 years, or earlier if the 
property is sold, at 20% (or 40% if in London) of the propertys current value.
However, HSBC had decided not to participate in the HTB scheme. This meant Mrs J had to 
find a new lender and redeem her mortgage with HSBC. Mrs J asked HSBC to waive the 
ERC. HSBC declined to do so. 
Mrs J thought this was unfair. She said the Government had created a scheme to help 
people, but HSBCs stance is to penalise customers through no fault of their own.
The mortgage was repaid in in November 2019, when Mrs J moved to her new property, with 
a mortgage from another lender.
Mrs J complained to the Financial Ombudsman Service, where her complaint was 
considered by an investigator. The investigator didnt think HSBC had done anything wrong 
and so didnt uphold the complaint. She said that, although the mortgage could be ported, it 
would need to meet HSBCs lending criteria. Because HSBC didnt participate in the HTB 
scheme, it wasnt unfair that HSBC declined to waive the ERC.
Dissatisfied with the investigators response, Mrs J asked for an ombudsman to review the 
complaint. Mrs J has made some further points. She said she needed to use HTB in order to 
buy a better house. 
Mrs J says that HSBC left her with no choice but to repay the mortgage. Mrs J questions 
whether HSBCs stance is line with the Financial Conduct Authoritys policy on treating 
customers fairly, because HSBC is failing to support a scheme set up by the Government.
As the matter is unresolved, it falls to me to issue a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I confirm Ive take careful note of everything Mrs J has said. Its correct that the mortgage 
product could be ported onto another property, if the application met HSBCs lending criteria. 
But, as Mrs J is aware, HSBC is not a participant in the HTB scheme, and so it wasnt 
possible to port the mortgage when Mrs J wanted to buy a property using HTB.
Mrs J didnt mention to HSBC before she took out the mortgage product that she might want 
to move during the fixed rate period using the HTB scheme. I think if she had told the bank 
this, HSBC would at that point have explained that it didnt participate in the scheme. Mrs J 
would then have had the choice either to continue with her application to HSBC or move to a 
lender which she knew would, in the future, allow her to port her mortgage onto a new 
property purchased using HTB.
The decision on whether or not to participate in the HTB scheme is a matter for HSBCs 
commercial judgment. Operational decisions such as this are not something I can interfere 
with, as I cant tell HSBC how to run its business or what products it should offer. The 
Government made participation in HTB optional for mortgage lenders. HSBC was entitled to 
decide not to take part in the scheme.
In the circumstances, I dont think HSBCs decision to decline to refund the ERC is unfair. 
Ive noted Mrs Js comments that she thinks HSBCs decision not to participate in the HTB 
scheme is a breach of the banks regulatory obligations. As I said above, there is in my 
opinion nothing untoward about HSBC deciding not to take part in the HTB scheme.
I do have sympathy for Mrs J; buying a property is an expensive business and every penny 
counts. But I cant see any basis upon which it would be fair or reasonable to expect HSBC 
to reimburse the ERC in this case.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this case.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs J to accept or 
reject my decision before 11 August 2020.
 
Jan O'Leary
Ombudsman