DRN-1596433
 
The complaint
Mr G is unhappy that Lloyds Bank plc (Lloyds) didnt reply to his letters about a complaint 
about an overdraft, ignoring his further points but sent template letters demanding 
repayment.
What happened
 Mr G has referred two complaints to our service which are linked. This decision is about the 
complaint outlined above. The other complaint has been considered separately by this 
service. 
The background to this complaint is that in April 2018 Mr G agreed to pay in three foreign 
cheques and withdraw the funds for a friend. When the cheques bounced, it left Mr G 
overdrawn by a significant amount. Lloyds then decided to close his account, giving notice of 
this and requesting repayment of the overdraft. It called Mr G about this, along with sending 
him texts and letters.
Mr G explained that the person who gave him the cheques had been acting fraudulently. He 
found out that this person had done the same thing to other people and the police were 
involved. He explained the impact that this had on him and his mental health. Lloyds took 
steps to move his account to its Customer Priority Team (CPT) that deals with vulnerable 
people. He feels that Lloyds should write off the balance in question here so he doesnt 
have to pay it back and he is unhappy with how Lloyds dealt with the financial difficulties he 
ended up in because of these situations.
Lloyds didnt feel it had done anything wrong here, but Mr G disagreed. He referred his 
complaint to this service, where our investigator didnt think it had acted unfairly either. She 
said letters from different departments and debt collection agencies were part of any banks 
process in seeking repayment of debts. Lloyds had moved Mr Gs account to CPT once it 
knew about his health but without ongoing contact it had been passed back to other 
departments, generating more letters. 
She said Lloyds had acted reasonably by following the terms and conditions of the account 
and the regulatory rules and standards set out in the Banking Conduct of Business 
sourcebook (BCOBS).
Mr G didnt agree his complaint had been addressed. He felt that Lloyds hadnt been clear 
with how it dealt with the situation. It kept sending him letters he didnt realise his complaint 
was closed. They had never explained how he could draw the funds before the cheques had 
cleared. He felt that Lloyds had ignored him and used loopholes to avoid responsibility for 
the overdraft Lloyds was breaching pledges to help people with mental health problems. He 
wanted help sorting the issues out. Our investigator advised we couldnt meditate but 
suggested charities that might help. Mr G said he was already in contact with one.
As Mr G disagrees with our investigators view it has been passed to me to decide.What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Having done so I wont be upholding the 
complaint.
It may help to explain that here, Im only considering the complaint Mr G has made about 
how Lloyds has dealt with his financial difficulties stemming from the disputed cheques here, 
rather than the circumstances around the cheques themselves. That has been dealt with 
separately by this service.
Having done so, I know Mr G has had a difficult time and my decision will almost certainly 
disappoint him. His emails show how distressed he is and that he wanted our help to sort 
these matters out. But as an informal dispute resolution service our role is to reach a 
decision as to what is fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of a complaint. I can see 
our investigator has mentioned the help that is out there and I was pleased to see Mr G is 
already getting help in trying to deal with the situation. 
But I dont think Lloyds have done anything wrong in its dealings with him here. Lloyds 
decided that Mr G was responsible for the amount outstanding here. And in those 
circumstances, its entitled to ask Mr G to repay this and follow its processes for doing so. 
That meant contacting Mr G, by letter, phone and text messages to see if it could help him 
and to tell him what the situation was.
The letters Lloyds sent here were clearly about what Mr G owed it in terms of the overdraft. 
They explained what Lloyds was going to do and what Mr G needed to do too. Mr G feels 
that Lloyds didnt reply to him and ignored his further complaint about being a victim of fraud. 
 Because of this, he says these letters sent made him think his complaint was still ongoing.
Ive seen the letters hes mentioned here, but even if I accept there might have been a 
certain amount of confusion on Mr Gs part - I dont think its reasonable to say that these 
were about the complaint. I think they were clearly worded and were relating to Lloyds 
asking Mr G to repay what he owed. 
Lloyds made many other attempts to contact him too. Its notes say it sent three letters and 
made nine calls without success. I can understand that Mr G would have been worried about 
debt collection calls but Lloyds had a legitimate reason to contact him in the way it did. If he 
had spoken with Lloyds, it might have cleared up much confusion at an early stage.  
Banks are expected to treat customers fairly and reasonably over debt problems and I 
havent seen any evidence in these letters or contacts that theyve treated Mr G unfairly or 
unreasonably. So I do not uphold this part of the complaint.
I know my decision isnt what Mr G wanted and will be worrying for him. I encourage him to 
contact Lloyds or to speak with the charity he has been in touch with again if he hasnt 
already done so to try to resolve matters.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold the complaint against Lloyds Bank plc. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision before 14 May 2020.
Nigel BrackenOmbudsman