DRN-4127623
The complaint
Mrs F complains about the advice given by Grove Pension Solutions Limited (Grove) to 
transfer the benefits from her defined-benefit (DB) occupational pension scheme to a 
personal pension. She says the advice was unsuitable for her and believes this has caused 
a financial loss.
What happened
Mrs F approached Grove in 2015 to discuss her pension and retirement needs. I understand 
she was referred to it by a friend.  
Grove completed a fact-find to gather information about Mrs Fs circumstances and 
objectives. This showed that:
She was 55 years old and in good health. 
She was married but had no dependents (other than her partner).
She and Mr F were currently employed. 
They owned their own home which was subject to a mortgage. 
They had no savings or investments. 
They had a modest amount of credit. 
The fact-find recorded that Mrs F had the following pension arrangements: 
A deferred DB pension scheme with a transfer value of about £52,000. 
Six years service in her present employers DB scheme which was now also 
deferred.
Three years service in her present employers defined contribution (DC) pension. 
Mrs F was a current, and contributing, member of this scheme.  
Grove also carried out an assessment of Mrs Fs attitude to risk, which it said was medium. 
Following this initial contact Grove sent Mrs F an email dated of 15 April 2015. This advised 
her not to transfer her DB pension. Grove explained why it thought she should not do this. 
Mrs F responded and said that she would like to proceed anyway. Grove then said it would 
arrange this.  
On 22 April 2015, Grove sent a suitability letter about the transfer of her DB scheme to a 
personal pension. It again advised Mrs F not to transfer. The suitability report said the 
reasons that Mrs F wanted to transfer were that she:
Wanted to make repairs to her home that would cost £5,000.
Wanted to repay debts of £4,000. This would reduce her monthly outgoings by £334 
per month. 
Wanted to take a holiday abroad. 
Wanted to have the financial security of an emergency fund.
The transfer proceeded in April 2015. Mrs F invested £51,615 into a third party personal 
pension using a managed fund. 
Mrs F complained in 2021 to Grove about the suitability of the transfer advice. She said she 
thought the transfer was unsuitable for her and it had caused a loss. And whilst some of the 
documentation did explain that the transfer wasnt in her best interests, she didnt think this 
was properly explained to her, in a way that she would understand.  
Grove didnt provide a final response to Mrs Fs complaint, and she referred it to the 
Financial Ombudsman. An Investigator upheld the complaint and recommended that Grove 
pay compensation. Our Investigator didnt think it was right to say that Mrs F was likely to be 
an insistent customer as there were flaws in the process that Grove followed. And he agreed 
that the DB transfer wasnt likely to be in Mrs Fs best interests. 
Grove disagreed, saying:
The information given to Mrs F at the time clearly explained that the transfer was not 
in her best interests, and why this was. This was communicated to her reasonably. 
Despite the information Mrs F received she specifically asked Grove to arrange the 
transfer of her pension. Grove explained that she could borrow the funds that she 
needed, rather than transfer her DB scheme. 
The process Grove followed to treat Mrs F as an insistent customer was robust and 
met, or exceeded, the FCAs guidelines of the time. 
Even though she responded very quickly to the information report saying she 
shouldnt transfer, information had been provided to her orally already and so this 
doesnt indicate that she wasnt aware of the consequences of the transfer.
The Investigator wasnt persuaded to change their opinion, so the complaint was referred to 
me to make a final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive taken into account relevant law and regulations, regulators rules, guidance and 
standards and codes of practice, and what I consider to have been good industry practice at 
the time. This includes the Principles for Business (PRIN) and the Conduct of Business 
Sourcebook (COBS). And where the evidence is incomplete, inconclusive or contradictory, 
I reach my conclusions on the balance of probabilities  that is, what I think is more likely 
than not to have happened based on the available evidence and the wider surrounding 
circumstances.
The applicable rules, regulations and requirements
The below is not a comprehensive list of the rules and regulations which applied at the time 
of the advice, but provides useful context for my assessment of Grove's actions here.
PRIN 6: A firm must pay due regard to the interests of its customers and treat them fairly.
PRIN 7: A firm must pay due regard to the information needs of its clients, and communicate 
information to them in a way which is clear, fair and not misleading.
COBS 2.1.1R: A firm must act honestly, fairly and professionally in accordance with the best 
interests of its client (the client's best interests rule).The provisions in COBS 9 which deal with the obligations when giving a personal 
recommendation and assessing suitability. And the provisions in COBS 19 which specifically 
relate to a DB pension transfer.
Having considered all of this and the evidence in this case, Ive decided to uphold the 
complaint for largely the same reasons given by the investigator.
The regulator, the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA), states in COBS 19.1.6G that the 
starting assumption for a transfer from a DB scheme is that it is unsuitable. So, Grove should 
have only considered a transfer if it could clearly demonstrate that the transfer was in 
Mrs Fs best interests. And having looked at all the evidence available, Im not satisfied it 
was in her best interests.
Financial viability 
Grove carried out a transfer value analysis report (as required by the regulator) showing how 
much Mrs Fs pension fund would need to grow by each year in order to provide the same 
benefits as her DB scheme (the critical yield).
The advice was given during the period when the Financial Ombudsman Service was 
publishing 'discount rates' on our website for use in loss assessments where a complaint 
about a past pension transfer was being upheld. Whilst Grove wasnt required to refer to 
these rates when giving advice on pension transfers, I consider they provide a useful 
indication of what growth rates would have been considered reasonably achievable when 
the advice was given in this case. 
Mrs F was 55 at the time of the advice and wanted to retire at age 60, although the latest 
she would consider was her age 66. The critical yield required to match Mrs Fs benefits at 
age 60 was 16.25% if she took a full pension and 11.25% if she took tax free cash and a 
reduced pension. This compares with the discount rate of 5.25% per year for four years to 
retirement in this case. 
For further comparison, the regulator's upper projection rate at the time was 8%, the middle 
projection rate 5%, and the lower projection rate 2%.
I've taken this into account, along with the composition of assets in the discount rate, Mrs F's 
attitude to risk and also the term to retirement. I think Mrs F was likely to receive benefits of 
a materially lower overall value than the occupational scheme at retirement, as a result of 
investing in line with her attitude to risk.
And I do recognise that the written information from the point of sale does make it clear that 
the transfer is not financially viable. For example, in the Pension (suitability) Report it says 
that You should therefore be in no doubt that this transfer does not represent good value 
and your overall pension provision will suffer as a result of this transaction. And the other 
written information does say that Groves advice was that Mrs F shouldnt transfer her DB 
scheme as it represented poor value. 
For this reason alone, a transfer out of the DB scheme wasnt in Mrs Fs best interests. Of 
course financial viability isnt the only consideration when giving transfer advice, as Grove 
has said in this case. There might be other considerations which meant it was reasonable for 
Grove to facilitate the transfer of this pension, despite providing lower overall benefits. Ive 
considered these below, and if it was fair to treat Mrs F as an insistent customer.
Flexibility and income needsEssentially, Mrs F wanted to take the benefits from her DB scheme early and she wanted to 
release some tax free cash to repay debts, make some house repairs and taking a holiday.
But I think its established that Mrs F would have been better off looking to achieve these 
aims by staying in the DB scheme and obtaining these funds elsewhere. This is because 
these werent things she needed, rather they were things she was interested in doing. Or 
waiting to the schemes normal retirement date and taking some cash from the scheme. 
Mrs F wanted £12,000 per year in retirement according to the information gathered by 
Grove. If she took benefits from the DB scheme at age 60, she would be entitled to an 
annual income of £3,400. She was also entitled to take a tax free cash of £11,000 with a 
reduced pension of about £2,800. 
This could be added to her state retirement provision and her other DB and DC schemes, 
and it seems reasonable to say this could have met Mrs Fs retirement needs as noted in the 
fact-find.
Again I can accept that Grove, in the suitability report did also explain this. Amongst other 
things it said that:
I stressed therefore that this is clearly a very expensive way to raise funds. In fact to give 
you an idea as to how expensive, I then explained that if you release the pension now and 
then live to age 84 (in line with life expectancy) you would have lost about £13,300 in total 
pension payments. Your reaction to the above losses was to say I could just do with the 
money now. I have a pension with my current Job so I am not bothered about losing money I 
have never seen.
And it went on to say
We also discussed the advantage of borrowing the money in that repayments would be 
affordable and the amount of interest you would pay would probably be far less than the 
losses incurred with accessing the pension.  You said I do not want to get a loan under 
any circumstances.
Overall, Im satisfied Mrs F could have better met her income needs in retirement through 
the DB scheme. And looking to fund her needs through other means was the right way to go. 
Death benefits
Death benefits are an emotive subject and of course when asked, most people would like 
their loved ones to be taken care of when they die. The lump sum death benefits on offer 
through a personal pension were likely an attractive feature to Mrs F. But whilst I appreciate 
death benefits are important to consumers, and Mrs F might have thought it was a good idea 
to transfer her DB scheme to a personal pension because of this, the priority here was to 
advise Mrs F about what was best for her retirement provisions. A pension is primarily 
designed to provide income in retirement. And I dont think Grove explored to what extent 
Mrs F was prepared to accept a lower retirement income in exchange for higher death 
benefits.
I also think the existing death benefits attached to the DB scheme were underplayed. Mrs F 
was married and so the spouses pensions provided by the DB scheme wouldve been 
useful to her husband if Mrs F predeceased him. I dont think Grove made the value of this 
benefit clear enough to Mrs F. This was guaranteed and it escalated  it was not dependent on investment performance, whereas the sum remaining on death in a personal pension 
was. 
 
Overall, I dont think different death benefits available through a transfer to a personal 
pension justified the likely decrease of retirement benefits for Mrs F. 
Suitability of investments
Grove recommended that Mrs F invest in a third partys pension funds. As Im upholding the 
complaint on the grounds that a transfer out of the DB scheme wasnt suitable for Mrs F, it 
follows that I dont need to consider the suitability of the investment recommendation. This is 
because Mrs F should have remained in the DB scheme and so the investments in wouldnt 
have arisen if suitable advice had been given.
Summary
I dont doubt that the flexibility and the ready access to a lump sum on offer through a 
personal pension would have sounded like attractive features to Mrs F. But Grove wasnt 
there to just transact what Mrs F might have thought she wanted. The advisers role was to 
really understand what Mrs F needed and recommend what was in her best interests.
Ultimately, I agree that Mrs F transferring her DB scheme into a personal pension wasnt 
suitable for her. She was giving up a guaranteed, risk-free and increasing income. By 
transferring, Mrs F was very likely to obtain lower retirement benefits and in my view, there 
were no other particular reasons which would justify a transfer and outweigh this. Mrs F 
shouldnt have transferred out of the scheme to repay debts that were affordable and to fund 
home improvements or a holiday. These werent worth giving up the guarantees associated 
with her DB scheme.
Was Mrs F an insistent customer
Of course, I have to consider whether Mrs F had essentially decided to proceed regardless 
of the advice that Grove gave to her. Grove argues that this is the case, saying that it clearly 
advised her not to proceed with the DB transfer, but she chose to do this despite the advice 
it gave. 
Groves role was to discern what Mrs Fs wants and needs were and why she wanted to 
transfer her pension. Its role wasnt simply to facilitate what Mrs F wanted. It had to act in her 
best interests. Im not persuaded that it did this here. 
At the time of the advice there was no regulatory advice or guidance in place in respect of
insistent clients. But there were Conduct of Business Sourcebook (COBS) rules in the 
regulators Handbook which required Grove to act honestly, fairly and professionally in 
accordance with the best interests of its client. In addition, COBS required Grove to provide 
information that was clear, fair and not misleading. So, Groves recommendation had to be 
clear, and Mrs F had to have understood the consequences of going against the 
recommendation.
I think it ought to have been clear to Grove that Mrs F had little knowledge or experience of 
financial matters based on the information available at the time of the advice. Mrs F had no 
savings or investments and there was nothing to show she had invested in the past. I think 
this shouldve put Grove on notice that it had to be careful if it was to treat Mrs F as an 
insistent customer. But I dont think Grove was careful here. It identified Mrs F as an insistent customer very 
early on in the process, and before full advice was given. It didnt give full advice until after it 
had agreed to process the transfer for her. I dont see how could properly have assessed her 
as insistent customer before it completed the advice process. Ive looked at this in more 
detail below. 
On 15 April 2015 Grove sent Mrs F an email after their early conversations. This wasnt a 
suitability report and it said:
Following our conversation, I am writing to emphasize my recommendation not to
release your DB final salary pension/s at this time.
The email did comment on the value of the benefits Mrs F held in the DB scheme:
The pension benefits due at age 60 are not dependant on investment returns but
guaranteed increases within the scheme which would be lost if your transfer / release
the pension now. At retirement age you are due to receive an estimate partial index
linked pension of £229 per month plus a lump sum of £11,271
Grove also briefly explained why the transfer was not financially viable. And it talked about 
why a loan may be more suitable than transferring her DB pension. It summarised this by 
saying:
In view of these risks and the availability of alternatives that would probably be
financially better in the long term, as I said my recommendation has to be to leave
the pension to age 60.
Mrs F responded to Groves email on the same day and said:
I would like to take my pension now as I am waiting to go to NZ with my husband as
this would not be possible, so if you could sort this for me I would be very grateful.
And very shortly after this Grove responded. 
Thank you for your email Mrs F, I will arrange the necessary paperwork to be sent. 
Grove then issued its suitability report. It said it wasnt recommending a
transfer and Mrs Fs decision to proceed was contrary to their advice. It included its
investment recommendation, a key facts document, an illustration, a fund fact sheet and a
copy of the fact find. 
But I think Mrs F had already decided to transfer, on the very limited information provided 
before this. And Grove had accepted her decision to do this with no challenge at all. All of 
the substantial suitability and detailed information about the transfer came after a time when 
Grove had agreed to facilitate the transfer. And was described as paperwork to Mrs F. Its 
not unreasonable for Mrs F to think that the transfer had a been agreed without her receiving 
a full explanation about the transfer. 
I dont think the process was geared towards Mrs F making an informed, considered
assessment of the reasons why she shouldnt be transferring. In this case I feel that would
have involved Grove providing the full recommendation to Mrs F, allowing her to consider 
this on her own and then revert to Grove if she still wished to proceed.
On the contrary, I would go as far as to say that Groves process was designed to facilitate
the transfer, with emphasis placed on the release of funds and how this could beachieved from the outset. I dont think that providing Mrs F with a means of proceeding
against the advice, without establishing why the apparent requirements were truly necessary 
before the decision was made demonstrates that Grove had her best interests in mind.
While Grove acknowledged the transfer of Mrs Fs benefits wasnt suitable, there were 
failings in the advice process which meant she wasnt fully informed about her position at the 
time she decided to transfer. And I think its more likely than not that the provision of full 
information and better analysis wouldve influenced her decision making.
Overall, I think this shows that Grove made it altogether far too easy for Mrs F to proceed 
rather than allowing her time to think about the advice not to go ahead with the transfer. And 
so, I dont think she truly could make an informed decision about this.
Grove say that their insistent client process follows the FCAs guidance, especially as Mrs F 
put in her own words why she wanted to proceed with the transfer. But I dont think Mrs Fs 
response adequately demonstrates that she knew and understood the risks involved in the 
transfer and the benefits shed be losing by doing so. It would be very difficult for her to 
understand this at the time she made her decision as I dont think Grove had given her full 
advice about this. So, I dont think this response alone sufficiently showed Mrs F was an 
insistent client.
On balance, given these failings, I dont think it would be reasonable for me to conclude the
process Grove followed meant that Mrs F can truly be regarded as an insistent client. It 
didnt act in Mrs F best interests. And it failed to act with due care and skill.
If Grove had followed a more robust process, including giving full reasoned advice which set 
out in clear monetary terms why shed be worse off transferring. And then not immediately 
introduced the option of disregarding this advice I think she would have acted differently; I 
dont think Mrs F wouldve insisted on going ahead with the transfer.
In light of the above, I think Grove should compensate Mrs F for the unsuitable advice, using 
the regulator's defined benefits pension transfer redress methodology. 
Putting things right
A fair and reasonable outcome would be for the Grove to put Mrs F, as far as possible, into 
the position she would now be in but for the unsuitable advice. I consider Mrs F would have 
most likely remained in the occupational pension scheme if suitable advice had been given. 
Grove must therefore undertake a redress calculation in line with the rules for calculating 
redress for non-compliant pension transfer advice, as detailed in policy statement PS22/13 
and set out in the regulators handbook in DISP App 4: 
https://www.handbook.fca.org.uk/handbook/DISP/App/4/?view=chapter. 
For clarity, Mrs F has not yet retired, and she has no plans to do so at present. So, 
compensation should be based on the schemes normal retirement age, as per the usual 
assumptions in the FCA's guidance.
This calculation should be carried using the most recent financial assumptions in line with 
PS22/13 and DISP App 4. In accordance with the regulators expectations, this should be 
undertaken or submitted to an appropriate provider promptly following receipt of notification 
of Mrs Fs acceptance of the decision.If the redress calculation demonstrates a loss, as explained in policy statement PS22/13 and 
set out in DISP App 4, Grove should:
always calculate and offer Mrs F redress as a cash lump sum payment,
explain to Mrs F before starting the redress calculation that:
- their redress will be calculated on the basis that it will be invested prudently 
(in line with the cautious investment return assumption used in the 
calculation), and
- a straightforward way to invest their redress prudently is to use it to augment 
their DC pension
offer to calculate how much of any redress Mrs F receives could be augmented 
rather than receiving it all as a cash lump sum,
if Mrs F accepts Groves offer to calculate how much of their redress could be 
augmented, request the necessary information and not charge Mrs F for the 
calculation, even if she ultimately decides not to have any of their redress 
augmented, and
take a prudent approach when calculating how much redress could be augmented, 
given the inherent uncertainty around Mrs Fs end of year tax position.
Redress paid to Mrs F as a cash lump sum will be treated as income for tax purposes. So, in 
line with DISP App 4, Grove may make a notional deduction to cash lump sum payments to 
take account of tax that consumers would otherwise pay on income from their pension. 
Typically, 25% of the loss could have been taken as tax free cash and 75% would have been 
taxed according to Mrs Fs likely income tax rate in retirement  presumed to be 20%. So 
making a notional deduction of 15% overall from the loss adequately reflects this. 
Where I uphold a complaint, I can award fair compensation of up to £160,000, plus any
interest and/or costs that I consider are appropriate. Where I consider that fair compensation
requires payment of an amount that might exceed £160,000, I may recommend that the
Grove pays the balance.
My final decision
Determination and money award: I uphold this complaint and require Grove Pension 
Solutions Limited to pay Mrs F the compensation amount as set out in the steps above, up to 
a maximum of £160,000.
Recommendation: If the compensation amount exceeds £160,000, I also recommend that 
Grove Pension Solutions Limited pays Mrs F the balance.
If Mrs F accepts this decision, the money award becomes binding on Grove Pension 
Solutions Limited.
My recommendation would not be binding. Further, its unlikely that Mrs F can accept my 
decision and go to court to ask for the balance. Mrs F may want to consider getting 
independent legal advice before deciding whether to accept any final decision.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs F to accept or 
reject my decision before 28 June 2023.
 
Andy Burlinson
Ombudsman