DRN-2617699
The complaint
Mr T complains Capital One (Europe) plc (Capital One) acted irresponsibly when providing 
him with two credit card accounts. 
What happened
Mr T says he applied for two credit card cards, credit card 1(CC1) in October 2015 and credit 
card 2 (CC2) in January 2019 and in both instances, these were approved while he was in 
financial difficulties. Mr T says that Capital One acted irresponsibly when agreeing both 
credit card facilities and wants all interest and charges refunded, with statutory interest of 8% 
and any record of the credit cards to be removed from his credit file. 
Capital One says they carried out a full credit and affordability check for both credit card 
applications and these met their lending criteria. Capital One says they were satisfied with 
the conduct of his various other financial commitments and acted fairly when approving both 
credit card facilities. 
Mr T wasnt happy with Capital Ones response and referred the matter to this service.
The investigator looked at all the available information but didnt uphold this complaint. She 
felt that Capital One had carried out sufficient and proportionate checks before agreeing to 
provide both CC1 and CC2. The investigator says that while Mr T did have other borrowings, 
these in the main had been managed well and didnt show signs of financial difficulties at the 
time of application, for either of the credit cards approved by Capital One.   
Mr T wasnt happy with the investigators view and asked for the matter to be referred to an 
ombudsman for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I have come to the same outcome as the investigator and I will explain how 
I have come to my decision. 
I am sorry to learn that Mr T found himself in a difficult financial position and this must have 
been a stressful time for him. When looking at this complaint I have considered if Capital 
One acted irresponsibly when agreeing to provide Mr T with CC1 and CC2.
What happened here was Mr T applied for credit cards with Capital One, CC1 in October 
2015 and CC2 in January 2019. Mr T says when he applied for the credit cards on both 
occasions, he was already experiencing financial difficulties and Capital One should have 
known this from his credit history and credit file. Mr T has pointed out to this service, he has 
successfully had similar cases to this upheld in the past. 
I understand the points Mr T makes here but let me begin by saying that my role and that of 
this service is to look at each case presented to us independently and impartially, so when 
looking at this complaint I will not consider any other cases Mr T has brought to this service 
and I have looked at this case purely on its own merits. 
I understand Mr T feels that Capital One should have realised he was under financial 
pressure when he applied for both CC1 and CC2.  When looking at cases like these I need 
to understand whether or not Capital One have carried out reasonable and proportionate 
checks before granting credit card accounts. There is no define list of what these checks 
should entail, but the amount of the debt, term and sustainability are part of the 
considerations any business should take before approving credit card facilities.  
From the information I have seen when Mr T applied for CC1, credit searches were 
conducted by Capital One, along with their usual credit assessment of the application in 
which Mr T confirmed his income. The credit searches showed use of various forms of credit 
provided by other lenders, including regular short-term borrowing being repaid and one debt 
showing a modest sum in default. Capital One says they took these details into account and 
for the majority of the other borrowing these appear to have been maintained satisfactorily. 
Having other forms of credit and a modest default isnt in itself a reason why a business, like 
Capital One would decline to provide credit card facilities. 
What is important is whether Capital One had taken this into account as part of their 
assessment and I am satisfied from the evidence provided to this service, this is what 
happened here. As a result, Capital One approved a modest credit limit of £200 increasing 
this four months later to £450. Given the financial history, Mr Ts overall status and declared 
annual income at initially £16000 I am satisfied this represents a reasonable and 
proportionate credit assessment here. I say this because its not uncommon for credit card 
providers, like Capital One, to allow its customers to build up a gradual credit profile and I 
am satisfied that is what happened here.
CC2 was approved in January 2019 following Mr Ts application, with a credit limit of 
£500.The pattern of Mr Ts credit profile remained similar to previously seen by Capital One 
with regular use of short-term borrowing, all of which show to be maintained satisfactorily 
and by this time Mr T had declared an increase in his annual salary. Its worth mentioning 
that while Mr T had fully used the facility available on CC1 leading up to this new card being 
approved, there is no obvious signs of stress on this credit card or any other borrowings Mr 
T had. From the information I have seen Mr T had met his monthly credit card commitments 
and regularly paid more than the minimum card payment. 
Taking this into account, I cant see that Capital One should have been aware of Mr T 
suffering from any financial  difficulties and theres nothing to show Mr T ever made them 
aware he was, when applying for the credit cards. I have seen the credit cards were both 
fully repaid by Mr T in in February 2020. 
It follows I am satisfied that Capital One have carried out reasonable and  proportionate 
checks before issuing both the credit cards to Mr T here. 
While Mr T will be disappointed with my decision, I wont be asking anymore of Capital One 
here. 
My final decisionMy final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr T to accept or 
reject my decision before 5 April 2021.
 
Barry White
Ombudsman