DRN-4206538
The complaint
Mr K complains that Barclays Bank UK PLC unfairly registered a fraud marker against him.
What happened
In 2017 Mr K received a payment into one of his accounts that was later confirmed by
another bank to be the result of fraudulent activity.
Barclays looked at the situation and decided to close Mr Ks accounts straight away and
registered a marker against him with CIFAS  a fraud prevention organisation. Mr K was
unaware of the marker at the time and visited his local branch of Barclays to question why
his accounts had been closed. Further information about the closure wasnt available to Mr
K.
In early 2022, Mr K started to receive notices from his current banking providers that they
were closing his accounts after completing periodical reviews. Mr K had a large loan at the
time which needed to be funded from a different provider so the original loan could be repaid
due to the immediate closure of his accounts. These accounts were linked to both Mr and
Mrs K and the business under a limited company.
Mr K was advised to approach Barclays about his situation and after contacting them, he
was made aware that theyd lodged the marker against him some years earlier. Mr K
complained and denied knowing about the fraudulent payment entering his account. Mr K
wanted Barclays to compensate him for the additional expenses hed incurred, and the
stress and worry caused by the various account closures that had happened. Barclays
looked into the circumstances and decided to remove the marker. They told Mr K they
couldnt evidence him accessing his online banking at the time or directly utilising the
fraudulent funds.
Barclays declined to make any payment to Mr K as they didnt think theyd made any errors
at the time based on the information they had available.
Mr K was left unhappy with Barclays resolution and brought his complaint to the Financial
Ombudsman Service for an independent review. It was looked into by one of our
investigators who considered the evidence provided by both parties. He later recommended
that Barclays not pay any expenses or compensation to Mr K and thought that he should
have followed up the account closure with Barclays at the time, which would have enabled
the situation to be better understood by Barclays.
The investigator didnt think that Barclays had unfairly closed the accounts due to their belief
at the time that Mr K had utilised fraudulent funds.
Mr K disagreed with the investigators opinion and responded, saying:
He followed up the closure letter with a branch visit but wasnt told any detail about
why his accounts had been closed.
He was unaware of the fraudulent payment into his account and didnt use internet
banking.
Mr K asked how he could have done anything more at the time if Barclays didnt
reveal what theyd done?
Mr K asked for a further review of his complaint which has now been passed to me for a 
decision.
I issued my provisional findings on the merits of Mr Ks complaint on 16 May 2023. In my 
provisional findings, I explained why I intended to uphold Mr Ks complaint and offered both 
sides the opportunity to submit further evidence or arguments in response. An extract of that 
decision is set out below and forms part of this final decision:
What Ive provisionally decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
CIFAS markers are a powerful tool in the fight against fraud and can have a significant
negative impact on the person who has a marker lodged against them and they typically last
for six years.
In order to lodge such a marker, the recording business (here Barclays) are required to meet
stringent levels of evidence to satisfy the requirements laid down by CIFAS. In this
complaint, Barclays decided not to ask Mr K at the time about the payment into his account
and assessed the information theyd received and the way the account was used. By not
raising the payment with Mr K, Barclays took on the risk of their decision without the benefit
of Mr Ks version of events.
At the time of the closure, Mr K attempted to find out more from Barclays who wouldnt
explain the situation in any more detail. The account closure doesnt require them to explain
the reasons why theyve closed the account, but I disagree with the assertion that Mr K
hadnt attempted to follow up with Barclays. If Barclays didnt raise the fraudulent payment
with Mr K, how was he otherwise to understand the issue if, as he says, he knew nothing
about the payment?
There is the question of the payment appearing on the statement and the subsequent
removal of funds by Barclays. Mr K doesnt appear to have noticed these or made any
comment about them, apart from stating that he was unaware of the fraudulent payment into
his account.
Once Mr K was aware of the marker in 2022 and spoke to Barclays about it, it didnt take
them long to review the evidence and decide to remove the marker. Having looked at the
evidence myself, its far from clear that Barclays had enough evidence at the time to lodge it.
Barclays told Mr K in their final response letter that:
I can confirm that in February 2017, we received a report of a confirmed fraudulent credit
coming into your account. We have spoken to you in more detail about this in June 2022. I
completed a further investigation at that stage. This showed that you did not access your
Online Banking facility before or after February 2017, therefore you did not have knowledge
of this credit or its source. I was able to remove the CIFAS marker, as you did not directly
spend any of the reported funds. I was not able to evidence that you were aware of the credit
and therefore, do not believe that you were directly involved in the account activity.
It seems at the time in 2017, Barclays considered the receipt of the funds as knowledge ofthe source of the funds and believed Mr K had directly utilised those funds. Id point out here
that the receipt of money into an account isnt under the control of the account holder, so on
its own couldnt reasonably be evidence that satisfies the CIFAS requirements.
Barclays have themselves told Mr K they can no longer support the marker they lodged
against him and that has only come about once he knew about it and gave his side of the
story. So, I think its reasonable to conclude here that overall, Barclays fell short of the
standards required by CIFAS (explained in detail by the investigators report to both parties).
There was an impact on Mr K, but not until 2022 when the account closures and loan were
recalled.
Up until that point, it doesnt appear that the marker caused any other difficulties to Mr K. He
was unaware of it and hed been able to operate several bank accounts and acquire a loan.
It was only after the various closure that the issue came to light, and its from this point on
that Im considering the impact on Mr K.
The inclusion of Mr K on the CIFAS register was the likely cause of the various account
closures he experienced. This included the request to immediately repay a large loan which
required Mr K to find a different lender who was prepared to lend him a significant amount of
funds.
I cant consider the impact on a limited company, as theyre an entirely different entity as far
as complaints against regulated businesses are concerned. So, I can only consider the
impact against Mr K himself and any direct causal links of Barclays decision to improperly
lodge a CIFAS marker against him.
I appreciate Mr K has provided some details of a loan and associated costs, but as far as I
can see, theyre related to the limited company he partly operates with his partner. If Mr K
has evidence of costs associated to himself he thinks is the result of the marker, then Ill
review them. Its apparent from the evidence that hes already sent in that several banking
relationships were closed, likely the result of the marker.
Account closure
Barclays closed the accounts without notice, believing at the time that Mr K had operated
them outside the agreed terms for the account by receiving funds from a fraud. The terms
state that Barclays are required to have reasonable grounds to think that :
You use or try to use your account illegally or for criminal activity, including receiving
proceeds of crime into your account.
Its understandable that Barclays would close the account at the time after lodging a CIFAS
marker. If Barclays had the full picture (Mr Ks side of the story) at the time, they may well
have decided to alter their approach. However, the only real impact at the time is that Mr K
lost his bank accounts with Barclays, and he appeared to have moved on with his banking
by obtaining accounts with other providers.
As the period of the stress and worry was principally from 2022, Im currently considering the
recommendation of a payment to Mr K of £500.
My provisional decision is that Im currently minded to uphold this complaint.
I invited Mr K and Barclays to give me any more evidence and information they wanted me 
to consider before issuing my final decision. Barclays responded and thought the award payment was too high. Mr K submitted detailed figures arguing that the CIFAS marker had 
cost him in the region of £40,000 in additional loan and other costs associated with it.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, and as neither party had anything further to add that would change my 
opinion, I see no reason to reach a different conclusion. So, this final decision confirms the 
findings set out in my provisional decision.
Regarding the submission by Barclays that the compensatory award is too high  Id point 
out here that the result of their improperly lodged CIFAS marker caused all of Mr Ks banking 
arrangements to be cancelled. He suffered a period of unnecessary stress as a result of it 
and was forced to make further arrangements. So, I dont think that the £500 award is too 
high, rather its a fair and reasonable award based on the impact of the marker lodged 
against Mr K.
Im grateful to Mr K for providing details of the cost he believes Barclays should be 
responsible for. Here, a number of those additional costs hes submitted relate to payments 
made by his Limited Company. As I mentioned in the provisional decision, Im unable to take 
them into account as the company is a separate legal entity.
Mr K has also argued in relation to the substantive loan he was required to repay ( applied 
for outside of the Limited Co entity), that the actions of Barclays caused him financial loss. 
Mr K was later offered a loan by the same bank once the CIFAS marker was removed, but at 
a higher loan rate. Mr K believes Barclays should cover the difference between the two loans 
amounting to somewhere in the region of £40,000. 
But, when the bank recalled the loan, they also offered Mr K the option of a repayment plan 
if he was unable to repay the loan in full. He later said that the loaning bank wouldnt assist 
him with the loan, but the offer to discuss a repayment plan appears to contradict that. 
Whilst Im satisfied that Barclays actions most likely caused the closure of Mr Ks accounts, 
they had no say in how that bank handled the current loan (regarding repayment plans) or 
any new loan offer. In this case, Barclays responsibility for redressing the financial situation 
Mr K found himself in ended at the point the notice to close his accounts was made by the 
other bank. From then on, the offers and considerations made by the other bank were their 
own responsibility. I dont think its fair or reasonable for Barclays to be held liable for 
decisions made by another bank related to the handling of the new loan. 
I accept that Mr K was trying to organise the funding for his business, and it was no doubt 
stressful, but Im not persuaded here that Barclays should pay anything further apart from 
the £500 which Ive already explained.
Putting things right
 Barclays to make a payment of £500 to Mr K.
My final decision
My final decision is to uphold this complaint against Barclays Bank UK PLC and theyre instructed to settle the complaint as outlined above. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr K to accept or 
reject my decision before 17 November 2023.
 
David Perry
Ombudsman