DRN-1457042
The complaint
Mr H complains that Vanquis Bank Limited (Vanquis) refused to allow him to opt out of 
receiving his credit card statement by post.
What happened
Mr H has a credit card with Vanquis and telephoned them requesting they stop sending him 
credit card statements by post as he was concerned that the statements could be stolen or 
intercepted. Vanquis looked into his request but subsequently told Mr H because his credit 
card account was over the agreed limit it was their policy to send statements and other 
notifications by post. Mr H says he has access online and also receives regular text 
messages from Vanquis, so he can see how much he owes without any issues.
Vanquis say that they need to be able to send statements and other notifications when 
customers are over their account credit limit. Vanquis also say that if Mr H puts his account 
within the agreed credit limit, they will consider his request to opt out of statements being 
sent by post. Vanquis have reviewed Mr Hs account and do not feel an increase in his credit 
limit is appropriate nor a way of dealing with the statement issue. 
Mr H wasnt happy with their response and referred the matter to this service.
The investigator looked at the available information and upheld Mr Hs complaint. He felt that 
Vanquis were given an exceptional reason for opting out of receiving statements by post 
given the potential risk of a third party being able to access his statements and potentially  
commit fraud on Mr Hs account. He told Vanquis to allow Mr H to opt out of receiving 
statements by post and pay Mr H £50 by way of compensation for the inconvenience 
caused. 
Vanquis didnt agree with the investigators view and asked for the matter to be referred to an 
ombudsman for final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I have come to the same outcome as the investigator and I will explain how 
I have come to my decision. 
When considering this complaint, I have looked at whether Vanquis acted unreasonably 
when Mr H requested to opt out of his statements being sent by post.
Mr H says that he is concerned that his mail may get intercepted and has experienced 
previous issues with his post which I can see would be a concern to him as he is worried 
about potential fraud on his credit card account.
Mr H also has access to his account online and this service has been told by Vanquis  that 
the information contained on his online statement replicates that of the posted statements. Mr H also receives regular text messages informing him of the status of his account, so I am 
satisfied that Mr H is able to see the same information he would see if he received his 
statements by post. 
Vanquis say that they are willing to opt out of postal statements for Mr H if he can put his 
account  back within the limit. Vanquis have considered the option of increasing Mr Hs limit, 
which may overcome the issue, but they have decided that is not appropriate at this time. I 
am satisfied and agree this isnt the solution, given that even if Vanquis were to increase the 
limit, it is not to say that this problem wouldnt reoccur in the future should his account go 
over the agreed limit again.
I cant see that by posting statements are anymore of a guarantee of Mr H looking at these 
statements than he might by looking at his online account. Given that Mr H has explained he 
had post go missing before this would suggest that sending statements by post could result 
in him not receiving posted statements at all.  
What is important here is Mr H still remains a customer of Vanquis despite him being 
regularly over his credit card limit, as Vanquis have pointed out.  I am satisfied Vanquis 
should still treat his request not to receive postal statements like any other customer given 
that they have told us that the online statements contain the same information as posted 
statements. I am also satisfied that the risk of his post being interfered with is an exceptional 
circumstance here. 
Vanquis says that they have a requirement to send out regulatory/legislative letters to Mr H. 
For the purposes of this complaint I have only looked at Mr Hs request for opting out of his 
statements. I understand there could be occasions where Vanquis have to send formal 
letters to Mr H and in those less frequent circumstances, I can understand Vanquis can only 
do that by sending this by  post. 
I am satisfied for the reasons given before that Mr H should be able to opt out of receiving 
his credit card statements by post and he should continue to  regularly review his account 
activity using his online banking facility. 
I know that Vanquis will be disappointed with my decision, but I support the view of the 
investigator here.
Putting things right
I instruct Vanquis Bank Limited to allow Mr H to opt out of receiving statements by post and 
 to pay him £50 for the trouble and upset caused. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint.
I instruct Vanquis Bank Limited to allow Mr H to opt out of receiving statements by post and 
to pay him £50 for the trouble and upset caused. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 2 September 2020.
Barry White
Ombudsman