DRN-3864794
The complaint
Ms G complains that NewDay, trading as Debenhams, should not have accepted her credit 
card application or increased the credit limit on her credit card account as the lending was 
both unaffordable and irresponsible.
What happened
Ms G is represented in this complaint. However, for the sake of simplicity in this decision I 
have referred to all the submissions from Ms G's representative as being made by Ms G. 
Ms G applied and was accepted for a Debenhams card with NewDay in December 2018 with 
an initial credit limit of £500. In March 2020 Ms G was offered and accepted a credit limit 
increase to £1,250. Ms G said at the time she was not doing too well financially. She said 
checks weren't enough nor were they proportionate. She said the credit she was allowed 
was harmful rather than helpful.
In its final response NewDay said it was satisfied Ms G met its acceptance criteria and as a 
result she was provided with a card and a credit limit of £500. It said it believed this was 
appropriate given her circumstances. It went on to say that it was satisfied that the credit 
limit increase was provided to Ms G correctly and in line with its lending policy. It said 
adequate checks were completed to ensure this was affordable. Ms G didn't agree and 
brought her complaint to this service.
Our investigator concluded that NewDay hadn't acted unfairly by providing the initial credit 
facility. But he said the credit limit should not have been increased. He said the checks 
NewDay had carried out demonstrated Ms G wasn't able to maintain the repayments to the 
debt she already had and wouldn't be able to make sustainable repayments with an 
increased credit limit.
Ms G accepted the investigator's findings. NewDay didn't agree and asked for a decision 
from an ombudsman. It said the credit limit provided to Ms G was done so in line with 
NewDay's lending policy. And that she had passed NewDay's affordability and financial 
difficulty checks.
I issued a provisional decision on 18 November 2022. I said: 
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about unaffordable and 
irresponsible lending - including the key relevant rules, guidance and good industry 
practice - on our website and Ive taken that into account when I have considered Ms 
Gs complaint.  Before granting credit, NewDay was required to carry out a 
reasonable and proportionate assessment of Ms G's ability to sustainably repay the 
debt. This is often referred to as an affordability check. This check had to be 
borrower-focussed. This means it needed to be concerned with whether Ms G could 
sustainably afford the borrowing (considering her specific circumstances), rather than 
how statistically likely she was to repay. The latter is the risk posed to NewDay as the 
lender, or their credit risk but this is not necessarily the same as an assessment of 
affordability.
Whats considered reasonable and proportionate will vary depending on several 
factors and there isnt a one-size-fits-all approach to what is considered 
proportionate.
NewDays lending decisions were as follows:
 
Date Limit
Debenhams card December 2018 £500
1st increase March 2020 £1,250
Account opening
NewDay said its an instant credit provider, and most of its applications are 
completed online. It said this means it doesnt require evidence of income and 
expenditure, but instead it uses data submitted by the applicant and that supplied by 
the credit bureau. NewDay said at the end of the application process, the applicant is 
asked to agree that the information they have supplied is true to the best of their 
knowledge.
I've seen a copy of the application data provided by Ms G. She declared she had a 
monthly income of £458 along with a partner's monthly income of £583. She said her 
monthly accommodation costs were £450 and her monthly living expenses were 
£106. She had no defaulted accounts or public records and a total unsecured credit 
of £100. It does appear from this information that even though Ms G's unsecured 
credit amount was modest her combined household income was limited, and her 
living expenses seem unrealistically low. Im persuaded this warranted further 
investigation of Ms G's expenses and income by NewDay before it accepted the 
application.
Our investigator reached out to Ms G for further information regarding her financial 
situation at the time of the application. Unfortunately, no new information was 
provided. Im not disputing Ms G when she says she wasnt doing too well financially 
at the time of the application and while I'm persuaded further investigation by 
NewDay was likely necessary, without knowing more detail I can't say that NewDay 
had acted unfairly by accepting her credit card application with the credit limit of 
£500.
Credit limit increase
NewDay proactively raised Ms Gs credit limit in March 2020 to £1,250. It said there 
were only sporadic instances of cash usage and late or overlimit fees in the period 
between the card opening and the credit limit increase. It said Ms G was making 
regular repayments in excess of the minimum monthly payment amount and there 
were no external arrears or repayment plans prior to the increase.
NewDay provided its risk and affordability data to this service. From April 2019 Ms G 
was using the maximum credit available to her, £500, withdrawing cash from her 
account in March and April. In July 2019 she went over the credit limit. In April and 
May 2019 two public records were noted on the risk data provided by NewDay. Ive 
looked at her credit file and I can see these were County Court Judgements, to a 
total value of outstanding credit of £873. In November 2019 Ms G did make a 
substantial payment to bring the balance down but three months later, in February 
2020, the month prior to the increase in credit she had exceeded her limit and was 
drawing cash from the account again.NewDay said its a second chance lender and allows for negative information on a 
credit report. It said adverse information on Ms Gs account was noted but the credit 
limit increase was in line with its lending policy. It said Ms G had passed NewDays 
affordability checks using external credit bureau commitments data in line with FCA 
guidelines. It said Ms G also passed the financial difficulty assessment based on her 
credit file data. Similarly, it said, the presence of external arrears does not mean that 
a consumer would not have been accepted for a credit limit increase with NewDay. 
NewDay went on to say consecutive fees did not occur on Ms Gs account, as can be 
seen from the risk and affordability data, and so the increases went ahead in line with 
policy. It said it would be unreasonable to assume that the customer is experiencing 
financial difficulties purely due to over-limit fees. NewDay explained that it considers 
other factors when assessing the credit limit, for example, regular payments were 
received (albeit occasionally late), there was nothing concerning to suggest that the 
increases offered were unaffordable at that time.
Taken individually these events dont necessarily mean the lending was unaffordable 
or that Ms G couldnt make sustainable repayments. Cash withdrawals can indicate a 
consumer is struggling financially but not always. And I accept Ms G was making 
regular repayments above the minimum. NewDay said each lender can set its own 
limits on its risk appetite, and it operates primarily in the near-prime market. It said in 
the near-prime sector of the market, it is not unusual to see customers with a higher 
risk score and/or indebtedness be accepted for NewDay credit products. Im not 
disputing this but NewDay also has a responsibility to ensure its risk assessment is 
borrower focussed  would Ms G be able to sustainably make repayments on her 
new credit limit.
Im persuaded that when seen together the combination of factors indicates to me 
that Ms Gs financial situation had deteriorated. The appearance of two public 
records on her file within six months of opening the account, a significant increase of 
unsecured debt to the value of £1898, on top of Ms G's recorded very low income at 
application stage, an increase in cash withdrawals and late payments, indicate to me 
there were red flags on Ms G's account to show Ms G wasn't managing payments on 
her existing debts. Im satisfied NewDay should have increased its affordability 
checks by confirming Ms Gs income versus expenditure to see whether an increase 
in credit was affordable.
Our investigator reached out to Ms G for further information regarding her financial 
situation, but none was provided. Ms G has said she was granted credit without the 
capacity to pay for it and couldnt afford it. Again, Im not disputing Ms G and I'm 
persuaded further investigation by NewDay was likely necessary. But without 
knowing more detail about Ms Gs financial situation at the time of the credit limit 
increase, such as bank statements showing income and expenses, I can't say that 
NewDay had acted unfairly by increasing her credit limit. 
Subject to any further information I was minded not to uphold this complaint. Ms G accepted 
my provisional findings and NewDay had nothing further to add. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As both parties have accepted my provisional decision I see no reason to deviate from its 
conclusions.My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms G to accept or 
reject my decision before 17 January 2023.
 
Maxine Sutton
Ombudsman