DRN-3310788
The complaint
Ms N is unhappy with the decision by Hiscox Insurance Company Limited (Hiscox) to
cancel her home insurance policy.
What happened
The background to this complaint is well known to both Ms N and Hiscox. I wont repeat in
great detail what is already known to both parties.
Ms N had a home insurance policy with Hiscox for a number of years. In May 2021 Hiscox
wrote to Ms N to let her know what they were giving her 30 days notice that they wouldnt be
renewing her policy.
Hiscox referred to a breakdown in the relationship between both parties here as the reason
for not renewing the policy. Ms N complained to Hiscox about their decision. Hiscox later
wrote to Ms N and said in light of her personal circumstances theyd offer cover for a further
year until June 2022.
Ms N remained unhappy and referred her complaint to our Service for an independent
review. Our investigator didnt uphold the complaint and the complaint was passed
to me for a decision.
Both parties were sent a copy of my provisional, intended findings and given an opportunity 
to respond. Hiscox had nothing further to add. Ms N responded in detail, outlining why she 
disagreed. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Following the responses to my provisional decision Ive again reconsidered the complaint, 
but see no fair or reasonable reason to deviate from my intended findings. For ease and 
because my provisional findings form part of this - my final decision, Ive included a copy of 
them below.
Copy of provisional findings 
Although a number of issues have been raised, this decision only addresses those issues
I consider to be materially relevant to this complaint. However, Ive given careful
consideration to all of the submissions made before arriving at my decision.
As our investigator has pointed out, insurers are entitled to make a commercial decision
about whom they offer insurance to and on what terms. That isnt something our Service can
generally interfere with. But our Service can consider whether the decision leading to that
action was fair and reasonable.
Hiscox have now told our service that  at Ms Ns request, this policy was later cancelled on
19 November 2021. Theyve said:
The policy is already cancelled, The customer emailed on the 9th November 2021 to
request the policy be cancelled effective from midnight 19/11/2021. This has been
done in accordance with the customers request.
Up until this point, neither party had made our Service aware of this important information.
If correct, this is very important as any enforced cancellation would generally need to be
declared to prospective insurers. However, as Ms N proactively choose to cancel the policy
she then wouldnt need to declare any enforced cancellation to other insurers. Shed
therefore avoid potentially negative implications of such a cancellation - such as generally
higher premiums for a number of years.
This means that the scope of my decision is very limited. I say this because I can only
consider the impact of any realised action Hiscox took on Ms N.
After Hiscox let Ms N know that theyd be cancelling her policy and she raised a complaint,
they then offered her the option of having the policy renewed for another year - given her
personal circumstances. This was positive as it wouldve allowed Ms N a lot more time to
find a new insurer.
But ultimately in this case, Ms N was the party that ended this relationship by cancelling her
policy  not Hiscox. That said, I accept that Hiscoxs actions (by initially saying they were
going to cancel the policy and then extending cover by a year) will likely have led Ms N to
take the decision to cancel this policy.
I accept that the initial communication by Hiscox notifying Ms N that they were cancelling her
policy will have caused uncertainty and annoyance at a time when Ms N already was dealing
her own personal difficulties. But Ive also kept in mind that Hiscox most likely werent aware
of Ms Ns personal circumstances at that time and, as stated, its positive that the period of
cover was then extended.
Ms N then choose to take matters into her own hands and end her relationship with Hiscox.
Im pleased to hear this as it means that the exit from the insurance relationship doesnt
need to be declared to any future insurers. In response to our investigators assessment
Ms N outlined what the implications of an enforced cancellation could mean for her. But I
dont need to make a finding on the initial decision by Hiscox or related matters (such as the
notice given) - as ultimately the enforced cancellation didnt actually happen.
In response to my provisional decision, Ms N made the following points (summarised):
She cancelled the policy based on how shed been treated by Hiscox and because 
theyd intended to not offer renewal terms when the policy ended; and
It was her persistence that led them to reconsider their initial decision and offer cover 
for a further year.
Ive considered these points but they dont change my decision. As explained already, 
Hiscox did say they were going to cancel this policy and, after Ms N complained about this, 
they reconsidered and offered cover for approximately a further 12 months. 
Im pleased to hear that Ms N cancelled the policy herself and found cover with another 
insurer rather than allowing it to come to an enforced end. In my decision I can only consider 
what has happened and the impact of that on Ms N. That is why her decision to cancel the policy is relevant to this complaint.  
Whilst I cant make findings on hypothetical situations that didnt actually happen and it 
would be inappropriate of me to do so, I can say that had the enforced cancellation actually 
been carried out, its possible I wouldve reached a different outcome in this complaint. 
Ms N will naturally be disappointed with this outcome. But my decision brings to an
end what we  in trying to informally resolve her dispute with Hiscox  can do for her. I wish 
Ms N all the very best with her future.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms N to accept or 
reject my decision before 22 April 2022.
 
Daniel O'Shea
Ombudsman