DRN-3240589
The complaint
Mrs A is represented by a claims management company (CMC) in bringing her complaint. 
The CMC says Mrs A was sold a ten-year savings policy by Zurich Assurance Ltd which was 
not appropriate for her circumstances. Specifically, it says Mrs A did not need the life cover 
provided by the policy, her attitude to risk was not properly considered and the charges 
included within the policy rendered it unsuitable for Mrs As needs. 
What happened
Mrs As policy was a Maximum Investment Plan. It began in September 1999 and had a £50 
monthly contribution. It was surrendered in 2007 for £5,180.64. 
Zurich rejected the complaint in January 2021. It said Mrs A was told in the policy 
documentation that life cover was included ion the investment, to protect the proceeds from 
taxation. Though the adviser hadnt made record of Mrs As specific attitude to risk, the 
illustration and policy provisions told Mrs A of the prospect that she could receive back less 
than shed paid in  though this didnt happen.  
Zurich also said that the charges were detailed to Mrs A in the documentation  so she 
chose to proceed despite her view on rates of inflation and the Bank of England base rate. 
So, the CMC referred the complaint to this service where it was reviewed by one of our 
investigators. He felt the complaint ought to succeed.  
Whilst he did not think the proposal for an investment savings policy was unreasonable, he 
did believe the recommended policy didnt meet Mrs As requirements at the time. She did 
not require the life cover, and she had expressly set out her view on likely inflation  which 
exceeded the expected return on the policy, due to the charges and cost of life cover.  
He therefore believed that Zurich ought to undertake a redress comparison using the 
benchmark of FTSE UK Private Investors Income Total Return Index for half of the 
investment and for the other half, the average rate from fixed rate bonds.
The CMC said Mrs A accepted the decision. However, Zurich disagreed. It made a number 
of further points:
the investigator had said life cover wasnt of any use to Mrs A, but she had a 
dependent child at the time of the advice;
the life cover cost was minimal;
this was at the lowest possible cost to allow the proceeds of the policy to be tax-free;
the documentation told Mrs A that she may get less back than she expected  but the 
investigator accepted this by noting Mrs A was prepared to take a small risk;
the illustration of returns (at 7.5%) was the rate that all businesses were prescribed to 
use at that time by the Personal Investment Authority;
it was merely an example  in fact, in the year to September 1999 the investments 
Managed Fund had achieved annualised growth of 11.6% before charges;
this shows the policy had the potential to achieve greater returns than those Zurich 
was permitted to illustrate;
in Mrs As case, her policys returns were affected by early surrender and the 
financial downturn in 2001  which were not foreseeable at the time of the advice.  
Our investigator wasnt minded to change his view. Zurich still disagreed, but said it would 
agree to make Mrs A an offer equivalent to a refund of the cost of life cover on her plan 
together with a payment of interest in an attempt to bring the matter to a conclusion. 
However, the CMC said Mrs A did not accept the offer. 
Zurich said it otherwise remained of the view that the complaint shouldnt be upheld. It also 
questioned the element of the calculation using the FTSE UK Private Investors Income Total 
Return Index because Zurich said it appeared to make no allowance for the deduction of 
taxation or charges. The complaint was then referred for an ombudsmans decision.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Id like to thank the parties for their patience whilst this matter awaited an ombudsmans 
decision. Having looked at everything before me, I also believe this complaint should be 
upheld. 
At the time of the sale, Mrs A met with the adviser alongside her husband. A number of 
recommendations were made, including personal protection policies. This complaint has 
only been pursued by the CMC in respect of the investment policy sold to Mrs A.  
Mrs A had a joint mortgage with her husband, and one child. After her expenses were 
deducted from her monthly income, she had disposable funds of £140 per month. The 
purpose of the advice was to discuss critical illness cover. Mr and Mrs A held two 
endowment savings policies for their mortgage but didnt have critical illness protection.  
Mrs A also agreed to take this policy out, with a view to saving for future education costs for 
her child. It was recorded that she could contribute £50 each month for this purpose.  
Like our investigator, I am satisfied that Mrs A was seeking to take out a longer term policy 
and had a clear savings objective  and on that basis, it wasnt unreasonable of the adviser 
to make recommendations with low risk to achieve Mrs As aim of making greater returns 
than were possible through deposit based savings accounts.  
However, I agree that the information recorded in the fact find documentation wasnt properly 
taken into account when Zurichs adviser made the recommendation, notably in respect of 
Mrs As confirmation that she did not want to consider life cover. 
The policy proposed to Mrs A was a unit-linked combined life assurance and savings plan. 
The documentation sets out how the policy had main principles of paying a cash sum on 
maturity and providing a cash sum should the policyholder die during the term. 
I do not believe that this was the most suitable offering that could have been put to Mrs A in 
her specific circumstances. She held life cover through the endowment savings policies, 
designed to repay her (and her husbands) mortgage should she have passed away. What 
Mrs A was seeking was a savings plan, with a low amount of investment risk. 
I have seen no suggestion that other investments were considered  and there were options open to Mrs A which would also shield her investment returns from taxation such as an ISA 
(as of April 1999). It is clear that Mrs A stated how she did not want to take out life cover, 
and though this qualifying life cover was included to avoid income tax on the maturity value, 
there were other tax-efficient proposals that the adviser could have discussed with her. 
Zurich has also set out how the views Mrs A held in respect of inflation were arguably 
optimistic, given the rate in preceding years. However, the adviser was required to obtain 
information from Mrs A to establish her objectives. Irrespective of the factual accuracy of her 
views, the illustration of the effect of the deductions issued by Zurich for the policy explained 
the impact of charges, assuming a 6% return  noting the last line in the table shows that 
over the full term the effect of the total deductions could amount to £1,490. Putting it another 
way, leaving out the cost of life cover and sickness benefits, this would have the effect of 
bringing the investment growth used from 6% a year down to 2.6% a year.
Taking all of the information in the round, I also believe this complaint should be upheld. 
That the key features information supplied to Mrs A pointed out the nature of the investment 
in respect of life cover shows transparency, but it doesnt automatically mean it was 
reasonable for her. And noting Mrs As particular circumstances, I dont believe the 
recommendation made was consistent with her specified view, objectives and requirements. 
Finally, I note Zurichs concern regarding the benchmark used for our redress. However, I 
disagree that the redress is fundamentally flawed. In assessing what would be fair 
compensation, our aim is to put a consumer as close to the position they would likely now be 
in if they had not been given unsuitable advice. 
Where it is not possible to say precisely what the consumer would otherwise have done, we 
may use the return based wholly or in part on a benchmark to reflect what the consumer 
might reasonably have made (or lost) if things hadn't gone wrong. If I proposed a reduction 
for charges, we would effectively be assuming that the consumer would have made an 
investment that would have always underperformed the benchmark. So, we generally 
consider it fair to use the benchmark return as a measure of what the consumer would have 
got net of charges. I see no reason to depart from this, and I believe it suitable in the 
circumstances where the advice, in this specific case, was not suitable for Mrs A.  
Putting things right
Fair compensation
In assessing what would be fair compensation, I consider that my aim should be to put Mrs 
A as close to the position she would probably now be in if she had not been given 
unsuitable advice.
I take the view that Mrs A would have invested differently. It is not possible to say precisely 
what she would have done differently. But I am satisfied that what I have set out below is 
fair and reasonable given Mrs A's circumstances and objectives when she invested.
What must Zurich do?
To compensate Mrs A fairly, Zurich must:
Compare the performance of Mrs A's investment with that of the benchmark shown 
below and pay the difference between the fair value and the actual value of the 
investments. If the actual value is greater than the fair value, no compensation is 
payable.Zurich should also pay interest as set out below.
Income tax may be payable on any interest awarded. If Zurich considers tax is payable on 
the interest, it should send a tax deduction certificate with the payment. Mrs A may reclaim 
any tax overpaid from HM Revenue and Customs, if her tax status allows her to do so.
Investment 
nameStatus Benchmark From (start 
date)To (end 
date)Additional 
interest
Maximum 
Investment 
PlanNo longer 
existsFor half the 
investment: 
FTSE UK 
Private 
Investors 
Income Total 
Return Index; 
for the other 
half: average 
rate from fixed 
rate bondsDate of 
investment 
(September 
1999)Date ceased 
to be held 
(April 2007)8% simple per 
year on any 
loss from the 
end date to 
the date of 
settlement
Actual value
This means the actual amount paid from the investment at the end date.
Fair value
This is what the investment would have been worth at the end date had it produced a return 
using the benchmark.
To arrive at the fair value when using the fixed rate bonds as the benchmark, Zurich should 
use the monthly average rate for one-year fixed-rate bonds as published by the Bank of 
England. The rate for each month is that shown as at the end of the previous month. Those 
rates should be applied to the investment on an annually compounded basis.
Why is this remedy suitable?
I have decided on this method of compensation because:
Mrs A wanted capital growth with a small risk to her capital.
The average rate for the fixed rate bonds would be a fair measure for someone who 
wanted to achieve a reasonable return without risk to her capital.
The FTSE UK Private Investors Income total return index (prior to 1 March 2017, the 
FTSE WMA Stock Market Income total return index) is a mix of diversified indices 
representing different asset classes, mainly UK equities and government bonds. It 
would be a fair measure for someone who was prepared to take some risk to get a 
higher return.
I consider that Mrs A's risk profile was in between, in the sense that she was 
prepared to take a small level of risk to attain her investment objectives. So, the 
50/50 combination would reasonably put Mrs A into that position. It does not mean 
that Mrs A would have invested 50% of her money in a fixed rate bond and 50% in 
some kind of index tracker fund. Rather, I consider this a reasonable compromise that broadly reflects the sort of return Mrs A could have obtained from investments 
suited to her objective and risk attitude.
The additional interest is for being deprived of the use of any compensation money 
since the end date.
My final decision
I uphold the complaint. My decision is that Zurich Assurance Ltd should pay the amount 
calculated as set out above.
Zurich Assurance Ltd should provide details of its calculation to Mrs A in a clear, simple 
format.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs A to accept 
or reject my decision before 19 May 2022.
 
Jo Storey
Ombudsman