DRN-4141553
The complaint
Miss D complains about how Moneybarn No 1 Limited handled the termination of her 
conditional sale agreement.
What happened
In February 2021 Miss D was supplied with a car and entered into a conditional sale 
agreement with Moneybarn. Miss D experienced difficulties in paying the agreement fairly 
soon after entering into it and requested a payment break whilst she took advice from a debt 
management service about her options going forwards.
Following the payment break, Moneybarn terminated the agreement and repossessed the 
vehicle.
Miss D doesnt think feel that Moneybarn treated her fairly and complained to this service.
Our investigator didnt uphold the complaint. He said he was satisfied that Moneybarn had 
attempted to contact Miss D following non payment every month and that they had provided 
relevant and sufficient support information to explain her support options at each stage. The 
investigator said that Moneybarn had agreed to several payment plans to help Miss D pay 
the arrears but these plans hadnt been adhered to and because the arrears continued to 
mount, it wouldve been irresponsible if Moneybarn had not ended the agreement when it 
did.
Miss D didnt agree so Ive been asked to review the complaint and make a final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive reviewed Miss Ds account. I can see that initially she was able to make her contractual 
monthly payments but by May 2021 she was experiencing financial difficulties and from that 
point onwards she was unable to make the contractual payments to the account and only 
made a one off partial payment of £100 in September 2021. 
I can see that when Miss D first missed a payment in May 2021, Moneybarn contacted her 
by phone and email to offer support. Moneybarn continued to contact Miss D every month 
until it managed to speak to Miss D by phone in August 2021.
Having spoken with Moneybarn, Miss D agreed a payment plan. But she was unable to 
make the payments shed agreed so the payment plan failed. In September 2021 
Moneybarn issued a default notice. It was at this point that Miss D made a one off payment 
of £100 towards the arrears.
Miss D contacted Moneybarn and advised them that she was seeking debt advice. 
Moneybarn agreed a new payment plan with Miss D. But Miss D failed to make any 
payments. Moneybarn issued another default notice in December 2021.
In March 2022 Miss D entered a breathing space arrangement. This arrangement ended 
on 21 May 2022. Moneybarn still hadnt received any payments during this time and issued a 
notice of arrears in May 2022 and a final default notice in June 2022. The default notice gave 
Miss D a deadline of 29 June 2022 to contact them if she wished to take action to keep the 
car. Miss D didnt contact Moneybarn so it issued a termination letter in July 2022 and 
subsequently took steps to repossess the car.
Miss D has said that she feels that she was treated unfairly. So Ive focussed on whether 
Moneybarn acted fairly and reasonably when it terminated the agreement.
Ive had regard to the relevant CONC guidance. I can see that Moneybarn tried to contact 
Miss D from May 2021 onwards when she failed to make payments to her account. I can 
also see that Moneybarn agreed payment plans with Miss D but these werent kept to by 
Miss D. Moneybarn allowed Miss D the breathing space and took no action, even though no 
payments were being made during this time.
Theres no dispute that Miss D was in financial difficulties during this time. Its clear that 
despite the attempts by Moneybarn to agree payment plans with Miss D, she couldnt afford 
to make any payments. In the circumstances, and with arrears increasing month on month, I 
dont think it wouldve been responsible for Moneybarn to allow the agreement to continue. I 
think Moneybarn acted fairly and responsibly when it took the decision to terminate the 
agreement.
Miss D has said that Moneybarn couldve done more to resolve things with her. However, 
based on what Ive seen, Moneybarn kept in contact with Miss D regularly and tried to offer 
solutions by agreeing payment plans and allowing Miss D breathing space. From what Ive 
seen, Moneybarn has communicated clearly with Miss d about the options available and the 
consequences of non compliance with the regulatory notices. 
I understand that Miss D didnt want the agreement terminated and I can see that she tried 
to speak to Moneybarn in July 2022. However, the default notice had been clear that the 
deadline for taking action in relation to the options available for keeping the car expired at 
the end of June. So by the time Miss D contacted Moneybarn it was too late. 
Taking everything into account Im unable to say that Moneybarn has treated Miss D unfairly. 
It responded appropriately to Miss Ds change of financial circumstances by offering 
appropriate support and agreeing payment plans. It communicated regularly with Miss D and 
complied with the regulatory requirements when it sent notices of arrears and default. It was 
clear about any deadlines that Miss D needed to meet if she wished to take up one of the 
options to keep the car. For these reasons Im unable to say that Moneybarn has treated 
Miss D unfairly or acted unreasonably in terminating the agreement.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold the complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss D to accept 
or reject my decision before 12 October 2023.
 
Emma Davy
Ombudsman