DRN-2944227
The complaint
Mr K complains that Barclays Bank UK PLC trading as Barclaycard has refused to set up a 
paydown plan without him completing an income and expenditure assessment. Mr K also 
complains about delays by Barclaycard when responding to his complaint. 
What happened
In September 2020 Barclaycard sent Mr K a persistent debt letter. Barclaycard said Mr K 
had the option to switch his account to a paydown plan which meant the balance would be 
repaid sooner. Barclaycard quoted a figure of £232 a month. 
Mr K called Barclaycard to set up the paydown plan of £250 a month but was asked to 
complete an income and expenditure assessment before it could be approved. Mr K refused 
and complained. Mr K has told us Barclaycards letters said he only needed to complete the 
income and expenditure assessment if he was unsure he could afford the paydown plan 
payments. 
Mr K complained in September 2020 but Barclaycard didnt respond until the middle of 
December 2020 which is longer than the normal time limit. When Barclaycard responded, it 
said before it could approve a paydown plan it needed to ensure it wasnt going to place Mr 
K in financial difficulty which is why it wants him to complete an income and expenditure 
assessment. 
Mr K referred his complaint to this service and it was passed to an investigator. They said 
some of the language in Barclaycards letters couldve been clearer but didnt agree it was 
unfair for it to ask Mr K to complete an income and expenditure assessment. Mr K asked to 
appeal and said the information in the letters Barclaycard sent him indicated completing an 
income and expenditure assessment wasnt compulsory. Mr K also said Barclaycard hadnt 
responded to his complaint in good time and he hadnt received letters it sent.
As Mr K didnt agree with the investigator, his complaint has been passed to me to make a 
decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr K says Barclaycards letters only require him to complete the income and expenditure 
assessment if hes unsure he can afford repayments under a paydown plan. Mr K says hes 
confident he can afford monthly payments of £250 and doesnt think its fair for Barclaycard 
to insist he completes the income and expenditure assessment. Ive read all the information 
provided, including the highlighted letters Mr K sent us. I agree they could be clearer and 
can understand why Mr K believed the requirement to complete an income and expenditure 
assessment wasnt compulsory. 
Mr K has sent us a copy of a letter from March 2021 that now includes a specific request that 
he completes an income and expenditure assessment. I can see it also includes information 
in line with previous letters Mr K was sent. 
Whilst I agree some of the details concerning how to set up a plan arent as clear as they 
should be, Barclaycard confirmed its position concerning the income and expenditure 
assessment when Mr K called to discuss the paydown plan in September 2020. So Mr K has 
been aware since that time that Barclaycard require him to take that step before it will put the 
paydown plan in place. 
Ive considered whether Barclaycard is acting unfairly by asking Mr K to complete an income 
and expenditure assessment before it changes the way his credit card account operates and 
increases the payment he makes each month. Whilst I dont doubt Mr Ks claim hes able to 
manage the new payment, Barclaycard has to ensure customers can afford to maintain their 
accounts. In this case, Mr Ks previous minimum payment was around £165 a month and he 
was making regular payments of £200. 
Mr K told Barclaycard he wants to set up a paydown plan on the basis of paying £250 a 
month, substantially more than the payments hes been making to date. In my view, I think 
Barclaycards request that Mr K provides information that verifies the new arrangement is 
affordable is reasonable. I havent been persuaded that Barclaycards approach is unfair on 
Mr K. 
Im sorry to disappoint Mr K but Im satisfied Barclaycards request for him to complete an 
income and expenditure assessment before putting the paydown plan in place is reasonable. 
I leave it to Mr K to decide how he wishes to proceed. 
Mr K has also complained that Barclaycard took too long to respond and that he didnt 
receive all its correspondence. Businesses should issue a final response to a complaint 
within eight weeks. But if a business cant its required to send details of how to refer a 
complaint to this service in the meantime. Ive looked at the correspondence Mr K was sent 
and can see that Barclaycard wrote to him to provide details of how to refer a complaint to us 
when it was unable to respond within the normal timescale. Mr K went on to refer his case to 
us before Barclaycard responded to his complaint in full. 
We cant fine or punish a business for making an error or delays in issuing correspondence. 
Ive considered whether the delay unfairly impacted Mr Ks position. Barclaycard explained 
the steps required to set up a paydown plan in September 2020 when it discussed the 
process with him. Whilst I agree there was a delay in responding, Im satisfied Mr K was 
aware of the information required to set up the paydown plan. 
As I havent found that Barclaycard has treated Mr K unfairly Im not telling it to take any 
further action in this case. 
My final decision
My decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr K to accept or 
reject my decision before 9 September 2021.
 
Marco ManenteOmbudsman