DRN-3821357
The complaint
Mr H has complained that National Savings and Investments (NS&I) wont accept his 
certified copy of Power of Attorney  in this case a Lasting Power of Attorney (LPA)  which 
he holds for his mother. Mr H says NS&Is own internal policy was unnecessary, unjustified, 
and could cause additional expense and frustration to the end user.
What happened
Mr Hs Power of Attorney for his mother was created by his solicitor in 2012 and registered 
with the Office of the Public Guardian. 
After opening NS&I accounts on behalf of the donor, his mother, as LPA in January 2021   
Mr H supplied it with the certified copy of the LPA, but it was rejected as it did not meet 
NS&Is requirements. Mr H complained to NS&I about this. 
In its response to Mr H NS&I said: 
Any document that was sent to NS&I had to be either the original document or a 
certified copy of the LPA document. The certification must be made by an individual 
solicitor and not the name of the company or by a representative. The certified copy it 
had received was certified by the company name and not the name of the individual 
solicitor. 
The solicitor business who had certified the LPA had gone into administration and it 
suggested Mr H contact the Office of Public Guardian (OPG) with reference to 
getting a new document. 
It recognised Mr Hs frustrations that other organisations had accepted the document 
but it wasnt in the position to record the LPA and couldnt comment on the practices 
of other organisations. 
Mr H wasnt happy with the response so brought his complaint to the Financial Ombudsman. 
Mr H says the certified copy was stamped as a true copy of the original document and 
signed by a solicitor (an authorised person) on behalf of his solicitors. Mr H was of the 
opinion that the document  in accordance with the Powers of Attorney Act 1971  was a 
correctly certified copy of the original.
I issued my provisional decision explaining that I intended upholding the complaint and I 
asked both parties to give me anything further that they wanted me to consider before I 
issued my final decision. Heres what I said;
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. 
After doing so, Im currently thinking of making an award for the distress and 
inconvenience caused to the eligible complainant, Mrs H as well as recommending 
action I think NS&I should take in order to resolve the issue. 
I should explain at the outset that this services role is to decide whether a firm acted 
fairly and reasonably in the individual circumstances of a complaint. Our role is not to 
decide whether a firm, or customer has interpreted the law correctly or not. Thats for 
a court to decide. So, while Ive taken into account what the relevant law says here, 
Ive focused on whats fair and reasonable in all the circumstances, in line with our 
role as a quick and informal service. 
After Mr H first made contact with NS&I to register his LPA and he had sent it a 
certified copy, the NS&I confirmed the LPA was acceptable, but the certification was 
not. It explained that the certification signature had to allow for the individual solicitor 
to be identifiable and not just the solicitors business name. 
I can appreciate how frustrated Mr H has been by the processes required by NS&I. 
He feels he has all of the necessary documentation and that documentation has 
been accepted by other financial organisations. And during this time, his mothers 
investments have been in limbo.
The Powers of Attorney Act 1971 is the appropriate legislation for me to consider in 
this case. The requirements for certifying powers of attorney are set out in Section 
three of that Act. It states that the copy; 
(b) contains the following certificate or certificates signed by the donor of the 
power or by a solicitor, authorised person or stockbroker. 
The LPA provided by Mr H is not signed by a solicitor but on behalf of the 
partnership. So while the Act doesnt provide any guidance on the situation Mr H 
finds himself in, I think its likely that NS&I is correct that the document has not been 
strictly certified in accordance with the Act as it has not been signed by a solicitor or 
authorised person. 
My understanding is that in practice when certifying documents as a solicitor, it would 
be usual to sign and date the document and for the name of the signatory to be 
printed along with their occupation, address, and phone number.  And while I 
appreciate the points made by Mr H, it seems unlikely that the person who has 
signed (which is only recognisable as a squiggle) was an authorised person but 
someone who was not following the correct procedure when certifying documents. 
And an LPA is a special category document and one to be treated with extra caution 
due to the very nature of a power of attorney in removing the individuals ability  in 
this case Mrs H  with her own finances and property. 
But, while I may currently agree with NS&I over its interpretation of the Act with 
regard to certification, I do think it could have done considerably more to help. Mrs H 
is 96 years of age and it doesnt seem reasonable for Mr H to have been made to go 
through this effort and time in trying to deal with his mothers financial affairs. 
NS&I hasnt given me anything to think it has any cause for concern about Mr H 
acting for his mother as Attorney. So, I would question why it hasnt been trying to 
make reasonable suggestions in how to find a way forward. I dont think its blanket 
approach to this situation has been helpful. After all, Mrs H is a vulnerable consumer 
and businesses are expected to be able to identify this at the front end to ensure its 
processes are fit for purpose. 
My understanding is that NS&I could have done a search of the Office of the Public 
Guardians records if it wanted to check whether Mr H was still Attorney. Again, my understanding is that this is a free service and only takes a few days. As I have said 
above, Mrs H is a vulnerable consumer and I think NS&I could have done more to try 
to resolve the problem. 
In conclusion I currently dont think that NS&I has done anything wrong in not 
accepting the certified copy of the LPA for the reasons given above. But my 
recommendation now, in order to assist Mrs H, is that NS&I search the Office of 
Public Guardians records to check Mr Hs validity as Attorney. 
And I am of the opinion that NS&I could have done considerably more to help resolve 
the issue sooner. Usually in this situation I would require a business to pay a 
complainant an award for the trouble and upset it had caused. 
Im unable to make an award to Mr H because these provisions do not extend to 
complaints bought by a Power of Attorney. But I can make an award for Mrs H if I 
consider these are circumstances where the impact on Mr H has in turn impacted on 
the eligible complainant  in this case Mrs H. Mr H has told us that he hasnt been 
able to operate Mrs Hs NS&I  account and he needs to withdraw funds under the 
LPA and those funds are urgently needed for utility bills. So, I do consider an award 
for the distress and inconvenience that has been caused is warranted and I propose 
to make an award of £300 for Mrs H. 
I concluded that while I didnt think NS&I had done anything wrong in not accepting the 
certified copy of the LPA, I thought it should have done more to assist its customer who was 
vulnerable. I intended on asking it to take steps to assist Mrs H and pay her £300 for not 
doing more. 
Mr H accepted my provisional decision.
In response NS&I didnt agree with my provisional decision and said the following;
In its reply to Mr Hs complaint it had said he could contact the Office of Public 
Guardian to get a new document. It said this could have been better worded as he 
could only get an office copy. If he had done this, he would have been advised he 
could get an office copy which it believed cost £35. 
The LPA was unacceptable, and NS&I couldnt use the online process to check with 
OPG as the LPA was made prior to 1 January 2016 and so it was correct to reject the 
POA. It listed the reasons as quoted in section 3 of the POA Act 1971. 
It couldnt know whether the form had been signed by a solicitor or authorised 
person. The copy LPA was not certified correctly.
It didnt agree with my comment that the document should be treated with caution as 
it removed an individuals ability to deal with their own affairs. It said as long as the 
Donor retains mental capacity, they could continue to deal with their own affairs even 
after appointing an Attorney. In this case it didnt know Mrs Hs capacity.
It accepted that Mrs H as the Donor could be regarded as vulnerable, but her 
Attorney was acting for her, and unless he was vulnerable, it wouldnt be a factor in a 
POA case. 
It said it couldnt register the POA provided and the original was lost. It had advised 
Mr H to contact OPG which he hadnt done, and it couldnt validate the POA 
electronically. 
It had never been mentioned that Mrs H needed the funds urgently. If Mr H was to make contact about this it would consider making a care and benefit payment. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
NS&I has said that for an LPA made prior to 1 January 2016 the online process for checking 
with the OPG could not be used. And on the link it attached to its response that is certainly 
the case. 
But it has misunderstood. In order to check the register to see if an individual has an 
Attorney or Deputy registered with the OPG the process is simple and free. To be clear, the 
form NS&I should complete  OPG100  is available online on the below link;
https://www.gov.uk/government/publications/search-public-guardian-registers
The OPG sends back the confirmation within a few days. And I would think that confirmation 
from the OPG from the register would be sufficient for NS&I and so an office copy would not 
be required at the expense of Mr H or his mother. I dont think this is unreasonable in order 
to resolve a problem for a vulnerable person.
 
NS&I made further arguments about the interpretation of the relevant legislation but Im not 
going to comment on that as in my provisional decision I didnt disagree with its 
interpretation. 
However, it did make the suggestion that an LPA is not a special category document as it 
didnt know whether Mrs H had lost her mental capacity. I dont think whether Mrs H has lost 
her mental capacity or otherwise would invalidate the importance of this legal document. And 
if NS&I did consider that Mrs Hs mental capacity was something that it wanted to be aware 
of and to take into account, then I would have expected its review of Mrs Hs account to have 
included a review of the present position in relation to her capacity, which I cant see has 
been undertaken with Mrs H in any event. 
Regarding its comment that it wasnt aware Mrs H had need of funds for fuel bills, Mr H tried 
to register the LPA in January 2021 so I dont find it surprising the Mrs Hs circumstances 
may have changed in the intervening period of nearly two years and I dont find it was a 
surprise that Mr H brought it to our attention. The award is made for the distress and 
inconvenience caused by NS&I not doing enough in this case, and the impact that has had 
on her is that she hasnt been able to access her funds for bills that need paying. 
Putting things right
Overall, NS&Is response hasnt altered my findings in my provisional decision, and I confirm 
those findings. I uphold Mr Hs complaint and NS&I should put the matter right by taking the 
steps I have outlined in order to assist Mrs H and also pay her £300 for the trouble and upset 
caused by it not doing enough to assist.
My final decision
For the reasons I have given, I uphold Mr Hs complaint and National Savings and 
investments should put the matter right as outlined above. Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 21 December 2022.
 
Catherine Langley
Ombudsman