DRN-3227235
The complaint
Mr D has complained that Bank of Scotland (trading as Halifax) didnt offer him enough 
support with his credit card account, when he explained the financial difficulty he was in. 
What happened
Halifax say that Mr D had been experiencing financial difficulties for some time prior to the 
start of the Covid-19 pandemic. They say that his Halifax credit card had a balance near the 
limit and his loan had been in significant arrears for some time. 
In March 2020, Halifax say they put an interest block on his credit card account in an attempt 
to assist his situation. The card was also blocked from any further use. 
In July 2020, Mr D called the bank in an attempt to have the block on the card removed.     
Mr D says he explained the difficult situation he found himself in and that he wanted access 
to the card to purchase food for his baby. 
Halifax say that the interest block on the card was still in place but that they werent able to 
reinstate use of the card, as it would have been irresponsible for them to allow him to 
increase his debt after he had told them that he wasnt currently working. The outstanding 
balance on the card was approximately £450 and the credit limit was £500. 
Mr D was unhappy. He said he was in a very difficult situation with a new-born baby and 
didnt think that Halifax were supporting him enough. Halifax paid Mr D £50 as a gesture of 
goodwill, which they say was to try and help him in the emergency situation he found himself 
in. Mr D remained unhappy and brought his complaint to our service. 
An investigator looked into it and she didnt think that Halifax had done anything wrong. She 
said that Halifax were acting responsibly by not reinstating your card. She felt they had acted 
fairly by paying £50 to try and help with the situation he found himself in that day. 
Mr D remained unhappy. He didnt think that Halifax had done enough and said they should 
have at least paid him £100. As no agreement was reached by the investigator, the case has 
been passed to me to make a decision on. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I have reached the same conclusion as the Investigator. Ill explain why.
I sympathise with Mr D and the situation he found himself in on that day in July 2020, when 
he called Halifax looking for help. However, I dont believe that Halifax should have done any 
more than they did. 
At the time Mr D had been in significant arrears with his loan account for some time. His card 
had been blocked for over three months and there had also been a block on any further 
interest being charged. He was stating he was in financial difficulty and out of work. Mr D 
was asking Halifax to reinstate his card so he could use it for emergency spending. This 
potentially would have also required a credit limit increase as the balance at the time was 
almost at the card limit. 
I think Halifax did the right thing in not reinstating the card. They were aware of his loan 
arrears and that he was currently out of work. Whilst I appreciate the difficult situation Mr D 
found himself in, it wouldnt have been right for Halifax to increase his indebtedness at a time 
when it wasnt clear how he would repay it. 
Halifax did pay Mr D a gesture of goodwill of £50, which they say was just to help him in the 
situation that he found himself in. Mr D has said that it should have been more, but Halifax 
werent obliged to make any payment and they were doing it to help. I think they acted 
reasonably.  
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision before 13 April 2022.
 
Yoni Smith
Ombudsman