DRN-2114248
The complaint
Mr and Mrs B say Santander UK Plc (trading at the time as Abbey National) mis-sold them a 
payment protection insurance (PPI) policy. 
What happened
Mr and Mrs B took out a PPI policy in 2005 at the same time as they applied for a further 
advance and moved their existing mortgage onto a new mortgage product. The sale took 
place in one of the banks branches. The cover was in Mr Bs sole name and protected him 
against accident, sickness and unemployment. They paid a monthly amount for the policy.
Our adjudicator didnt uphold the complaint. Mr and Mrs B disagreed so the complaint was
passed to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI is on our website and Ive followed
it here.
Ive decided not to uphold Mr and Mrs Bs complaint. Ill explain why.
Santander had to make it clear to Mr and Mrs B that the PPI was optional, and they had to
agree to take it out. Mr and Mrs B say they were told it was mandatory. The bank disputes 
this. I cant know what was said in the meeting or how the PPI was presented to Mr and Mrs 
B.  And the bank cant provide all their documents from the time of the sale. But thats not
surprising given how long ago it was. It has sent in sample documents that it says
Mr and Mrs B wouldve had to complete to take out PPI. There was a separate application
form for the PPI and a separate direct debit mandate to sign. As PPI was set up on their
account I think its most likely Mr B completed these documents. 
The letter they were sent after the meeting shows the bank recommended PPI and they 
accepted this recommendation. Also Santander has been able to provide a copy of their 
mortgage offer. In the insurance section (section nine) it says that youre not required to 
take out any insurance through Abbey and then lists just buildings insurance as a condition 
of the mortgage. Ive thought carefully about Mr and Mrs Bs comments, but I also have to 
consider how long ago the sale was and how that might affect what they recall. 
Overall, I havent found enough evidence to fairly conclude Santander didnt make them 
aware the PPI was optional, and they didnt agree to take it out for Mr B.
I think Santander recommended the PPI for Mr B to Mr and Mrs B so it had to make sure it
was right for him. I know Mr B feels strongly it wasnt but based on his circumstances at the 
time I think it was suitable. I say this because:
He was eligible for the cover. The other insurances he held and his employment 
benefits did not change this. And it seems there wasnt anything in the PPI that would 
make it difficult for him to claim  for example, the type of employment contract he 
had when the PPI was sold or any pre-existing medical conditions. So he wouldnt 
have been affected by the main exclusions or limitations in the policy.
Mr B was entitled to six months sick pay. But the PPI wouldve paid out in addition to
his work benefits and for up to 12 months. It also gave him up to 12 months 
redundancy cover. He also had savings worth less than three months salary but the 
PPI wouldve allowed him to use them to pay for other living expenses whilst he 
wasnt working, or to keep them intact for his future needs. Mr B had a life assurance 
policy, but this offered a different kind of protection and wouldnt help with monthly 
mortgage repayments in the same way or circumstances as PPI. Similarly the death-
in-service benefit he received from his employer was a different kind of protection for 
a different event. Mr and Mrs B were borrowing a large amount over a long time 
secured on their home. Given the serious consequences of missing mortgage 
payments, I think the policy wouldve been useful for Mr and Mrs B if Mr B was sick, 
had an accident or lost his job.
Ive seen nothing to suggest the policy was unaffordable at the time of the sale.
Santander also had to provide information that was clear, fair and not misleading at the time
of the sale. And I think its possible it didnt give all the details it shouldve. However, for the
same reasons I find the policy was suitable, I dont think better information wouldve changed
their decision. I say this as Mr B doesnt appear to have been affected by any of main
exclusions or limitations, and the PPI was competitively priced and apparently affordable.
It follows I dont think Mr and Mrs B lost out because of any problems with the sale.
My final decision
My decision is I am not upholding this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr and Mrs B to 
accept or reject my decision before 21 December 2020.
 
Rebecca Connelley
Ombudsman