DRN-3649804
The complaint
Mr R has complained about the service received by Schroder Unit Trusts Limited 
(Schroder). He said Schroder sold all the units in his Stocks and Shares ISA held with it, 
converted it to cash and transferred the money to another ISA provider, without his 
authorisation.
What happened
Mr R held a Stocks and Shares ISA with Schroder. A transfer request by another ISA 
provider (Party A) was received by Schroder and then was completed by it on 12 July 2021. 
On 13 July 2021 Schroder issued a contract note detailing the sale of the units within Mr Rs 
ISA. On 15 July 2021, Mr R contacted Schroder to ask that the units be transferred back to 
his ISA with it. He said that he hadnt given his authorisation to do this.
On the same day, 15 July 2021, Mr Rs financial advisers (Party B) contacted Schroder to 
say the transfer request that it had submitted to Party A, was processed by them in error. 
This error then led to Party A sending a request to Schroder, who duly then sold the units 
and transferred over the money to it. 
Mr R referred his complaint to our service after Schroder told him that it had done nothing 
wrong other than carry out instructions by Party A. One of our investigators looked into       
Mr Rs complaint and issued their view not upholding his complaint. They concluded 
Schroder completed a transfer request on 12 July 2021 and had no reason to believe that it 
was made without Mr Rs authority. They said Schroder had signed up to industry standard 
rules along with other ISA providers and followed these when dealing with the request. They 
didnt think Schroder had done anything wrong.
Mr R disagreed with the investigator. He said Government guidelines on ISA transfer 
requests should have been followed and these werent by Schroder. He said the investigator 
has chosen to look at the processes followed by Schroder on ISA transfers as laid down by 
the agreed industry standard and not the guidelines issued by the Government. He said 
Schroder had a responsibility to ensure that it had his permission before it carried out the 
transfer request. 
As the parties are not in agreement, Mr Rs complaint has been passed to me, an 
ombudsman, to look into.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
For the record, Party B put in the transfer request to Party A without Mr Rs permission and 
has admitted that it made an error. It made an offer to compensate Mr R, which was been 
accepted. 
What I am considering here are the actions of Schroder and no other parties, despite the 
obvious connections with regards to the transfer request. In other words, a complaint made 
against Schroder doesnt allow me to consider or make findings on the actions of other 
parties, in this case Party A and Party B. Although for ease, I have continued to mention 
them so that there is a clear understanding as to what has happened here.
So, with all of that in mind, I need to consider Schroders role in this transfer request and 
whether it should have done more than it did. 
Schroder and Party A have signed up to an exchange scheme called TISA Exchange 
Limited (TeL). The scheme has been designed by the ISA providers themselves and they all 
adhere to the same terms and conditions. By participating it allows ISA providers to carry out 
transfers quickly and efficiently removing some of the administrative function, as all 
participants are adhering to the same rules. It also designates clear roles and responsibilities 
when it comes to transferring ISAs between them and spells out who is responsible for what. 
Mr R says Schroder had wider responsibilities under government guidelines issued on ISAs 
and this he says is his main complaint. He says Schroder failed to communicate with him in 
any way, shape or form prior to selling and transferring his assets without his authorisation. 
So, I have looked at this, at the Government guidelines for ISA transfers and also the TeL 
terms and conditions to see whether Schroder should have done anymore and whether 
there were any failings with how it handled the transfer request that it was given by Party A. 
I acknowledge the point that Mr R has made regarding Schroders responsibilities to follow 
Government guidelines. He has also recently provided comments relating to the terms and 
conditions of the ISA that he was given to look through. Ive read the Government guidelines 
on ISA transfers and on balance, I cant find any failings by Schroder in this instance. I also 
dont think the original ISA terms and conditions contradict Schroders responsibilities within 
the TeL scheme, as long as all parties signed up to it adhere to its part within the scheme 
rules and then takes responsibility for any failings that occur from anything that it needed to 
do. I am satisfied that this is what has happened here, that Party B has done so in this 
instance. 
I also note that the TeL terms and conditions does have a section on Compliance with laws 
and regulations. So, I think the terms of the exchange scheme are meant to be given as 
rules for participating members to abide by alongside their compliance responsibilities. There 
is no mention of Government guidelines, but this is because the guidelines Mr R refers to 
were published after the terms and conditions were. But I think the guidelines would fall into 
the broad section within the terms given for law and regulation. 
Under the TeL terms and conditions, roles are clearly laid out and it is for, in this instance, 
Party A as initiating participant to verify with Party B, that it has received authorisation from 
Mr R to carry out this instruction. Schroders role then as non-initiating participant is to fulfil a 
transfer instruction in accordance with the rules unless there is an exceptional circumstance. 
I can see after reading these terms that one of the exceptional circumstances listed in the 
scheme rules is where a non-initiating participant has legitimate reason to believe the 
initiating participant has not been given authorisation by the customer to act on its behalf. If 
this is the case, then it doesnt need to proceed with the transfer. So, the rules provided by 
all participants signed up to the scheme allows for any misunderstanding or lack of 
authorisation that comes to light by, in this case, Schroder, to be acted upon. 
As I have already mentioned, a transfer request was erroneously put in by Party B to Party 
A. Party A then put in a transfer request to Schroder. Schroder then carried out the request by selling the units held by Mr R and then transferred the money to Party A. At no point 
during this time can I see that Schroder was aware that Parties A or B did not have 
authorisation from Mr R to carry out this request and was only made aware after it had 
carried out its part of the transfer. I also dont think that Schroder would have any reason to 
doubt the validity of the request they were given. So, I can see why it would proceed as if the 
request was genuine and then go ahead and complete the transfer.
So, in conclusion, I dont think Schroder did anything wrong here and was not the party that 
was responsible for this transfer request erroneously being submitted, that then led to it 
subsequently going ahead. 
Im sorry that the outcome is likely to come as a disappointment to Mr R, but after 
considering all of the information provided by both sides here, I do not uphold his complaint.
My final decision
I do not uphold Mr Rs complaint about Schroder Unit Trusts Limited and so I dont require it 
to do anything further here. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision before 7 February 2023.
 
Mark Richardson
Ombudsman