DRN-3549869
The complaint
Mr A is unhappy that American International Group UK Limited (AIG) delayed delivery of his 
mobile phone when he claimed under his gadget policy.
What happened
Mr As mobile phone was covered under gadget insurance through his bank, which was 
underwritten by AIG. He claimed under the policy and AIG replaced his phone. 
Unfortunately, he knocked his replacement phone which caused another fault, so Mr A made 
a further claim under the policy. He didnt hear back from AIG and chased progress. 
Eventually, after finding thered been a system mix-up which put the phone under a warranty 
claim rather than a new claim, AIG processed the claim and asked Mr A to pay the policy 
excess.
Mr A received his phone 41 days after making his claim. He complained to AIG.
AIG agreed thered been shortfalls and offered compensation of £190. Mr A didnt think that 
was enough because hed lost work while he was without his phone. 
Our investigator upheld Mr As complaint. He didnt think AIG had offered enough 
compensation in the circumstances, and he recommended increasing it to £300. However, 
our investigator didnt think Mr A had provided sufficient information to show that AIG was 
responsible for income loss.
AIG accepted the recommendation, but Mr A remained unhappy. He provided evidence of 
his work payments and bank account to show that hed lost work around that time and he 
asked for further consideration.
The complaint was passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive decided to uphold Mr As complaint, although I wont be asking AIG to do any more than 
our investigator recommended. Ill explain why.
I understand this matter mustve caused Mr A considerable frustration, especially as he 
relied on his smartphone for work. However, I havent seen anything in the evidence to 
persuade me that AIG should increase the compensation further.
Both parties are aware of the circumstances of the complaint, so Ill focus on giving the 
reasons for my decision.
I see that AIG agreed Mr A experienced shortfalls and it accepted the recommendation to 
pay £300 compensation by way of apology. As theres no dispute about the poor handling of 
Mr As claim, I see no benefit in commenting further on the individual details. Instead Ill look 
at Mr As concern that £300 doesnt adequately address the loss of work he experienced as 
a direct result of AIGs delays.
AIG sent Mr A his phone 41 days after he made his claim. The policy doesnt specify a 
timeframe for claims but, as the avoidable delays contributed to the time he was without his 
phone, its reasonable to say almost six weeks is too long. Thats why AIG agreed to pay 
compensation.
Mr A explained he relied on his smartphone for receiving work and for his travel, and he 
provided evidence to show that hed lost work income during that time. Ive looked at the 
screenshots Mr A provided of his work payments, which show payments going to his 
account for a few days before his claim. Ive also looked at the letter from his bank saying it 
closed his account. He says that was a direct result of loss of income while he was without 
his phone. 
While I appreciate Mr A mustve been concerned that he was unable to work, I dont think 
the evidence he provided supports his position that the delays caused a loss of income. The 
account which closed was a different account to that shown on the screenshots and theres 
no evidence to show what Mr As income was like immediately before or during the claim. I 
understand his credit file was affected, but he hasnt provided any evidence that it was 
affected as a direct result of AIGs delays.
Even so, I cant reasonably say that AIG should be held responsible for Mr As loss of 
income and subsequent account closure because of a total claim time of 6 weeks, even if 
much of that was for avoidable delays.
In conclusion, Im satisfied that AIG reasonably accepted its shortfalls in handling Mr As 
claim and offered compensation. While I think the increased sum of £300 is warranted in the 
circumstances, I see no reason to ask AIG to consider paying any more for his loss of 
income.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, my final decision is that I uphold the complaint and American 
International Group UK Limited must.
pay Mr A £300 compensation by way of apology for the avoidable delays handling his 
claim.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision before 26 August 2022.
 
Debra Vaughan
Ombudsman