DRN-2871940
The complaint
Ms S has complained Barclays Bank UK PLC didnt pursue a chargeback claim on her 
behalf effectively.  
What happened
In November 2019 Ms S was getting social media messages advertising potential modelling 
opportunities for her son. She thought this might be a good option for her child and 
contacted them.
Ms S paid a £50 non-refundable deposit. A session at a photo studio was arranged. This 
went well and Ms S found the set up very professional. She was reassured verbally that her 
son would make a good model. When faced with the contractual price of a further £3,949, 
Ms S asked further questions as she was a single mother with a limited income. She was 
concerned what further support the company would be providing. She was further reassured 
that work would follow at the rate of more than three jobs a month which would mean shed 
recoup her money. Ms S paid the money.
Not long after Ms S felt this was all a scam particularly when she saw the name of the 
company supposedly providing this service. She got in touch with the supplier (who Ill call B) 
to confirm the contract had been misrepresented. B responded to say they wouldnt refund 
her money as shed signed the contract.
Ms S decided to raise the issue through her bank. Shed paid with her Barclays debit card. 
Barclays initially raised this as a fraud issue but then submitted a chargeback on Ms Ss 
behalf. This was on the basis that thered been a misrepresentation. The merchant rejected 
this claim and Barclays declined to go to arbitration. During this period Ms S had already 
brought her complaint to the ombudsman service as she didnt believe Barclays had done 
enough to help.
Our investigator felt that Barclays made a mistake in not proceeding to the arbitration 
process of the chargeback scheme. He asked Barclays to refund Ms S, and add 8% simple 
interest to the money.
Barclays didnt agree with this outcome. They felt if Ms S had been so concerned about the 
money she was spending, she should have delayed signing the contract until shed made 
further checks into B. They also supplied a copy of a press release issued by B which they 
felt showed they were a genuine supplier.
Ms Ss complaint has been referred to an ombudsman for decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive reached the same outcome as our investigator. Ill explain why.
There is only one aspect at the heart of the complaint. This is whether Barclays should have 
proceeded to the arbitration stage for Ms Ss chargeback claim and that had a reasonable 
chance of success. 
The chargeback rules are managed by the relevant international card schemes. Theyre not 
a guarantee of a refund. But these rules offer customers whove bought something which 
turns out to be not what they expected or were told it would be a simple and effective way of 
being reimbursed. As long as they made the purchase using their debit or credit card, they 
can ask their card issuer to assist. There are timelines and rules governing what a card 
issuer can and cannot do depending on the response provided by the merchant.
As our investigator confirmed, the evidence shows Barclays felt there was a reasonable 
enough chance of success to make the first chargeback claim and go to pre-arbitration. As 
far as I can see Bs evidence to decline the claim matches the response they sent to Ms S. 
Essentially they believed shed signed the contract which confirmed that B was not a model 
agency. 
But I dont think thats the only issue here. Ms Ss testimony has been consistent and 
powerful throughout. She wanted to know what she was getting for spending nearly £4,000 
so asked specifically what the support referred to in the terms and conditions amounted to. 
I think if she wasnt told she was getting their support  which amounted to B working as an 
agency  to secure modelling opportunities for her son, then its extremely unlikely shed 
have paid that much money for just some nice photos. I think its also  based on what I 
know of B  likely Ms S was told there was a reassurance that jobs for her son would follow.
This runs counter to the written contract but its not unusual for verbal testimony to play a 
role in misrepresentation cases. The chargeback rules in fact make room for this.
I also note that B accepted the chargeback claim on Ms Ss supposedly non-refundable 
deposit which Ms S paid with another institutions card.
Barclays presented a copy of a press release issued by B which they believe shows B was 
trustworthy. Im afraid I dont agree. None of this seems to provide independent evidence. 
Barclays will also know about reports of fraudulent claims being made in similar cases to 
Ms Ss. 
Ive not seen anything from Barclays which convinces me there was no chance of success if 
theyd gone to arbitration. I accept there was no new evidence but this was the position 
when they went to pre-arbitration so I dont believe that alone would be enough of a barrier 
to further submission. 
Putting things right
Having decided there was a reasonable chance of success, I believe Barclays should have 
continued with Ms Ss chargeback claim. Obviously the timescales have now expired for this 
to happen. 
Its therefore fair and reasonable for me to instruct Barclays to refund Ms S in full, along with 
8% simple interest.
I note Barclays previously paid Ms S £150 for the delays and errors theyd made in their 
initial claim which I think is fair and reasonable overall.
My final decisionFor the reasons Ive given, my final decision is to instruct Barclays Bank UK PLC to:
Refund £3,949 to Ms S; and
Add 8% simple interest to this amount from 16 November 2019 until the date of 
settlement.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms S to accept or 
reject my decision before 7 October 2021.
 
Sandra Quinn
Ombudsman