DRN-3361707
The complaint
Mr A complains about the advice given by Portal Financial Services LLP (Portal) to transfer 
the benefits from his defined-benefit (DB) occupational pension scheme to a self-invested 
personal pension (SIPP). He says the advice was unsuitable for him and believes this has 
caused a financial loss.
What happened
In 2017 Mr A approached Portal to discuss his pension and retirement needs. Mr A says he 
approached Portal in response to a promotional leaflet he received.
Portal completed a fact-find during a telephone-based appointment to gather information
about Mr As circumstances and objectives. Portal also carried out an assessment of Mr As
attitude to risk, which it deemed to be moderately cautious.
On 5 October 2017, Portal advised Mr A to transfer his pension benefits into a SIPP and
invest the proceeds in an investment portfolio comprising three funds, including a cash-
based fund, which Portal deemed matched Mr As attitude to risk. The suitability report set 
out the reasons for the recommendation, which can be summarised as:
To provide Mr A with flexibility and a pension that could adapt to his changing needs
and circumstances in the future;
To maximise tax-free cash to meet Mr As objective;
To offer greater choice and flexibility of death benefits;
To provide Mr A with ownership and control of his pension; and
To recognise Mr As willingness to take on investment risk.
Mr A accepted the recommendation and the transfer duly went ahead. Mr A received his tax-
free cash sum of around £21,000 and the remaining balance of around £62,000 was 
invested into his new SIPP.
In 2020 Mr A complained to Portal, through a representative, about the suitability of the 
transfer advice. Mr A said that he was reliant on his DB pension for his future retirement 
income having no other pension provision and he had no pressing need to release funds.
Portal acknowledged the complaint but I cant see it issued a final response to it.
Mr A then referred his complaint to our service and an investigator upheld it and required 
Portal to pay compensation. 
In summary they said because of the critical yield or growth rate required to match Mr As 
DB scheme benefits, Mr As attitude to risk and the relevant discount rate at the time, they 
thought Mr A was likely to receive benefits of a substantially lower overall value than his DB 
scheme if he transferred. They also said Mr A has little capacity for loss, so they didnt think 
the transfer was financially viable. They also didnt think there were any other particular 
reasons to justify a transfer to outweigh this. They didnt think Mr A had a pressing need to 
access his tax-free cash because the things Mr A wanted to use it for were not essential.
Portal disagreed. In summary it said the advice was suitable because it met Mr As 
objectives and by paying of his debts he was able to increase his security approaching 
retirement. It said it felt there was a good chance of improving Mr As benefits. It said Portal 
based its recommendation on the growth rate or lifetime hurdle rate, which it said was 
achievable. It also said it was a more accurate comparison rather than the critical yield given 
Mr As desire for flexibility of income withdrawal. It said the alternative options for raising the 
funds were considered but it was deemed they werent appropriate. Overall it said it 
explained the risks and gave a balanced view of things, so Mr A was in a position to make 
an informed decision.
Because the investigator wasnt persuaded to change their opinion, the complaint was
referred to me for a final decision.
 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive taken into account relevant law and regulations, regulators rules, guidance and 
standards and codes of practice, and what I consider to have been good industry practice at 
the time. This includes the Principles for Business (PRIN) and the Conduct of Business 
Sourcebook (COBS). And where the evidence is incomplete, inconclusive or contradictory, 
I reach my conclusions on the balance of probabilities  that is, what I think is more likely 
than not to have happened based on the available evidence and the wider surrounding 
circumstances.
The applicable rules, regulations and requirements
The below is not a comprehensive list of the rules and regulations which applied at the time 
of the advice, but provides useful context for my assessment of Portal's actions here.
PRIN 6 : A firm must pay due regard to the interests of its customers and treat them fairly.
PRIN 7: A firm must pay due regard to the information needs of its clients, and communicate 
information to them in a way which is clear, fair and not misleading.
COBS 2.1.1R: A firm must act honestly, fairly and professionally in accordance with the best 
interests of its client (the client's best interests rule).
The provisions in COBS 9 which deal with the obligations when giving a personal 
recommendation and assessing suitability. And the provisions in COBS 19 which specifically 
relate to a DB pension transfer.
Having considered all of this and the evidence in this case, Ive decided to uphold the 
complaint for largely the same reasons given by the investigator. My reasons are set out 
below.
The regulator, the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA), states in COBS 19.1.6 that the 
starting assumption for a transfer from a DB scheme is that it is unsuitable. So, Portal should 
have only considered a transfer if it could clearly demonstrate that the transfer was in Mr As 
best interests. And having looked at all the evidence available, Im not satisfied it was in his 
best interests.
Financial viability The advice was given after the regulator gave instructions in Final Guidance FG17 /9 as to
how businesses could calculate future 'discount rates' in loss assessments where a
complaint about a past pension transfer was being upheld. Prior to October 2017 similar
rates were published by the Financial Ombudsman Service on our website. Whilst
businesses weren't required to refer to these rates when giving advice on pension transfers,
I consider they provide a useful indication of what growth rates would have been considered
reasonably achievable when the advice was given in this case.
Mr A was 56 at the time of the advice and the advice paperwork said his intended retirement 
age was 65. The critical yield required to match Mr As benefits at age 65 was 14% if he took 
a full pension. And if Mr A opted for a tax-free cash lump sum and a reduced pension, 
perhaps the most likely option, the critical yield was 12%.
The relevant discount rate closest to when the advice was given which I can refer to was 
published by the Financial Ombudsman Service for the period before 1 October 2017, and 
was 3.5% per year for 8 years to retirement. Ive kept in mind that the regulator's projection 
rates had also remained unchanged since 2014: the regulator's upper projection rate at the 
time was 8%, the middle projection rate 5%, and the lower projection rate 2%. 
I've taken this into account, along with the composition of assets in the discount rate, Mr A's 
moderately cautious attitude to risk and also the term to retirement. In my view there would 
be little point in Mr A giving up the guarantees available to him through his DB scheme only 
to achieve, at best, the same level of benefits outside the scheme.
But here, taking the most likely option of Mr A taking tax-free cash and a reduced
pension, the critical yield was 12%. This figure was significantly higher than both the
regulators middle and upper projection rates  it was also more than three times higher than
the discount rate. Because of this, I think it was clear Mr A was likely to receive benefits of a
substantially lower overall value than his DB scheme at retirement, as a result of investing in
line with that attitude to risk and transferring his pension to a personal arrangement.
Because the required sustained growth rate was significantly above the regulators upper 
projection rate, I think it is clear the transfer was not compatible with Mr As attitude to risk. I 
also dont think Mr A had the capacity for loss  at this time his DB scheme represented the 
bulk of his future retirement income. To have come close to achieving the level of growth 
required, in my view would have required Mr A to take significant investment risk, which was 
far greater than his recorded appetite. And even then I think its more likely than not that Mr 
A would have been worse off financially at retirement if he transferred out. I think the term to 
retirement was also a limiting factor here.
I can see that Portal says the lifetime hurdle or growth rate is more appropriate figure to use 
as a comparison in this case, which is what the adviser based their recommendation on. 
This is because Mr A said he preferred the idea of a flexible drawdown as opposed to an 
annuity to generate his pension income, which is what the critical yield figure assumes. It 
seems to me that Portal is implying the relevance of the critical yield figure was limited in this 
case.
But I dont think the importance of the critical yield figures should have been downplayed by
the adviser, which I think is what happened here. I still consider it gives a good indication of 
the value of benefits Mr A was considering giving up. Its also the case that the regulator 
required Portal to provide it and so deems it a necessary and important part of the decision-
making process. So, telling Mr A it wasnt really relevant to him undermined the analysis the 
regulator required it to undertake. Furthermore I think it was relevant in this case because I dont think Mr A was reasonably in 
a position to say with any degree of certainty whether he wanted to take a regular income at 
retirement or not. Its recorded that Mr A didnt know the income he needed in retirement. So 
with no firm plans, I think its possible that Mr A might want or indeed need some guaranteed 
income in retirement. And Mr As DB scheme would provide this.
Overall, given the high critical yield figure in Mr As case, this shouldve acted as a clear sign 
that he would be worse off financially if he transferred out. So I think  Portal ought to have 
told Mr A to retain his DB scheme and that transferring out was not likely to be in his best 
interests. And for this reason alone, I dont think the advice to transfer out was suitable. 
Of course I accept that financial viability isnt the only consideration when giving transfer 
advice, something Portal has argued in this case. I accept there might be other 
considerations which mean a transfer is suitable, despite providing overall lower
benefits. Ive considered these below.
Flexibility  access to tax-free cash and income needs
Mr As objective and the reason for the recommendation to transfer out of his DB scheme
was to access his tax-free cash to tackle a debt, make home improvements and to buy a car.
But I dont think this was a suitable reason to recommend the transfer. I say this because
firstly and crucially in my view, the adviser did not establish how much money Mr A truly
needed to achieve his plans  it was simply based on him accessing the maximum tax-free
cash based on the transfer value. Im not persuaded Mr A really needed this amount of 
money -  I think he was likely seduced by the amount he was told he could get access to.
Mr A had both a loan and an outstanding credit card debt. Portal did record the balances of 
these  they amounted to around £10,000. But its not clear to me why Mr A needed to repay 
these at this stage. Just because Mr A thought it was a good idea didnt mean Portal had to 
execute what he thought he needed  it was Portals role to decide what was in Mr As best 
interests. Ive not seen anything to suggest Mr A couldnt manage his debt repayments. Mr A 
wasnt planning on retiring any time soon  so he couldve continued to service the debt from 
his earned income. The loan only had two years remaining anyway, so this wouldve been 
cleared in full at this time. At this point he could direct more money towards paying off his 
credit card debt. Given this, Im not persuaded there was a need for Mr A to repay his debts 
at this stage and certainly no pressing need to access his tax-free cash earlier than his 
schemes normal retirement age to achieve it. I think Mr A had plenty of time to repay his 
debts before his retirement using his earned income. But I see no reason why Mr A
couldnt have waited and used his tax-free cash from his DB scheme at his normal
retirement age if a balance remained outstanding at this time. 
I can see that in its response to the investigators assessment, Portal said that by paying off 
his debt he was able to increase his security approaching retirement. I cant see that this 
was specifically stated as a reason for recommending the transfer in the suitability report. 
But in any event, for the reasons Ive given above Im not persuaded Mr As circumstances 
dictated that he had a pressing need to clear his debts at this time.
Furthermore, in my view, by transferring his pension he was actually undermining the 
security he had approaching retirement by giving up the guaranteed income it would provide 
him with.
The other reason Mr A gave for wanting funds was to make repairs to his roof (I understand 
he told Portal his roof was leaking.) But Portal didnt understand how much Mr A needed to complete the repairs. And secondly this takes me to the alternative options for raising the 
money that Portal said it considered at the time. Portal recorded that Mr A had around 
£5,000 savings as an emergency fund but that Mr A didnt want to use this. Portal said in its 
response to the investigator that it was prudent for him to keep this small nest egg available 
for emergencies. 
But it strikes me that a leaking roof is the very thing that an emergency fund is designed to 
cater for. And because Portal didnt know how much Mr A needed to carry this out, I think its 
possible this couldve gone some, if not all of the way to providing what Mr A needed. If Mr A 
needed more, then I think a realistic possibility was for him to look at borrowing the money. 
And while I can see the suitability report says lending was discussed but discounted by Mr A 
because he didnt want to take on further lending or pay any interest, Im not persuaded this 
was fully considered given the lack of consideration for the amount of money I think Mr A 
truly needed and from what he told Portal at the time.
Portal told us that in the fact-find call at the start of its advice process Mr A said: ...the roof 
has started leaking, so I need to get a loan to fix that And......the car has just broken and 
its going to cost more to repair.
This suggests to me that Mr A was not averse to taking out a loan  far from it, it appears 
this was his first thought. Furthermore it also suggests to me that that Mr A didnt necessarily 
need funds for a new car  simply that his existing car was going to cost more to repair. So I 
think greater emphasis should have been placed on borrowing as a means to achieve Mr As 
goal given that I think its clear he needed substantially less than the £20,000 tax-free cash 
he was told he could get access to from his pension.
While Mr A already had a loan, I dont think this meant his couldnt borrow further. It was at a 
time when interest rates were low and given the poorly completed budget planner and lack 
of meaningful detail, Im not persuaded that it was reasonable for Portal to conclude that 
Mr A didnt have any disposable income he couldve used to service further borrowing. It was 
recorded that Mr A had a household income of around £2,500 a month with expenditure of 
less than £1,000. So even allowing for household bills and food costs, in my view it was 
likely Mr A did have disposable income. Mr A had managed to save £5,000 and it was 
recorded that it would be easy for him to reduce expenditure if he needed to. I also think this 
means Mr A had the potential to replace his emergency fund from excess income if he 
utilised this towards meeting his need.
Overall Im not persuaded that Mr As objective couldnt have reasonably been met this way 
rather than recommending he make an irreversible decision to transfer his DB scheme to a 
personal arrangement to help achieve it. I think Portal skirted over the reasonable 
alternatives and paid little regard for the other options available to Mr A for meeting his need 
for funds.
The other reason Portal gave for the recommendation to transfer was to provide greater
flexibility in how Mr A took his retirement income  he didnt want to buy an annuity. But I 
cant see that Mr A had a strong, if any need for variable income through his retirement. Mr 
As future income needs werent known at the time  he had no plans to retire any time soon 
- so I dont know how he couldve decided this. 
Furthermore, if Mr A did in fact have a need for flexibility in retirement, I think this couldve 
been explored closer to his intended retirement age, which was still several years away.
Overall Im not persuaded Mr As need for flexibility was a real objective  I think it was
simply a consequence of transferring out to a different arrangement to meet Mr As need for
access to cash.
Death benefitsDeath benefits are an emotive subject and of course when asked, most people would like
their loved ones to be taken care of when they die. The lump sum death benefits on offer
through a personal pension arrangement was likely an attractive feature to Mr A. But whilst
I appreciate death benefits are important to consumers, and Mr A might have thought it was
a good idea to transfer his DB scheme to a personal pension arrangement because of this,
the priority here was to advise Mr A about what was best for his retirement provisions. 
A pension is primarily designed to provide income in retirement. And I dont think Portal
established the extent to which Mr A was prepared to accept a lower retirement income in
exchange for higher death benefits. I also think the existing death benefits attached to the 
DB scheme were underplayed. Mr A was married - so the spouses pension provided by the 
DB scheme wouldve been useful to his spouse if Mr A predeceased her. I dont think Portal 
made the value of this benefit clear enough to Mr A. This was guaranteed and it escalated  
it was not dependent on investment performance, whereas the sum remaining on death in a 
personal pension was. In any event, Portal should not have encouraged Mr A to prioritise the 
potential for higher death benefits through a personal pension over his security in retirement.
While Im mindful that Mr A was 56 at the time, if he genuinely wanted to leave a legacy for
his spouse, which didnt depend on investment returns or how much of his pension fund
remained on his death, I think Portal shouldve instead explored life insurance. This didnt
have to be a whole of life policy with a sum assured for the full transfer value, which given 
Mr As age might have been costly. The starting point ought to have been to ask Mr A how
much he wanted to leave to his family, and this couldve been explored on a whole of life or
term assurance basis, which I consider was likely to be cheaper to provide.
Overall, I dont think different death benefits available through a transfer to a personal
pension arrangement justified the likely decrease of retirement benefits for Mr A. And I dont
Portal did enough to explore or highlight the alternatives available to Mr A to meet this 
objective.
Ownership and control
I think Mr As documented desire for ownership and control over his pension benefits was
overstated. Mr A was not an experienced investor and Ive seen nothing to show or suggest
that he had an interest in or the knowledge to be able to manage his pension funds on his
own. So, I dont think that this was a genuine objective for Mr A  again it was simply a
consequence of transferring away from his DB scheme.
Summary
I dont doubt that the immediate availability of tax-free cash, flexibility, control and the
potential for higher death benefits on offer through a personal pension arrangement would
have sounded like attractive features to Mr A. But Portal wasnt there to just transact what
Mr A might have thought he wanted. The advisers role was to really understand what Mr A
needed and recommend what was in his best interests.
Ultimately, I dont think the advice given to Mr A was suitable. He was giving up a
guaranteed, risk-free and increasing income to meet an objective that in my view with better 
advice and consideration could likely have been achieved through other means  whether 
utilising his existing savings and or a combination of a form of borrowing. And this wouldve 
been far preferable to Mr A giving up his only guaranteed retirement income. By transferring, 
Mr A was very likely to obtain lower retirement benefits and in my view, there were no 
compelling reasons which would justify a transfer and outweigh this.So, I think Portal shouldve advised Mr A to remain in his DB scheme.
I now need to consider whether Mr A wouldve gone ahead anyway, against Portals advice.
Having done so, I dont think Mr A wouldve insisted on transferring out of his DB scheme
and gone ahead in any event. I say this because Mr A was not in my view an experienced
investor, or someone who possessed the requisite skill, knowledge of confidence to go 
against the advice their given in pension matter. So I think Mr A relied solely on the advice 
he was given. At the time this pension was the primary source of Mr As guaranteed future 
retirement provision. So, if Portal had provided him with clear advice against transferring out 
of the DB scheme, explaining why it wasnt suitable for him, and if it had explained that Mr A 
should explore alternative sources of funding for his home improvement objective and not 
risk his guaranteed pension to do so, I think that wouldve carried significant weight. I think 
Mr A wouldve accepted that advice.
In light of the above, I think Portal should compensate Mr A for the unsuitable advice, using
the regulator's defined benefits pension transfer redress methodology.
Putting things right
On 2 August 2022, the FCA launched a consultation on new DB transfer redress guidance 
and set out its proposals in a consultation document - CP22/15-calculating redress for non-
compliant pension transfer advice. 
In this consultation, the FCA said that it considers that the current redress methodology in 
Finalised Guidance (FG) 17/9 (Guidance for firms on how to calculate redress for unsuitable 
defined benefit pension transfers) remains appropriate and fundamental changes are not 
necessary. However, its review has identified some areas where the FCA considers it could 
improve or clarify the methodology to ensure it continues to provide appropriate redress. 
A policy statement was published on 28 November 2022 which set out the new rules and 
guidance- https://www.fca.org.uk/publication/policy/ps22-13.pdf. The new rules will come into 
effect on 1 April 2023.
The FCA has said that it expects firms to continue to calculate and offer compensation to 
their customers using the existing guidance in FG 17/9 for the time being. But until changes 
take effect firms should give customers the option of waiting for their compensation to be 
calculated in line with the new rules and guidance.
Weve previously asked Mr A whether he preferred any redress to be calculated now in line 
with current guidance or wait for the new guidance /rules to come into effect.
Mr A has chosen not to wait for the new rules to come into effect to settle his complaint. 
I am satisfied that a calculation in line with FG17/9 remains appropriate and, if a loss is 
identified, will provide fair redress for Mr A. 
A fair and reasonable outcome would be for the business to put Mr A, as far as possible, into 
the position he would now be in but for Portals unsuitable advice. I consider Mr A would 
have most likely remained in his DB scheme if suitable advice had been given.
Portal must therefore undertake a redress calculation in line with the regulators pension 
review guidance as updated by the Financial Conduct Authority in its Finalised Guidance 
17/9: Guidance for firms on how to calculate redress for unsuitable DB pension transfers.For clarity, compensation should be based on a normal retirement age of 65, as per the 
usual assumptions in the FCA's guidance.
This calculation should be carried out as at the date of my final decision and using the most
recent financial assumptions at the date of that decision. In accordance with the regulators 
expectations, this should be undertaken or submitted to an appropriate provider promptly 
following receipt of notification of Mr As acceptance of the decision.
Portal may wish to contact the Department for Work and Pensions (DWP) to obtain Mr As 
contribution history to the State Earnings Related Pension Scheme (SERPS or S2P). These 
details should then be used to include a SERPS adjustment in the calculation, which will 
take into account the impact of leaving the occupational scheme on Mr As SERPS/S2P 
entitlement.
If the redress calculation demonstrates a loss, the compensation should if possible be paid 
into Mr As pension plan. The payment should allow for the effect of charges and any 
available tax relief. The compensation shouldnt be paid into the pension plan if it would 
conflict with any existing protection or allowance.
If a payment into the pension isnt possible or has protection or allowance implications, it 
should be paid directly to Mr A as a lump sum after making a notional deduction to allow for 
income tax that would otherwise have been paid. Typically, 25% of the loss could have been 
taken as tax-free cash and 75% would have been taxed according to his/her/their likely 
income tax rate in retirement - presumed to be 20%. So making a notional deduction of 15% 
overall from the loss adequately reflects this.
The payment resulting from all the steps above is the compensation amount. This amount 
must where possible be paid to Mr A within 90 days of the date Portal receives notification of 
his/her acceptance of my final decision. Further interest must be added to the compensation 
amount at the rate of 8% per year simple from the date of my final decision to the date of 
settlement for any time, in excess of 90 days, that it takes Portal to pay Mr A.
Its possible that data gathering for a SERPS adjustment may mean that the actual time 
taken to settle goes beyond the 90 day period allowed for settlement above - and so any 
period of time where the only outstanding item required to undertake the calculation is data 
from DWP may be added to the 90 day period in which interest wont apply.
If the complaint hasnt been settled in full and final settlement by the time the new rules 
come into effect, Id expect Portal to carry out a calculation in line with the updated rules in 
any event.
Where I uphold a complaint, I can award fair compensation of up to £160,000, plus any
interest and/or costs that I consider are appropriate. Where I consider that fair compensation
requires payment of an amount that might exceed £160,000, I may recommend that the
business pays the balance.
My final decision
Determination and money award: I uphold this complaint and require Portal Financial
Services LLP to pay Mr A the compensation amount as set out in the steps above, up to a
maximum of £160,000.
Where the compensation amount does not exceed £160,000, I would additionally require
Portal Financial Services LLP to pay Mr A any interest on that amount in full, as set outabove.
Where the compensation amount already exceeds £160,000, I would only require Portal
Financial Services LLP to pay Mr A any interest as set out above on the sum of £160,000.
Recommendation: If the compensation amount exceeds £160,000, I also recommend that
Portal Financial Services LLP pays Mr A the balance. I would additionally recommend any
interest calculated as set out above on this balance to be paid to Mr A.
If Mr A accepts this decision, the money award becomes binding on Portal Financial
Services LLP.
My recommendation would not be binding. Further, its unlikely that Mr A can accept my
decision and go to court to ask for the balance. Mr A may want to consider getting
independent legal advice before deciding whether to accept any final decision.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision before 30 December 2022. 
Paul Featherstone
Ombudsman