DRN-4028357
The complaint
Ms A says Barclays Bank UK PLC (Barclays) mis-sold her a Tech pack. Ms A says she 
could not use the travel insurance and breakdown cover that she believes came with the 
pack and she thought that she had to have the pack as she was about to enter an Individual 
Voluntary Arrangement (IVA).
What happened
One of our adjudicators looked at Ms As complaint and she didnt think the Tech pack had 
been mis-sold. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve explained how we handle complaints about packaged bank accounts on our website. 
And Ive used this approach to help me decide Ms As complaint.
Ive looked at everything thats been provided on this complaint. And having done so, I 
havent seen anything to suggest Ms A was mis-sold her Tech pack. 
Ms A says that she thought she had to have the Tech pack because she was about to enter 
an IVA. But I find it unlikely Ms A would have believed that she had to open a standard 
current account and then add a separate Tech pack that provided mobile phone and gadget 
insurance because she was entering into an IVA. I accept that she may have thought she 
had limited current account options and may not have had access to all the different current 
accounts that Barclays offered, but given she was sold a standard current account, I cant 
see why she would have thought that a separate Tech pack was a compulsory extra.
Ms A says that she would not have taken out the pack as she already held insurance 
elsewhere and that the policy would not have covered the 4 handsets that she needed to be 
covered. But my understanding is that the Tech pack did cover 4 handsets, so I cant see 
why she could not have cancelled her existing cover and rely on the Tech pack if she wished 
to do so and I think that was probably her intention at the time she took out the account.
So overall I think that Ms A took out the Tech pack knowing it was optional for the benefits 
that it came with at the time.
In relation to Ms A being unable to use the travel insurance and breakdown cover, I should 
highlight that this is not a benefit of the Tech pack and never has been. So I cant say that 
this is a reason why the pack may have been mis-sold.
My understanding of Barclays sales process at the time is that it did not recommend this 
pack to Ms A. So it did not need to ensure that the pack was right for Ms A. It did though 
have to give her enough information so she could decide for herself whether the pack was 
right for her.
I accept that Ms A may not have been provided with all the information about all of the 
benefits. But from what I have seen, it does appear that Barclays did give Ms A most of the 
important information about the Pack during the sale. And I havent seen anything to suggest 
that clearer information wouldve changed her decision to agree to the pack. So in these 
circumstances, Im not upholding the complaint.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, Im not upholding Ms As complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms A to accept or 
reject my decision before 14 July 2023.
 
Charlie Newton
Ombudsman