DRN-2717174
The complaint
Mr S has complained about advice he received from Sanlam Wealth Planning UK Ltd 
(Sanlam). Mr S made higher contributions to his pension arrangement than he should have 
done and tax relief has to be repaid to HMRC. 
What happened
I dont think theres any dispute about what happened. Or that Sanlam made a mistake. Mr S 
had been a client of Sanlam since 2013. Hed been unhappy with Sanlams adviser. A refund 
of fees was given and a new Sanlam adviser allocated to him. The new adviser discovered 
that Mr S had been advised to make contributions in excess of his net relevant earnings 
which meant those contributions werent eligible for tax relief.
Sanlam has accepted that it gave unsuitable advice and has taken steps to put matters right. 
In its final response of 12 August 2019 Sanlam said it had asked Mr Ss pension provider to 
repay the tax relief (£22,000) Mr S shouldnt have received back to HMRC and refund the 
ineligible contributions (£87,000) to Mr S. But the pension provider would only do that if the 
tax free cash and income payments that Mr S had received were repaid. The pension 
provider offered to allow Mr S to repay the tax relief over a period of time. That meant that 
the provider didnt need to refund the excess contributions to Mr S. 
The provider would allow the growth (£14,320) on the excess contributions to be retained. 
But, if Mr S had retained the contributions then, with interest at 8% to reflect the fact that 
hed been denied the use of that money, hed have had £16,110. He was £1,790 worse off 
which Sanlam was prepared to pay.
 
Sanlam was also prepared to refund ongoing adviser fees since 2013 (apart from those paid 
in respect of Mr Ss previous complaint) with interest (in total £8,209.60). Mr S later pointed 
out that didnt include an advice fee of £1,500 which Sanlam agreed should be refunded. 
Sanlam also offered £250 for distress and inconvenience. Sanlam later agreed to increase 
that to £500. Sanlams total (revised) offer was £12,364.14.
Our investigator thought what Sanlam had offered to do, which also included free of charge 
advice to assist Mr S with repaying HMRC, was generally fair and reasonable and in line 
with our approach  we try, as far as possible, to put the consumer in the position hed be in 
had the error not happened. 
But the investigator said the amount offered for distress and inconvenience should be 
increased to £1,000. Sanlam had acknowledged it had caused distress and inconvenience 
caused and £500 wasnt representative of the worry that wouldve been caused to Mr S. The 
involvement of HMRC would be disconcerting to most consumers and wouldve caused 
sleepless nights and worry. The ineligible contributions were made over a number of years 
and, since Mr S was made aware of the issue, a solution had taken a long time to 
materialise. 
The investigator said in order to compensate Mr S fairly, Sanlam should:
Repay all adviser fees to Mr S that have not already been repaid with an
additional 8% simple interest applied up to the date of settlement
Calculate the amount of growth attributable to the ineligible contributions and
compare it to the amount of the ineligible contributions plus 8% simple interest. If 
there is a loss the amount should be paid to Mr S with the 8% applied up to the date 
of settlement. If there is no loss, no compensation is payable.
Pay Mr S £1,000 for the trouble and upset that has been caused.
Assist Mr S in the repayment of the tax due to HMRC, should Mr S choose to
accept the assistance offered.
Provide the details of the calculation to Mr S in a clear, simple format.
In response Mr S said he wanted to see a breakdown of the payments in money terms 
before deciding if he wanted to accept. Sanlam said it couldnt do that as it had been 
removed as Mr Ss adviser and it couldnt get, from his pension provider, details of the 
growth up to date to compare growth on the ineligible contributions with 8% interest on those 
contributions. 
 
We asked the pension provider for some information which it supplied and we forwarded to 
Sanlam. It calculated Mr Ss loss for that part of the matter at £2,190. In its email of 18 
February 2021 Sanlam said the total figure for compensation was now £4,069.58. That was 
made up of the £2,190, repayment of adviser fees plus interest at 8% (in total £10,879.58) 
plus £1,000 for distress and inconvenience.
 
Mr S remained unhappy. He felt (and his new adviser agreed) that he hadnt been 
compensated for the stress, sleepless nights and anxiety Sanlam had caused him since 
2017. And hed done all of the chasing. Every time hed made enquiries, hed been told 
someone would get back to which didnt happen. When he called again, hed be told that 
person wasnt available and it had been passed to someone else. He eventually got in touch 
with Sanlams head of compliance who initially called him weekly with updates but hed also 
then let Mr S down (and Mr S has an email saying that). Mr S then has to ask for the CEOs 
contact details. He set out the names of the various personnel who were supposed to be 
dealing with the matter. He didnt think wed have seen all the emails that had been 
exchanged. 
He added that hed got a tax bill to pay which he thought Sanlam should contribute to, if not 
pay in full. Hed been making pension provision and he was only doing what hed been told 
he could do by the firm that he was paying and who were supposedly the experts. 
Mr S wanted an ombudsman to consider the matter and so the complaint has been passed 
to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Where, as here, the business concerned accepts that it has made an error, I need to 
consider what the business needs to do to put things right. Where the business has made an 
offer or is prepared to accept what the investigator suggested should happen to rectify the 
situation, Ill consider if that is fair and reasonable. As the investigator has explained, we try, 
as far as possible, to put the consumer back in the position hed be in now, if the error hadnt 
occurred. 
I think the steps suggested by the investigator, which Sanlam is prepared to adopt, are fair 
and reasonable. I can understand Mr Ss frustration and annoyance. Hes simply acted on the advice of his 
adviser, only to discover he owes HMRC tax relief which he wasnt entitled to on 
contributions which he wouldnt have made if Sanlam hadnt advised him to. In the 
circumstances, I can see why Mr S might feel that Sanlam should meet some or all of that 
liability. 
But I dont think that would be fair. Mr S wasnt entitled to the tax relief on the excess 
contributions he made so he has to repay it. Im not sure if Mr S has actually repaid the tax 
relief. But it seems he can repay it gradually and over time and without having to repay the 
tax free cash and income payments hes received. And HMRC hasnt imposed any penalties. 
The issue is whether Mr S has lost out because that money was paid into his pension fund 
instead of him retaining it. Hes had the benefit of investment growth on the excess 
contributions. But, against that, hes lost out on the use and benefit of having the money 
available to him. In that sort of situation, wed usually award interest (8% simple) on the 
money that the consumer has been deprived of.
  
Sanlams calculated that Mr S is (as at February 2021) £2,190 worse off. I dont propose to 
ask Sanlam to recalculate that figure. Its relatively modest and I dont think it would be in 
either parties interest to prolong matters by getting further up to date information from Mr Ss 
pension provider. Sanlam should instead update that loss by adding 8% simple to the date of 
settlement. 
The main issue seems to be if Sanlam should pay more for distress and inconvenience than 
the £1,000 the investigator suggested. I can understand why Mr S says thats inadequate. 
But I think its in line with the level of award wed make in this sort of situation. 
We consider each complaint on its individual merits. Including the impact of whats gone 
wrong on the complainant concerned. We think about if the impact and the distress and 
inconvenience suffered is, for example, moderate or substantial or more. Here the impact of 
the businesss error has caused substantial distress, upset and worry. And over a sustained 
period. And I acknowledge what Mr S has said about it falling to him to try to get things 
resolved. I dont doubt that he sent many emails and/or made a large number of telephone 
calls to try to move things on. It is very frustrating to be passed from person to person with 
no one taking ownership of the problem (which wasnt of Mr Ss making) or apparently 
interested in delivering a solution.
 
As the investigator recognised, Mr Ss daily life will have been disrupted by this matter. The 
involvement of HMRC was serious and worrying. Sanlam accepts that it allowed the matter 
to drag on and so the problem was hanging over Mr S for a considerable time. Sanlam did 
try to lessen the impact on Mr S by offering, free of charge, an advisers services to help sort 
out the problem. That said, I understand why Mr S may have preferred to go to a new 
adviser. 
But, all that said, I still think £1,000 is fair and reasonable. Awards for distress and 
inconvenience might be more modest than Mr S might expect. I think £1,000 is within the 
range wed award where a businesss mistake has caused, as here, substantial distress, 
upset and worry over a sustained period.
Putting things right
To put matters right, Sanlam should:
Repay all adviser fees to Mr S that have not already been repaid with an
additional 8% simple interest applied up to the date of settlement.Pay Mr S £2,190 plus 8% simple interest to the date of settlement. 
Pay Mr S £1,000 for the trouble and upset that has been caused.
Assist Mr S in the repayment of the tax due to HMRC, should Mr S choose to
accept the assistance offered.
Provide the details of the calculation to Mr S in a clear, simple format.     
My final decision
I uphold the complaint. Sanlam Wealth Planning UK Ltd must redress Mr S as Ive set out 
above. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 1 October 2021.
 
Lesley Stead
Ombudsman