DRN-1914023
 
The complaint
Mr C has complained about a number of loans he took from Western Circle Limited trading 
as Cashfloat. Mr C says Cashfloat lent to him irresponsibly.  
What happened
Mr C was given 15 loans by Cashfloat between September 2016 and August 2018. I 
understand the loans were all repayable in instalments of between two or three months.  The 
principal sum borrowed varied from £200 to £450.  
A summary of Mr C's borrowing for the first 10 loans is as follows:
Loan Date Taken Date Repaid Amount
1 20/09/2016 08/10/2016 £250.00
2 14/10/2016 04/11/2016 £300.00
3 30/11/2016 01/12/2016 £400.00
4 08/12/2016 03/01/2017 £200.00
5 07/02/2017 24/02/2017 £200.00
6 26/02/2017 24/03/2017 £400.00
7 24/03/2017 19/05/2017 £250.00
8 08/06/2017 18/07/2017 £400.00
9 18/07/2017 06/10/2017 £400.00
10 10/10/2017 29/12/2017 £450.00
When Mr C first complained to Cashfloat, the lender didnt agree to uphold his complaint, but 
it did offer to pay Mr C £250 as a gesture of goodwill. Mr C didnt accept this offer and 
brought his complaint to this service.
One of our adjudicators looked into Mr Cs complaint. She didn't think Cashfloat should have 
agreed to give loans 2 to 15 to Mr C. So she asked Cashfloat to pay him some 
compensation.  Cashfloat didn't agree with the adjudicators assessment, so the complaint 
has been passed to me to make a final decision about the matter.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about short-term lending  including all 
the relevant rules, guidance and good industry practice - on our website.
Cashfloat needed to take reasonable steps to ensure that it didn't lend irresponsibly. This 
means that it had to carry out proportionate checks to satisfy itself that Mr C could repay the 
loans sustainably. These checks could take into account a number of different things, such 
as the loan amount, the repayment amounts, the consumers income and expenditure and 
his overall financial circumstances. 
In the early stages of a lending relationship, I think less thorough checks might be 
reasonable and proportionate. But I've also considered if there were any other factors that 
might indicate that Cashfloat should fairly and reasonably have done more to establish 
whether continued lending was sustainable for Mr C.
Such factors include: 
the lower a customers income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make any 
loan repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income);
the higher the amount due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income);
the greater the number and frequency of loans, and the longer the period of time 
during which a customer has been given loans (reflecting the risk that repeated 
refinancing may signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming,  
unsustainable).
There may even come a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly 
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable. 
Ive carefully considered all the arguments, evidence and information provided in this context 
and what it means for Mr Cs complaint.
Cashfloat carried out some checks before lending to Mr C. It asked him for details about his 
income and normal monthly expenditure. Cashfloat also gathered further information from 
credit reference agencies, before making an assessment about whether each loan was 
affordable, based on what it calculated as Mr Cs disposable income. 
I think the checks Cashfloat did before agreeing to the first loan were reasonable and 
proportionate.  The credit check that Cashfloat has provided to us shows that Mr C did have 
some other open credit commitments, but on balance, this seems likely to have been 
manageable in addition to repaying his first loan with Cashfloat. I think the amounts that Mr 
C needed to repay in relation to Cashfloats first loan were relatively modest compared with 
the disposable income hed declared. Given the amount it was lending to Mr C and what its 
checks had shown, I dont think it wouldve been proportionate for Cashfloat to ask Mr C for 
the amount of information that would be needed to show the lending was unsustainable 
before agreeing the first loan. 
However, I think the checks that Cashfloat carried out for loan 2 onwards should have 
suggested to the lender that Mr C was having difficulty managing his money.  The credit 
checks show that Mr C now had a number of short-term loans and open unsecured loans. And it seems to me that Mr C was committed to paying somewhat more towards these credit 
commitments than he had estimated in his loan application to Cashfloat. I think that the 
extent of Mr Cs other borrowing should have alerted Cashfloat that he was having difficulties 
managing his money. And I dont think Cashfloat should reasonably have concluded that Mr 
C could repay loan 2 or any other loan in a sustainable way.
The credit checks Cashfloat subsequently carried out for the next few loans showed that Mr 
Cs financial position wasnt substantially improving. Cashfloat says that each of its loans 
were for a low value, and affordable in relation to his income. It says this is demonstrated by 
the fact that he had a low outstanding amount of loan indebtedness, which did not 
significantly change from the start to the end of his borrowing relationship with Cashfloat. 
I have considered this carefully. But I think it was important for Cashfloat to establish 
whether Mr C could sustainably repay his loans  not just whether the loan payments were 
affordable on a strict pounds and pence calculation. So even if the loan payments were 
apparently affordable on this basis, it doesnt necessarily follow that he could sustainably 
make his repayments. This is because the relevant regulations define sustainable as the 
customer being able to meet repayments out of normal income, without experiencing undue 
difficulties or having to borrow further. And it follows that a lender should fairly and 
reasonably realise that a borrower wont be able to make their repayments sustainably, if 
theyre unlikely to be able to make their repayments without borrowing further.
Mr C repeatedly repaid his Cashfloat loans early and then borrowed again very shortly 
afterwards. I think it should have suggested to the lender that it was likely that Mr C was 
borrowing further to manage the gaps in his finances created when he repaid previous loans, 
and that his indebtedness was increasing unsustainably.
By loan 8, the pattern of lending meant that by then, Mr C had taken 8 loans in around 9 
months. I think Cashfloat was effectively prolonging Mr Cs indebtedness, by allowing him to 
take expensive credit over an extended period. It should have been clear to Cashfloat that 
by loan 8, Mr C was no longer borrowing to meet a short-term, emergency need, but that he 
was most likely now borrowing to keep up with his ongoing financial commitments. And as a 
responsible lender, Cashfloat should have reasonably questioned whether it should continue 
to offer further short-term loans to this consumer, whose repeated borrowing suggested that 
by then, he had become reliant on the lending - which the rules and guidance made clear 
should only be for a short-term purpose. 
So in conclusion, I dont think Cashfloat should have agreed to provide Mr C with loans 2 to 
15. Cashfloat needs to pay him some compensation.
Putting things right
Cashfloat should: 
Refund any interest and charges paid by Mr C on loans 2 to 15 (that haven't already 
been refunded);
add simple interest at a rate of 8% per annum to each of these amounts from the 
date they were paid to the date of settlement. HM Revenue and Customs requires 
Cashfloat to take tax off this interest. Cashfloat must give Mr C a certificate showing 
how much tax its deducted if he asks for one; 
remove any adverse information recorded on Mr Cs credit file in relation loans 2 to 7; and 
the number of loans taken from loan 8 onwards means any information recorded 
about them is adverse. So all entries about loans 8 to 15 should be removed from Mr 
Cs credit file.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold part of Mr Cs complaint and direct Western Circle Limited 
trading as Cashfloat to put things right as set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 16 August 2020.
 
Sharon Parr
Ombudsman