DRN-3438405
The complaint
Mr A complains about end of contract charges when his agreement with Lex Autolease Ltd 
ended.
What happened
In May 2018 Mr A was supplied with a car and entered into an agreement with Lex. The 
agreement was for 24 months. Mr A kept the car on an informal extension for 6 months 
before formally extending the agreement for a further 6 months. The car was collected in 
May 2021.
Following collection, Lex invoiced Mr A for excess mileage charges. Mr A disputed the 
charges. In response, Lex said the excess mileage had been correctly charged.
Mr A referred his complaint to this service. He said the agreement wasnt clear and he felt 
there had been poor communication about the mileage allowance.
I issued a provisional decision in which I upheld the complaint. I explained how the mileage 
allowance had been agreed and said that I thought the excess mileage charges were 
correctly calculated. But I said that I didnt think the call handler at Lex had made it clear to 
Mr A that the lower mileage allowance would affect his previous agreement, or that the 
mileage allowance over the entire agreement would be 7000 miles per year.
Lex had already accepted that it could have made things clearer and had offered 
compensation of £50. I explained why I didnt think this sum was enough to compensate Mr 
A for the lack of clarity in explaining the mileage allowance and said it should be increased to 
£150.
I invited both parties to let me have any further evidence or arguments they wished to raise.
Lex initially queried why I had increased the compensation but later accepted my provisional 
decision.
Mr A said he thought her should be awarded more compensation. He also said he wanted 
the excess mileage charges cancelled.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive taken account of what Mr A has said but having done so, my decision remains the same 
as my provisional decision. Lex could have been clearer in its communications with Mr A but 
the mileage allowance is set out in the agreement and Mr A signed this agreement and 
agreed to be legally bound by its terms. Mr A has exceeded the mileage allowance and Lex 
has acted in line with the agreement in charging excess mileage. 
Putting things right
To put things right Lex Autolease Ltd should pay compensation of £150 to Mr A. Mr A 
remains responsible for paying the excess mileage charges.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold the complaint. Lex Autolease Ltd must take the steps Ive 
set out above. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision before 7 June 2022.
 
Emma Davy
Ombudsman