DRN-3015082
The complaint
Mrs M had buildings and contents insurance with Fairmead Insurance Limited (Fairmead). 
Shes unhappy that it wont repair or replace the carpet it fitted following a successful claim 
for water damage.
What happened
Mrs Ms carpet was damaged by an escape of water and Fairmead replaced it in line with 
the terms of her policy. The pile was thicker and higher than her previous carpet and, 
consequently, the door caught on it each time it was opened or closed. The carpet became 
damaged so Mrs M asked Fairmead to either repair the carpet and shave the bottom of the 
door, or replace it with a shorter pile carpet.
Fairmead didnt think it was responsible for the repair or replacement because it had told Mrs 
M at the time that shed need to shave the door to accommodate the different pile.
In the absence of any evidence to show that Fairmead had told Mrs M shed need to shave 
the door, our investigator thought it should do more. She recommended that Fairmead 
either:
assess whether the carpet can be repaired to an acceptable standard and, if so, 
complete the repairs and shave the bottom of the door to accommodate the carpet, 
or
replace the carpet with one that is more suitable and wont be damaged by the door.
Fairmead didnt agree. It accepted that there was no evidence of whether Mrs M was told the 
door needed to be shaved. However, given that she reported the damage 16 months after 
the carpet was fitted, Fairmead thought if the damage was just because of the difference in 
pile, shed have noticed and reported it sooner.
I issued a provisional decision in August 2021 explaining that I was intending to not uphold 
Mrs Ms complaint. Heres what I said:
The circumstances dont appear to be in dispute: Fairmead replaced Mrs Ms carpet in line 
with the policy terms following an escape of water. The replacement carpet had a 
higher/thicker pile.
The issue in dispute is whether Fairmead is responsible for repairing or replacing the 
carpet after it became damaged by the existing door. Mrs M thinks it is because Fairmead 
didnt tell her that the door needed to be shaved. Fairmead doesnt think its responsible 
because its retailer advised Mrs M to have the door shaved and provided the phone 
number of a joiner for her to contact.
Ive thought carefully about this issue but, unfortunately, its just not possible to be sure 
what was said. Thats because nothing is documented, and I have no reason to doubt 
either partys version of events. So, Ive looked beyond the point of who said what and 
focused on the overall circumstances.
Ive listened to what Mrs M said when she first contacted our service. She explained that 
the carpet was catching on the door from the start, but she thought it would settle because 
it was in a high usage area. She continued to use the door which led out onto the patio. I 
noted that she said a cupboard door was also catching on the carpet.
Its here that I think Mrs M had a responsibility to say something to Fairmead. While I 
understand that carpets settle over time, I dont think its reasonable to wait 16 months and 
until the carpet ripped before letting Fairmead know that there might be a problem. During 
that time, Mrs M knew the door was catching on the carpet and, ultimately, it was 
damaged. So, whether or not Fairmead told Mrs M the door needed shaving, I think it 
became apparent to her quite quickly that it needed to be adjusted.
Fairmeads original responsibility was to replace the water-damaged carpet. If Mrs M 
chose a thicker pile, I cant fairly say Fairmead shouldve incurred the additional costs of 
shaving the door to accommodate it. Nevertheless, had she contacted it, I think its likely 
that Fairmead wouldve at least advised her even if it didnt accept responsibility for the 
door adjustment. 
In summary, Mrs M continued to use the door knowing that it was catching on the carpet, 
so I think she could reasonably expect that over time it would become damaged unless the 
door was adjusted. I cant fairly hold Fairmead for Mrs Ms decision to do nothing about the 
door catching until, after 16 months of continued use, it ripped the carpet. 
I asked both parties to send me any further comments and information they might want me 
to consider before I reached a final decision.
Fairmead accepted my provisional decision.
Mrs M responded to say that she just chose the carpet from a selection of samples brought 
to her and she doesnt think Fairmead shouldve gone ahead with fitting it, knowing that the 
pile was too deep for her door. Mrs M asked again for Fairmead to at least repair the 
damage.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive thought carefully about Mrs Ms further comments and, while I sympathise with her 
position, Ive decided not to uphold her complaint.
Fairmead provided the carpet Mrs M chose, so I wouldnt have expected it to just take it 
away without fitting it unless she asked it to. I have no reason to doubt that Mrs M has no 
recollection of Fairmead advising her to shave the door to accommodate the higher pile 
carpet, but that doesnt change the fact that she was aware her door was catching on it 
every time she used it over the next 16 months. Mrs M said she expected the pile to fall. But 
it was an area she used a lot, so I think its reasonable that Fairmead wouldve expected her 
to contact it about the carpet sooner than she did.
As explained in my provisional decision, Im satisfied that Fairmead replaced the carpet in 
line with the policy and it has no responsibility for the subsequent damage caused gradually 
by the door over time. I havent seen anything in the new comments to warrant a change in 
my decision.
 My final decisionFor the reasons Ive explained above, and in my provisional decision, I dont uphold Mrs Ms 
complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs M to accept or 
reject my decision before 28 September 2021.
 
Debra Vaughan
Ombudsman