DRN-3439533
The complaint
Mr I has complained that when trying to add an account holder to an account, he was given 
incorrect information by Barclays Bank UK PLC (Barclays). He says that this led to a Travel 
pack that was added to the account being removed and re-added. This in turn changed the 
level of cover that the account holders received from the pack.
What happened
Mr I held a Barclays account with two joint account holders. He has a travel pack on the 
account which came with Travel insurance and Breakdown cover. At the time Mr I 
understood that all parties were covered by these insurances. Barclays said that while all 
named account holders were covered under the Travel insurance (and their partners) only 
two were covered by the breakdown cover.
Mr I wanted to remove one of the account holders and add a new one, so that the new party 
would also receive these benefits. As part of this process, the Travel pack was removed 
from the account and was then added back on to it. Mr I made a complaint about this 
process.
Barclays initially responded saying that all account holders would be covered by the pack. It 
then issued a further response saying that all account holders had never been covered, only 
the person that took out the pack in the first place, plus one nominated individual. It credited 
Mr I with £50 to reflect the mis-information provided by the initial response.
Mr I referred his complaint to us. One of our adjudicators looked into this complaint. He 
decided that Barclays should reinstate the Travel pack. Barclays agreed, but said that the 
terms may have changed and Mr I would need to accept the new terms and level of cover. 
Mr I did not agree with this and therefore this complaint was passed to me to look into. 
I issued a provisional decision on [insert date of PD], explaining that I believed that this 
complaint should be upheld. An extract of my provisional decision is below, and it forms part 
of this decision.
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve explained our approach to complaints about packaged accounts on our website, and 
Ive used that to help me decide this complaint. Having weighed everything up, Im currently 
minded to uphold this complaint. Ill explain why. 
Barclays now says that the original Travel pack that Mr I held did provide cover under the 
Travel insurance for all named account holders, and cover for two people under the 
breakdown cover. For new pack holders this is not the case as cover is only provided for the 
person who applied for the pack plus a nominated individual for both insurances.
Barclays has said the process to add a new account holder to any pack involves the Pack 
having to be removed from the account and then re-added. It has not explained why it 
follows this process. Because of this process, when a Travel pack is re-added to an account, 
it changes to the terms that are applicable for a new pack holders. 
If everything had happened as it should and this process was clearly explained to Mr I at the 
time that he was attempting to change the account holders, I am satisfied that Mr I would in 
all likelihood have left things as they were. This wouldve meant that all named account 
holders would have continued to be covered by the Travel insurance and two account 
holders for the breakdown cover. Whereas currently, to get the same amount of cover for all 
of the account holders, multiple packs would need to be held. This means that Mr I has lost 
out due to Barclays failure to explain the implications that the changes to the account 
wouldve had on Mr I and the other account holders. It follows that I uphold this complaint 
and I currently believe that Barclays should do the following.
putting things right  what I think Barclays needs to do
Ideally, I would now ask Barclays to revert things to the way they were. But unfortunately, 
Barclays is unable to do this, as its system will not allow a Travel pack under the old terms to 
be added to an account.
I also dont think it would be practical to ask Barclays to refund any additional costs that Mr I 
and the other account holders incur indefinitely as a result of this. Given this, I think that 
Barclays should pay an amount of compensation that will allow Mr I to take out alternative 
cover, so that the other account holders will have similar levels of travel and breakdown 
cover(if and when required) for a reasonable period. I also think an award of compensation 
for the distress and inconvenience that has occurred is warranted.
When considering this I have taken into account the distress caused by getting conflicting 
answers from Barclays and the inconvenience of having to arrange new insurance products. 
With this in mind and having considered everything, I currently think that Barclays should 
pay Mr I an additional £500 to put things right.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I note the additional points that Mr I has raised. And I would like to assure him that I have 
carefully considered all of them. But overall, whilst I agree the redress he has outlined 
sounds sensible in theory, when considering how such arrangements would need to be set 
up and monitored, I again think a reasonable and more practical (compared to what Mr I 
proposes) outcome to the complaint is to require Barclays to pay Mr I and the other account 
holders a lump sum, which the accounts holders can use as they wish. 
When considering the size of the lump sum, I have considered cases that share similar 
features and then considered the specific features of this complaint. And having done so, I 
believe that the amount that I have outlined in my provisional decision is a fair and 
reasonable resolution to this complaint. I say this especially as it will allow Mr I and the 
account holders to arrange the necessary alternative cover (either through Barclays or 
elsewhere) for a reasonable amount of time. I note that this is not the outcome that Mr I had 
hoped for, but I hope he understands why I have come to this outcome.Putting things right
To put matters right, Barclays Bank UK PLC should pay £500, in addition to the £50 that it 
has already paid, in full and final settlement of this complaint. 
My final decision
I uphold this complaint and require Barclays Bank UK PLC to do what is outlined above, to 
put matters right.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss I and Mr I to 
accept or reject my decision before 28 October 2022.
 
Charlie Newton
Ombudsman