DRN-3049782
The complaint
Mr W complains that Aviva Life & Pensions UK Limited has unfairly lapsed his paid up whole 
of life policy, despite telling him that it would run to September 2024.  
To resolve his complaint, Mr W wants his policy reinstated to September 2024, as promised. 
What happened
In 1996, Mr W began a whole of life policy with Friends Provident. Aviva took over the policy 
in 2017. Mr W took out an individual policy, with his wife taking out the same cover at the 
same time. Statements were issued to Mr W in February each year. 
In March 2011, the policy was made paid up at Mr Ws request, after he raised a number of 
concerns with Friends Provident about the operation of the policy. This meant Mr W no 
longer paid any further premiums, and the fund would deplete over a number of years 
depending on costs and fund performance. At that time, the policys sum assured was set at 
£11,424 and Mr W was told the estimated end date for the policy would be September 2024.
Mr W asked Friends Provident for further information regarding its calculations. In May 2011, 
Friends Provident sent a further letter explaining the sum assured it gave was wrong  it had 
quoted a minimum value not the actual value of £20,337. 
It then provided Mr W with three options  1) remove the life cover on his policy with Friends 
Provident paying for any future tax charge as this would remove the qualifying tax status, 2) 
to keep the sum assured at the correct value of £20,337 or 3) to amend the life cover to the 
minimum sum assured of £11,424. 
Mr W chose the third option where the date the fund value may reach zero was 2024. He did 
not further the matter as a complaint to this service at that time, though Friends Provident did 
issue referral rights within its letter of 25 May 2011. 
In 2018, Mr W contacted Aviva regarding his and his wifes policies, to ask if it was possible 
to resume their premium payments. In June 2018, Aviva sent Mr W a letter to explain it could 
not restart his policy. It also said the policy may cease to offer cover from February 2020.  
Mr W wrote back to Aviva on 29 June 2018 explaining that in May 2011, Friends Provident 
had told both himself and his wife that each policy would continue to September 2024, and 
he asked Aviva to confirm it would honour the previous assurance. 
The following month, Aviva sent another brief letter to Mr W. it said that the cover was a 
whole of life policy, and though it didnt have an expiry date, the policy would cease to offer 
cover in September 2024 unless a claim was made or it was surrendered beforehand.  
In March 2020, the policy lapsed after the fund value depleted to zero. Aviva wrote to Mr W 
to tell him that the policy had ended.  
Mr W complained. In June 2020, Aviva issued a response to the complaint. It said the letter 
of July 2018 was an error, and the information in the letter of June 2018 was correct. It 
explained that life cover charges increase with age, therefore the estimated date the cover 
would cease was for illustration purposes only - it was never guaranteed.
Aviva recognised the error had caused Mr W to wrongly rely on a different date, and whilst 
this letter was incorrect it had upset Mr W by doing so. It therefore sent him £100 to reflect 
the distress its mistake had caused.   
Mr W brought the complaint to this service. He said he had been using the policy as a 
funeral expenses plan, but will now have to take out cover somewhere else at a larger cost. 
An investigator reviewed the complaint but did not think it should succeed. He said he could 
see that Aviva had misled Mr W by sending the July 2020 letter after the June 2020 one. He 
believed that its actions caused Mr W a loss of expectation, but the redress issued by Aviva 
was appropriate for that upset.  
He did not otherwise think the complaint should succeed. He believed Mr W would also have 
had cause to question Avivas letters given they were issued one month apart but gave 
estimations for the policy end date that differed by three and a half years. Further, the policy 
would end once the fund had been used up, and therefore he could not compel Aviva to 
carry on the policy.  
Mr W disagreed. He said that in February 2019, the fund value had been quoted as £1,541. 
In the previous two years before that it was £1,646 and £1,615. Only life cover annual costs 
of £216 and £77 of yearly fees should have been deducted. He said the February 2020 fund 
should be £1,324. Mr W said he did not understand why that £1,324 had disappeared and 
Aviva had given no breakdown as to why this had happened.
Aviva provided that explanation for Mr W. The yearly statements had incorrectly shown the 
fund values without the monthly deductions taken, and this had been the case since 2015. 
However, the cash in value for each year was correct. On the February 2020 statement 
before the policy lapsed without value, the cash in value figure was given as £12.90.  
Mr W said he still disagreed. He sent a further letter of written submissions and asked for the 
complaint to be passed to an ombudsman. I wont repeat the letter in full here, though I have 
read it in its entirety. In summary, Mr W said:
after the catalogue of errors in 2011, the complaint handler at Friends Provident told 
Mr W categorically that his policy would be in place until September 2024;
he replied to the 12 June 2018 letter from Aviva to explain that Friends Provident had 
said it would honour the policy until September 2024;
Aviva replied on 9 July 2018 that it accepted this decision and would indeed honour 
the policy expiry date of September 2024;
he has taken professional advice and Aviva must honour its letter of 9 July 2018 
where it said the policy would be kept valid until September 2024;
Aviva has only accepted it made yet another error with failing to set out the costs and 
deductions for the policy when questioned after the investigator issued his view;
Mr Ws statements show that his fund value in 2016 was £1,730 and by 2020, this 
was £1,581  so Mr W questions how the fund could have been used;
his paid-up life policy was a legally binding financial contract as originally agreed in 
the letters of Friends Provident dated 12 and 25 May 2011;
so for Aviva to lapse the policy at any time before September 2024 is a breach of 
contract. Aviva had no further comments to make. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Id like to thank the parties for their patience whilst this matter awaited an ombudsmans 
decision. Having reviewed all of the information carefully, I am of the view that this complaint 
should not succeed. Im sorry that this will not be the answer Mr W has hoped for.  
I note that Mr W and his wife have both brought complaints to Aviva regarding their policies 
and they originally pursued the matter here jointly. Aviva asked correctly for the two 
complaints to be split as they each held individual policies. To be clear, this complaint 
concerns just Mr Ws policy  there will of course be similarities in the background and the 
findings as they arise from the same circumstances, but each complaint has been 
considered separately. 
In summary, my findings are:
though I understand Mr Ws strength of feeling about the correspondence from 2011, 
I do not agree that the Friends Provident complaint outcome at that time set out a 
contract or binding authority that the policy had to end in 2024;
what the complaint handlers letter of 25 May 2011 did was explain an example of 
possible life costs if the minimum sums assured were retained, and it would honour 
these due to the error in the earlier complaint outcome of 12 May 2011;
that letter said the minimum sum assured was £11,424, the fund value was £2,292, 
the approximate life cover cost was £13.30 each month and the approximate date 
fund value may reach zero was September 2024;
however, directly below that projection it was said I must stress that all the cost 
figures and dates relating to the funds' depletion are very approximate. The costs 
and depletion will depend on the sums assured chosen and how the fund performs 
over the years. Your increasing age and [Mrs Ws] will also impact on the costs. I'm 
sorry but we can only give you estimates, and none of the figures given are 
guaranteed.;
I do not accept the view that this letter was a categoric confirmation of the end date 
for the policy  the complaint handler made clear in her statement above that the 
figures were produced at that time, but that they were an estimate and these will 
change in the future given the cost of the cover increases with age;  
the 12 June 2018 letter also gave Mr W a prediction of the performance  stating that 
the paid up status of the policy could not be changed and noting that on the current 
growth rates shown below your policy is projected to last until:
oOctober 2019 if investments grow at 0.80% a year
oNovember 2019 if investments grow at 3.80% a year
oFebruary 2020 if investments grow at 6.80% a year
the policy correctly lasted until March 2020;
I realise Mr W set out to Aviva on 29 June that said we have attached the original 
correspondence with [NAME] of Friends Provident where it clearly shows our policies 
are expected to be in place until September 2024 and we would ask you confirm that 
you will honour the original agreement entered into with Friends Provident ; 
on that basis Aviva issued the error letter of 9 July 2018 but, this letter was incorrect;
the right approach of this service in a complaint is for an ombudsman to decide what 
ought to have happened but for a business making a mistake;what ought to have happened is Aviva should have reiterated that its June 2018 letter 
was correct;
I cannot ask Aviva to honour what it set out in the July 2018 letter, as it does not 
follow that Mr W or Aviva can rely on an error;
no confirmation was given in 2011 of a guaranteed end date for the policy;
the July 2018 letter does actually confirm the same, that the policy doesnt have a 
clear end date;
it then wrongly repeats back to Mr W that the cover will end in 2024;
nonetheless, this is a mistake for which Aviva has paid Mr W compensation for upset 
and I believe that is sufficient in the circumstances;
the correct position is that the policy would end once the funds had depleted and the 
policy would lapse without value  this could not have been known with any degree 
of pinpoint accuracy in 2011;
in respect of the charges, Aviva has made a further error in the statements by failing 
to clearly set out the charges that had occurred each year;
these were omitted, and the only clue to that was the cash in value of the cover, 
which was accurate;
therefore though Mr W has understandably relied on the fund value to explain he 
believes the policy had a value in 2020, this is not the case;
the stated fund values were unfortunately wrongly quoted without the ongoing costs 
having been deducted;
even an approximation of just the estimated life cover cost from Friends Providents 
2011 letter would have given total life cover costs of over £1,400 before any 
management or fund charges were factored in and these do not account for the costs 
increasing in those years;
this shows how the fund has reasonably depleted by March 2020 without any 
premium payments;
Aviva has explained how this was a system error;
If Mr W requires, he can ask Aviva for a full breakdown of the deductions made year 
on year as they ought to have been shown; 
I realise how frustrating it is for Mr W that Avivas error regarding the July 2018 letter 
perpetuated the mistakes of Friends Provident since the policy was paid up at a 
value of £1,615 in 2011;
but the lapse of the policy accounting for the costs was correct and Mr W has 
received compensation for Avivas mistakes which overall I feel does sit within a 
reasonable value for mistakes of this nature that this service would award;
I cannot therefore order Aviva to reinstate the policy, nor can I insist it relies on an 
approximation from 2011 as to the expected end date of the cover as it was correctly 
lapsed with no value in March 2020. 
My final decision
Though I realise Mr W will be disappointed by my decision, I do not uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision before 13 March 2022.
 
Jo Storey
Ombudsman