DRN-4214940
The complaint
Mrs W and Mr W complain that Lloyds Bank General Insurance Limited didnt provide clear 
information about the settlement of a claim under their home insurance policy.
What happened
The background to this complaint is well known to both parties so Ill give only a brief 
summary here.
Mrs W and Mr W have home insurance underwritten by Lloyds which covers their home and 
its contents. 
They made a claim in late 2022 after two of Mrs Ws rings were lost.
In short, the claim was settled in part by Lloyds providing vouchers for Mrs W and Mr W to 
use with certain suppliers. 
Mrs W and Mr W have made a separate complaint to our service about the settlement itself. 
Another ombudsman made a final decision on that complaint and decided the settlement 
offered by Lloyds was fair and reasonable.
The current complaint is about what Mrs W and Mr W were told  or rather not told  about 
the vouchers. 
Mr W says that during a telephone conversation with a Lloyds advisor, he mentioned that he 
would get value from the vouchers by using them during a sale. 
The advisor didnt at that point  or at any other time  tell him that the vouchers could not 
be used to buy items at sale prices.
When Mrs W and Mr W complained to Lloyds about this, they admitted that the advisor didnt 
provide that information to Mr W, when he should have done so. And they agreed to pay £50 
in compensation to Mrs W and Mr W for their trouble and upset.
Mrs W and Mr W werent happy with that outcome and brought their new complaint to us. 
Our investigator looked into it and didnt think Lloyds had done anything wrong. 
Mrs W and Mr W disagreed and asked for a final decision from an ombudsman. They think 
Lloyds policy terms should warn policyholders that cash settlements might be considerably 
lower than the cost of replacing their jewellery or other valuables. The terms already say that 
the settlement might be lower. 
They also think the premiums Lloyds charge dont reflect the value provided.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As weve explained to Mrs W and Mr W, I cant look again at the issues raised in their 
original complaint. The ombudsman in that case decided that the settlement offer made by 
Lloyds was fair and reasonable. 
Under the Financial Conduct Authoritys rules, which govern how our service operates, I 
cant review that complaint again and/or change the decision or outcome. 
The complaint I can consider is therefore very narrow. It relates solely to what Mr W was or 
wasnt told during his telephone conversation with Lloyds advisor.
On that narrow point, there is absolutely no dispute between the parties about what 
happened. 
In short, Mr W had decided not to allow Lloyds agents to replace the rings. That left the 
options of a cash settlement or vouchers. 
Mr W spoke first to Lloyds supplier about the vouchers. He then asked to speak to Lloyds 
directly. It was in that conversation that he mentioned using the vouchers in the sales  
which went unremarked by Lloyds advisor. 
Mr W has suggested that we need to listen to a recording of that phone call to understand 
his complaint and reach a conclusion about it. 
I disagree. As I say, theres absolutely no dispute about what was said  or not said  during 
that conversation - and Lloyds have accepted their error and offered £50 in compensation.
They also pointed out that Mr W would have been provided with information about the 
restrictions on the use of the vouchers if he had continued the conversation with their 
supplier, rather than asking to speak direct to them. Their own advisors arent fully briefed to 
deal with queries about the use of the suppliers vouchers.
Theres also no dispute that Mr W was then sent an email, with terms attached which 
explained that the vouchers couldnt be used to purchase items at sale prices. As Mr W 
points out, this was clearly after hed accepted the voucher settlement.
Theres no doubt then that Lloyds made an error here and didnt provide Mr W will complete 
information about the use of the vouchers. Thats why they offered the £50 in compensation.
I agree with our investigator that this was a fair and reasonable way for Lloyds to deal with 
Mrs W and Mr Ws complaint. Ill explain why.
Mr W had already made it clear that he wouldnt accept Lloyds suppliers replacing the rings 
that were lost. And he clearly wasnt happy with the possible cash settlement. 
So, although he wasnt fully informed by Lloyds agent about the use of the vouchers, that 
lack of information didnt cause Mr W to choose a voucher settlement in preference to an 
alternative settlement  and/or contrary to his own best interests or wishes.
In other words, the vouchers were the only place left to go after Mrs W and Mr W had 
rejected the other options. And, as the ombudsman decided in the previous case, those 
settlement options (including the voucher settlement) were fair and reasonable and in line 
with the terms and conditions of the policy.That being the case, whilst I can see why Mr W was annoyed that he wasnt told about the 
restrictions on the use of the vouchers, the error in the phone call was simply that, an 
annoying error. 
That error didnt have any financial or other repercussions for Mrs W and Mr W given that 
the voucher settlement was by then their only option. And the vouchers were never going to 
be used to purchase items at sale prices.
And in that context, £50 is a fair and reasonable amount to pay in compensation for the 
trouble and upset Mrs W and Mr W experienced solely as a result of the error made in the 
phone call.
Mrs W and Mr W have also said they were unhappy with the wording of the policy terms. It's 
not though for us to tell Lloyds how to words their policy terms. Our role is to determine 
whether an individual complainant was treated unfairly or unreasonably. 
So, I cant require Lloyds to add the word considerably to the warning in their policy about 
cash settlements. I can say that the previous ombudsman decided that Lloyds hadnt treated 
Mrs W and Mr W unfairly or unreasonably in the way they offered to settle the claim, bearing 
in mind the terms and conditions as they were stated at the relevant time.
Finally, Mrs W and Mr W think Lloyds premiums should better reflect the value of the 
settlements theyll make in the event of the policyholder suffering a loss. 
I believe this relates to the fact that Mrs W and Mr W identified the rings as named items in 
their policy schedule and valued them higher than the amount eventually reflected in the 
vouchers or the cash settlement offer.
In other words, Mrs W and Mr W are saying they insured rings at a certain value, paid 
premiums accordingly, and didnt get the value (for which theyd paid) in the settlement.
As I say, the ombudsman dealing with the previous case decided that there was nothing 
unfair about the settlement. They will, of course, have taken into account the premium, the 
policy schedule and the policy terms.
This particular aspect of Mrs W and Mr Ws latest complaint might then appear to be raising 
what is essentially the same question again (in essence, whether the settlement was fair) by 
now relating that to the premium they paid  and whether it was worth it.
All I will say in addition is that the insurance market is a competitive one. Insurers are 
entitled to offer policies to market on whatever terms they choose (as long as those terms 
are clear to customers) and at a price they set according to their calculation of the risk. 
If Mrs W and Mr W dont want to pay the premiums required by Lloyds for the policy terms 
they offer, they are entirely free to find other insurers with different terms and different 
premiums. 
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I dont uphold Mrs W and Mr Ws complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs W and Mr W 
to accept or reject my decision before 22 August 2023.
 Neil Marshall
Ombudsman