DRN-1783142
 
The complaint
Mr L complains that TSB Bank plc has been repeatedly notifying him of problems with his 
account.
What happened
Mr L told us he was repeatedly receiving correspondence from TSB saying he had to pay 
overdraft fees, and showing an incorrect balance. He was having to call TSB every time he 
got one of these, to confirm he didnt owe it any money. He said the problem was caused by 
TSBs save the pennies scheme which kept messing up his account. 
Mr L said this had happened before. TSB had told him it had resolved the issue then and 
paid compensation. But it was still writing to him to say there wasnt enough money in his 
account. He showed us letters from June and July 2019.
TSB sent us a letter from February 2019 responding to Mr Ls complaint. That letter said he 
shouldnt have received correspondence telling him that there were problems on his 
account. TSB refunded some fees Mr L had been charged for failed direct debits, and paid 
compensation.
TSB sent Mr L a further letter in May 2019 when he complained again, and paid a little more 
compensation. But TSB said it hadnt then identified the link between his February complaint 
and the May one. TSB knew now that this was all caused by the same problem, which hadnt 
yet been resolved.
TSB said the problem was caused by its save the pennies scheme. What was supposed to 
happen was that every time Mr L makes a payment using his debit card, the scheme rounds 
the payment up to the nearest pound. Then it takes those extra pennies and transfers them 
to Mr Ls savings account the next morning.
But the scheme wasnt working properly. What seemed to be happening was that save the 
pennies payments were not being taken straight away. Instead, they were rolling over for a 
number of days. Then a number of rolled up payments were being requested all at once. 
Sometimes, there wasnt enough money left in the account to make that rolled up payment. 
So TSBs system was issuing letters to Mr L, saying this payment hadnt cleared. 
TSB suggested that Mr L might like to cancel this scheme, as it was causing problems on his 
account. It said it had paid Mr L £100 in February 2019, and a further £25 in May. It refunded 
charges of £10 and £20 in February. And it paid £50 for out of pocket expenses in February. 
TSB said that it wouldnt pay any more now. It said it had told Mr L in the written response it 
sent in February that he could opt out of the scheme if he wanted to.
TSB also said the refunds it paid Mr L in February 2019 were nothing to do with this 
problem. It said those were charges for failed direct debits on his account. It didnt need to make these refunds, the charges had been correctly applied, for failed payments for a TV 
licence and to a phone company.
Our investigator didnt think this complaint should be upheld. She said TSB had explained 
the cause of the problem, and had paid compensation. It was trying to put things right. She 
understood that Mr L was very unhappy about the service that had been provided, but she 
didnt think TSB could do any more. She understood Mr L had now cancelled his 
membership of the scheme that was causing the problems.
Mr L didnt agree. He said that this complaint was to do with the second time hed raised 
concerns about bank errors. TSB had told him in February 2019 that everything was sorted 
out. In May 2019, he raised a new complaint and was told this was a new incident. 
Mr L said he couldnt understand why TSB had refunded the cost of direct debits, because 
he didnt have any direct debits on his account. And he said that the refunds TSB said it 
made arent showing on the dates it gave him.
Mr L says if TSBs only solution is for him to opt out of the scheme, thats just deflecting 
away from its systems being faulty, for which it should be held accountable. And he said he 
was also complaining about how TSB had handled this complaint. He was promised calls 
back which were never made, and passed from one department to another, including 
someone who was totally unable to help and then hung up on him.
Because Mr L didnt agree with our investigator, the case was passed to me for a final 
decision.
My provisional decision
I issued a provisional decision on this complaint and explained why I did propose to uphold 
it. This is what I said then: 
I think that TSB dealt with Mr Ls complaint in February as best it was able to at the 
time. I think the compensation that it paid then was sufficient to make up for what had 
gone wrong up to that point.
When TSB dealt with the February complaint, it also made refunds of charges for 
direct debits that had failed. It says it didnt have to do that, so Mr L has benefitted 
from these refunds. But Mr L said he didnt have any direct debits on his account, and 
hadnt had any for ages.
I think the confusion here is just because Mr L isnt looking at the same dates as TSB. 
Hes looking at payments made in 2019. But TSB refunded charges in February 2019 
for failed direct debits from 2018. Ive checked his statements, and he did have direct 
debits set up on his account in 2018.
The failed direct debits show on his statements on 16 July 2018, 2 August 2018 and 
15 August 2018. The charges were applied on 2 September 2018 and 1 October 
2018. TSB paid the refunds on 13 February 2019. So I think TSB did do what it said. 
Now Ill look at what happened after February 2019. We now know that the problem 
continued until at least July 2019, as Mr L was still getting letters from TSB about 
failed payments then. It seems that these letters only stopped when Mr L finally opted 
out of the scheme, after our service suggested this to him.One of the reasons that TSB said it wouldnt pay any more now was that it had told Mr 
L in February that Mr L could opt out of the scheme. I think TSBs suggesting that if 
hed done that, then the problem would have been solved much sooner. 
I dont think thats a fair point for TSB to make. Back in February 2019, TSB didnt 
suggest that this was likely to be an ongoing problem. When Mr L complained again in 
May, it didnt link this problem to the previous complaint, or to the save the pennies 
scheme. So Mr L continued to receive letters telling him that there wasnt enough 
money in his account.
I think TSB did its best in February 2019. It seems likely that it didnt know then that 
this problem was going to carry on for so long. But I think it then made a mistake in 
May, because it didnt spot that this was all the same problem, which Mr L had 
complained about before. Instead, it treated the May complaint as a one off issue. 
When Mr L was finally told that this was all one problem, and the best way might just 
be to opt out of the save the pennies scheme, he did then opt out. That makes me 
think if TSB had said this sooner, he wouldnt have had these problems for so long. 
I should also note that Mr L has complained about the service he received when trying 
to sort this out. Both the information TSB has sent us, and the way that Mr Ls May 
complaint wasnt linked to the previous one, mean I do think that TSB has 
unfortunately not provided a good service to Mr L. 
For those reasons, I think it would be fair and reasonable to ask TSB to pay a further 
£100 in compensation now. I think that provides a fair resolution to this complaint.
I invited the parties to make any final points, if they wanted, before issuing my final decision. 
Both sides accepted my provisional decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive reconsidered all the available evidence and arguments to decide what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. I havent changed my mind.
My final decision
My final decision is that TSB Bank plc must pay Mr L £100 in compensation.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr L to accept or 
reject my decision before 27 May 2020.
Esther Absalom-Gough
Ombudsman