DRN-3154825
The complaint
Mr and Mrs B are unhappy that Royal & Sun Alliance Insurance Limited (RSA) declined their 
claim for a damaged laptop under the accidental damage cover provided by their home 
insurance policy.
I will refer to Mrs B for ease of reading in my decision.
What happened
Mrs Bs son spilt a mug of tea over the keyboard of his laptop in October 2020. She says she 
initially looked into arranging a repair herself, but two weeks after the accident decided to 
make a claim under her policy with RSA. After speaking to the company, she sent the laptop 
to its electronic expert for assessment. 
RSA told Mrs B that the hard drive had been wiped prior to its inspection. It says this didnt fit 
with her description of events leading up to the damage claim. Mrs B then obtained a report 
from the manufacturer. It confirmed there was liquid damage to the laptop and that the hard 
drive was intact. RSA asked its expert to review this report. It then maintained its stance that 
the files having been deleted from the hard drive indicated the damage wasnt caused in the 
way stated. 
Mrs B disagreed with RSA. She maintained that no-one had deleted files prior to it being 
sent to the company. She says her son is distressed at having lost these files and she is at a 
loss to prove that they didnt delete them. Mrs B referred her complaint to our service. 
Our investigator decided not to uphold the complaint. She thought RSAs argument was 
persuasive that the damage hadnt been caused in the way Mrs B had described. She 
thought it was reasonable that RSA wanted to ensure the claim occurred on the date stated, 
given the policy had only been force for four months. 
Mrs B was unhappy with this outcome. She thought RSA should prove her son deliberately 
wiped the files from the laptop and asked for an ombudsman to review her complaint. 
It has been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so I have decided not to uphold this complaint. I appreciate this will be 
disappointing for Mrs B, but I will explain why I think my decision is fair. 
The policy terms define accidental damage as, Sudden, unexpected and visible damage 
which hasnt been caused on purpose.
Mrs B reported the damage was caused by a mug of tea that was accidently spilt over the 
laptop keyboard. These circumstances, as described, reasonably meet the requirements for 
a sudden, unexpected cause that wasnt on purpose. However, RSA disagrees that the 
damage can have happened in this way.
The company arranged a telephone interview with Mrs B to discuss her claim. I have 
considered the report from this to understand more about the circumstances surrounding the 
claim. The report says:
There were no reported issues with the laptop prior to the incident. 
It was claimed to have last been used on Saturday [October 2020], where it was used all 
morning. The Incident occurred around 1pm. The insureds son was sitting at a desk in his 
bedroom. The [laptop] was on where he had been researching music. He had made a cup of 
tea with two sugars. However as he stood up, he accidentally knocked the mug with his 
hand sending the entire contents over the keyboard. 
[Mrs Bs son] used toilet tissue to soak up the liquid and wipe the keyboard over. The screen 
went off at this point. He tried to turn it back on again, where it loaded to the login on screen, 
but it then went black with only the loading bar visible. They allowed the device to dry out for 
a few days before trying again, but it would not work.
RSAs report concludes:
the damage is not consistent with the reported circumstances as wiping the hard drive 
would have had to have been done deliberately not as a result of liquid ingress.
Based on Mrs Bs account of events there was no opportunity for files to be deleted after the 
accident occurred, because the laptop wasnt working at all. RSA maintains the files had 
been deleted when it received the laptop. It says liquid ingress would not result in files being 
deleted in this way, and so the deletion must have occurred prior to the reported spillage. 
RSA obtained a more detailed account from its electrical expert. Its response says:
when we mounted the drive to an external OS, the drive appeared blank with no folders or 
files intact. To us, this looked as though someone had logged into the machine and deleted 
the files rather than formatting the drive correctly. 
The PHs unit also did power on during inspection and when we attempted to boot it to the 
OS, it failed with a folder icon which means the system could not find the OS on the drive. 
Again leading us to believe it were [sic] wiped. The drive had also been renamed to [Mrs Bs 
sons name] which is not something most [laptop manufacturer] accredited technicians will 
name a drive (unless requested by a customer). This too also went towards believing the 
drive had been altered also in some way.  
The report Mrs B obtained from the laptop manufacturer says:
The [laptop] turns on and boots up. We have not diagnosed an issue with the Hard Drive.
A further letter from the laptop manufacturer says: 
I am writing to you separately to confirm that the workshop engineer has had your [laptop] 
turned on and he has booted to your operating system. The drive has not been erase [sic] as 
the operating system is still present.
RSAs expert was asked to comment on Mrs Bs report. It says: I have reviewed the report and the issue with the SSD hard drive was that it had been
wiped. We did not advise that the hard drive was damaged in anyway. The Report just 
confirms that there is no damage to the hard drive but not whether the policy holder has 
wiped this. This wouldnt come up as an issue is it purely that when the customer has 
backed up his data he has then wiped everything from the hard drive so we cannot obtain a 
last used date.
We asked RSA why its expert couldnt see the operating system (OS) on the laptop when 
the manufacturer says it had booted to your operating system. In its response RSAs expert 
says there was no operating system on the laptop when it was received. It refers to a photo 
taken of the laptop connected to an external system. This shows the laptop contained no 
files. RSAs expert explains the laptop powered on but wouldnt boot to the OS as it had 
been deleted. It also says that its very straight forward for an OS to be loaded onto the 
laptop, and this could have happened after it returned the device.
I understand RSAs expert is a repair centre accredited by the laptops manufacturer.
The information it has provided is persuasive in demonstrating that no files existed on the 
laptop when it inspected the device. This is shown by its photos when connecting the laptop 
to an external OS. I also note its explanation that it would be straightforward to install a new 
OS, meaning this couldve occurred before Mrs B took it elsewhere for examination. 
Based on the expert opinion provided, it wasnt possible for liquid ingress to cause the files 
to be deleted. But because of the deletion RSA cant establish the last used date. It says this 
means it cant know if the laptop was last used around the time the damage is said to have 
occurred. Without this information its possible a problem had occurred with the laptop 
sometime before the spilling incident. As the policy had only been in force for four months 
RSA says it needs to know the last used date to be sure the laptop wasnt damaged prior to 
its cover starting. 
Having considered all of this I think RSAs explanation that files cannot have been deleted 
because of split tea is persuasive. By no means am I suggesting Mrs B or her son deleted 
the files. But I must be guided by the expert opinion and base my findings on the available 
evidence. I havent seen a persuasive explanation of why the files were found to be deleted, 
other than RSAs explanation that this was done deliberately. This doesnt align with Mrs Bs 
description of how the laptop came to be damaged.  
Because of this I dont think RSA treated Mrs B unreasonably in its decision to decline the 
claim. So, I cant fairly ask it to do any more to resolve this complaint.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B and Mrs B to 
accept or reject my decision before 14 January 2022.
 
Mike Waldron
Ombudsman