DRN-2733014
The complaint
Mr E complained that Loans 2 Go Limited lent to him irresponsibly.
What happened
Mr E was given loans by Loans 2 Go as follows: 
LoanDate 
TakenDate 
RepaidInstalments Amount Repayment
115/12/2018 17/01/2019 18 £250.00 £56.64
201/03/2019 02/04/2019 18 £250.00 £57.14
3** 02/05/2019 18 £500.00 £82.78
Mr E mainly said that Loans 2 Go shouldve known this loan was unaffordable for him 
from the multiple payday loans he was taking out and his consistently poor credit 
score. 
When he complained to Loans 2 Go it didnt uphold Mr Es complaint but said it was 
prepared to write off the interest on loan 3 as a gesture of goodwill if this would resolve 
his complaint.
Mr E didnt feel this offer went far enough to put things right and so he brought his 
complaint to us. One of our adjudicators reviewed Mr Es complaint. He came to the 
view that Loans 2 Go shouldve seen from its credit checks that it wasnt reasonable to 
conclude that Mr E was likely to be able to sustainably repay the loans it provided and 
so it shouldnt have lent to him. 
Loans 2 Go disagreed with our adjudicator and asked for the case to be reviewed by 
an Ombudsman.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our approach to unaffordable/irresponsible lending complaints on our website 
and Ive kept this in mind when deciding Mr Es complaint. I have also taken into account the 
law, any relevant regulatory rules and good industry practice at the time. 
Before agreeing to lend, lenders must work out if a borrower can afford the loan repayments 
alongside other reasonable expenses the borrower also has to pay. This should include 
more than just checking that the loan payments look affordable on a strict pounds and pence 
calculation. A lender must take reasonable steps to satisfy itself that the borrower can 
sustainably repay the loan  in other words, without needing to borrow elsewhere.
The rules dont say what a lender should look at before agreeing to lend. But reasonable and 
proportionate checks should be carried out. For example, when thinking about what a 
borrower has left to spend on a new loan after paying other expenses, as well as taking into 
account the loan amount, the cost of the repayments and how long the loan is for, a 
proportionate check might mean a lender should also find out the borrowers credit history 
and/or take further steps to verify the borrowers overall financial situation.  
If reasonable and proportionate checks werent carried out, I need to consider if a loan 
wouldve been approved if the checks had been done. And even if a loan looks affordable, a 
lender still needs to think about whether theres any other reason why it would be 
irresponsible or unfair to lend. For example, if the lender shouldve realised that the loan was 
likely to lead to more money problems for a borrower already struggling with debt that cant 
be repaid in a sustainable way. 
Ive kept all of this in mind when thinking about whether Loans 2 Go did what it needed to 
before agreeing to lend to Mr E. 
Before providing loan 1, Loans 2 Go asked Mr E for details of his income and checked 
this using an online income verification tool. It asked Mr E about his monthly expenditure 
and carried out a credit check to gain an understanding of his financial situation. 
I have reviewed the information Loans 2 Go gathered when it agreed to provide this loan. It 
noted that Mr E received a minimum amount of £2,077.72 monthly. After looking at the credit 
report information, Loans 2 Go increased the amount Mr E had said he was spending each 
month and allowed for a figure of around £1,801. It also added a buffer of around 10% of Mr 
Es verified income to his expenditure in order to allow for any fluctuations in his monthly 
income or outgoings. Loans 2 Go said that even with these adjustments, the contractual loan 
repayment for this loan would have still been affordable. 
But Loans 2 Go was required to establish whether Mr E could sustainably make his loan 
repayments  not just whether the loan payments looked affordable on a strict pounds and 
pence calculation. 
The information gathered by Loans 2 Go showed that Mr E had regularly been borrowing 
from a number of high cost short term lenders. Over the course of the previous year, 
Loans 2 Gos credit checks showed that Mr E had taken out around 30 new credit 
accounts  typically these were short term loans or other unsecured loans. Loans 2 Go 
could see that it looked like Mr E was using multiple payday lenders and repeatedly 
borrowing new loans to repay other credit. It looked like he had active short term borrowing 
outstanding when he applied for this loan as well as a significant balance outstanding on 
one of his credit cards. And a late payment showing on his mortgage and a payment 
arrangement on another revolving credit account both suggested hed had some payment 
problems within the last 6 months or so. 
I've taken into account that Loans 2 Go said it felt that Mr Es credit reports were on the 
whole very positive and he was up to date with payments on his credit commitments so it 
had no reason to conduct further checks or review his bank statements prior to approving 
the borrowing. 
But I think Mr Es recent borrowing track record suggested he was over-reliant on using 
credit to supplement his income. Given the lending history Loans 2 Go could see on its 
credit checks, I think Loans 2 Go shouldve realised that as Mr E by now had an established record of regularly borrowing from other short-term lenders, it was likely that 
he was having difficulties managing his money. 
So I dont think Loans 2 Go could reasonably have satisfied itself that providing this loan 
to Mr E wouldnt put him in a worse position by increasing his overall debt  at a time 
when the indications were that he was already struggling to manage debt. 
I think thats borne out by information I've seen on the bank statements Mr E later 
provided to us and to Loans 2 Go. The bank statements Ive seen show that Mr E had also 
taken out a £250 loan with another high cost credit lender the day before he signed up for 
loan 1 with Loans 2 Go - and just 2 days earlier hed taken another high cost loan from a 
different provider for £200.
Taking all this into account, I dont think Loans 2 Go shouldve provided loan 1, or any of the 
loans that followed, to Mr E. His circumstances around the time he took out loan 2 showed 
no significant improvement  Loans 2 Go could see from its credit checks that after taking 
loan 1, Mr E had taken out other high cost short term borrowing and he had at least 2 other 
unsecured loan accounts still open. So I dont think Loans 2 Go had any real reason to feel 
assured that Mr E looked likely to be able to sustainably afford to repay loan 2. The fact that 
he paid this loan just a month or so after taking it out doesnt mean that he did so in a 
sustainable manner. 
Mr Es credit history by the time he applied for loan 3 doesnt support a fair lending decision 
 which I think Loans 2 Go recognised when it offered to refund all the interest payable on 
that loan. For these reasons, Im upholding Mr Es irresponsible lending complaint about all 
these loans.   
I havent seen anything which makes me think Loans 2 Go acted unfairly towards Mr E in 
any other way. But Mr E has paid interest on three loans that shouldnt have been provided 
to him. So Loans 2 Go should now take the following steps to put things right.
Putting things right
In line with this Services approach, Mr E shouldnt repay more than the capital 
amount he borrowed. Loans 2 Go should buy back any outstanding debt sold if 
able to do so and then take the following steps. 
Otherwise, Loans 2 Go should liaise with the new debt owner to achieve the 
results outlined below and do the following:
A) add together the total of the repayments made by Mr E towards interest, fees and  
charges on all upheld loans without an outstanding balance, not including anything 
already refunded
B) calculate 8% simple interest* on the individual payments made by Mr E which were 
considered as part of A, calculated from the date Mr E originally made the 
payments, to the date the complaint is settled
C) remove all interest, fees and charges from the balance on any upheld outstanding 
loan, and treat any repayments made by Mr E as though they had been 
repayments of the principal loan amount 
D) if this results in Mr E having made overpayments then those overpayments should 
be refunded with 8% simple interest* calculated on the overpayments, from the 
date the overpayments would have arisen, to the date the complaint is settled and paid to Mr E, together with the amounts calculated in A and B, before moving to 
step F
E) if there is still an outstanding balance, then the amounts calculated in A and B 
should be used to repay this and any money left should be paid to Mr E. However if 
Mr E still owes an outstanding balance, then Loans 2 Go should try to agree an 
affordable repayment plan with him. Loans 2 Go shouldnt pursue outstanding 
balances made up of principal already written-off
F) remove any adverse information recorded on Mr Es credit file in relation to loans 1, 2 
and 3.
*HM Revenue & Customs requires Loans 2 Go to deduct tax from this interest. Loans 2 Go 
should give Mr E a certificate showing how much tax has been deducted if he asks for one.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I uphold Mr Es complaint and direct Loans 2 Go Limited to 
put things right as set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr E to accept or 
reject my decision before 2 June 2021.
 
Susan Webb
Ombudsman