DRN-1022738
 Complaint
 Mr D complains that The Co-operative Bank plc (Co-op) sent him marketing emails although 
he had previously asked for this not to happen. 
 Background
 Mr D contacted the Co-op to complain he had received marketing emails although he had 
opted out of this. The representative at Co-op took the details of the complaint and said they 
would contact him. Co-op, after looking into the matter, didnt uphold his complaint or his 
request for compensation saying that the contact was service related and not marketing. 
Our Investigator considered the information provided by both Mr D and the bank and 
concluded that the information sent was service related and not marketing. The Investigator 
explained that it was to tell him of benefits added to his account and it was in line with the 
privacy notice in the email he had received. 
Mr D disagreed with the Investigators decision. He said this was a form of marketing.
Mr D has asked for this matter to be referred to an Ombudsman for review.
 My Findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr D says he was unhappy because he received marketing communications when he had 
opted out of them and he was seeking a £50 compensation payment for the inconvenience 
caused to him.
Co-op has agreed that Mr D opted out of marketing emails but say that the emails in 
question were not marketing but service related information relating to his account.  In the 
email sent to Mr D it explains why the information has been sent and refers to the privacy 
notice, in a link, which goes on to explain that it needs to tell customers of changes to their 
accounts . 
 I can see that Mr D would be frustrated in receiving marketing emails when he has opted 
out. So in considering this complaint I have to decide whether or not the Co-op has kept in 
line with his request not to receive marketing emails.
Co-op did provide, in the email, a link explaining why they needed to tell customers of 
changes and improvements to their accounts in a link headed Why am I receiving this? 
This link refers to the privacy notice and under section 16 it explains the following:
We promise not to contact you about everything  only if we think it could be appropriate and 
relevant to you, such as preferential savings opportunities, account upgrades or special 
offers. This contact may continue after your relationship with us ends.I can see that Mr D might see the email as marketing but I think it is reasonable to send this 
to him under section 16 of the privacy notice as it refers to new features to his account. The 
email detailed ways of keeping track of scheduled payments and updating telephone and 
email to help against fraud.  I feel that this is appropriate and relevant to him. 
In the privacy notice the Co-op states that emails containing information relating to accounts 
or regarding fraud need to be sent to everybody. This would explain why this email was sent 
to Mr D. I cannot see that this is unreasonable for Co-op to have this as a condition for 
account holders. B
While Mr D may be disappointed with my decision there is little more I can ask of the Co-op 
here and I dont uphold the request for a compensation payment
 My final decision
 My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. Under the rules of the Financial 
Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr D to accept or reject my decision before 
14 April 2020.
Barry White
Ombudsman