DRN-2014868
The complaint
Mrs B complains about how esure Insurance Limited, trading as Sheilas Wheels (SW) has 
settled the liability of a claim on a motor insurance policy she holds with them. 
What happened
In April 2019, Mrs B was involved in a collision when she was pulling into her driveway from 
the road. At the time, Mrs Bs husband, Mr B, reported the incident to SW and gave details 
about what had happened, although he was not a witness to the accident.
Two days later, SW got in touch with Mrs B to let her know that it had decided that she was 
at fault for the incident. Mrs B was unhappy with this as she hadnt been given the 
opportunity to give her version of events.
SW says it based its decision on other information it had available  for example photos of 
the damage to the vehicles and information it had about the type of manoeuvre Mrs B was 
doing at the time of the incident.
Mrs B says she was upset by SWs decision to not get her version of events. SW also said it 
hadnt spoken to the third party about what happened either. But then later said that this 
wasnt correct, and it had in fact spoken to the third party.
Our investigator looked into things for Mrs B. He found that while he agreed that SW could 
have done more to get Mrs Bs version of events  he didnt think it would have changed 
SWs decision to hold her at fault for the collision. But our investigator did find that the 
service Mrs B had received from SW wasnt as good as it should have been  and so he 
thought that SW should pay Mrs B an additional £50 compensation to what it had already 
offered her (£100 in total).
SW didnt agree that it should pay anything more to Mrs B. Ultimately, it said that it didnt 
think the service it provided had fallen short and that it had Mrs Bs authority for Mr B to 
report details of the incident. Because SW didnt agree, the complaint has been passed to 
me to make a decision on the matter.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im partially upholding Mrs Bs complaint. Ill explain my reasons below. 
It isnt my role to determine who was at fault for the collision; that would be a matter for a 
court of law. What Im deciding is whether SW has acted in accordance with the terms and 
conditions of the policy and whether it has dealt with the claim fairly.
In line with most insurers, the policy says that SW can take over the settlement of the claim. 
So, it can decide whether to defend a claim or settle it. That might mean SW makes a 
decision Mrs B disagrees with, as has happened here.
SW has said that it didnt contact Mrs B direct to get her version events. And it took 
information from Mr B, who wasnt there at the time. I agree with Mrs B here that this isnt 
ideal  as Mr B wasnt there when the collision happened. He simply called up to report the 
incident. But Mrs B has given me her version of events, and Ive reviewed this to see if they 
would have made a difference to SWs investigation. 
Mrs Bs version of events are similar to what Mr B told SW just after the incident. Although 
Mrs B says that she now thinks the third party was driving on the pavement  but she 
doesnt have any information to support what she says. Shes also said there wasnt any 
CCTV footage from the collision, so it would be very difficult for SW to determine this without 
any other information. 
Mrs B also states that the third party admitted to fault at the point of the collision  and had 
SW got a testimony from this person at the time of the incident then they would have been 
able to check this. But when SW got a testimony from the third party, unsurprisingly they 
didnt say they were at fault. 
There was a witness to the collision  this was a van driver that was driving in front of the 
third party. The van driver didnt provide their details at the incident, so it would be difficult to 
get that persons testimony. However, based on what Mrs B has said, it appears the van 
driver thought Mrs B was at fault. Mrs B has said in her testimony that the van driver shouted 
at her saying it was her fault. So I think this persons testimony would have supported the 
third party and I dont think it would have changed the outcome of SWs investigation. 
So while I agree that SWs decision to not contact Mrs B didnt give it an accurate 
understanding of what happened from Mrs Bs point of view, based on everything Ive seen, I 
dont think that SW would have come to a different conclusion if it had contacted Mrs B 
direct.
SW has sent me other information that it says it used to determine who was at fault for the 
incident. It has sent me photos of the damage to the vehicles, which it says are consistent 
with the third-party testimony. And it has also said that Mrs B had a higher duty of care as 
she was performing the manoeuvre at the time of the collision.
So while I appreciate this will come as a disappointment to Mrs B, I think SW gathered 
enough information to determine that Mrs B was at fault for the collision. 
But I will be upholding Mrs Bs complaint in part. Initially, SW told Mrs B that it hadnt got a 
testimony from the third-party driver. But it then went on to say that it had and provided this 
service with evidence of that. Clearly SW made a mistake here, in not telling Mrs B what 
information it had relied on to come to a decision. And to me, it doesnt seem fair that it 
would get the third partys testimony and not Mrs Bs. While I appreciate that SW spoke to 
Mr B  the call confirms that he wasnt witness to what happened and so I dont think it 
would be fair for it to rely on what hed said. 
SW has said that it got Mrs Bs authority for Mr B to relay the events, but I havent heard that 
it spoke to Mrs B in either of the calls it has sent to me. On the calls Ive listened too, Mr B 
checked that it was okay for SW to talk to him about the incident. So, I cant fairly say that Mr 
B was acting on behalf of Mrs B in saying what had happened at the time. SW has also said that it didnt provide Mrs B with the service it would have expected in 
relation to some call recordings shed asked for  so it offered her £50. But based on what 
Ive said above, I think SW should pay Mrs B an additional £50 for the upset it caused her. 
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I have upheld Mrs Bs complaint in part. I now order esure 
Insurance Limited, trading as Sheilas Wheels to pay Mrs B £100  if it has already paid Mrs 
B the £50 it has offered her then it can deduct this from the total. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs B to accept or 
reject my decision before 22 September 2020.
 
Sophie Wilkinson
Ombudsman