DRN-4292549
The complaint
Mrs K and Mr K complain that Barclays Bank UK PLC (Barclays) collected a cheques value.
 What happened
On 10 October 2022, Mrs K and Mr K took a cheque with a value of USD 13,596.39 to a 
branch of Barclays and paid it into their account. On 2 December 2022, the value of the 
cheque was credited to their account - £10,911.23.
Mrs K and Mr K complained. They said they had asked for the cheque to be negotiated  i.e. 
the value to be credited immediately. They werent told that collection was to be used. If they 
had, they wouldve torn up the cheque and asked the remitting bank to transfer the money 
instead  with a charge of USD 25. They wanted to know what the threshold was for when a 
cheque would be sent for collection. Because of what happened, the exchange rate moved 
against them and they lost £1,400. They want this refunded to them.
Barclays said theyd discussed the complaint on the phone and closed it after discussion 
with Mrs K and Mr K. In their submissions to us, Barclays said their internal processes say 
that a cheque could sent for collection if they decided, and customers werent to be advised 
of such. And collection can take up to eight weeks.
Mrs K and Mr K brought their complaint to us. Our investigator said Barclays acted 
reasonably and didnt uphold the complaint. He said Barclays followed their internal 
processes. If Barclays agreed to a negotiation, this meant the bank lent the money to Mrs K 
and Mr K until the cheque clears later. Barclays made the decision not to do that and sent 
the cheque for collection  due to its value. 
Mrs K and Mr K didnt agree. They said:
- They hadnt paid in USD cheques of such a high value before. But lower value 
cheques had always been negotiated.
- Barclays shouldve told them it was being collected and not negotiated. They could 
then have decided to have the money transferred by the remitting bank for a fee of 
USD25 at the exchange rate at the time, rather than later.
- They couldnt see that Barclays had the right to change the instruction theyd given  
which was to negotiate the cheque.
They asked that an ombudsman look at their complaint  and so it has come to me to do 
that.
I issued a provisional decision which said:
Where a cheque is negotiated  the bank effectively lends a customer the money against 
the cheque. And the bank gets the money later when the cheques value is received. So  
for cheque negotiations, the bank carries out a risk assessment on the customer - as that 
customer would have to stand the loss if the cheque was then returned unpaid.
Where a cheque is collected  then there is no such risk to Barclays. The cheque is later 
presented for payment and the proceeds collected by the bank and credited to a customers 
account at the later date. In the case of Mrs K and Mr K, this is what happened - the value of 
the cheque was credited to their account on 2 December 2022 - £10,911.23. This was at an 
exchange rate of 1.243 with a fee of £27.14.
Barclays could send the cheque for collection if they wished to do so  that is contained 
within their terms and conditions, and its well-established banking practice that a firm can 
collect or negotiate a foreign cheque. So  this provisional decision comes down to the 
communications with Mrs K and Mr K. They argue they werent advised at any stage about 
the change of method, and if they had been, they wouldve torn up the cheque and asked for 
a payment to be sent directly to their account. They say this wouldve been cheaper than 
collection  because by the time the cheque proceeds were received, the exchange rate had 
moved against them. So  I looked closely at the communications between Barclays and 
Mrs K and Mr K here.  
I looked at Barclays internal operating instructions for where currency cheques are paid into 
a GBP current account. These say that a check should be made to see if a customer 
qualifies for a cheque to be negotiated. These also say: A sanction process determines if a 
cheque can be negotiated. If it cant be negotiated, the cheque will be sent for Collection. We 
dont advise your customer if the collection method has to be changed. But here  I think 
this comment refers to the responsibility of the central processing unit. In other words, it was 
for the branch (or other department/area of the bank) to advise Mrs K and Mr K. 
Barclays told us a credit check was done in this case and showed us the assessment made. 
This showed that the decision was taken to send the cheque for collection as it was over 
Barclays internal guidance for negotiation. But I also noted the decision form also said 
Please collectit is your responsibility to advise your customer In other words, the credit 
teams process was for another area of Barclays to advise Mrs K and Mr K.
I then reviewed Barclays internal instructions (Customer Eligibility for Foreign Cheques 
Negotiation or Deferred Credit). This says that when a cheque is sent for collection, 
customers (should be) advised accordingly
So  Barclays processes say a customer should be advised if the method for collection or 
negotiation has changed. And - it seems to me to be reasonable that a customer should be 
advised about the method  especially given the large amount involved in this case.
We asked Barclays for evidence of any communications with Mrs K and Mr K, but they 
couldnt show us any letters, emails or recording of any calls. So on that basis, Im 
persuaded there werent any.
I then considered what happened when Mrs K and Mr K visited the branch. Barclays sent us 
a copy of the form completed at the branch and signed by Mrs K and Mr K on 10 October 
2022. It says clearly currency to sterling negotiation  so Mrs K and Mr K asked for the 
cheque to be negotiated. We asked Barclays for any evidence of what was advised to Mrs K 
and Mr K in the branch, but a branch testimony couldnt be provided. 
So  on balance Im persuaded that nothing was said to Mrs K and Mr K about the cheque 
being sent for collection or (for example) that there was an approval process to go through 
before negotiation could take place. If there had been such a discussion, then (as Mrs K and 
Mr K have argued) a decision couldve been made to have the funds sent to their account 
immediately by electronic means. 
Therefore, because I could find no evidence of any communications with Mrs K and Mr K  either in the branch or subsequently -  Im persuaded that Barclays should pay the difference 
between the amount that wouldve been received on 10 October 2022 (if the cheque had 
been negotiated) and the amount received by Mrs K and Mr K on 2 December 2022.
Responses to the provisional decision:
Barclays didnt respond. Mrs K and Mr K said that while they agreed, they still couldnt 
understand why Barclays couldnt tell them what the limit is for sending a cheque for 
collection versus negotiation.
I now need to make a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
On Mrs K and Mr Ks further point  I cant advise what the limit is. Its an internal rule which 
is particular to Barclays internal processes. And the information is therefore owned by 
Barclays. As the provisional decision said, it really is for Barclays to have advised Mrs K and 
Mr K how the cheque will be handled (regardless of the amount)  and thats the crux of the 
decision regarding this complaint.
My final decision is therefore unchanged from the provisional decision.
My final decision
I uphold this complaint. Barclays Bank UK PLC must:
Pay to Mrs K and Mr K the difference between the value of the cheque if it had been 
negotiated on 10 October 2022 and the value of collection received on 2 December 
2022 - £10,911.23.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs K and Mr K to 
accept or reject my decision before 6 September 2023.
 
Martin Lord
Ombudsman