DRN-4160369
The complaint
Mr S complains that Monzo Bank Ltd (Monzo) wont refund the money he lost in a scam. 
What happened
Mr S says that he was contacted via a messaging app by someone who said they were a 
recruiter for a well-known agency. Mr S was interested and was passed on to someone else 
he communicated with via a different messaging service. This person explained the job was 
commission based and that Mr S could make money instantly. The more products Mr S 
reviewed the more commission he would receive. Mr S was shown a website and given 
instructions on how to proceed. He started to receive daily tasks which he completed but 
then received an error message. When Mr S asked about this, he was advised that he 
needed to make refundable deposit payments to generate further tasks. To make the 
deposits, Mr S was required to convert funds to cryptocurrency which was then transferred 
on as instructed. 
Initially Mr S made payments from an account with another bank, but he later transferred 
funds from this other account to his Monzo account and made transfers from his Monzo 
account. Mr S made the following payments:
Date Amount
19/05/22 £2,000
20/05/22 £3,000
20/05/22 £2,000
Total £7,000
 
Mr S was unable to withdraw any funds and kept being asked for more money. He realised 
he was the victim of a scam and brought a complaint to Monzo via a representative in 
October 2022. 
Monzo says it wasnt able to fully investigate Mr Ss claim as Mr S didnt report the scam 
directly. It responded to Mr Ss representative and said that Monzo followed his instructions 
in making the transfers, and in any event Mr Ss loss wasnt from his Monzo account. Monzo 
also said that given the warnings Mr S was provided with at the time he made the payments, 
he didnt take enough steps to verify the legitimacy and/or the identity of the third party he 
communicated with.
Our investigation so far
The investigator who considered this case recommended that it be upheld in part. She said 
that by the last payment of £2,000 Monzo should have intervened as an unusual pattern of 
payments had emerged. But she said that Monzo should refund half of this transaction 
because Mr S didnt take steps to ensure the opportunity he was provided with was real. For 
example, Mr S didnt complete his own research or receive any documentation. 
Mr S agreed with the investigators recommendation, but Monzo didnt. In summary, it said:
- It hasnt had the opportunity to fully investigate Mr Ss claim.
- Mr S bought cryptocurrency from a peer-to-peer seller and so received what he 
expected. He then moved assets to a scammer. The CRM Code doesnt cover the 
payment from Mr Ss Monzo account to the peer-to-peer seller.
- Monzo had no reason to flag the transactions and if it had intervened it would have 
found the transactions were genuine. 
The complaint has been passed to me to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr S authorised the scam payments from his Monzo account. So, although he didnt intend 
the money to go to the scammers, under the Payment Services Regulations 2017 and the 
terms and conditions of his account, Mr S is presumed liable for the loss in the first instance. 
The Lending Standards Board Contingent Reimbursement Model Code (CRM Code) doesnt 
apply in these circumstances, as it only covers faster payments to a GBP account. In this 
case, Mr S made a faster payment to an individual who was genuinely selling 
cryptocurrency. Once funds had been exchanged for cryptocurrency Mr S moved the 
cryptocurrency to a scammers wallet and this was his point of loss. 
However, taking into account the law, regulatory rules and guidance, relevant codes of 
practice and good industry practice, there are circumstances where it might be appropriate 
for a bank to take additional steps or make additional checks before processing a payment in 
order to help protect its customer from the possibility of financial harm from fraud. An 
example of this would be if a payment instruction is sufficiently unusual or uncharacteristic 
for the usual use of the account. So Ive gone on to consider whether I think Monzo should 
have intervened when the payment requests were made. 
Mr Ss account was opened in January 2022 but there was no activity on it until the scam 
payments were made around three months later. So Monzo couldnt compare the 
transactions with previous account and payment history. 
The first two transactions were for relatively small amounts and there was nothing obvious 
about them that ought reasonably to have led Monzo to have any concerns. Although Mr S 
was buying cryptocurrency, Monzo had no reason to know this because of the method used 
to do so (peer-to peer). As far as Monzo was concerned, Mr S was transferring funds to a 
named individual. 
But I believe that by the third payment, which was made around ten minutes after the 
second, Monzo ought reasonably to have intervened. Mr Ss account had not been used at 
all since it was opened. This payment request was the third in two days and meant Mr S 
transferred £7,000 to a new payee in a very short timeframe. A pattern of scam payments 
was emerging that I think Monzo ought reasonably to have questioned.
Im aware that Monzo provided Mr S with a generalised online warning but dont think this 
was enough in the circumstances of this case. The warning asked if someone could be 
trying to scam the payer and said to stop in certain circumstances. The reasons to stop the 
payment included being told the account is at risk, something that is too good to be true, to 
double check the payee and if the payer has been told to ignore a warning. I dont believe 
the warning would have resonated with Mr S and it was too general to cover the 
circumstances he found himself in. 
Ive gone on to consider what I think would have happened if Monzo had intervened. Mr S 
wasnt provided with a cover story, so I think hed have been honest about the reason for the 
payment and explained that he was buying cryptocurrency. Given the reason for the 
payment I consider Monzo ought to have probed further and established why Mr S was buying cryptocurrency. Im satisfied that his response is likely to have been concerning given 
that Mr S thought he was buying cryptocurrency to release tasks to make an additional 
income. Monzo ought reasonably to have been aware of task-based scams of this nature 
and to have recognised the warning signs. So I believe that if Monzo had asked the kind of 
questions it ought to have asked the scam would have been uncovered and Mr Ss further 
loss prevented. 
Monzo has raised the point that had it intervened it would have established that Mr S was 
likely genuinely buying cryptocurrency. But Monzo is the expert here and would have been 
aware of the prevalence of scams involving cryptocurrency and ought reasonably to probe 
further to ensure a customer isnt at risk. 
Ive gone on to consider whether Mr S should also be partly responsible for his loss. After 
considering the position carefully I think Monzo should pay Mr S half of the final payment for 
the following reasons:
- Mr S found out about the employment on a social media platform and was referred to 
someone else who exchanged messages with him via a messaging app. These 
channels arent regularly used for legitimate employment opportunities. 
- Mr S wasnt provided with any documentation and didnt receive a contract to show 
what was agreed between the parties. This is unusual and I think Mr S should have 
had concerns. 
- Mr S thought he was earning additional income but has not mentioned the name of a 
company providing employment.
- The reason given for the payments wasnt plausible and I havent been given a 
reasonable explanation for the need to pay in cryptocurrency.
- Mr S was told he would make money instantly and his representative referred to 
strong additional income. I consider Mr S ought reasonably to have had concerns 
about what he was being offered to like and review social media content.
- Mr S didnt complete any research to satisfy himself the opportunity was genuine. 
Overall, I cant fairly ask Monzo to refund the final payment in full. 
I would usually expect a bank to try to recover scam funds from a receiving account but in 
this case the scam was reported around five months after the payments were made and the 
payments were to an individual for cryptocurrency. In the circumstances, I dont believe there 
was anything Monzo could have done to recover Mr Ss funds. 
My final decision
For the reasons set out above I require Monzo Bank Ltd to:
- Refund Mr S £1,000;
- Pay interest on the above amount at the rate of 8% simple per year from the date of 
the transaction to the date of settlement (less tax if properly deductible). 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 29 August 2023.
 
Jay Hadfield
Ombudsman