DRN-3274422
The complaint
Mr B complains that Shawbrook Bank Limited (Shawbrook) has rejected the claim he made 
under section 75 of the Consumer Credit Act 1974 (the Act) in relation to a solar panel 
system he says was misrepresented to him by the supplier.
Mr B is represented by a claims management company (the CMC).
Background
In or around November 2016, Mr B was contacted by a representative of a company Ill call 
P to talk about purchasing a solar panel system (the system) to be installed at his home. 
After being visited by a representative of P, Mr B decided to purchase the system and 
finance it through a ten year fixed sum loan agreement with Shawbrook. The system was 
subsequently installed.
In July 2020 the CMC made a claim to Shawbrook on Mr Bs behalf under section 75 of the 
Act. The CMC said that, following a cold call, P had made a number of representations about 
the system that had turned out not to be true, and it was these misrepresentations that had 
induced Mr B to enter into the contract with P. The CMC said the following 
misrepresentations had been made:
the total cost of the system was documented as £8,805 to mislead Mr B, as when the 
interest was added the total cost was actually £17,119;
the system would generate free electricity;
the system would be self-funding; and
the feed in tariff (FIT) would provide enough income to cover the finance agreement 
repayments costs.
Shawbrook issued a final response and explained that it didnt agree the system had been 
misrepresented to Mr B or that there were any other reasons for the claim to be upheld. 
However it offered £200 compensation for its delay in responding to the complaint.
One of our adjudicators looked into what had happened. Having considered all the 
information and evidence provided, our adjudicator didnt think that P had misrepresented 
the system to Mr B and found no reason to uphold the complaint.
The CMC didnt agree with the adjudicators view for the following reasons;
the salesman had never shown Mr B the quotation document until Mr B signed it;
Mr B was pressured into signing;
a copy of the quotation had never been sent to him to read in his own time;
consequently Mr B had never had the opportunity to read it, either at the time or later;
being satisfied with what he had been told in the sales meeting, Mr B had not thought 
it necessary to ask for a copy of the quotation afterwards;
other customers have reported similar sales tactics, so Mr Bs claims were credible;
where a person is unaware that a representation is false, the fact that they could 
have found out it was false by taking reasonable care is not a defence in law.1
As an agreement couldnt be reached, the case has been passed to me for review.
My findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Relevant considerations
When considering whats fair and reasonable, Im required to take into account; relevant law 
and regulations, relevant regulatory rules, guidance and standards and codes of practice; 
and, where appropriate, what I consider to have been good industry practice at the relevant 
time.
In this case the relevant law includes sections 56 and 75 of the Act.
Section 75 provides protection for consumers for goods or services bought using credit. As 
Mr B paid for the system with a fixed sum loan agreement, Shawbrook agrees that section 
75 applies to this transaction. This means that Mr B could claim against Shawbrook, the 
creditor, for any misrepresentation or breach of contract by P in the same way he could have 
claimed against P, the supplier. So, Ive taken section 75 into account when deciding what is 
fair in the circumstances of this case.
Section 56 is also relevant. This is because it says that any negotiations between Mr B and 
P, as the supplier, are deemed to have been conducted by P as an agent of Shawbrook.
For the purpose of this decision Ive used the definition of a misrepresentation as an untrue 
statement of fact or law made by one party (or his agent) to a second party which induces 
that second party to enter the contract, thereby causing them loss.
Key documents
There are several documents that have been provided by both the CMC and Shawbrook. 
These include the credit agreement and solar quote, titled Your Personal Solar Quotation. 
Ive considered these in detail and whether they support the alleged representations made 
by P.
The quote is a detailed document that sets out key information about the system, the 
expected performance, financial benefits and technical information. Im satisfied that it 
formed a central part of the sales process and is therefore relevant when considering if there 
have been any untrue statements of fact alongside Mr Bs recollection of the sale.
The CMC continues to question whether the quotation document formed a central part of the 
sales process with P when Mr B agreed to enter into the contract for the system. I have 
carefully considered the points made by the representative along with those made by 
Shawbrook on behalf of P. Having done so, I remain satisfied, on the balance of 
probabilities, that the quotation did form a central part of the sales process at the time when 
Mr B agreed to enter into the contract. In particular, Mr B accepts that he signed it on the day 
of the sales meeting (albeit he also says he was put under pressure to do so), since the 
other documents he signed (such as the credit agreement) were all signed in December.
1 Citing Chitty on Contracts (32nd edition), paragraph 7-043 (corresponding to para. 9-051, 34th ed.).Mr B signed the quote on 14 November, after which he had 14 days in which to cancel the 
agreement if he changed his mind. If a copy was not sent to him to read in his own time after 
the sales meeting, or if he felt under pressure to sign, then he had enough time to ask to be 
sent a copy, since he did not sign the credit agreement until 7 December, and the system 
was not installed until 3 January. But Im satisfied that the quote was part of the sales 
process during the sales pitch, and that on the balance of probabilities, its not likely that the 
salesman contradicted what it said.
The credit agreement sets out the amount being borrowed, the interest to be charged, the 
total amount payable, the term of the loan and the contractual monthly repayments.
Cost of the system
The CMC has said that the cost of the system was documented as £8,805. It has said that 
this was done to mislead Mr B as this figure did not include any interest associated with the 
loan, so it hid the true cost of the system, £17,119.
I have compared the credit agreement and the quotation, and they contradict each other, in 
that they give different figures. Because it is not in dispute that Mr B received and signed the 
credit agreement, I will begin with that document.
Im satisfied that the credit agreement provided to Mr B makes it clear that the overall cost of 
the system is £13,592.80. This sets out that the cash price of the system was £8,505, the 
total amount of credit is £8,405, the deposit was £100, the total cost of credit was £5,087.80, 
and it goes on to show that the total amount payable over the ten year loan period would be 
£13,592.80. So Im satisfied that this document, which Mr B signed, made it clear to him that 
he would have to pay more than the cash price of the system.
The quotation gives somewhat different figures, but the overall result is much the same. The 
quotation gives the cost of the system as £8,805, or £300 more than the credit agreement 
said, and it gives an illustration of the cost of repaying a loan over 15 years instead of over 
ten years. But the quote still makes it clear that there would be a monthly loan repayment 
due, as set out in the table below, and that it would cost Mr B more than the cost of the 
system as he had decided to pay for it with an interest bearing loan.
FIT payments
Mr B has alleged that he was told his monthly loan repayments would be covered, or self-
funded by the FIT payments. Ive considered the quote that was provided by P and 
considered whether this supports what Mr B has said.
The system analysis page of the quote sets out the estimated income Mr B could expect to 
receive by way of FIT payments from the system. This is split out into the expected FIT 
payments in the first year and the expected average income over 20 years. The FIT scheme 
only provides payments for a 20-year period.I think that the first of these tables is clear that Mr B could expect to receive a total FIT 
income in year one of £216.30.
The quote goes on to look at the electricity savings Mr B could expect from the system. The 
expected year one electricity savings is £192.02 and, when taking into account the optional 
extras chosen by Mr B, the combined income and savings in year one is shown as £504.32. 
This is shown in a table titled Putting it all together.
Theres a section headed Repayments with three tables showing repayments over 60 
months, 120 months and 180 months. Ive considered two of these: the table for 120 
months, as this is the length of the loan that Mr B entered into with Shawbrook, and the table 
for 180 months because that table has been highlighted, so it might have been discussed in 
the sales meeting.
The first table shows the loan as repayable in 120 monthly payments of £114.56. (This is 
incorrect; the loan agreement gives the correct monthly figure of £112.44, but the difference 
 £2.12  is too small to affect the following observations.) For each year of the ten year loan 
it shows the expected grand total return from the system. It then averages that figure over 12 
months, and subtracts the monthly loan repayment of £114.56, to give an average difference 
between the monthly return from the system and the monthly loan repayment in each year. 
This gives a negative figure in every year of the loan agreement.
I think the quote clearly sets out the income Mr B could expect to receive from the system, 
by way of FIT payments, as well as his expected contractual monthly loan repayments. 
Whilst I accept that the table doesnt simply compare the FIT income to the monthly loan 
repayments, it does clearly set out that the overall income he could expect to receive by way 
of FIT income and any additional savings would not be immediately sufficient to cover the 
monthly loan repayments. Therefore, Im not satisfied that he was told that the monthly loan 
repayments would be covered by the FIT income alone.
The second table, showing loan repayments of £93.01 over 180 months (making a total of 
£16,741.80), is much the same  it also shows that the income from the system would still 
not be enough to cover the repayments.
I am reinforced in that conclusion by the graph below, which also appears in the quote. It 
clearly shows that over the first 15 years, the monthly loan repayments would always exceed 
the expected FIT income and savings.
Self-funding
Ill now consider whether P told Mr B that the system would self-funding.
Ive considered the two tables mentioned above, which each set out the estimated average 
monthly income from the system, and the effect on that income of subtracting the monthly 
loan repayment. Im satisfied that each of the tables are clear and easy to understand, 
whichever loan period would ultimately be chosen by Mr B.
Im of the view that these both make it clear that the system wouldnt be self-funding from the 
start. I think the quote is clear that there would be a difference between the expected income 
and monthly loan repayments.
However, I do accept that Mr B was told by P that the system would be self-funding over a 
period of time.
Page 12 of the quote has another table, this time detailing the performance of the system 
over 20 years. This shows that just after the end of year 17 the overall benefits that Mr B 
could expect to receive would have exceeded the total amount payable under the ten-year 
loan agreement, £13,592.80. If the 15-year loan was taken out instead, at a total cost of 
£16,741.80, then the same table (below) shows that the benefits would exceed the cost 
during year 19.
As Ive set out above, Im satisfied that P told Mr B that the system would pay for itself by 
year 17 or 19, depending on the loan term, as supported by the table above. If that were an 
untrue statement of fact, and Im satisfied that this was what induced him to enter into the 
contract, and he subsequently suffered a loss, that would amount to a misrepresentation.
Performance
Ive gone on to consider the performance of the system and whether this is in line with the 
contract between P and Mr B. The MCS certificate and quote sets out that the system is 
expected to produce 2,852.5 kWh a year.
I have looked at Mr Bs FIT statements and can see that his system, on average, has 
generated 3,279 kWh a year. This is significantly more than estimated by P at the point of 
sale, so Im satisfied that the system is performing better than expected.
I have also looked at the assumptions used by P, including the self-consumption rate, 
expected annual increase in utility prices (EPR) and expected annual RPI inflation increase. 
I am satisfied that Ps method for calculating these are fair and reasonable.
P used Office of National Statistics (ONS) data between 2006 and 2015 to calculate the 
utility price and RPI inflation. I have looked at the actual yearly increases between 2016 and 
2020, and the increases have been lower than predicted by P at the point of sale, and I think 
this explains why Mr B hasnt been receiving the financial returns he may have been 
expecting from the solar panels. Since actual energy prices have been lower than the 
modelling predicted, the savings achieved through the energy generated by the system has 
been correspondingly lower.
As I have explained, the assumptions used by P were based on the information available 
from the ONS at the time. And based on this, I dont consider it unreasonable for P to have 
used them as the basis for calculating the potential financial income Mr B could have 
expected to receive from the system. So, whilst I can appreciate that the returns may not 
have been as high as estimated at the point of sale, Im not persuaded that this was due to 
unreasonable assumptions being used by P at the time Mr B entered into the contract.
Summary
Having carefully considered the evidence provided by all parties in this complaint, Im
satisfied that there were no untrue statements of fact made by P that induced Mr B to enter 
into the contract for the system, and I have found no other reason to uphold this complaint.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
I leave it to Mr B to decide whether to accept Shawbrooks offer of £200 compensation for its 
delay in responding to his complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 16 March 2022.
 
Richard Wood
Ombudsman