DRN-1687414
The complaint
Mr S has complained about Zenith Insurance plc. He isnt happy that it turned down a claim 
following the theft of his car under his motor insurance policy.
What happened
Mr S went out for a night and stayed in a hotel in a local town. When he returned to his car at 
the hotel car park the following morning he realised he had lost his car keys, or they had 
been stolen. He went to watch his son play sport as he had already arranged to do this. And 
then arranged for a locksmith to attend the car when he got home later that day.  
When he returned to his car it had been stolen so he reported the theft to Zenith and the 
police. Although some items from the car turned up the car was never recovered. 
Zenith looked into the claim and appointed an investigator. But it eventually decided that it 
wouldnt pay the claim. This was because it thought Mr S didnt take reasonable steps to 
prevent the theft of his car when he realised his keys were lost or stolen. So Mr S 
complained to this service.
Our investigator looked into things for him but didnt uphold his complaint. He didnt think 
Zenith had done anything wrong in turning down the claim.
As Mr S didnt agree the matter has been passed to me for review.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so Im not upholding the complaint. Ill explain why.
I have a great deal of sympathy for the position Mr S finds himself. He has faced a stressful 
time since the theft of his car. And it mustve been a very difficult time generally as he was a 
victim of crime and had his claim turned down. But I have to be impartial and fair to both 
sides when I consider complaints. And the main issue to consider is whether Zenith has 
acted fairly and in line with the policy terms and conditions in turning down his claim and I 
think it has.
Mr S went out for the evening before returning to his hotel. He had visited various bars and a 
restaurant during the evening and clearly identified a couple of times when he left his jacket 
(which had his key in) exposed. I know Mr S has told our investigator that his jacket was 
always in sight, but he did tell Zeniths investigator that he left it to one side while he played 
pool amongst other things. Mr S also said he spoke to a few people while he was out that 
night and he may have mentioned where he was staying.
But Mr S wasnt aware his key was missing until the following morning when he went to get 
his car. As he approached the car he realised his keys werent in his jacket pocket. But he 
didnt take any action at that point in time to try and find the key or protect his car which is 
ultimately why Zenith turned down the claim.
Mr S went to watch his son play sport as he had planned and then went home by taxi. Once 
at home he arranged for a locksmith to attend the car later that afternoon and returned to the 
car. But Im surprised he didnt do this as soon as he realised his keys were missing. Indeed, 
I wouldve expected him to have looked to phone or visit the bars he was in the night before 
and to have searched his hotel and everywhere he had been. I know he knew the only 
person with a spare key was out of the country so I can understand why he didnt try and 
contact them. But he didnt take any action to gain access to the car or protect the car until 
hours later. And throughout the time he was away from the car it was vulnerable to theft.
Mr S couldve contacted his insurance company who would have advised him about 
precautions he couldve taken to safeguard his car. He could have got the locksmiths to 
attend while he was with the car as an emergency or he couldve got a wheel clamp to 
secure the car. I think this was even more important as Mr S wasnt sure what had happened 
to his key. He was aware that it couldve been stolen from his zipped jacket pocket and 
potentially people knew where he was staying. And it was possible he dropped/lost the keys 
at the hotel and so someone could easily find his car.
As Mr S didnt take any steps to protect his car and it was clearly stolen using the key that 
was lost or stolen from him, I cant say Zenith has acted unreasonably here. It has said he 
didnt keep his keys safe or protect his car from loss and so, despite my natural sympathy, I 
cant say it has acted unreasonably here.
My final decision
It follows, for the reasons given above, that Im not upholding this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 25 December 2020.
 
Colin Keegan
Ombudsman