DRN-4310077
The complaint
Mrs P complains about Alliance Insurance Plc (Allianz) declining a claim under her pet 
insurance policy for treatment of her hen.
References to Allianz include their agents who administer the policy.
What happened
Mrs P had a pet insurance policy covering her hens, taken out in June 2021. She added an 
additional hen in May 2022 (an ex-battery hen). In June 2022 the hen became ill, so Mrs P 
took it to a vet. The vet wanted to carry out a surgical diagnosis but unfortunately the hen 
passed away before they could carry out a diagnosis. But the vet thought the hens illness 
could be its eggs. 
Mrs P contacted Allianz to tell them what happened and lodge a claim. However, Allianz said 
the policy wouldnt cover any issues related to eggs (specifically egg binding1), as there 
was an exclusion in the terms and conditions.
Mrs P was unhappy about Allianzs decline of her claim, saying she hadnt been made aware 
of the exclusion when taking out the policy. She also thought it was unfair, given the vet 
hadnt made a formal diagnosis. So she made a complaint.
Allianz didnt uphold the complaint. They referred to the claim for the abdominal mass and a 
comment in the clinical notes from the vet that the mass was most likely eggs (although 
when Allianz contacted the vet to ask them to confirm the mass was eggs, they couldnt 
confirm a diagnosis). Allianz said the policy terms and conditions were emailed to Mrs P 
when the policy was taken out and she had a 14-day cooling off period to read them and 
contact them if there was anything she wasnt expecting. And she was prompted to read 
them again when the policy came up for renewal.  As Mrs P didnt contact them the policy 
continued. Allianz referred to the specific section of the policy setting out the exclusion (for 
egg binding). 
Given the vets notes, Allianz thought it most likely the hens condition was egg binding, so 
they confirmed they wouldnt cover the claim because of the exclusion. And Mrs P had been 
made aware of the exclusion when taking out the policy.
Mrs P then complained to this service. She said shed taken out the policy over the phone 
and wasnt made aware of the exclusion. Had she been told about the exclusion she 
wouldnt have taken out the policy. She was also concerned the exclusion only applied to 
former battery hens only and was unclear what precise conditions the policy did cover. She 
wanted Allianz to accept her claim.
Our investigator didnt uphold Mrs Ps complaint, concluding Allianz acted fairly in declining 
the claim in line with the policy terms and conditions. The evidence indicated Mrs P had been 
1 Egg binding is where a bird is unable to expel an egg from its body, which if not treated sufficiently early 
(within 48 hours) can lead to the death of the bird.
provided with appropriate information to make an informed decision (whether to take out the 
policy). Allianz applied the exclusion to decline the claim and on the balance of probabilities it 
wasnt unreasonable for Allianz to apply the exclusion. It was also their commercial decision 
on whether to apply exclusions to specific pets (including ex-battery hens). 
Mrs P disagreed with the investigators conclusions, and requested an ombudsman review 
the complaint.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
My role here is to decide whether Allianz have acted fairly towards Mrs P. 
The key issue in Mrs Ps complaint is whether Allianz acted fairly in declining her claim for 
treatment of her hen. Allianzs view is that the hens illness was most likely due to egg 
binding (based on the vets comment in the clinical notes). And so wasnt covered due to a 
policy exclusion for such a condition. Mrs P says no formal diagnosis was made by the vet 
(and they werent subsequently able to confirm the condition). And she wasnt made aware 
of the policy terms and conditions (specifically the exclusion) when she took out the policy 
(or subsequent renewal). Allianz say she was provided with the policy terms and conditions 
and had the opportunity to read them and (in the 14-day cooling off period) query them.
Ive considered both views carefully, including the relevant terms and conditions of the policy 
(particularly those referred to by Allianz) together with the supporting information and 
evidence, including the clinical notes from the vet. In their final response, Allianz refer to the 
following exclusion in the policy (under Section 1  Veterinary Fees):
What Insurers will not pay
7 The cost of any treatment in connection with your pet being or coming into season, 
egg binding, breeding, pregnancy or giving birth.
Section 2  Death also contains a similar exclusion (for egg binding) for cover in the event of 
a pets death from the condition.
Mrs P says she wasnt made aware of the exclusion(s) when she added her hen to the policy 
(the policy covered other hens before she added the additional hen) or when she took out 
the policy. Allianz say Mrs P had been previously provided with the policy booklet (when she 
took out the policy in April 2021 and at the subsequent renewal). So, they wouldnt have 
needed to draw attention to the exclusion again (during the call when the hen was added) as 
it was reasonable to conclude Mrs P would have been aware of the policy booklet (and the 
terms and conditions it contained). And they wouldnt have read out the terms and conditions 
of the policy in the call. Mrs P says she wasnt made aware of the exclusion in the call taking 
out the policy. 
Ive considered both views, but I agree with Allianz. While they may not have specifically 
mentioned the exclusion in the call(s) the policy booklet (in the wording above) makes the 
exclusion clear. Having been provided with the policy booklet at the time of taking out the 
policy, Mrs P would have had the opportunity to read the terms and conditions (including the 
exclusion) and had the option of not taking out the policy (within the cooling off period). 
The same is the case when it came to the policy renewal, when she could have chosen not 
to renew the policy. The renewal notice also requests Mrs P ensures the cover provided 
meets her needs and that she understands the terms, exclusions and conditions.So, Ive concluded Mrs P should reasonably have been aware of the policy terms and 
conditions, including the exclusion for egg binding, when she took out the policy and 
subsequently at renewal of the policy.
Ive then considered whether the hen did have an issue with egg binding. In their response 
to Mrs P, Allianz refer to the clinical notes for Mrs Ps hen, which they regard as a true and 
accurate reflection of the discussion between Mrs P and the vet, and the vets findings. They 
refer to the following extract from the notes:
Large hard mass in celom, most likely eggs.
Allianz say this is a fair indication the issue was egg binding. Mrs P says this was an 
assumption and there was no actual evidence of egg bindings as a formal diagnosis couldnt 
be made before the hen passed away (and the vet says they couldnt confirm the mass was 
egg-related). 
While I accept a formal diagnosis couldnt be made in the circumstances, on the balance of 
probabilities, Im persuaded the comment from the vet in the notes is more likely to have 
been the case, as it reflects their view provided at the time. The vet subsequently being 
unable to be definitive (when asked by Allianz) is consistent with the view in the clinical 
notes comment.
Ive also considered the general principle, where an insurer relies on an exclusion, the onus 
is on them to show its reasonable to apply it. Taking all the points set out above into 
account, Im persuaded Allianz have shown enough (on the balance of probabilities) to apply 
the exclusion for egg binding in the circumstances of this case. So, Ive concluded Allianz 
acted fairly to apply the exclusion to decline Mrs Ps claims.
While Ive reached these conclusions about the declined claim and application of the general 
exclusion for egg binding, Ive also considered Mrs Ps point about it being unfair for Allianz 
to place specific additional exclusions applicable to ex-battery hens. My understanding from 
what Allianz have told us is that ex-battery hens are more likely to experience issues relating 
to egg production. 
So, from an insurers perspective, that represents a higher risk of conditions arising (and the 
associated cost of treatment and claims). Its a commercial decision for an insurer what risks 
they are prepared to cover under an insurance policy  including the terms of a policy in 
response to those risks and the associated cost (the premiums payable for the over). Or, 
whether to accept those risk at all and exclude them from cover, as in this case. If this in 
made clear in the policy and to the consumer, its for the latter to decide whether to accept 
the terms offered, including general and/or specific exclusions.
Based on this, I dont think Allianz acted unreasonably.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, my final decision is that I dont uphold Mrs Ps complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs P to accept or 
reject my decision before 3 October 2023.
 
Paul King
Ombudsman