DRN-3226430
The complaint
Mr O complains that Santander UK Plc treated him unfairly by threatening to restrict the use 
of his credit card. 
What happened
In May 2020, Mr O received a letter saying his credit card was in persistent debt. He says he 
increased his payments and stopped spending on the card resulting in him reducing his 
outstanding balance by around £1,800 in nine months. In February 2021, he received a letter 
saying he had until 10 April to take action in regard to his credit card and that his ability to 
withdraw cash had been suspended. 
Mr O rang Santander on 10 February and says he was told that because he didnt have a 
direct debit set up he didnt look like he had taken action to address the issue of his 
persistent debt. He then received a letter saying he needed to set up a direct debit or the 
card would be blocked even if he was making manual payments. Mr O wrote to Santander 
setting out his complaint and referencing relevant regulations but says his points werent 
addressed. 
Mr O says that Santander acted unfairly by blocking his cash withdrawal facility given the 
payments he had been making and by also further threatening to block use of his card. He 
says that there was no regulation that meant he had to have a direct debit set up and that 
Santander was acting irrationally by accepting a direct debit payment for an amount less 
than he was already paying through other channels. He said Santander hadnt responded to 
his specific points but just made general references. He said he is now unclear if he can use 
his credit card given the correspondence that it would be blocked if he didnt set up a direct 
debit but that other letters suggested the card hadnt been blocked. 
Following Mr O referring his complaint to the Financial Ombudsman Service, Santander sent 
him a letter accepting that errors were made. It apologised and paid him £500 
compensation. It said that it was within its rights as set out in the terms and conditions to 
remove the cash facility on Mr Os card and that Mr O could request that this be reinstated 
when the persistent debt balance had been paid in full. 
Santander confirmed that Mr Os card exited Persistent Debt in August 2021 and that no 
adverse information was recorded on Mr Os credit file apart from in December 2019 and 
January 2020 when Mr O didnt meet the minimum monthly payment by the due date and 
this was noted. 
Our investigator thought that by apologising for the issue, paying Mr O £500 and taking on 
board the issue raised, Santander had done enough to resolve this complaint. 
Mr O didnt agree with our investigators view. He said that the decision to block his cash 
withdrawal facility was incorrect and that Santander had no substantive reason to take this 
action. He said his account exited persistent debt, but he hadnt been contacted about 
whether the cash facility had been restored. He also didnt think enough weight had been 
placed on the fact he felt pressured into setting up a direct debit facility by all levels of 
Santander.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Santander wrote to Mr O because his account was in persistent debt. This is in line with the 
requirements on Santander. After receiving the letter in May 2020, Mr O has explained he 
increased his payments and stopped spending on the card. Therefore, I can understand why 
he was upset in February 2021 when he received a letter saying he had until 10 April to 
choose between making overpayments or increasing his monthly payments to make sure the 
outstanding balance was cleared within four years. The letter also said his ability to withdraw 
cash from an ATM would be suspended. 
Santander has explained that while Mr O had acted following the May 2020 letter this wasnt 
enough to prevent the February 2021 letter being sent. So, while I can understand why Mr O 
was upset and confused as to why he had received the letter given his actions, I do not find I 
can say that Santander was wrong to send this.
However, when Mr O contacted Santander about the February letter he wasnt given correct 
information about the need to set up a repayment arrangement or direct debit. He then 
received a letter saying he needed to set up a direct debit or his card would be blocked 
regardless and whether manual payments were made. Mr O then spent time on calls and 
letters trying to get a clear answer to support this advice but this wasnt provided.
In May 2021, Santander wrote to Mr O apologising for the service he had received. It said 
that when Mr O contacted it about the February 2021 letter he should have been told why 
the this had been sent and that if he continued making payments as he had been then the 
account would not be blocked. It responded to Mr Os question including the specific 
regulation he had referred to and said that Mr O wasnt required to formalise his 
arrangement or set up a direct debit and that taking the action he had was sufficient. 
Santander also apologised that Mr Os calls and letters about this issue hadnt identified the 
misleading information he had been given. Santander issued a cheque for £500 because of 
the issues Mr O had experienced. 
So, while I can see why Mr O was upset by the information he received following the 
February 2021 letter and by the lack of investigation to the concerns he raised about this, I 
find that Santander did then take reasonable action to address Mr Os question and 
apologise for the service the he received. I think the £500 compensation was reasonable 
given the frustration, upset and distress Mr O had been caused.
Mr O doesnt think it was fair that the cash withdrawal facility on his credit card was blocked. 
He says that there was no substantive reason to do this. I appreciate that Mr O had started 
to address his persistent debt but the terms and conditions allowed for this action to be taken 
and given the status of his account at that time I do not find I can say Santander acted 
unreasonably or unfairly by taking the action it did. Santander explained to Mr O that this 
facility could be reinstated once the persistent debt balance had been repaid in full.
Overall, while I accept that Mr O wasnt provided with service he should have, and I 
understand the upset he was caused by feeling pressured into setting up a direct debit when 
he was making payments through other routes, I think the apologies and compensation 
provided in case are reasonable. Therefore, I do not require Santander to take any further 
action regarding the issues raised. I note Mr Os comments about his ongoing use of his credit card and he should contact Santander about this if he is still concerned. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr O to accept or 
reject my decision before 7 April 2022.
 
Jane Archer
Ombudsman