DRN-2188125
The complaint
Mr and Mrs W have complained about U K Insurance Limited. They are not happy about the 
way it settled a claim against their motor insurance policy.
What happened
I considered the complaint in full and issued my provisional decision a few weeks ago. In 
summary I said;
Mrs W bumped into another car when she was parking her car and it was agreed that the 
matter would be settled privately between them. Mr and Mrs W told UKI about the incident 
for information purposes and arranged to repair the car privately.
But when UKI contacted the third party they asked for their car to be repaired by UKI. As 
Mr W wasnt happy about this he complained to UKI. It explained how it offers its service 
direct to the third party in circumstances like this. It does this in order to keep costs down if 
the other side makes a claim through their insurer. But it acknowledged that it didnt explain 
this to Mr and Mrs W when they called in to report the incident and offered £100 
compensation for its error.
Mr and Mrs W remained unhappy about this and complained to this service. Our investigator 
looked into things for them but didnt uphold their complaint. She thought that UKI hadnt 
done anything wrong. She explained it was entitled to contact the third party directly and as 
they wanted to pursue a claim it acted reasonably. She agreed that UKI shouldve clearly 
explained this when Mr and Mrs W called in but thought that its offer of £100 compensation 
was fair.
As Mr and Mrs W didnt agree the matter has been passed to me for review.
My provisional findings
I considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide what I thought was fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. And I was minded to partly uphold the 
complaint. In summary I said;
I can understand how frustrating and disappointing Mr and Mrs W have found all this. As far 
as they were concerned they had settled things with the third party direct and so there wasnt 
any need to make a claim. They were simply doing the right thing in reporting the incident to 
their insurer.
However, as UKI explained it looks to speak with the other driver to see if they want to make 
a claim. It does this in order to keep the costs down as it would be more expensive if the 
other driver proceeded to claim through their insurer. I know Mr W doesnt feel a claim was 
made, as he had dealt with things privately, but the third party chose this path when UKI 
contacted them. So, Im satisfied that they changed their mind which they were entitled to 
do. And I havent been provided with anything to show that the third party wouldnt have tried 
to claim in any event or was persuaded to make a claim.
The policy explains that UKI has the right to take over the settlement of any claim and the 
third party made a claim when UKI spoke to them. And as the minor bump was clearly 
Mrs Ws fault liability was always going to go against Mr and Mrs W. So, I dont think UKI 
acted unreasonably here.
However, UKI shouldve clearly explained all of this to Mr and Mrs W when they called up to 
notify it about the incident. This wouldve allowed them to manage their expectations, not 
spend time and money arranging the repair of the other drivers car and to clearly 
understand why UKI do this.
I know UKI has offered £100 compensation for the inconvenience, but I dont think that is 
sufficient to cover the hassle and stress that Mr and Mrs W faced. They had arranged the 
repair of the other drivers car and paid the garage for the repair and had to get a refund 
which I understand wasnt easy. And UKI didnt tell them about the fact that it was dealing 
with a claim. Indeed, Mr and Mrs W only found out about the claim when they contacted the 
third party to tell them that they had paid the garage direct for the repair. So, I think £200, as 
opposed to £100, compensation is a fairer reflection of the inconvenience caused.
Replies
Mr and Mrs W didnt respond to my provisional decision, while UKI said it accepted the view 
outlined. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so Im not changing my position and Im upholding the complaint for the 
reasons outlined above. 
As UKI has accepted my provisional decision and Mr and Mrs W havent responded I dont 
propose to rehearse the arguments again here. Ive given a detailed account of the 
background and circumstances surrounding the complaint above. And I remain of the view 
that the position outlined is fair.
My final decision
It follows, for the reasons given above, that I partly uphold this complaint. I require U K 
Insurance Limited to pay Mr and Mrs W £200 (total) compensation. Under the rules of the 
Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W and Mrs W to accept or reject my 
decision before 21 October 2020.
 
Colin Keegan
Ombudsman