DRN-2910344
The complaint
Mr S complains about problems with Link Financial Outsourcing Limited trading as Honours 
Student Loans (HSL) after his deferment period for a student loan ended. 
What happened
In 2016 HSL acquired a student loan debt in Mr S name. Mr S continued to correspond with 
the Student Loan Company (SLC) to arrange annual deferment. HSL says that in November 
2020 it wrote to Mr S, as no deferment had been agreed by SLC, and asked him to begin 
making payments. 
Mr S has explained that he tried to discuss repayments over the phone but HSLs staff 
refused to do so. Mr S subsequently emailed HSL and it confirmed the deferment agreed via 
SLC had ceased in November 2020. In further emails, Mr S asked for a copy of the original 
loan agreement and explained he intended to charge HSL £50 an hour for work required to 
deal with his account. Mr S also said he wanted SLC to send invoices for repayments 
required. 
Mr S complained but HSL didnt agree it had made mistakes. HSL said his loan had been 
transferred to it in 2016 in line with the original loan agreement. Mr S referred his complaint 
to this service and it was passed to an investigator. They thought HSL had dealt with Mr S 
complaint fairly and didnt ask it to do anything else. 
Mr S asked to appeal and said he had initially contacted HSL by phone to make a payment 
but its call handlers refused to speak with him. Mr S also said he hadnt received letters HSL 
claimed to have sent. Mr S said HSL had repeatedly failed to send him deferment 
paperwork. As Mr S asked to appeal, his complaint has been passed to me to make a 
decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
First, Im aware Ive set out the background to this complaint in less detail than the parties 
and Ive done so using my own words. Im not going to respond to every single point made 
by all the parties involved. No discourtesy is intended by this. Instead, Ive focussed on what 
I think are the key issues here. 
Our rules allow me to take this approach. It simply reflects the informal nature of our service 
as a free alternative to the courts. If theres something I havent mentioned, it isnt because 
Ive ignored it. I havent. Im satisfied I dont need to comment on every individual argument 
to be able to reach what I think is the right outcome.
Mr S says his loan was taken out with SLC which is correct. But HSL was assigned the debt 
from SLC in 2016. Ive seen a copy of Mr S student loan agreement along with a clearer, 
blank, version that contains a more readable copy of the terms. Im satisfied the terms of the 
original loan agreement Mr S accepted allowed the debt to be transferred to a new owner 
without Mr S involvement. The information Ive seen shows the debt was acquired by HSL 
as it claims. 
Whilst SLC transferred ownership of the loan to HSL, it continues to administer the 
deferment process. Mr S has successfully deferred loan payments previously, but HSL has 
confirmed no agreement was made to do so from November 2020 onwards which is why it 
contacted Mr S to request repayment. As there was no agreed deferment in place, I think 
HSL was reasonable in contacting Mr S to request payment. 
Mr S has told us calls he made to HSL werent dealt with and staff refused to access his 
account after he gave his reference. HSL says it has no record of any calls Mr S made. I 
appreciate Mr S called HSL and wasnt able to make a payment. I dont doubt what hes 
said. But Im not persuaded that HSL refused to discuss his account in order to place 
barriers in the way of Mr S making repayments. I think its more likely than not that it wasnt 
possible for HSL to complete the full verification process when Mr S called. 
Ive looked at the other information HSL gave Mr S concerning its request for repayments to 
be made. I can see HSL wrote to Mr S about the end of the deferment period in November 
2020. Mr S has told us he didnt receive all HSLs correspondence, but Im satisfied the 
information available shows it did write to him as claimed. Mr S got in touch with HSL again 
at the beginning of December 2020 as he received an arrears letter. In response HSL 
emailed Mr S and explained his deferment period had ended which is why it had written to 
him about arrears on his account. Mr S emailed response explained he wanted to see a 
copy of his loan agreement and associated terms before making any payments. HSL sent Mr 
S a copy of his loan agreement a short time later. 
Im sorry to disappoint Mr S but I havent found that HSL treated him unfairly. Whilst I accept 
Mr S may not have received all of HSLs correspondence, I can see he did receive arrears 
letters and emails from HSL concerning what was due and how to pay. HSL also sent Mr S 
his loan agreement and explained that his deferment period had ceased. Im satisfied HSL 
has provided the required information to Mr S during the period in question. 
Mr S asked HSL or SLC to send him invoices he would settle for loan repayments. But 
theres no provision in the loan agreement Mr S accepted for payments to be collected in 
that way. HSL has given Mr S the details of how much his repayments are and how to make 
monthly payments. Im satisfied the instructions are clear and the methods Mr S is required 
to use to make repayments are reasonable. 
Mr S has explained he intends to invoice HSL for unpaid work hes carried out in relation to 
his student loan. Theres no provision in the loan agreement he accepted for him to invoice 
the loan owner on that basis. And the rules of this service dont allow me to make an award 
on that basis either. Our awards are made on the basis of whether a business has treated its 
customer fairly. In this case, as I havent found anything that shows HSL treated Mr S 
unfairly, I havent been persuaded to make an award to compensate him for the trouble and 
upset he says was caused. Whether Mr S is able to invoice HSL via another mechanism 
(like the courts) is a matter for him to look at separately. As Ive noted above, were a free 
informal alternative to the courts. 
HSL has sent us recent correspondence its had with Mr S. I can see instructions on how to 
make repayments have been given and deferment application information was also 
provided.
Im sorry to disappoint Mr S but as I havent found HSL has treated him unfairly Im not 
telling it to take any further action to resolve his complaint. 
My final decision
My decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 1 October 2021.
 
Marco Manente
Ombudsman