DRN-4006365
The complaint
Mr B and Mrs B complain about Liverpool Victoria Insurance Company Limiteds (LV) 
handling of their claim under their home insurance policy. 
LV are the insurers of Mr B and Mrs Bs policy. Part of this complaint concerns the actions of 
an agent. As LV have accepted they are accountable for the actions of the agent, any 
reference to LV includes the actions of the agent. 
What happened
The background to this complaint is well known to both parties, so I wont go over it in great 
detail. However, in summary, Mr B and Mrs B made a claim to LV following an issue 
involving an escape of water. LV instructed an agent to carry out repairs, but they caused 
further damage to Mr B and Mrs Bs property. LV then instructed another agent to continue 
with the repairs as well as resolving the damage caused by the first agent. Mr B and Mrs B 
complained to LV about this, the length of time to carry out the repairs and having to source 
a bath and shower themselves. LV responded and explained, in carrying out trace and 
access work, the first agent caused additional damage. They said they agreed to the agent 
being removed from the claim and appointed another agent who subsequently completed 
the work. LV apologised for the problems experienced by Mr B and Mrs B and paid £300 
compensation.  
Our investigator looked into things for Mr B and Mrs B. He agreed LV had made errors and 
recommended they increase the compensation to £500. Mr B and Mrs B disagreed so the 
matter has come to me for a decision.    
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided to uphold the complaint. And, I think the investigators 
recommendation here is a fair way to resolve matters. I understand Mr B and Mrs B will be 
disappointed by this but Ill explain why I have made this decision.  
Firstly, Ive looked at the service given to Mr B and Mrs B. My role requires me to say how a 
complaint should be settled quickly and with minimal formality and so Ill focus on what I 
consider to be the crux of the complaint and the main areas of dispute. 
The key facts about the complaint arent in dispute. LV have admitted they got things wrong 
when their agent caused additional damage and the delay in handling the claim. The only 
issue I have to decide is whether their offer to put things right is fair and reasonable.
I think its right that LV should compensate Mr B and Mrs B for the trouble, upset and 
inconvenience caused by their poor service. To help decide what a fair and reasonable level 
of compensation should be, Ive looked at the error by LV and what the impact of that error 
has been. 
Having reviewed the information provided by LV, I can see the claim was logged on 23 April 
2022 and the trace and access work was then started by the first agent on 26 April. Due to 
there being issues, the first agent was replaced, and a second agent appointed on 13 May. 
The second agent then started the repair works on 24 May and this was completed on 8 
July. So, from the point the first work was carried out, the work was completed just over 10 
weeks later. I understand Mrs B feels the work couldve been completed in three weeks but 
was stretched out. I can see LV have raised this with the second agent and they say the 
work was never going to take three weeks and, to ensure good workmanship, it couldnt be 
rushed. The second agent, once they were appointed, took around eight weeks to complete 
the work. Looking at the work that was completed, together with the second agents work 
timeline, Im not persuaded this was unreasonable. 
That said, its clear additional work became necessary due to damage caused by the first 
agent. So I agree with Mr B and Mrs Bs concern that the repairs took longer because of the 
need to rectify the damage caused by the first agent. I can see LV accept this rectification 
work added two weeks delay and, looking at the second agents timeline of work, Im 
persuaded LVs estimation is broadly reasonable. In addition to this, LV accept there was a 
two-week delay caused by the first agent being replaced by the second agent  and I think 
thats also fair in the circumstances.  
So, I think its fair and reasonable for LV to pay compensation which takes into account the 
impact on Mr B and Mrs B over these four weeks. I think its important to add, I cant see    
Mr B and Mrs B and their family were without bathroom facilities during this period. I can see 
LV also installed a bathroom pod  although there were initially problems with this which Ive 
also taken into account. Mrs B also explains it got to the point where she became very 
frustrated with how long things were taking so she sourced the bath and shower herself. The 
information shows the second agent then cancelled the shower theyd ordered. 
   
Taking all the information into account, I think that compensation of £500 would be fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances here. It will undoubtedly be stressful for any customer when 
work is being carried out in their home and we would expect an insurer to handle any claims 
promptly. In this case, the case notes provided by LV show Mrs B was very upset at the 
problems caused by the first agent and she was understandably very frustrated that 
rectification work would now be required to correct those problems  and this building in 
more time to get to the point of completion. I can see Mr B and Mrs B did source items 
themselves in an effort to speed things up, so this caused further inconvenience. Ive also 
taken into account the upset caused to Mr B and Mrs B as a result of Mrs Bs grandson 
being worried about the possible consequences of the damage caused by the first agent. So, 
taking into account the impact on Mr B and Mrs B, I think LV should pay compensation of 
£500 as this fairly reflects the impact on Mr B and Mrs B 
I wish to reassure Mr B and Mrs B that Ive read and considered everything theyve sent in, 
but if I havent mentioned a particular point or piece of evidence, it isnt because I havent 
seen it or thought about it. Its just that I dont feel I need to reference it to explain my 
decision. This isnt intended as a discourtesy and is a reflection of the informal nature of our 
service. 
Putting things right
Ive taken the view that LV have made an error which has had a significant impact on Mr B 
and Mrs B. So, in addition to the £300 already paid, they should pay an additional £200 for 
the trouble, upset and inconvenience  bringing the total paid for this complaint to £500. My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold the complaint. Liverpool Victoria Insurance Company 
Limited have already paid £300 compensation  so they must pay Mr B and Mrs B an 
additional £200 to bring the total amount of compensation paid to £500. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B and Mrs B to 
accept or reject my decision before 14 April 2023.
 
Paviter Dhaddy
Ombudsman