DRN-3324737
The complaint
Mr L feels that Premium Credit Limited has treated him unfairly in relation to credit provided 
for a holiday home pitch licence agreement.
What happened
In October 2018 Mr L entered into a Pitch Licence Agreement (the Contract for simplicity) 
for a pitch for his holiday home on a site for holiday homes. Ill call the company Mr L had 
this contract with the Pitch Provider. The pitch was to run from October 2018 to December 
2023. In order to pay for this pitch agreement he entered in a Running Account Credit 
agreement with Premium Credit which in essence loaned him the money for the pitch fees 
under the contract. And which he paid back through regular direct debit payments. Mr L also 
derived income from the holiday home by renting it.
In March 2020 the Pitch Provider closes the site where Mr L had his pitch, in line with 
Government Regulations due to the Pandemic, which means that not only could not Mr L 
stay at the pitch, but he could not derive income from it. However the Pitch Provider writes to 
Mr L to explain that the Contract hasnt been frustrated and that the amounts due remain 
due and outstanding payments are accruing as the pitch is still being provided to him. Mr Ls 
payments to Premium Credit stop and Mr L pursues legal action against the Pitch Provider.
In November 2020 a Court Judgement is issued which concludes there has been no breach 
of contract by the Pitch Provider. The judge notes Mr Ls claim is without merit.
Mr L also complained to Premium Credit. Its position is that it has done nothing wrong and 
that there is no persuasive reason for it to take any action here. This is because under its 
obligations under the Consumer Credit Act 1974 it doesnt feel it has any liability as it doesnt 
feel a breach of contract or material misrepresentation has been made out against the Pitch 
Provider by Mr L. Mr L remained unhappy, so he brought his complaint to this service.
Our Investigator considered the matter and didnt feel Premium Credit had done anything 
wrong and didnt uphold Mr Ls complaint. Mr L felt this wasnt fair. So, this complaint comes 
to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr L can bring a claim under Section 75 claim of the Consumer Credit Act 1974 and other 
relevant legislation. The general effect of section 75 is that if Mr L has a claim for 
misrepresentation or breach of contract against a supplier of goods or services (here the 
Pitch Provider), he can also bring that claim against the credit provider (here Premium 
Credit) provided certain conditions are met. Ive considered these conditions (including 
financial limits and the required DCS relationship) and am satisfied that they are met in these 
particular circumstances. So the question is whether the Pitch Provider did breach the 
contract or make material misrepresentations to Mr L which he relied on and which led to his 
detriment.
I should make very clear that this decision is not about the Pitch Provider. It doesnt fall 
within my remit and thus isnt within my jurisdiction to decide upon. The majority of Mr Ls 
complaint points are about the Pitch Provider. But neither this Service nor I have the powers 
to settle the dispute Mr L has with the Pitch Provider. 
This complaint is solely about Premium Credit and whether it has treated Mr L fairly in its 
consideration of his S75 claim to it under the Consumer Credit Act and whether it has fairly 
or unfairly concluded that there was not a breach of contract or misrepresentation by the 
Pitch Provider that it was responsible for. This is the crux of this issue and I cannot 
emphasise it enough because it appears to me that some of Mr Ls arguments suggest this 
clear distinction isnt necessarily at the forefront of his thinking.
I do however fully appreciate that Mr L feels he has suffered substantial losses here and that 
he feels that these should be remediated by Premium Credit. But the question I need to 
consider is whether the unfairness Mr L points to that he has suffered is due to Premium 
Credit and if that is the case how it should remedy the matter. It is very clear to me Mr Ls 
strength of feeling on these matters and I have kept central to my thinking the comments 
about him being wiped out financially by what has happened here.
I should add here that Ive considered everything put forward by both parties here, and there 
is no shortage of arguments made or evidence put forward. I have considered it all. But for 
brevity and clarity Ill only address the key issues and arguments as I see them.
A court has decided that the Pitch Provider didnt breach the contract with Mr L in a court 
case in which Mr L was the claimant. So he is well aware of the judgement and the reasons 
given by the court. Accordingly I dont propose to recount large tracts of it to the parties here. 
I will note however that the Judge decided that the Pitch Provider hadnt breached the 
contract between it and Mr L. Clearly to do this the Judge had concluded what the contract 
between the parties was and what it contained and what the terms were. Mr L has made 
numerous arguments about what the contract was and that it contained more than the judge 
decided the contract contained. This service is an alternative dispute resolution service and 
has no power over a court. Furthermore if Mr Ls position is that the judge has erred it is for 
him to pursue this through the legal processes. It is not for this service to do so. Accordingly 
I will not make any decision on the court judgement other than to say Premium Credit is 
entitled to consider it in its consideration of its stance on these matters and its position as 
made out to this service.
Premium Credit considered these matters and didnt feel that there was any persuasive 
reason to consider the Contract breached based on what happened and what it knew. It has 
also pointed to the Court Judgement to support its position. And considering Premium 
Credits position and all the evidence Ive reviewed (all that has been submitted by the 
parties to this service) Im not persuaded that Premium Credit has incorrectly concluded 
there was no breach of the contract. So Im not persuaded it should take any further action 
regarding Mr Ls arguments about breach of contract. I say this because I dont think it has 
treated Mr L unfairly in deciding the contract hasnt been breached.
Mr L has also made arguments about being misrepresented to. Im not persuaded by these 
arguments. In summary a misrepresentation is a false statement of fact which is relied upon 
leading to detriment. In essence there are three tests here, namely was there a false 
statement of fact, did Mr L materially rely on this false statement of fact and did Mr L lose out 
as a result of that reliance on the misrepresentation.Firstly I should note that Mr L in his original complaint form submitted to this service he made 
no substantial mention of material misrepresentations when he entered into the contract. At 
that time Mr L sought refunds and reduced fees due to the impact of the Government 
regulations because he felt that would be fair in the circumstances. He was not arguing hed 
entered into an agreement based on a false representation of fact.
These misrepresentation arguments have come later and many of these have been made 
after losing his court case. I would have expected had Mr L felt hed been misrepresented to 
that hed have made these arguments from the moment he felt they were 
misrepresentations, so either when they were made or at least when the Pitch Provider 
stopped access to the Pitch and explained itself to Mr L. As at that time hed have been 
aware of these and the ramifications of them. And thus I would have expected these 
arguments to have been far more vociferously made in the court case than that I can see 
were made. So considering the circumstances here Im not persuaded by Mr L says here.
Mr L has argued that he was told things and provided documentation when he entered the 
contract which he feels are misrepresentations as to the agreement actually made. But as 
the Investigator pointed out in their assessment (with which I broadly agree with the thinking 
therein) if there were parts of the contract agreed which were outside the written contract 
(such the documents Mr L refers to or oral statements) then that would form part of the 
contract and would have been considered by the judge as being part of the contract or not 
part of the contract. I should add that some of what Mr L points to is industry guidance and 
that isnt either law or binding. Accordingly Im not persuaded Premium Credit has treated Mr 
L unfairly on this matter of what the terms of the contract were as the judge would have 
considered what the contract was to reach the conclusion they did. 
Ive also considered Mr Ls representations made latterly as to what these 
misrepresentations were. I note he gives very little persuasive detail of exactly what was 
said, who said it, when exactly they were said and what was said about why such 
misrepresentations (as Mr L describes them) were made (verbally or on documents) as to 
why those werent in the agreed contract. And Im not persuaded Mr L has explained 
satisfactorily why he didnt make these arguments in his original court claim. Because its 
clear he considers them material now and says he relied on them so it follows that as soon 
as he suffered detriment in this matter (not having access to the pitch) he would have been 
aware of them. Accordingly Id have expected him to put them to the Court and the judge to 
decide on them. So I dont think I can give substantial weight to what Mr L says about the 
misrepresentations he says hes suffered as a result of. 
Furthermore Im not persuaded that Premium Credit have made a mistake in relation to 
considering whether Mr L has properly demonstrated causation here and that he lost out due 
directly to the misrepresentations he alleges that were made to him. I think it more likely the 
losses suffered by Mr L here are related to the arrival of the Pandemic, and because of the 
impact of the subsequent Government Regulations, and the decisions of the Pitch Provider 
that followed as a result of those Regulations that didnt breach the contract. As the Judge 
says: 
the actions of the Defendant were lawful and cannot give rise to a cause of action because 
for the Defendant to have allowed the Claimant access, such actions would have been 
unlawful, contrary to public policy and in the case of a corporation, ultra vires, the contracting 
party, as explained by the Court of Appeal in William Cory v London Corporation 
[1951]2K8476.
I think it likely that Mr Ls losses stem from not having access to his pitch for lawful reasons 
and thus not having the opportunity to have enjoyment from through staying there himself or 
deriving income from it. So considering the matter in the round Im not persuaded that Premium Credit has erred in its conclusion that there were no material misrepresentations 
which Mr L relied upon to his detriment in what happened here.
I also note that Mr L decided to remove his holiday home from the Pitch Providers site and 
exit the contract. Having considered this I can see this happened and that it happened 
without any further protracted legal dispute or indeed any significant added unfair losses to 
Mr L. and clearly it was Mr Ls decision to exit due to the circumstances he found himself in. 
Im not persuaded that Premium Credit has to remedy anything in relation to how the Pitch 
Provider liaised with Mr L during those times.
I have seen that Mr Ls representative has noted that Mr L has been wiped out financially. 
And Im terribly sorry to hear this. But just because this has happened it doesnt necessarily 
follow that Premium Credit has treated Mr L unfairly in its consideration of his claim to it.
Mr L has made many comments about feeling pressured into actions. These appear to relate 
to matters once the pandemic and site closures were well underway. Firstly I should add that 
this complaint is about Premium Credit and it in terms of what the Pitch Provider did or didnt 
do Premium Credit is only responsible for any breaches of contract or misrepresentations by 
the Pitch Provider. It isnt responsible for customer service provided by the Pitch Provider. 
Premium Credit is responsible for how it treated Mr L in its dealings with him and Im not 
persuaded considering all of what happened it treated Mr L unfairly. Notwithstanding all of 
that I am well aware that the period of time Mr L points to would have likely been traumatic 
for him considering the circumstances. 
Mr L has said the Pitch Provider has committed offences in the sales process. If this was 
the case then the Police are the proper authority to consider those. And I can only repeat my 
earlier point that the Judge would have considered what the contract was in their 
consideration of whether it was breached or not.
Mr L has said he considers the Investigators approach and subsequent assessment 
confuses the matter and that the Investigator hasnt understood the heart of the matter. Im 
not persuaded by this. Ive considered all the evidence here and I think the assessment 
issued is in line with my thoughts on this matter after having considered the whole matter 
afresh. Im not persuaded that Premium Credit has treated Mr L unfairly by concluding that 
there has not been a breach of contract here or that there was a material misrepresentation 
which Mr L relied upon to his detriment. 
I can well understand that Mr L has suffered terribly about how events have unfolded and I 
appreciate his desperation in finding some way of recovering the losses hes suffered. But 
neither his arguments or the evidence Ive considered persuade me on balance that 
Premium Credit has treated him unfairly. And accordingly Mr Ls complaint does not 
succeed. I can appreciate this isnt the decision Mr L wishes to read. 
I am also aware that Mr L will be likely to not want to be bound by this decision by accepting 
it. And if he doesnt accept it then he is free to continue his dispute with the Premium Credit 
in any manner he sees fit. However this final decision brings to an end this Services 
consideration of the merits of Mr Ls complaint about Premium Credit Limited. And this 
services involvement in the matter.My final decision
For the above reasons I do not uphold this complaint about Premium Credit Limited. It has 
nothing further to do in relation to Mr Ls complaint about it.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr L to accept or 
reject my decision before 11 April 2022.
 
Rod Glyn-Thomas
Ombudsman