DRN-2978569
The complaint
Ms G complains that Freemans Plc lent to her in an irresponsible manner.  
What happened
I issued a provisional decision on this complaint last month. In that decision I explained why 
I thought the complaint should be upheld. Both parties have received a copy of that 
provisional decision but for completeness I include an extract from the decision below. In my 
decision I said;
Ms G held two catalogue shopping accounts with Freemans. She opened a 
Lookagain account in December 2013. An initial credit limit of £100 was approved, 
which was then increased by £100 in each of March, April, and May 2014, reaching a 
total of £400. And Ms G also opened a Swimwear365 account in February 2014 with 
an initial credit limit of £200. No credit limit increases were applied to that account. It 
appears that Ms G failed to keep up with her repayments on both accounts, and 
balances remain unpaid.
When Ms G first complained to Freemans it didnt think it had been wrong to open 
the Swimwear365 account. But it thought that the adverse information showing on 
Ms Gs credit file should have meant that it declined her application for the Lookagain 
account, and that it shouldnt have increased her credit limit on the account. So it 
offered Ms G some compensation that it would use to reduce her outstanding 
balance on the account. 
Freemans has told us that, on reflection, it shouldnt have agreed to give Ms G the 
Lookagain account in December 2013, or to increase its credit limit three times at the 
start of 2014. It says that it can now see adverse information on Ms Gs credit file that 
should have led it to decline her application. So, apart from considering how 
Freemans needs to put things right, I dont need to comment further on the 
Lookagain account. 
But Freemans has said that it doesnt think it was wrong to provide the Swimwear365 
account  it says that its checks didnt identify any adverse information at that time. 
On the face of it that statement is somewhat confusing. The Lookagain account 
opening, and the credit limit increases, took place between December 2013 and May 
2014. The Swimwear365 account was opened in February 2014. So that account 
was opened right in the middle of the period that Freemans says adverse information 
was present on Ms Gs credit file.
I dont however think it would be right to uphold Ms Gs complaint purely on that 
basis. It seems reasonable to me that I should conduct my own assessment of 
whether the checks Freemans did were proportionate, and whether the results 
suggested Ms G was facing any problems with her finances.
Freemans hasnt told us that it gathered any information from Ms G before it opened 
the Swimwear365 account. I accept that the initial credit limit was relatively low, but 
I think it might have been appropriate for Freemans to have some information about 
Ms Gs income, and perhaps her normal expenditure, before the account was 
provided. So I cannot conclude that the checks Freemans did were proportionate.
But Freemans did check Ms Gs credit file before it agreed to provide the 
Swimwear365 account. And as I mentioned earlier it is the results of the credit 
checks that lead to it upholding Ms Gs complaint about the Lookagain account. 
So Ive looked at the results of the credit check in February 2014 to see whether 
Freemans made a fair lending decision.
It is clear from the results of the credit check that Ms G had previously faced some 
significant problems managing her money. The credit check showed that she had 
seven accounts currently in default. And although it was now approaching two years 
since the last default had been recorded, Ms Gs credit file still showed that she had 
fallen behind with some repayments in the last six months. So I think that Freemans 
should have been concerned about Ms Gs ability to take on any new credit.
I accept that a comparison of the credit reports between December 2013 and 
February 2014 does show a significant reduction in Ms Gs outstanding credit. 
Although the information Freemans holds is limited it appears that one of the 
defaulted accounts has been removed from Ms Gs credit file. But I havent seen 
anything that I think should have given Freemans any confidence that reduction was 
as a result of Ms G starting to repay what she owed. I think it far more likely that the 
reduction was a result of the lender writing off the outstanding balance.
So I currently think the results of the credit check that Freemans received in 
February 2014 when looking at the Swimwear365 account showed a similar picture 
to those in December 2013. They showed that Ms G had faced serious problems in 
the past managing her money. And they gave no indication that Ms Gs finances had 
returned to a more stable footing. So I dont think it was reasonable for Freemans to 
offer the Swimwear365 account to Ms G either.
I invited both parties to provide me with any additional evidence or comments in response to 
my provisional findings. Ms G has said that she has nothing further to add. Freemans hasnt 
responded to my provisional decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Given that neither party has provided me with any new evidence or further comments I see 
no reason to alter the conclusions I reached in my provisional decision. It follows that I dont 
think it was reasonable for Freemans to offer either the Lookagain or the Swimwear365 
accounts to Ms G and needs to pay her some compensation.
Putting things right
I dont think Freemans should have agreed to provide either the Lookagain or Swimwear365 
accounts to Ms G. I think it right that Ms G should repay the capital value of the goods she 
has purchased using those accounts, but I dont think she should pay any interest or other 
charges on those goods. So to put things right Freemans should;
Reconstruct Ms Gs accounts removing any interest or charges (including any late or 
default fees) that have been added. Any repayments made by Ms G should be treated as repayments towards the value of the goods she has purchased. Freemans 
is entitled to take account of any interest or charges already refunded or written off at 
the point that happened.
If at any time Ms Gs accounts would have been in credit, Freemans should pay her 
simple interest on that credit balance at a rate of 8% per annum for the period the 
account remained in credit.
Should, at the end of the reconstruction, either of Ms Gs accounts show a credit 
balance, that amount should be refunded to her. Freemans should pay her simple 
interest on that credit balance at a rate of 8% per annum to the date of settlement.
If a capital balance remains on either account Freemans may use any refunds due to 
Ms G (after the deduction of tax) to offset that balance. And if an outstanding balance 
still remains then I would remind Freemans that it should take a sympathetic view 
when seeking to agree an affordable repayment arrangement with Ms G.
remove any adverse information recorded on Ms Gs credit file in relation to the 
accounts.
 HM Revenue & Customs requires Freemans to take off tax from this interest. Freemans 
must give Ms G a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if she asks for one.  
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold Ms Gs complaint and direct Freemans Plc to put things 
right as detailed above.   
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms G to accept or 
reject my decision before 14 September 2021.
 
Paul Reilly
Ombudsman