DRN-2372657
The complaint
Miss R complains she was mis-sold a payment protection insurance (PPI) policy.
Its been agreed in this case that AXA, as the insurer, should take responsibility for the 
complaint. To keep things simple, Ill refer to AXA as the seller in my decision.
What happened
This complaint is about a store card PPI policy Miss R took out in May 2001.
The adjudicator thought that Miss Rs complaint shouldnt be upheld. Miss R disagrees, so 
his complaint has been passed to me, an ombudsman, to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about PPI on our website and Ive 
taken this into account when deciding this case.
Ive decided not to uphold Miss Rs complaint. Ill explain why.
AXA have said the sale took place during a phone call but havent been able to provide a 
recording of the phone call or any notes taken at the time  this isnt surprising 
considering the sale took place many years ago. So, I dont know for sure how PPI was 
presented to Miss R or what was said.
Ive thought carefully about everything Miss R, through her representatives, has told us. But 
I also have to consider that because the sale took place so long ago, memories can fade 
over time. Ive also taken into account what we know about how AXA sold these policies 
around this time and everything weve seen in the past.
I think, on balance, its likely through its call script, AXA would have made it clear that the 
PPI was optional, and Miss R would have been asked for her consent to the cover during 
the call. Ive not seen enough to conclude otherwise.
AXA didnt recommend the PPI policy to Miss R. So, it didnt have to take steps to make 
sure the policy was suitable for her. But it had to give Miss R enough information about the 
policy to decide if she wanted it or not.
Its likely the information AXA gave Miss R about the PPI wasnt as clear as it shouldve 
been  including the costs and benefits of the policy. But based on what I have in front of 
me it looks like it could still have been of use to her, at least enough that better information 
wouldnt have stopped her buying it.
Miss R says she was working for 16 hours a week at the time. Ive looked at the policy 
and can see that in her circumstances she was eligible for it. She also says she would 
have had statutory sick pay. So, with this in mind, I think on balance Miss R wouldve 
found this policy useful should she have become unable to work or unemployed. The PPI 
policy would have paid 15% of the outstanding monthly balance for up to 12 months for 
unemployment, accident or sickness. Theres nothing to show me Miss R couldnt afford 
the policy. And if she no longer wanted it, she couldve cancelled it at any time.
I also dont think Miss R would have been affected by any of the main things that mightve 
made it more difficult for her to make a successful claim  such as any medical condition 
of which she was already aware.
So, I dont think better information wouldve stopped Miss R from buying the PPI. Ive taken 
into account all Miss Rs comments, but these points dont change my conclusion.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I dont uphold Miss Rs complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss R to accept 
or reject my decision before 19 March 2021.
 
Mark Richardson
Ombudsman