DRN-3200623
The complaint
Mrs M complains about the service she received from Atlanta Insurance Intermediaries
Limited trading as Swinton Group Limited (Swinton) in relation to her home insurance policy. 
What happened
Mrs M took out home insurance through Swinton who are a broker. In October 2019 she
contacted Swinton as she was considering making a claim for accidental damage to a
wardrobe. After discussing it with Swinton, she decided not to go ahead with the claim.
Mrs Ms policy then renewed, and she noticed that her premiums had increased. She
complained to Swinton. They said that there was an additional premium due because of Mrs
Ms potential claim. However, they accepted that their communication with Mrs M had been
poor and agreed to remove this additional premium as a gesture of goodwill.
In February 2020, Mrs M noticed that the additional premium was still being charged so she
complained to Swinton. Swinton apologised and agreed to refund the overpaid premiums
and pay her £50 compensation as they accepted that they had not handled things well.
Mrs M then received letters from Swinton telling her that as she had not paid her additional
premiums, her policy would be cancelled. However, Mrs M was still paying the additional
premiums. Mrs M complained twice more and Swinton apologised and agreed that the
premiums had not been properly cancelled. They paid a further £75 in compensation. They
reassured Mrs M that her policy would not be cancelled and that the additional premiums
would not be taken again.
However, this did not happen and Mrs M had cause to complain again in April 2020.
Swintons final response was in May 2020. They apologised and on 20 May 2020 the
additional premiums were finally cancelled and no more cancellation letters were sent to Mrs
M. Swinton did not offer any more compensation as Mrs M had said she did not want it at
that stage as she was going to refer the matter to this service.
Mrs M brought her complaint to us and said that the service she had received had been poor
and caused her considerable distress and inconvenience. She did not think that the
compensation she had received was adequate. She was also concerned that her insurance
would be affected in the future by Swinton recording that she had made a claim on her
policy.
Our investigator looked into the matter but did not uphold the complaint. He felt that Swinton
had done enough to rectify the problem by offering to refund the premiums and paying
compensation. He also said that the recording of Mrs Ms potential claim was a matter for the
insurer and not Swinton. Mrs M asked that the matter be referred to an ombudsman.  
My provisional decision
I issued a provisional decision on 18 November 2021. I said:
Mrs M has raised a number of complaints with Swinton. Our rules say that I can only look at
complaints that are brought to us with six months of the date of the final response letter so
Im only dealing with Mrs Ms latest complaint which was dealt with in Swintons final
response letter dated 6 May 2020.
Mrs M was paying her monthly premiums through a finance company, and I know that she
has made a separate complaint to them. I want to make it clear, however, that Im dealing
only with a complaint against Swinton.
I can see that Swinton accept that their service has been poor and have tried to resolve
matters with Mrs M. They have already paid her £125 in compensation for her earlier
complaints. However, since then their mistakes have continued. I can see from case notes
and correspondence that Mrs M notified Swinton on 20 April 2020 that payments were still
coming out of her account. Whilst I accept that the taking of the payments was the
responsibility of the finance company, Swinton offered to make sure that these were all in
order, and this did not happen.
Mrs M also received two letters from Swinton on 27 April 2020, and a further letter on 4 May
2020, about the cancellation of her policy for non-payment. Im satisfied that Swinton failed
to ensure the additional premiums were properly cancelled and that Mrs M did not receive
any more cancellation letters. I note that the additional premiums were finally cancelled on
20 May 2020 and since that date Mrs M has not received any further cancellation letters.
Mrs M was suffering from serious ill health and undergoing long-term treatment at the time of
these mistakes. Swinton were aware of this. Swintons poor service caused Mrs M additional
stress and worry at what must have been a very difficult time for her. She had to regularly
check her bank account to see whether the premiums were still being paid. She also
received letters wrongly telling her that her policy was being cancelled and to contact
Swinton immediately to prevent this. She called and emailed Swinton on a number of
occasions to resolve issues. Mrs M says this caused her considerable distress as she was
worried about being without insurance. She said she had never missed a payment and the
thought of her policy being cancelled made her anxious.
In all the circumstances, I think it would be fair for Swinton to pay Mrs M an additional £150
compensation for distress and inconvenience.
Mrs M is also worried that her potential claim has been recorded as an actual claim and will
affect her insurance in the future. She noticed that on her 2020 renewal documents it said
that she had a claim for accidental damage in October 2019, albeit with a value of just £1.
Insurers record claims on an external industry database. This helps them assess a
customers level of risk. The database includes notifications of possible claims even if they
are not proceeded with. Its the insurers responsibility to provide accurate information for the
database. Swinton, as a broker, is not responsible for what is recorded on the database, and
I cant require Swinton to do anything further in relation to this. If Mrs M believes that the
database record is inaccurate, may I suggest that she takes this up with her insurer directly.
Responses to my provisional decision
Mrs M accepted my decision. Swinton said they did not have anything further to add.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.As neither party has provided any new information, I see no reason to change my provisional 
decision. My final decision and reasoning are the same as in my provisional decision. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint and require Atlanta Insurance Intermediaries
Limited trading as Swinton Group Limited to pay Mrs M £150 compensation for distress and 
inconvenience. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs M to accept or 
reject my decision before 4 January 2022.
 
Elizabeth Middleton
Ombudsman