DRN-2501216
The complaint
Ms P complains that she held a personal pension plan with Standard Life Assurance Limited 
(Standard Life), and it contracted her back into the State Earnings Related Pension Scheme 
(SERPS) in 2009 without her knowledge or consent. 
Ms P complains she was contracted back in seven years before the deadline in 2016 and 
says she has been financially disadvantaged as a result. 
Ms P says Standard Life didnt take sufficient steps to contact her in 2009. She says 
Standard Life could have asked Her Majestys Revenue & Customs (HMRC) for her details 
when it informed HMRC that she had been contracted back in.  
Ms P also complains that when Standard Life contacted her in 2012, to ask for her 
permission to provide information to a third party, it didnt inform her she had been 
contracted back in.
What happened
Ms P held a personal pension plan with Standard Life which was set up when she contracted 
out of the second state pension commonly referred to as SERPS.
In 1999 Standard Life tried to contact Ms P but received information that she had gone 
away from her address. 
At around the same time, it contacted Ms Ps  financial adviser to try to find an up to date 
address, but her financial adviser was unable to provide one. 
In 2009 Standard Life wrote to plan holders who held contracted out pension plans and 
asked them to indicate whether they wished to be contracted back into SERPS. It informed 
customers that if they didnt respond with their preference, it would automatically contract 
them back into the second state pension.
Standard Life was unable to contact Ms P because it didnt have an up to date address. So, 
it automatically contracted her back into SERPS in 2009. 
Standard Life informed HMRC that Ms P had been contracted back into SERPS in February 
2010 and HMRC acknowledged receipt of that information.  
In 2012 a firm (W), acting on behalf of Ms P, contacted Standard Life and asked for 
information about her plan. That firm provided up to date address information for Ms P to 
Standard Life. 
Standard Life sent Ms P annual statements for her pension plan from 2014 to 2019. 
In 2019 Ms P contacted Standard Life to ask about taking a lump sum from the plan. It 
informed her that she had been contracted back into SERPS in 2009.
Ms P then complained to Standard Life that she hadnt been asked whether she wanted to 
be contracted back in and this had happened without her consent. 
Standard Life didnt uphold her complaint. It said it had been unable to contact Ms P at the 
relevant time because it didnt have an up to date address for her. It said the address used 
when the plan was set up was no longer up to date. 
Standard Life said it had completed searches in 1999 when it received information that Ms P 
was no longer at the address it held on file. It wrote to that address asking for an up to date 
address and received no response. It also wrote to Ms Ps financial advisers and they replied 
and said they didnt hold a current address for Ms P.
It also said HM Revenue & Customs (HMRC) had ruled that plan holders who were 
contracted out of the state earnings related pension scheme (SERPS) should be contracted 
back into it by 5 April 2016.
So, Standard Life began writing to all its plan holders who held contracted out pension plans.
But as it didn't hold an up to date address for Ms P in 2009, it was unable to write and ask 
her if she wished to be contracted back in to SERPS at that time or wait until 5 April 2016. It 
said as it couldnt contact Ms P she would be contracted back in automatically.
Standard Life said HMRC gave it authority, as the Scheme Provider, to contract its plan 
holders back into SERPS at any time prior to 5 April 2016. So, it did not require the 
individuals consent beforehand.
Standard Life said it informed HMRC that Ms P had been contracted back in in 2009.  It said 
HMRC would have then contacted Ms P to inform her. So, if that wasn't what Ms P wanted 
to happen, she couldve contacted Standard Life, who could reverse this and arranged for 
her to be contracted back out.
It said as Standard Life received nothing further from  Ms P, she remained contracted back 
in to SERPS.
Standard Life said a financial firm, W, had contacted Standard Life in 2012. It had provided 
Ms Ps up to date address and requested her full plan details. This was how Standard Life 
was then able to trace Ms P.
Ms P disagreed with Standard Lifes conclusions and said she had spoken to HMRC who 
had said Standard Life shouldnt have contracted Ms P back into SERPS without her 
permission. She said Standard Life should have waited until 2016 to contract her back in.  
Ms P referred her complaint to our service.
Our investigator considered Ms Ps complaint but didnt think it should be upheld. He 
explained that SERPS was a top-up to the basic state pension that was payable at a 
consumers state pension age. But in April 2016, the basic state and SERPS pensions were
replaced by a flat rate state pension. So, from this date it was no longer possible to
contract in or out of SERPS.
The investigator noted that Ms P was unhappy that she hadnt been informed about being 
contracted back in or been given the opportunity to choose whether she wanted to remain 
contracted out. However, he also noted the address originally provided when the plan was 
taken out and considered that Ms P had moved since - and Standard Life hadnt been 
updated with her new address. 
The investigator was satisfied that Standard Life had completed searches in 1999 when it 
received information that Ms P was no longer at the address it had on file. He said a request 
for an up to date address was made but no response was received. The investigator also 
noted that Standard Life contacted Ms Ps financial advisor at the time, but they replied 
saying they didnt hold a current address for Ms P.
The investigator said it was the policy holders responsibility to keep a business updated of
any address changes. He said that when Standard Life became aware it didnt have up to 
date information for Ms P, it had taken reasonable steps to try and locate her. The investigator concluded that, as Standard Life didnt have an up to date address and 
wasnt able to contact Ms P it was reasonable for it to contract Ms P back into SERPS and 
that it was permitted to do so.  
The investigator noted that Standard Life informed HMRC that Ms P had been contracted 
back in. He said HMRC then wrote to each customer in order to confirm that was what they 
wanted to happen. The investigator said if the customer didnt want this then they had the 
option to call their pension provider. It could then reverse the contract and arrange for Ms P 
to be contracted out. He said as no response was received, Ms P remained contracted back 
into SERPS.  
Overall, he didnt think Standard Life had acted unfairly or unreasonably in the 
circumstances.
The investigator also considered the point made by Ms P that Standard Life had managed to 
contact her in 2012 and that it therefore should have been able to do so in 2009. But he said 
that this was because a third party, firm (W), had contacted Standard Life in 2012 and 
provided up to date address details for Ms P. 
Ms P disagreed with the investigators conclusions. She reiterated that HMRC had told her 
that it didnt give Standard Life permission to remove her from contracting out without her 
consent. Ms P also questioned why Standard Life hadnt requested her address details from 
HMRC and then it could have contacted her directly to see if she wished to remain 
contracted out of SERPS. 
As no agreement could be reached the complaint was referred to me for review.  
We sought further information from Standard Life which was then provided to Ms P. Ms P 
responded and in summary made the following points: 
She wasnt aware of the Appropriate Pension Plan Scheme Manual. She questioned 
whether this was part of the original terms and conditions she would have received 
when she took out the plan. Ms P also pointed out she hadnt received any change in 
terms.
Ms P didnt accept the view, that as a result of her age, she would have been better 
off being contracted back in.
She reiterated that Standard Life should have contacted her to check whether she 
wanted to be contracted back in.
Ms P said if Standard Life had contacted her, she would have chosen to stay 
contracted out. 
She questioned why Standard Life hadnt carried out any forecasting to reflect her 
actual circumstances as she went on to earn a better income from 2009 onwards and 
she knew shed be returning to the workforce and earning a decent salary from 2009. 
Ms P didnt accept that Standard Life had been unable to trace her. 
She said she wasnt a pension expert and although she received the statements, she 
didnt check what was being paid into the plan. Ms P pointed out that Standard Life 
hadnt provided a covering letter explaining that no funds were being paid into her 
plan and she had been contracted back in.    
Ms P said she believes she is in a worse position as a result of Standard Lifes 
actions and wants a comparison to be carried out between what pension she would 
have had if she had remained contracted out, and how much she has now.   
What Ive decided  and whyIve considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ms P held a personal pension plan with Standard Life as a result of contracting out of the 
State Earnings Related Pension Scheme (SERPS). So, instead of paying into the second 
state pension her contributions would be paid into the personal pension plan and invested. 
Ms P is unhappy that Standard Life contracted her back into SERPS in 2009 without 
informing her or asking for her consent as she says it didnt have permission to do so.  
Attempts to contact Ms P
I am satisfied, on balance, from the information provided by Standard Life that it tried to 
contact Ms P in 1999 and received information that she had gone away. In 1999 it wrote to 
her at the original address to ask for an updated address. I can see it also contacted her 
financial adviser at around that time who then wrote to Standard Life and said it didnt have 
an up to date address for Ms P. 
In addition, I am satisfied that the address originally held for Ms P on its records was 
different to the address which has been provided for the purposes of the complaint. So, I am 
also satisfied that Ms Ps address changed during the time she held her plan.  
I consider Standard Life did try to find up to date address details but was unsuccessful. So, I 
think that it made reasonable endeavours to ascertain Ms Ps new address. I also consider 
that it is the plan holders responsibility to inform the pension provider, in this case Standard 
Life,  of any change in address - and I havent seen any evidence from Ms P that she did so. 
As Standard Life didnt have up to date address information for Ms P it stopped sending her 
information. I think this was reasonable in the circumstances. 
Whether sufficient attempts were made to contact Ms P in 2009, or after that time   
I am satisfied that Standard Life had lost contact with Ms P a number of years prior, so I 
dont think it could reasonably contact Ms P in 2009.
Ms P has pointed out Standard Life could have asked HMRC for her details at that time. I 
can see the contact between Standard Life and HMRC was electronic, which is not 
unsurprising given it would have been dealing with a large number of plan holders. So, I 
dont think it would have been simple to use that form of communication to ask for personal 
details, such as Ms Ps address. But in any event, I consider Standard Life reasonably 
believed that HMRC would contact Ms P, so I am not persuaded on balance it had a duty to 
ask HMRC for those details. 
Ms P has also said that Standard Life was able to contact her in 2012, and so it should have 
been able to do so in 2009. But, as has been set out by the investigator, that was because 
the firm who contacted Standard Life to request information about Ms Ps plan gave 
Standard Life her updated address details. 
In addition, Ms P has said that Standard Life could have told her, at that point, that she had 
been contracted back in. However, I think Standard Life did provide the firm, who was 
authorised to receive information on behalf of Ms P, with information about her plan including 
under plan status that it was not premium paying and the amount that had been paid in 
up to that date. I consider that information would have been sufficient to make it clear that 
contracted out contributions were no longer being received.I also note that Standard Life did provide Ms P with information as it sent annual statements 
from 2012 when it received updated address details. Ms P accepts she received those 
statements but points out that she isnt a pension expert and there was no covering letter 
specifically drawing her attention to the fact no payments were being made into the plan and 
she had been contracted back in. However Standard Life has provided copies of the 
statements sent to Ms P in 2014 and 2015 before the 2016 deadline. I think it was clear from 
those statements that nothing had been paid into her plan in each previous year. I think that 
would also have reasonably indicated that Ms P was no longer contracted out of SERPS. 
And I think if  Ms P had then contacted Standard Life in 2014 to ask about this, it would have 
confirmed the position.       
So, while I take on board Ms Ps points about further action that could have been taken, I 
dont consider Standard Life acted unreasonably in the circumstances.
Standard Lifes decision to automatically contract Ms P back into SERPS in 2009
After Standard Life lost contact with Ms P, the rules around contracting out of SERPS 
changed, as the basic state pension and top- up SERPS pension were to be replaced by a 
single state pension. This meant that, after 2016, an individual could no longer contract out 
of SERPS. 
Ms P is unhappy that Standard Life contracted her back in before that deadline of 2016. She 
was working at the relevant time and feels she is financially worse off as a result. 
At around the time that Ms P was contracted back into SERPS, in 2009,  there was some 
awareness among financial institutions that some people contracted out of SERPS were at 
risk of receiving less at retirement age than those who had remained within the second state 
pension. In fact, whilst we look at the circumstances of individual cases, I think its worth 
noting that the majority of the complaints we receive on this particular subject are from 
people who were contracted out of SERPS, saying they wouldve been better off being 
contracted in.
So, a number of providers, including Standard Life, wrote to plan holders and asked them 
whether they wished to remain contracted out. Standard Life has explained that it took the 
view, at that time, that plan holders who were above a certain age were at risk of being 
financially worse off if they remained contracted out. And I note Ms P fell within that age 
category. So, it wrote to those plan holders and said they would automatically be contracted 
back into SERPS unless they indicated to Standard Life that they wished to remain 
contracted out.   
It was more difficult however where Standard Life didnt have up to date address details for a 
plan holder. So, it couldnt contact such plan holders to let them know its intended course of 
action and give them an opportunity to indicate they still wanted to remain contracted out.  
In those circumstances Standard Life took the view that, in effect, the safest course of action 
was to automatically contract them back in and inform HMRC. 
HMRC would then contact that plan holder to inform them they had been contracted back in. 
That gave the plan holder the opportunity to contact Standard Life and indicate they didnt 
want to be contracted back in, at which point Standard Life wouldve then reversed the 
process. Standard Life has provided a screen shot of electronic contact with HMRC and I am satisfied 
that it informed HMRC that Ms P had been contracted back in February 2010, as HMRC 
acknowledged receipt of that information. I am satisfied on balance that the next step 
wouldve been for HMRC to write to Ms P and inform her of that change and I think it likely 
on balance that it would have done so. Although I appreciate that Ms P doesnt believe she 
was given that information by HMRC, I have to consider whether Standard Life acted fairly in 
the circumstances. I take into account that it reasonably believed that Ms P would be 
contacted by HMRC, which would then have given her an opportunity to reverse its action if 
she was unhappy with being contracted back in.
I note the points made by Ms P that from around 2009 she was working full-time and so in a 
position to made increased contributions. So, she feels that Standard Life should have 
carried out some forecasting that reflected her actual circumstances and her increased 
earnings. But I think this type of forecasting required Standard Life to have updated 
information which would have come, in all likelihood, from contact with Ms P and 
unfortunately, it was unable to contact her. 
I also have to take into account that Standard Life wouldve had a large number of plan 
holders. So, I dont think it was unfair in those circumstances for it to take an approach 
based on general principles and in the belief that Ms P would then be informed by HMRC 
and able to reverse this process.      
Authority to contract Ms P back into SERPS
Ms P has said that Standard Life had no authority to contract her back into SERPS. 
Standard Life has provided a copy of the Appropriate Personal Pension Scheme Manual for 
that time. This was procedural guidance issued by the National Insurance Contributions 
Office, so I consider it is relevant to this complaint. I am satisfied it states in section 3 that 
the provider (in this case Standard Life) could cancel the contract, which would have the 
effect of contracting Ms P back in, because it was a contracting out plan. So, I consider the 
guidance indicated that Standard Life could cancel the contract.
Ms P has questioned whether the terms and conditions of the plan allowed Standard Life to 
contract her back in without her consent or knowledge. She has said there is no provision in 
the terms to allow this. Standard Life has provided the terms in force at the time Ms P took 
out the plan, and at the time she was contracted back in, and I have carefully considered 
those documents. Both those documents contain general provisions which allowed Standard 
Life to alter the plan where it was impossible or impracticable to carry out policy provisions 
because of a change in the law, or otherwise, or because of other circumstances beyond its 
control. 
As I had said, after this plan was taken out, there was a change in the rules around 
contracting out and an increasing awareness of the potential risk for a consumer in 
remaining contracted out, whereby it may not be in their best interests. So, I think these 
general provisions gave Standard Life a degree of flexibility to alter the plan in those 
circumstances. 
I also note the terms stated that Standard Life would write to consumers explaining the 
change but that would have been impracticable in Ms Ps case as there was no up to date 
address. In addition, Standard Life did give Ms P information about her plan once it had an 
updated address.    
But in any event, even if the guidance and terms didnt give Standard Life authority to take 
the action it did, I have to consider whether it was fair in the circumstances to contract Ms P 
back in.  I am satisfied that it was, because I consider that decision was taken by Standard 
Life in the belief that Ms P was at risk of being worse off financially if she remained 
contracted out and without having the option to ask Ms P for her view as it didnt have an up 
to date address.I also think that, in the expectation that HMRC would in any case contact Ms P to inform her 
that shed been contracted back in, Standard Life didnt act, at least in any irreversible 
sense, unilaterally.
I do sympathise with Ms Ps position, as she considers she was denied an opportunity to 
choose what she wanted to happen with her plan. I also appreciate that finding out she had 
been contracted back into SERPS a number of years before would have been frustrating for 
Ms P. But I have to consider whether Standard Life has acted unfairly in the circumstances 
and, overall, I dont consider it has.  
I also note that Ms P considers she is worse off as a result, particularly as she was earning 
more in the relevant time period. She would like a comparison to be carried out between the 
two scenarios. I should just outline here that being contracted back in didnt mean her 
contributions at that time were lost, as the relevant amounts would have contributed to her 
state pension. But I would in any case only ask Standard Life to carry out these calculations           
if I considered it had acted unfairly, and as I have set out in this decision, I am not persuaded 
on balance that it did.   
My final decision
My final decision is that Ms Ps complaint against Standard Life Assurance Limited is not 
upheld for the reasons outlined.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms P to accept or 
reject my decision before 25 November 2021.
 
Julia Chittenden
Ombudsman