DRN-3704153
The complaint
Mr A complains about the service he received from Bank of Scotland plc (trading as Halifax). 
He believes a member of staff discriminated against him due to his race.
What happened
In late 2021, Mr A was waiting in a queue at a Halifax branch when he heard a loud voice 
behind him. He says he turned back and was surprised to find a Halifax member of staff (T) 
using hand gestures and shouting at him to come back to the queue and wear a face mask. 
Mr A says he calmly told T you dont have to shout but T got worse and told him that if he 
said anything further, he would ask Mr A to leave the branch and consider banning him. Mr A 
says all the other customers and staff were looking at the two of them as Ts behaviour was 
very rude and unacceptable.
 
Mr A says that T had previously acted unprofessionally when hed visited the branch around 
two months before. He says T was disrespectful and kept stopping him from talking and 
explaining what he wanted. Hes told us that because there has been more than one incident 
involving T, he feels targeted.
Mr A says he has health problems and his experience with Halifax caused him huge distress 
and discomfort. He says it took him a good few days to recover.
Mr A complained to Halifax and raised concerns that he had been discriminated against due 
to his race. He wanted Halifax to consider video evidence (CCTV footage). Halifax didnt 
agree that it had provided a poor service and said there was no intention to discriminate 
against Mr A. It also said it had been unable to review the CCTV.
Mr A remained unhappy, so he asked our service to consider his complaint. Hes told us that 
the branch where T works is the only one he can visit, and he often waits outside to make 
sure the member of staff isnt around before going in as he isnt comfortable.
Our investigator looked into Mr As concerns but didnt think his complaint should be upheld. 
She thought the situation was likely to have arisen due to a misunderstanding and 
miscommunication on both sides.
Mr A disagreed with our investigators view and asked for the matter to be considered by an 
ombudsman. So, the complaint has been passed to me to decide.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided not to uphold Mr As complaint. Ill explain why.
The Equality Act 2010 says a person must not be treated less favourably because of their 
race. Our service doesnt have the power to decide if the Equality Act 2010 has been 
breached. That is a matter for the courts. However, Ive taken this act into account when 
deciding whether Halifax has acted fairly and reasonably  given that its relevant law.
Ive needed to consider the available evidence and what this shows on balance, to 
determine whether or not Halifax treated Mr A unfairly. Although Halifax hasnt provided any 
CCTV footage, it has sent us a detailed account of Ts recollection of what happened. So, 
Ive considered this along with the testimony from Mr A.
While there is some variation as to precisely what was said and how it was said, both 
parties versions of events are fairly similar.
Halifax says T was speaking to a customer in a pod and was concerned that Mr A and a 
couple of other customers might be able to overhear personal information. It says T asked 
the customers if they could queue a bit further back due to privacy and data protection. He 
moved his hands to the queue in the motion to move back. However, Mr A didnt respond as 
he was focusing on his phone, so T repeated what hed said. Halifax says Mr A questioned 
why he should move and walked up to T with his mask around his chin. T asked Mr A to step 
back again and place his mask over his mouth. Halifax says Mr A then threatened to record 
T on his phone and T said that if he did, he would call security and ask them to remove Mr A 
from the branch.
Halifax says that Mr A was asked to move back for data protection reasons, and I think this 
was reasonable. I appreciate Mr A feels that T was rude to him. But Mr A has acknowledged 
that he was viewing his mobile phone at the time. So, I think its likely that Mr A wasnt aware 
of Ts initial request for him to step back. I think its understandable that T might have 
repeated his request more loudly, so as to be heard.
I understand why Mr A might have thought he was being singled out. But Halifax says there 
were other customers in the queue who were also asked to move back. It seems that the 
other customers had already moved back when Mr A became aware that he was being 
asked to do so. 
Mr A has told us he believes T made an allegation he was recording on his phone in order to 
justify how he was treating him. He strongly denies doing so. He says hed put his phone in 
his pocket and CCTV footage would show that it wasnt in his hand. 
In its submissions to us, Halifax didnt say that Mr A was recording on his phone. It said he 
was threatening to do so. I dont think evidence that the phone was no longer in Mr As hand 
would prove that he didnt tell T he intended to record their conversation. I dont doubt Mr A 
has given his honest recollection of what happened. But Ive no way of knowing exactly what 
was or wasnt said. So, this isnt enough to persuade me that T made a false allegation in 
order to justify his actions.
Mr A has acknowledged that his face mask was around his chin. But he says it wasnt 
compulsory to wear a mask in branch at the time. The incident happened in December 2021, 
a few days before the UK government made face masks compulsory in most public indoor 
venues. However, businesses were able to make their own decisions about measures to try 
to reduce the spread of Covid-19 at that time. 
Ive checked the information that appeared on Halifaxs website at the time of the incident. It 
says: To protect you and our staff, weve put social distancing measures in place in our 
branches so you can bank with us safely. Youll also be asked to wear a face covering.
So, I think it was reasonable for Halifax to have required Mr A to put his face mask over his 
mouth at a time when other customers would also have been required to do so. Mr A says he feels hes been targeted because T acted unprofessionally towards him around 
two months prior to the above incident. He says T kept stopping him from talking and said 
Halifax couldnt help before Mr A could explain what he wanted. 
Halifax says T spent about 25 minutes explaining what a recurring transaction was to Mr A. It 
says Mr A kept asking if he could claim the money back if it was taken. T said yes but he 
had cancelled it so they wouldnt take it. T remembered having to repeat himself because  
Mr A didnt seem to believe him.
Im aware that Mr As first language isnt English, and hes made use of our translation and 
interpreter services. So, I think its likely that there were some communication difficulties 
during that particular discussion. Its possible that Halifax could have done more to help Mr A 
understand what was being said. However, there isnt enough evidence for me to conclude 
that Halifax treated him unfairly.
Having carefully considered the available evidence from both parties, I havent found 
anything to show that Halifax has discriminated against Mr A.
I know my answer will be disappointing to Mr A, who strongly believes he was treated less 
favourably because of his race. I can understand why Mr A feels this way, but having looked 
at all the evidence, I dont think Halifax has done so. Nor do I think Halifax has acted unfairly 
or unreasonably. I hope that it helps Mr A to know that someone impartial and independent 
has looked into his concerns.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, I dont uphold Mr As complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision before 24 November 2022.
 
Anne Muscroft
Ombudsman