DRN-3821461
The complaint
Mr C is unhappy that Revolut Ltd has refused to refund the money he lost after falling victim 
to a scam.
What happened
The circumstances that led to this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat 
them in detail here. But, in summary:
In March 2022, Mr C received a call from someone who said they worked for his bank 
but who, ultimately, turned out to be a scammer. The scammer persuaded Mr C that his 
account was under attack and he needed to move his money to a safe place. They 
coached Mr C through the process to open a new account with Revolut, pay money into 
this account and then move it out to another account. Mr C lost £815 through his Revolut 
account to this scam, but his total losses exceeded £3,000.
Revolut had concerns about the initial transfer out that Mr C attempted so blocked the 
payment an contacted him via its chat facility. But, after he assured it that he wanted to 
make the payment, Revolut permitted him to do so. Revolut said it had given Mr C 
sufficient warnings that he might be falling victim to a scam and so refused to refund any 
of the money hed lost. It also tried, but was unsuccessful, in recovering any more from 
the bank and account to which his money was transferred.
Our investigator thought Revolut ought to have done more to protect Mr C and prevent 
his losses. But she also thought Mr C was partly to blame. So she recommended that 
Revolut refund 50% of his losses along with interest. Revolut disagreed, so the case has 
come to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so Ive reached the same outcome as the investigators for much the same 
reasons. I think Revolut should refund 50% of the money Mr C lost to the scam (along with 
interest) and Ive reached this conclusion having taken the following into account:
Theres no dispute that Mr C authorised all three of the disputed payments, which 
totalled £815. I appreciate he didnt intend the money to go to the scammers. But, under 
the Payment Services Regulations 2017, and the terms and conditions of his account, 
Mr C is presumed liable for the loss in the first instance. But the matter doesn't end there.
Revolut should be on the lookout for, and help to prevent, payments that could involve 
fraud or be the result of a scam. But I accept a balance must be struck between 
identifying payments that may indicate a customer is potentially at risk of financial harm  
and then responding appropriately to any concerns  and ensuring minimal disruption to 
legitimate payments.
Its not in dispute that Revoluts fraud detection systems were triggered when Mr C tried 
to make his first payment of £810 out of the newly opened account. Revolut hasnt 
explained why exactly this payment triggered its fraud detection systems, but its records 
show it messaged Mr C to say it had blocked the payment because we think it may be 
part of a scam or fraud. Mr C assured Revolut that he wanted to make the payment and 
that he agreed, in response to Revoluts question, that hed checked some reviews about 
the seller. Revolut said it asked this question because Mr C had indicated that the 
payment was for goods and services. But it seems likely Mr C was being coached by 
the scammer and the warnings Revolut gave didnt alert him to the scam he was falling 
victim to. The online chat was very brief and, given it had concerns about the payment, I 
think Revolut could have done more during that conversation  including asking a more 
open-ended question about the payment. Had it done so I think it could have broken the 
spell and prevented Mr Cs subsequent losses. I say this also having taken into account 
the other warnings that Revolut says were provided both when he created the payee and 
through the payment journey. 
Mr C says he was called by a spoofed phone number and the scammer knew enough of 
his details to convince him the call was coming from a genuine bank employee. So I can 
understand why he believed his account was at risk and why he followed the scammers 
instructions initially. But, like the investigator, I think he ought to have had some 
concerns along the way about what he was being asked to do. So I think he should bear 
some responsibility for his losses.
I think Revolut made reasonable attempts to recover the money Mr C lost but it was, 
ultimately, unsuccessful..
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint in part. I instruct Revolut Ltd to pay £407.50 
to Mr C along with interest calculated at 8% pa simple, from the date the payments were 
made to the date of settlement.
If Revolut considers that its required by HM Revenue & Customs to deduct income tax from 
the interest award, it should tell Mr C how much its taken off. It should also give him a tax 
deduction certificate if he asks for one, so he can reclaim the tax from HM Revenue & 
Customs if appropriate.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 25 April 2023.
 
Ruth Hersey
Ombudsman