DRN-2889254
The complaint
Mr S complains about his insurer, National Farmers Union Mutual Insurance Society Limited 
(NFU) under his property insurance policy. His complaint that he is unsure whether the 
whole of his property is insured. Also, that the cost of his policy increased unfairly over time 
and he is contractually obliged to renew his policy.
This decision covers only those aspects of complaint set out above, included within Mr Ss 
complaint to this service in November 2020. It does not consider any other issues unrelated 
to those aspects of complaint that arose after Mr Ss complaint to this service.
What happened
Mr S took out his policy in 2016 and renewed it thereafter to 2020. Mr S and his family 
occupied the upper floors of the property, with the ground floor being a tenanted flat. Mr S 
maintains that it was agreed at the time that the whole property would be covered under the 
same policy. But it was agreed that while there was one policy, there were two risks  
reflecting the different occupancy.
At the inception of the policy the total premium was £1,107 with some elements applying to 
the main part of the property and others to the flat. Other elements were added over time. At 
renewal in 2020 the premium was £1,638. Mr S contacted NFU, unhappy at what he saw as 
arbitrary premium increases and being unable to understand the reasons for the increases 
given to him. He was also concerned that NFU were treating his property as two risks.
NFU responded to say they were justified in treating the property as two risks as they had 
different occupancies. On the premium increases, NFU cited general factors affecting the 
premiums over time, including a discount at the start of the policy being removed gradually 
and changes to their risk and pricing models. NFU also provided a detailed analysis of the 
premiums for individual elements and between the two parts of the property. Mr S was still 
unhappy and wrote again to NFU, who treated his concerns as a complaint. The NFU wrote 
to Mr S, reiterating their earlier view.
Mr S was unhappy at NFUs response and complained to this service. The main elements of 
his complaint were that he was unsure that his property was insured on the basis that he 
maintains was agreed with NFU. Also, that he was obliged to pay excessive increases in 
premiums over the years since the policy was taken out. He asked for a clear statement from 
NFU that his property was insured as a building as agreed at the start of the policy. He also 
asked for reimbursement of what he saw as excess premiums, as well as an apology from 
NFU for their refusal to engage with him in a reasonable manner.
Our investigator didnt uphold the complaint. He concluded that NFU were justified in 
covering both parts of the property under one policy, but with separate risks. NFU had 
acted fairly in the way they had assessed risks and set premiums. The investigator 
also concluded that Mr S was able to cancel his policy at any time and so wasnt 
obliged to renew his policy.
Mr S disagreed with the investigators conclusions and requested an ombudsman review the 
complaint. He was unhappy at the way that NFU treated his property as two elements for 
risk purposes. He also remained unhappy with the explanations provided for the increase in 
premiums.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
My role here is to decide whether NFU have acted fairly towards Mr S.
 
The main elements of Mr Ss complaint are, firstly, how his property is insured under 
the policy and the way that NFU assess risk differently between the two parts. 
Secondly, that NFU havent properly explained the reasons for increases in the policy 
premiums since its inception, which Mr S consider to be excessive. And thirdly, that 
Mr S is obliged to renew with NFU.
On the first element, Ive looked at the evidence, including the terms and conditions of 
Mr Ss policy together with what Mr S and NFU have said about the circumstances 
when the policy was taken out. The Statement of Insurance refers separately to the 
two parts of the property and separate premiums are listed. However, the details of 
each are common and its clear that both parts are covered for buildings insurance. 
Ive therefore concluded that the whole of Mr Ss property is insured as a building. 
Mr S is also concerned that while he has one policy, it has separate risks for the two 
parts. Mr S has said that when the policy was taken out it was agreed that the 
property would be insured as one risk and that the two parts would be treated a 
fungible (that is, as interchangeable parts of one whole). But the recordings of the 
discussions at the time indicate that the risk would be split and that the two amounts 
were fungible. I can also see Mr S agreed that the split would be in the ratio 67:33. In 
the most recent policy documents (the 2020 renewal) the same split was applied to 
the rebuilding cost figures for the two parts, in the buildings insurance element. 
Given Mr Ss concern, Ive clarified with NFU what this means. In practice, if a claim is 
made under the buildings section it would be treated as one claim rather than two. 
So, for example, in the event of the total loss of the property, NFU would treat that as 
one claim and settle it based on the overall rebuild cost (or cash settlement) for the 
whole property. Which is the same as if the property was one single part. So Ive 
concluded that the fact there are two separate parts wont affect the assessment of a 
claim and Mr S wouldnt be disadvantaged. I think thats fair and reasonable.
While Mr Ss principal concern is buildings insurance, Ive noted there are separate 
premiums for contents insurance, home emergency and accidental damage for the 
main part of the property (but not the flat). There is a separate premium for personal 
belongings. So, while the whole of the property is covered under buildings insurance, 
other elements of cover have been separately chosen [to apply to that part of the 
property occupied by Mr S]. I think thats reasonable and reflects the differing 
occupancy of the two parts. So, Mr S isnt paying for elements of cover (other than for 
buildings) that would be for the benefit of (and the responsibility of) his tenant.
On the second element, premium increases from the inception of the policy, Ive noted that 
NFU provided information to Mr S on the reasons for movements as part of their response to 
his complaint to them. Ive looked at this alongside Mr Ss own analysis and representations on the movement in premiums, together with additional information NFU have provided, 
including in response to specific concerns he has raised. 
I want to reassure Mr S that Ive carefully considered all this information. Having done so, I 
dont think this element of the complaint should be upheld. I understand that Mr S will be 
disappointed with this, but I will explain how I reached this conclusion.
With complaints about insurance pricing, its important that I explain our services role isnt to 
regulate the insurance industry  but to consider individual complaints. We cant tell a 
business what it should charge for insurance but can, when assessing individual complaints, 
make sure customers have been treated fairly.
 
Insurance pricing practices have moved on over the years and so the price in 2020 isn't 
necessarily reflective of that in earlier years. Insurance risk assessments have also changed 
on numerous occasions over the years.  And new policies are often offered at a discounted 
price to the true cost of providing the insurance, and sometimes the premium will increase 
over time to recoup that discount. Ultimately, just because the price of an insurance policy 
has gone up, it doesnt necessarily mean something has gone wrong. But NFU needed to 
follow the principle of treating its customers fairly  which in this case meant treating Mr S 
fairly when deciding what premium to charge at renewal.
Coming back to the circumstances of Mr Ss policy and the premiums charged, wed 
expect NFU to be able to demonstrate the premium increases reflect their changing 
view of the risks and other factors. From the information provided by NFU, including 
the explanations that they have previously provided to Mr S, I can see that the 
increases reflect several factors, including increases in the sum insured for buildings 
insurance and rate changes arising from adjustments to pricing models used to 
determine prices and premiums.
Based on this consideration, I dont think NFU have acted unreasonably in the way that they 
have assessed risk and used this when pricing the policy and setting premiums.
 
On the third element, Mr S raised concerns about part of the policy that refers to 
Long Term Undertaking  3 years. The wording under this heading states:
Your premium will be reduced by 10 per cent before any no claims discount is 
deducted because you have agreed to offer to renew your policy annually for 
3 years until renewal of your policy in 2022, on the terms and conditions in 
force at the expiry of each period of cover and to pay the premium in advance.
It being understood that:
a) We are not obliged to accept your offer
This undertaking applies to any policy which may be issued by us in 
substitution for this policy.
This indicates Mr S has offered (agreed) to renew for 3 years in return for a discount 
on the premium. It doesnt indicate NFU have required Mr S to renew for three years. 
Ive also noted a right to cancel the policy in the General conditions  Cancelling your 
policy section of the policy. This is also stated clearly in the renewal notice:
Your right to cancelWe do not charge administration fees for cancellation. You can cancel your 
insurance at any time by writing to us or calling usIf you have not made a 
claim we will refund any amount you have paid for the cancelled period.
There is also a Cancellation rights section in the policy document that provides the 
option to cancel the [new] policy within 14 days of the renewal notice. NFU have 
confirmed that the above cancellation rights apply to the policy. 
Ive concluded that Mr S is not obliged to renew his policy and is able to cancel the 
policy if he is unhappy with it (or the premiums charged). Were he to cancel then 
there would be an impact on the premium discount that the agreement entails, but it 
doesnt mean he cant cancel the policy. I dont think thats unfair or unreasonable.
Overall, my conclusion is that NFU have not acted unfairly or unreasonably towards 
Mr S in the way that they have operated his policy, including the way that risk is 
assessed. They have used that risk assessment to inform their decisions on the level 
of premiums, which is a reasonable approach to take. Mr S can continue with the 
policy or cancel it should he wish to do so if he feels that the terms and the premiums 
are unfair or unreasonable.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, my final decision is not to uphold Mr Ss complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 26 August 2021.
 
Paul King
Ombudsman