DRN-3235681
The complaint
Mrs T complains that Hargreaves Lansdown Asset Management Limited (HLAM) caused 
an unreasonable delay when she was trying to transfer her stocks and shares ISA to a new 
provider.
What happened
Mrs Ts ISA held units in a few different investments. When she came to transfer her ISA, 
some of these could simply be passed over to her new ISA provider  in whats called an 
in specie transfer. But seven of the investments couldnt be transferred this way.
On 3 February 2020, the new ISA provider sent an encrypted email to HLAN, asking them to 
sell the units held in the seven non-transferable investments. HLAN have told us they 
couldnt open this email. But HLAN did nothing at the time to tell the new ISA provider there 
was a problem with the email.
On 11 February, the new ISA provider sent an unencrypted email to HLAN. This confirmed 
the instruction to transfer most of the investments in specie. The email also listed the seven 
non-transferrable investments, but didnt give any instructions about what to do with these. 
HLAN did nothing in response to this email either.
The new ISA provider sent further emails to HLAN on 3 March, 24 March, 2 April and 
15 April to chase up the transfer. But it wasnt until the 15 April 2020 contact that HLAN 
replied and started to act on the transfer. 
However, by this point the value of Mrs Ts investments had fallen, as markets reacted to the 
global coronavirus pandemic.Mrs T complained, saying she felt the delays had caused her to 
lose a significant amount of value from her investments. HLAN accepted theyd caused 
some delays, but felt they werent responsible for not acting on the emails they couldnt 
open. They also noted Mrs T could herself have instructed them to sell the investments, if 
the instruction was urgent.
With this in mind, HLAN offered Mrs T £250 compensation for the upset caused, but refused 
to cover any loss in value her investments had suffered.
Unsatisfied with this response, Mrs T came to us. I wrote last time how I found HLAN had 
caused an unreasonable delay to this transfer. I felt that if theyd acted reasonably, the sale 
of the non-transferable investments would probably have happened on 14 February. To put 
this right, I said HLAN should compensate Mrs T for the value lost because of the delay, with 
an additional payment of interest on that amount. I also confirmed the £250 compensation 
seemed suitable to acknowledge the emotional impact of the matter. 
Mrs T has confirmed she would accept that decision. HLAN disagreed, saying they felt the 
new ISA provider should have done more to check their emails had been received, and to 
make the instruction to sell the non-transferrable investments clearer. 
The case has now returned to me for a final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
My view hasnt changed from what I wrote in my provisional decision. So Ill repeat the same 
details for this final decision. But Ill add a few lines to explain why HLANs latest comments 
havent changed my mind. 
HLANs comments seem to focus on how the new ISA provider should have done more to 
mitigate HLANs poor service in this case. Theyve said the new provider shouldnt have 
used both encrypted and unencrypted emails. And that they should have repeated the sell 
instruction from the first email in their second one. 
But I find that ignores the repeated contact the new ISA provider made with HLAN in 
February, March and April, before HLAN acted on the transfer. The use of both encrypted 
and unencrypted emails has helped to make sure something was getting through to HLAN. 
And on 23 March, the new ISA provider repeated the sell instruction in an unencrypted 
email. The problem is HLAN continued to do nothing to follow that instruction.
Had the new ISA provider done more to chase up the instruction, or written in their 
unencrypted 11 February email that HLAN should sell the non-transferrable investments, I 
see no evidence to say HLAN would have done anything differently. I cant see a realistic 
way the new provider could have mitigated HLANs poor service in this case. 
I accept that the first email HLAN received couldnt be opened, although its not clear why 
that was. A reasonable step for HLAN to have taken would have been to reply to the sender 
of the email  within a couple of working days  and make them aware there was a problem.
Because they didnt do that, I find HLAN failed to provide a reasonable level of
service in this case.
Similarly, when HLAN received the unencrypted email on 11 February, they should have 
done something to follow the instruction it contained. Had they done that, they would have 
seen there were seven investments listed for which the instruction wasnt clear.
HLAN have commented that their assumption  had they actually acted on that email  
would have been to do a partial ISA transfer, and leave the non-transferrable investments 
unsold. But that comment is at odds with what HLAN actually did  on 15 April  when they 
finally acted on the new ISA providers instructions. 
When HLAN saw there were seven investments that couldnt be transferred, they wrote the 
following to the new ISA provider:
Plase [sic] can you confirm if the funds you cannot accept are to remain with HL or 
to be sold and transferred as cash.
I find that was the reasonable step to have taken here, but it should have been done shortly 
after receiving the email on 11 February, rather than on 15 April. Because they delayed, 
HLAN again failed to provide a reasonable level of service in this case.
I cant see the new ISA provider could have known there was a problem with the encrypted 
email theyd sent, without HLAN telling them. Nor could they have known that HLAN wasnt 
going to respond to the chasing emails until 15 April. Nor can I see Mrs T could have been expecting this sort of unreasonable service from HLAN, and so been on notice that she 
needed to contact HLAN to try to mitigate it. 
Responsibility for the delay here sits entirely with HLAN because they didnt take reasonable 
actions on the emails they received.
Putting things right
HLAN should get Mrs Ts investment in to the position it would have been in, had their 
service been reasonable.
I can see that when HLAN finally confirmed the instruction to sell the investments, they were 
sold in three working days  by 23 April.
The email from the new provider on 11 February tells me someone there was working on the 
transfer that day. So if HLAN had replied to the encrypted email on 3 February to say they 
hadnt been able to open it, the new provider could have seen that when they worked on the 
transfer on 11 February.
Thats therefore when HLAN would have had the instruction to sell confirmed, if their service 
had been more reasonable.
Alternatively, if HLAN had replied to the 11 February email to question what to do with the 
investments that werent being transferred in specie, theres a good chance a simple sell 
them response could have been sent quite quickly by the new provider.
Putting that together with the three days it seemed to take to sell the investments, I find the 
investments could all have been sold by Friday 14 February 2020.
To put right the loss Mrs T suffered as a result of the delay, HLAN should work out the 
difference between the value she got from the sale of her investments on 23 April, and the 
value theyd have had on 14 February 2020. HLAN should then pay Mrs T that difference.
Mrs Ts provided some information from her new ISA provider that says this will amount to a 
payment to her of around £27,825. If HLAN find the figure is different though, theyll need to 
explain why to Mrs T. 
HLAN should also provide compensation for the loss of potential gains Mrs T could have 
achieved, if shed been able to invest that value. Ive provisionally decided this will be done 
by a payment of 8% simple interest on the amount paid to cover the lost investment value.
This should start from when the money would have been transferred to Mrs Ts new ISA 
provider. When HLAN sold the investments on 23 April, the money was transferred on 
29 April  four working days later. So a similar timescale should apply here.
Four working days after 14 February is 20 February. So the interest should run from 
20 February 2020 to when the payment is made for the lost value. Tax may be payable on 
that interest, as its outside of the ISA scheme. If so, HLAN should provide a tax statement to 
Mrs T, if she asks for one. 
I also note HLAN offered Mrs T £250 for the emotional impact this matter had on her. I find 
that was a reasonable offer for that specific part of the impact their poor service had. It 
reflects the upset caused for Mrs T by losing the value involved here. But also that the 
money was an investment, not money needed for day-to-day living expenses.My final decision
Ive decided to uphold Mrs Ts complaint about Hargreaves Lansdown Asset Management 
Limited. To put this matter right, they should pay Mrs T:
the difference in value for the non-transferable investments between 14 February and 
23 April 2020;
8% per annum simple interest on that amount from 20 February 2020 to when its 
paid; and
£250 compensation to acknowledge the upset and inconvenience caused.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs T to accept or 
reject my final decision before 7 February 2022. Please note, this is in addition to the 
response already received to my provisional decision. 
 
Paul Mellor
Ombudsman