DRN-2405773
The complaint
 Ms P complains that TSB Bank plc has mislaid a security deposit box that she stored with it. 
Shed like compensation for the contents.
What happened
  Ms P says that in 1991 she placed a security deposit box with her local branch of Lloyds 
Bank, now TSB. When she went to retrieve it in Autumn 2019, she was told that the safety 
deposit boxes had been outsourced to another provider. The bank arranged for a search to 
be made for Ms Ps box but couldnt locate a box belonging to Ms P.
Ms P says in January 1999 she received a letter from Lloyds advising about a proposed 
change to the terms and conditions. Although she cant remember if she returned it, she 
feels this shows the box was there at that time. In addition, it was there in 1999 when she 
arranged to take it out to have the contents valued. Ms P is adamant she hasnt taken it out 
since then.
TSB says its checked its records from 2001 onwards but hasnt been able to find any record 
of payments being made for storage since then. It also noted that Ms P couldnt recall having 
received a letter that had been sent to all safety deposit customers in May 2016 explaining 
that it was stopping its secure deposit services and that customers needed to remove their 
items or theyd be put into deep storage. It felt that if shed received it she would have 
remembered.
Taking into account that there was no record of Ms Ps box from 2001 onwards, TSB felt it 
probable that the deposit box had been taken out at some point. It noted that customers 
were required to ensure they had their own insurance in place so it couldnt agree it was 
responsible for the contents of the security box. 
Our investigator didnt uphold the complaint. There was no record of any storage charges 
being paid after 2001 and Ms P didnt recall having received the 2016 letter sent to all 
current box holders at that time. In the circumstances, it seemed probable the box had been 
removed at some time after 1999 and for that reason, she couldnt agree TSB was 
responsible for the fact it couldnt now locate it.
Ms P disagreed. She was certain that she hadnt removed it from the bank and felt TSB
should compensate her for the loss.
In my provisional decision dated 6 November 2020, I explained that I had come to a different 
conclusion to the investigator. In summary, I said:
Where the evidence is missing, incomplete or disputed, Ive made my decision on the 
balance of probabilities, in other words whats more likely to have happened in all the 
circumstances of the case.
Ms P had provided information to show shed left a secure deposit box with the bank 
in around 1991. Shed also provided a copy of the banks letter to her, dated January 
1999, in which she was asked to sign and return a new agreement for the secure 
deposit service. As this letter would only have been sent to existing secure deposit 
customers, I considered it more probable than not that Ms P did have a secure 
deposit box at the branch at that time.
However, TSB didnt have a record of any payments for storage after 2001. It was 
also the case that Ms P couldnt recall receiving the letter sent to all current box 
holders in 2016. This letter advised of significant changes to the terms and conditions 
of storage so I felt it probable that, if Ms P had received it, shed have remembered 
doing so. On that basis I felt it probable that the box wasnt still at the bank in 2016.
However, its usual practice to require a customer to sign a receipt when removing 
items from secure deposit. In this case TSB hadnt been able to produce a receipt or 
any other information to show when the box was removed. This had added to Ms Ps 
confusion as to exactly what had happened to her deposit box.
While I couldnt agree that TSB had lost the box as there was some doubt, I felt it 
was reasonable for it to compensate Ms P for the upset and inconvenience caused 
by the incomplete records. I proposed £100.
However, the nature of secure deposit boxes is that the contents are confidential to 
the customer. For that reason, TSB required customers to take out their own 
insurance for any contents deposited with it. This is standard practice and would 
have been the case even before the terms and conditions were amended in 1999. 
On that basis TSB wasnt responsible for the contents of the secure deposit box.
TSB has provided more information about the steps it took to locate the box when Ms P 
requested it in 2019. It says it did have a box in its records with a similar name but that the 
details of that box didnt match with Ms P. Further Ms P had no paperwork to prove that she 
had a box in storage and for that reason, it was unable to retrieve the box in question from 
the off-site storage. If Ms P feels that this may be her security deposit box then she would 
need to provide the paperwork to verify this.
 Ms P has also responded. Ms P rejected my findings and said in summary:
Even if she had insurance it wouldnt have helped in this case as it would only have 
applied where the items were lost or stolen, which in this case was being disputed. 
She felt the bank was responsible for the loss of the box and its contents that were 
valued at £3,200 in 1999.
As TSB couldnt show the box had been withdrawn, she felt it should pay 50% of the 
value of the contents.
She was unhappy that it was being suggested that she may have forgotten taking out 
the box. Due to pressure of work in the 1990s she didnt realise that payments for storage were no longer being taken from her account. When she did realise at some 
time between 2009 and 2016 she went to her local branch to ask about taking out her 
box. She felt the bank indicated at this time that it was still holding the box but that, if 
she took it out, she wouldnt be able to return it as the bank wasnt accepting new 
deposits. For that reason, she didnt take it out at this time.
When she went in last year, TSB did a search of its off-site storage and found a box 
that might have belonged to Ms P but when Ms P couldnt accurately recall the initials 
on the box, it had said it didnt belong to her. Ms P asked for an explanation as to 
why TSB had come to this view and said the fact it wasnt sure, showed TSB wasnt 
managing its storage service properly.
She felt the £100 compensation didnt address the banks failure to record the boxs 
withdrawal only the time shed spent in pursuing the complaint.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
 Having done so I havent seen anything to lead me to change my view as Ill now explain.
Ive seen evidence to show that Ms P had a security deposit box at the bank up to 1999 as 
thats when she took it out to have the contents valued. 
However, TSB cant find any record of storage fees being paid after 2001. Its also the case 
that Ms P cant recall having received a letter that would have been sent to all deposit box 
holders in May 2016. This letter was significant as it explained how TSB was changing its 
storage system and it required box holders to actively remove their items from storage or 
agree their items would now be moved off site and, for that reason, I think that, if Ms P had 
received it, she would have remembered. She doesnt and on balance, I think it probable 
that she didnt receive it. Ive also taken into account that if Ms Ps box had been in branch in 
2016 the it would have been bar coded and that bar code would have been logged against 
the details held by the branch and also sent to Ms P. Ms P has no record of this and in the 
circumstances I think it probable that Ms Ps box wasnt still in branch in 2016 and, possibly, 
hadnt been there since at least 2001. 
With regard to the box mentioned by TSB in 2019, Ive made further enquires and TSB has 
now confirmed that, while it had found the details of a box with a similar name, it hadnt been 
able to physically locate it as Ms P had no paperwork, including the bar code that would be 
needed to retrieve it from the offsite storage facility.  I understand Ms Ps concern but if this 
was Ms Ps box, then it would mean that it had been bar coded and sent off site without Ms 
P being made aware of this at any time since 2016. I find that unlikely and it seems more 
probable that this box doesnt, therefore, belong to Ms P. If Ms P can provide more 
information then TSB has said it will consider it but without that, I dont feel there is much 
more that TSB can reasonably do.
Putting things right
 One of the problems with this case has been the lack of clear records by TSB showing 
whats happened to Ms Ps box, and when. Thats unfortunate and its clear this has 
exacerbated Ms Ps concerns. Id have expected TSB to have kept detailed records of the 
items deposited it with it and, for that reason, I consider that the failure to do so is poor 
service. In the circumstances, I remain of the view that it would be reasonable for TSB to compensate Ms P for her upset and inconvenience caused by this and that £100 is 
appropriate.  
I know Ms P feels this isnt enough as it doesnt reflect the value of the items that were in the 
box in 1999 but this sum is intended to reflect the upset caused by the incomplete records 
and not for the loss of any items kept in the box. As I explained in my provisional decision, 
security deposit boxes are by their nature confidential and for that reason, its for the 
customer to take out insurance for the contents. If Ms P has insurance then she may be able 
to claim against it for the loss of the items but in the circumstances, I cant agree that TSB 
should be responsible for this.
I realise that Ms P will be disappointed by my decision but I cant agree that TSB is 
responsible for the loss of Ms Ps security deposit box and any items in it. On that basis, Ill 
be asking TSB to compensate Ms P for the incomplete records but not for anything else.
My final decision
 My final decision is that I uphold Ms Ps complaint in part and direct TSB Bank plc to pay Ms 
P £100 for the upset and inconvenience caused to her by its incomplete records.  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms P to accept or 
reject my decision before 25 January 2021.
 
Cerys Jones
Ombudsman