DRN-3161036
The complaint
Miss Ds complained that Blue Panda Finance Ltd (Blue Panda) didnt contact her when 
the Financial Ombudsman Service made a decision about a complaint shed made  which 
meant the lender didnt have to comply with it.
What happened
In 2018, Miss D signed a letter of authority permitting Blue Panda to pursue a complaint 
about irresponsible lending against a business Ill call L.  Ultimately, Miss Ds claim was 
considered by the Financial Ombudsman Service, which made a final decision on 1 July 
2020.  The ombudsman upheld Miss Ds complaint in part.  The effect of their decision was L 
had to waive fees and interest, calculate if Miss D was owed a refund and amend her credit 
record.
The Financial Ombudsman Service sent their final decision to Blue Panda and advised   
Miss D had until 1 August 2020 to accept or reject it.  The decision was only binding on L if it 
was accepted by then  unless some exceptional circumstance existed.
Blue Panda sent the decision to Miss D.  But they didnt hear from her until after 1 August as 
Miss D was having problems with both her email and her mobile phone.  They forwarded 
Miss Ds acceptance of the decision in early September 2020.  But the Financial 
Ombudsman Service didnt think there were any exceptional circumstances which should 
make the decision enforceable after 1 August 2020.  And L have refused to comply with it.
Miss D complained that Blue Panda hadnt tried hard enough to contact her before the 
deadline of 1 August.  Blue Panda rejected her complaint.  They said theyd tried to contact 
her four times between 1 July and 1 August 2020.  But they couldnt finalise her claim 
against L without her co-operation.
Miss D wasnt satisfied with Blue Pandas response and brought her complaint to us.  Our 
investigator considered it and concluded Blue Panda didnt need to do anything more to put 
matters right.  He acknowledged that Miss D had problems accessing her emails in the 
relevant period  and that her phone was broken.  But he saw no evidence shed told Blue 
Panda about these issues until after the 1 August deadline.  So he couldnt say it was their 
fault Miss D hadnt accepted the Financial Ombudsman Services decision in time.
Miss D didnt agree with the investigators view.  So Ive been asked to make a decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done that, Im not upholding Miss Ds complaint.  Ill explain why.
Its clear from everything Ive read that the situation Miss Ds found herself in has been 
confused and complicated by the fact shes complained about two businesses - and a 
decision by the Financial Ombudsman Service was sent to her via Blue Panda.  And, even 
though the facts are intertwined, I have to keep them separate and only consider the 
complaint about Blue Panda.  
So I wont be commenting on the Financial Ombudsman Services decision not to extend the 
time for her to accept its decision, or Ls decision not to comply with it.
Ive seen Blue Pandas business file.  That contains an email sent to Miss D on 8 July 2020, 
forwarding a copy of the Financial Ombudsman Services decision and explaining how she 
can either accept or reject it.  There are two further emails dated 16 and 22 July chasing 
Miss Ds response.  All three were sent to the address Miss D couldnt access.
I accept this means Miss D didnt see the emails.  But nothing Ive seen suggests she told 
Blue Panda about this until mid-August 2020  after the Financial Ombudsman Services 
deadline had passed.  So I cant say they did anything wrong in using the same email 
address theyd used before to contact Miss D.
Nor can I say Blue Panda shouldnt have relied on the mobile number Miss D gave them.  I 
appreciate Miss D told our investigator her phone was broken - and that shed emailed Blue 
Panda to tell them this.  Miss D originally said shed send us evidence to support her 
position.  But weve not received anything, and Miss D has now told us she wont be sending 
us any more information.  Without that evidence, theres nothing to persuade me that what 
Blue Panda have said - that they didnt know about any issue with Miss Ds phone before the 
deadline  is wrong.
Miss D suggested to our investigator that Blue Panda could have contacted her by post.  Ive 
thought about this.  But Miss Ds agreement with Blue Panda includes a term that she would 
receive all written communication by email to the address shed supplied.  In the absence of 
Blue Panda being notified of a change of email address, or something else  such as 
receiving a notification their emails werent delivered, I dont think its fair to say Blue Panda 
shouldve done more to contact Miss D.  Or that they should do any more to resolve her 
complaint.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, Im not upholding Miss Ds complaint about Blue Panda 
Finance Ltd.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss D to accept 
or reject my decision before 18 January 2022.
 
Helen Stacey
Ombudsman