DRN-3747352
The complaint
Mr C complains, on behalf of M, that Wise Payments Limited wont reimburse transactions 
he didnt make or otherwise authorise. 
The full details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them here. 
Instead, Ill recap the key points and focus on giving reasons for my decision:
In February 2022, Mr C received a text purporting to alert him to being in close 
contact with someone with Covid. The message contained a link to order a PCR test 
and pay for postage. Mr C filled in personal and banking information. Shortly after, 
and feeling uneasy about what had happened, Mr C reported it to his bank, and 
ordered a new card. 
About a week later, Mr C received a call from someone claiming to be his bank to tell 
him his account was at risk. They knew personal information about him, including 
about the earlier text message noted above. Mr C was told his account was 
compromised and he needed to act to protect it. He was also asked if there were any 
linked accounts, to which he confirmed this Wise account. The caller pretended to 
get Wise on the line in a conference call but needed Mr C to pass security in order to 
complete that. So Mr C provided security information in order to facilitate the 
conference call. Mr C was asked to note down lots of information including numbers 
and codes. And he was asked to share numbers and codes he was also provided 
with during the call. But, and unknown to Mr C, the caller was accessing the Wise 
account and making transactions of over £55,000. 
Mr C discovered the loss when the call ended and he called Wise immediately. But 
Wise declined to reimburse the transactions. Although it acknowledged the 
transactions hadnt been authorised, it said Mr C had been grossly negligent and the 
loss wasnt reasonably foreseeable to it. 
Our investigator upheld the complaint in full, as she wasnt persuaded Mr C made or 
otherwise consented to the transactions, and she didnt find hed acted with gross 
negligence. Wise asked for the matter to be referred to an ombudsman as it 
considers Mr C was grossly negligent and in breach of its terms, when willingly and 
knowingly resetting the account password and providing that to another individual.
 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the conclusions reached by the investigator for the following 
reasons:
In line with the Payment Services Regulations 2017 (PSRs), Mr C (nor M) isnt liable 
for payments he didnt authorise, unless he failed with gross negligence or intent to 
comply with the terms of the account or keep the personalised security details safe.
Wise accepts Mr C has fallen victim to an impersonation scam, and didnt carry out 
the transactions himself, or authorise someone else to carry them out. Under the 
PSRs the payments werent, therefore, consented to and so I find they were 
unauthorised. 
I dont find Mr C failed with intent to keep his security details safe. I accept Mr C 
passed on codes and other information and may have even reset and shared a 
password. But he was following instructions he thought were necessary to keep 
accounts safe. 
I also dont find he failed with gross negligence. Mr C believed he was speaking with 
someone from his bank. It knew details about him, including information about the 
earlier text he had reported which had resulted in a new card. Given that, Im not 
persuaded he would have found a call from his bank to be unusual. 
I accept Mr C passed on information he shouldnt have, including codes and possibly 
passwords. But I dont think this means Mr C seriously disregarded an obvious risk, 
and therefore failed with gross negligence. 
Mr C describes having a lot of information thrown at him, having to take down 
numerous numbers and codes and read them back to the caller. He also describes a 
sense of panic and increasing anxiety in ensuring his account was safe. He believes 
this was done to cause confusion, something I accept as entirely plausible. I 
acknowledge the caller was from his bank and those of us within the industry might 
recognise a suggestion of getting another finance provider on the phone to be 
strange. But I dont think the same can be said of the layperson. Its not 
inconceivable to believe a bank would help protect its customer, including with 
accounts held elsewhere. And here, Mr C was led to believe a conference call was 
taking place that required him to pass security in the same way he did with his bank 
and Wise more generally. This was a sophisticated and multi-layered process which 
started with a simple text that laid the groundwork for the later scam to take place. 
Overall, I can see how Mr C was fooled into believing the steps he took were 
necessary to keep the account safe, and I think a lot of people would have been 
fooled into doing the same, or something similar. 
I dont find Mr Cs actions fell so far below what a reasonable person would have 
done that it amounts to gross negligence. So I conclude neither Mr C, nor M, is liable 
for the transactions and Wise needs to put that right  by refunding the loss from the 
unauthorised transactions alongside interest to compensate for the time without 
those funds. 
As a final point, I feel I must comment that Wise has attempted to rely on its terms 
which set out it isnt responsible for any loss that isnt foreseeable. Setting aside it is 
absolutely foreseeable for customers to fall victim to impersonation scams, there is 
no such provision within the PSRs for Wise to decline to reimburse an unauthorised 
transaction on that basis. 
My final decision
For the reasons given, my final decision is that I uphold this complaint. I require Wise 
Payments Limited to:
Reimburse Mr C, on behalf of M, £55,305.82; and 
Add 8% simple interest per year from the date of that loss to the date of settlement, 
less any lawfully deductible tax. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask M to accept or 
reject my decision before 27 December 2022.
 
Claire Hopkins
Ombudsman