DRN-2323968
The complaint
Mr E says PDL Finance Limited, trading as Mr Lender, (PDL), irresponsibly lent to him.
What happened
This complaint is about nine short term loans PDL provided to Mr E between 
January 2016 and April 2018. Loans 1, 2, 4, 5, 8 and 9 were repayable by three monthly 
repayments, Loan 3 by six monthly repayments, and Loans 6 and 7 by twelve monthly 
repayments. All the loans have been repaid. Mr Es borrowing history is as follows:
Loan number Date of 
loanRepayment 
dateLoan 
amount 
1. 3/1/16 17/2/16 £300
2. 1/3/16 24/3/16 £400
3. 20/5/16 20/5/16 £750
4. 23/5/16 17/6/16 £350
5. 29/6/16 19/7/16 £200
6. 4/1/17 7/1/17 £1,000
7. 23/3/17 19/3/18 £1,500
8. 26/3/18 28/3/18 £200
9. 13/4/18 18/4/18 £200
PDL, in its final response letter, said that it had conducted thorough affordability checks as 
well as credit checks before the loans were given. It noted that Mr E had repaid five of the 
loans either on time or earlier than the settlement date and that he had withdrawn from three 
of the loans within the 14 day withdrawal period. PDL didnt uphold Mr Es complaint.
Our adjudicators views
The adjudicators first view showed that Mr E had borrowed eight loans and didnt include 
Loan 3 (as listed in the schedule above). She said that it wouldve been proportionate for 
PDL to have started verifying Mr Es circumstances from Loan 6 (as listed in the schedule 
above). But she didnt have copies of Mr Es relevant bank statements from Loan 6 and was 
therefore unable to get a full picture of Mr Es circumstances. But the adjudicator upheld 
Loan 9 (in the schedule above) as she said that by this loan, Mr Es overall pattern of 
borrowing suggested he had become persistently reliant on short-term loans.
Mr E responded to say that hed borrowed nine loans from PDL.
PDL offered to settle Loan 9 in line with the adjudicators recommendations. But the 
adjudicator said she was considering the further information shed received since her view 
from Mr E and PDL. The adjudicator then provided a second view.
In her second view our adjudicator upheld Mr Es complaint in part and said Loans 6 to 9 
shouldnt have been given. She said that PDLs checks went far enough for Loans 1 to 5. 
She noted that there was a gap of five months and 2 weeks between Loans 5 and 6 and had 
taken this into consideration. But the adjudicator also said that Mr E had returned to borrow 
five times the amount of his previous loan which was to be repaid over a 12-month period, 
and that it wouldve been proportionate for PDL to have started verifying Mr Es 
circumstances from Loan 6. 
The adjudicator had reviewed Mr Es bank statements and concluded that proportionate 
checks would have likely shown PDL that Mr E was having problems managing his money. 
She said that PDL would have become aware that Mr Es expenditure exceeded his income 
and that he was also spending over a third of his income on online betting sites. In these 
circumstances, she thought PDL ought to have realised it was unlikely Mr E wouldve been 
able to sustainably repay Loan 6 and any subsequent loans. And by Loan 9, the adjudicator 
thought that Mr Es overall pattern of borrowing suggested he had become persistently 
reliant on short-term loans. So, she didnt think PDL should have given Mr E Loans 6 to 9.
PDL initially responded to say that it disagreed with the adjudicators view but offered to 
settle Loans 8 and 9 by refunding the interest and charges paid and paying 8% simple 
interest on the refunded amounts. 
Mr E rejected PDLs offer.
PDL responded to say that it didnt believe that Loans 6 and 7 should be upheld. It said that 
Loan 6 was taken out over five and a half months after Loan 5 was repaid, which constituted 
a new chain of borrowing. Due to it being so early in the chain, it would have been 
disproportionate to carry out a full financial review (as confirmed by this Service in another 
complaint) on both Loans 6 and 7. Additionally, Loan 7 was taken 75 days after Loan 6 was 
repaid. This evidenced that Mr E wasnt reliant on its product or using the funds to 
supplement his everyday spending. PDL also referred to Mr Es responses to its questions 
before Loans 6 and 7. These included confirmations that his financial situation was good and 
that he wasnt in financial difficulties.
As this complaint hasnt been resolved informally, it has been passed to me, an 
ombudsman, to investigate.
my provisional decision
After considering all the evidence, I issued a provisional decision on this complaint to Mr E 
and to PDL on 6 October 2020. I summarise my findings:
I could see that PDL had offered to settle Loans 8 and 9. So, I said that I 
wouldnt investigate Loans 8 and 9 but would refer to the redress offered by 
PDL in my award.
I also noted that PDL in its response to the adjudicators second view referred to another 
complaint at this Service. But I said that we assessed each case on its own merits and it 
wasnt appropriate to compare the outcomes of complaints as the circumstances might be 
very different.I noted that PDL needed to take reasonable steps to ensure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. 
In practice this meant that it should have carried out proportionate checks to make sure that    
Mr E could repay the loans in a sustainable manner.
I said that these checks could take into account a number of different things, such as how 
much was being lent, the repayment amounts and the consumers income and 
expenditure.
With this in mind, in the early stages of a lending relationship, I thought less thorough 
checks might be reasonable and proportionate. But certain factors might point to the fact 
that PDL should fairly and reasonably have done more to establish that any lending was 
sustainable for a consumer. These factors included:
the lower a customers income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make any 
loan repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income);
the higher the amount due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income);
the greater the number and frequency of loans, and the longer the period of time 
during which a customer had been given loans (reflecting the risk that repeated 
refinancing might signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, 
unsustainable).
There might even come a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself 
clearly demonstrated that the lending was unsustainable.
I thought that it was important to say that PDL was required to establish whether Mr E 
could sustainably repay his loans  not just whether the loan payments were affordable 
on a strict pounds and pence calculation.
Of course, the loan payments being affordable on this basis might be an indication a 
consumer could sustainably make their repayments. But it didnt automatically follow this 
was the case. This was because the relevant regulations defined sustainable as being 
without undue difficulties and in particular the customer should be able to make repayments 
on time, while meeting other reasonable commitments; as well as without having to borrow 
to meet the repayments. And it followed that a lender should realise, or it ought fairly and 
reasonably to realise, that a borrower wouldnt be able to make their repayments 
sustainably if they were unlikely to be able to make their repayments without borrowing 
further.
Id carefully considered all of the arguments, evidence and information provided in this
context and what this all meant for Mr Es complaint.
Id noted that PDL had referred to Mr E repaying most of his loans early. I thought the fact 
that Mr E typically repaid most of his loans much earlier than planned should have caused 
some concerns to PDL. That might be the sort of behaviour that would indicate that 
someone was facing problems managing their money and needing to refinance loans on a 
regular basis. So, Id also taken that into account when looking at whether PDL should 
have given the loans to Mr E.
Before PDL lent to Mr E, it asked him for details of his income and his normal 
expenditure. Mr Es income ranged from £1,742 to £1,800 and his expenditure ranged 
from £498 to
£1,150.PDL had also checked Mr Es credit file. Id seen a brief summary of its credit checks 
which showed a credit score, that Mr E hadnt been made bankrupt and that he hadnt 
been in an individual voluntary arrangement in the previous three years. I didnt think that 
the results of these checks should have caused additional concerns to PDL. Id also noted 
that PDL had asked Mr E some questions about his financial situation before some of the 
loans.
Id seen Mr Es own credit report and referred to this in my decision.
I thought that the checks PDL did before agreeing the first two loans were proportionate. 
The amounts that Mr E needed to repay were moderate compared with the disposable 
income hed declared. Given these repayment amounts, what was apparent about Mr Es 
circumstances at the time, and that these were his first two loans with the lender, I didnt 
think it wouldve been proportionate for PDL to have asked him for the amount of 
information that would have been needed to show the lending was unsustainable before 
agreeing the first two loans. So, I didnt think PDL had acted unfairly in providing Loans 1 
and 2 to Mr E.
Mr E borrowed Loan 3 around two months after repaying Loan 2. The loan amount had 
significantly increased to £750 and even though the loan was to be repaid over six months, 
the highest monthly loan repayment was almost 16% of Mr Es income. As the repayments 
were a significant part of Mr Es declared income and he was also committed to paying 
them for a far longer period than his previous loans, I didnt think it was reasonable for PDL 
to rely on the disposable income that Mr E had declared. I thought PDL should have 
supplemented the information it held by gathering information about Mr Es borrowing from 
other short term lenders.
Id reviewed Mr Es credit report and bank statements to see what better checks would 
have shown. I couldnt see that Mr E had any outstanding short term loans which would 
have been repayable around the same time as Loan 3. So overall, I couldnt safely say 
that if PDL had carried out proportionate checks before Loan 3, it wouldve seen that Mr 
E couldnt sustainably make the repayments to Loan 3. So, I said that I didnt intend to 
uphold Mr Es complaint about Loan 3.
Mr E repaid Loan 3 on the same day that hed taken it out.
Loan 4 was taken out three days after Loan 3. The loan amount had reduced to £350. But 
it was Mr Es fourth loan application in five months. So again, I didnt think it was 
reasonable for PDL to rely on the information provided to it by Mr E. And I thought PDL 
should again have made some additional checks such as gathering information about Mr 
Es short term borrowing commitments.
Id again looked at Mr Es credit report and bank statements to see what better checks 
would have shown PDL. And again, I couldnt see that Mr E had any outstanding short 
term loans which would have been repayable around the same time as Loan 4. So, I 
couldnt safely say that if PDL had carried out proportionate checks before Loan 4, it 
wouldve seen that Mr E couldnt sustainably make the repayments to Loan 4. So, I said 
that I didnt intend to uphold Mr Es complaint about Loan 4.
Loan 4 was repaid early, and Loan 5 was taken out 12 days after Loan 4 was repaid. It 
was Mr Es fifth loan in less than six months.
Id noted that PDL had said that the fact that Mr E had repaid Loans 4 and 5 early indicated 
that he could afford the loans, the payments were made sustainably, and Mr E wasnt struggling financially. I could see that Mr E had declared a disposable income of £1,170. 
But I thought PDL should have been concerned that someone with such a large proportion 
of available income would need to borrow expensive credit again for the fifth time in less 
than six months. And in these circumstances, I thought it was likely that Mr E wasnt 
borrowing to meet a temporary shortfall in his income but to meet an ongoing need. So, 
again I didnt think it was reasonable for PDL to have relied on the information provided by 
Mr E. And by the time of Loan 5. I thought it should have taken steps to independently 
verify Mr Es true financial position.
Id carefully looked at Mr Es credit report and bank statements for the month before Loan 5 
to see what better checks would have shown PDL. I could see that Mr E was about to 
exceed his overdraft limit at the point he applied for his loan and that the total of his other 
credit repayments and monthly nursery fees exceeded his income before even considering 
his other regular outgoings. Having seen that information, I didnt think a responsible lender 
would have concluded that it was likely Mr E could meet the repayments on Loan 5 in a 
sustainable manner. So, I didnt think PDL should have agreed to give Mr E this loan.
I could see that there was a gap of almost six months between Loans 5 and 6. So I thought 
it was reasonable for PDL to treat Mr E as a new customer before Loan 6 for the purpose of 
its checks. But Loan 6 was for £1,000 to be repaid over a period of twelve months. That 
was a substantial commitment that Mr E was entering into, and so I thought PDL should 
have taken great care to ensure that he was able to repay the loan in a sustainable manner. 
So, I didnt think the checks PDL did before agreeing this loan were proportionate. I didnt 
think it was reasonable for PDL to base its assessment on the financial information Mr E 
had provided and instead it should have taken steps to independently check Mr Es true 
financial position.
So, I needed to think about what PDL wouldve seen if it had carried out proportionate 
checks before Loan 6. Id again looked at Mr Es credit report and bank statements from 
the time to get an understanding of his financial position at the time of taking Loan 6. From 
those statements and credit report I could see that Mr E had spent over £1,000 on 
gambling. He was also borrowing heavily from a range of other short term lenders. He had 
at least four other short term loans with other lenders that would have been repayable at 
the same time as Loan 6. I thought it would have been clear to PDL from that information 
that Mr E was having significant problems managing his money and that it would be 
unlikely he could repay any further borrowing in a sustainable manner. So, as a responsible 
lender, PDL would have declined Loan 6. So, I didnt think Loan 6 should have been 
provided to Mr E.
Id noted that Loan 7 was taken out two and a half months after Mr E repaid Loan 6. But I 
didnt think that gap was anywhere near long enough to give PDL any confidence that Mr 
Es finances had stabilised. The loan amount had substantially increased to £1,500 and 
was again to be repaid over 12 months. For the same reasons as Id set out above for 
Loan 6, I thought it would have again been proportionate for PDL to have independently 
reviewed the true state of Mr Es finances. If it had done so, PDL would have seen that Mr 
E was spending over £1,300 on gambling and had at least three other outstanding short 
term loans with repayments to be made at the same time as Loan 7. Id seen all this on Mr 
Es bank statements and credit report. I thought if PDL had made proportionate checks, it 
would have
been clear to it that Mr E was still facing significant problems managing his money and 
unlikely to have been able to repay Loan 7 in a sustainable manner. And as a responsible 
lender it wouldnt have agreed to lend Loan 7 to him.I thought that the fact that all of Mr Es loans were repaid didnt mean that they were repaid 
sustainably, or without causing Mr E undue difficulty. And I also thought that when a 
consumer borrowed numerous loans over a long period of time, it was most likely that the 
loans werent being used for their intended purpose of temporary cash flow problems. As 
PDL knew, the FCA made it clear in a letter to CEOs of high cost lending firms that a high 
volume of relending..might be symptomatic of unsustainable lending patterns. And I 
thought that was the case here.
Subject to any further representations by Mr E or PDL my provisional decision was that 
I intended to uphold this complaint in part. I intended to say that PDL shouldnt have given    
Mr E Loans 5 to 7, and that it needed to pay Mr E some compensation relating to these 
loans together with what it had already offered to pay to settle Loans 8 and 9. So PDL 
should put things right as shown below.
Putting things right  what PDL needs to do
1. Refund any interest and charges paid by Mr E on Loans 5 to 9;
2. Add simple interest at a rate of 8% per annum to each of these amounts from 
the date they were paid to the date of settlement*;
3. Remove any adverse information recorded on Mr Es credit file in relation 
to Loans 5 to 8; and
4. The length of his borrowing relationship means any information recorded about Loan 9 
is adverse. So, all entries about Loan 9 should be removed from Mr Es credit file.
*HM Revenue & Customs requires PDL to take off tax from this interest. PDL must give   
Mr E a certificate showing how much tax it has taken off if he asks for one.
Mr E responded to my provisional decision to say that he accepted it.
PDL responded to my provisional decision to say that it disagreed with the statement that 
solely repaying loans early is a sign someone is having problems managing their money. It 
gave as an example that on Loan 5 Mr E opted to borrow a significantly lower amount than 
his fourth loan. It said that Mr E was not reliant on its services by Loan 5 as his loan amount 
deceased by £150 from Loan 4. 
PDL also said that it doesnt make a lending decision solely on the loan amount as this 
would be irresponsible. As part of the application, it carried out an expenditure assessment 
to further ensure the loan was affordable. The results of the expenditure check showed
even after the repayment Mr E would have a sufficient disposable income for
any unforeseen expenses and allowing for some margin of error or exaggeration. The
checks carried out prior to this loan were proportionate to the loan amount and as the
results of the checks showed, there was no evidence of financial difficulty.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about short-term lending - including all of 
the relevant rules, guidance and good industry practice - on our website. 
I have considered carefully what PDL said in response to my provisional decision. 
I note that PDL disagrees that repaying loans early is a sign someone is having problems 
managing their money. I disagree. As I said above, that might be the sort of behaviour that would indicate that someone was facing problems managing their money and Id taken that 
behaviour into account. Loans 1 to 4 had all been repaid far earlier than planned and within 
12 days of the repayment of Loans 1, 3 and 4, Mr E had sought to borrow again. I think that 
behaviour might have caused concerns to the lender and it could have been a signal that Mr 
E was having financial difficulties. 
With regard to Loan 5, I note that PDL said that Mr E wasnt reliant on its services by Loan 5 
as his loan amount decreased. In reaching my decision Id considered that Mr E had 
borrowed a reduced amount on Loan 5. But by the time of Loan 5, I didnt think that PDL 
should have regarded this reduced borrowing as a reason not to carry out what I considered 
to be proportionate checks. Loan 5 was Mr Es fifth loan in less than six months, and it was 
the third time that Mr E had reborrowed within two weeks of his previous loan being repaid. I 
considered this an indication that Mr E might have been reliant on high cost, short term 
loans. And I thought the lender should have realised that Mr E might be having difficulties 
managing his finances and that it couldnt rely on the financial information that he was 
providing. With that in mind, I thought it wouldve been proportionate for PDL to look into Mr 
Es finances in more detail and that it ought to have verified his financial information. 
Altogether, I cant say that PDLs checks were proportionate before Loan 5.
I note that PDL had carried out an expenditure assessment and said that Mr E would have a 
sufficient disposable income for unforeseen expenses and that there was no evidence of 
financial difficulty. But by that stage, I didnt think it was a case of just checking whether the 
loans were affordable on a pounds and pence basis  I think there needed to be a far deeper 
understanding of the sustainability of Mr Es finances. 
So, after considering the points made by PDL, Im not persuaded to change my findings from 
those set out in my provisional decision. It follows that I uphold part of the complaint and 
require PDL to pay Mr E some compensation and take the steps set out below.
My final decision
My decision is that I uphold this complaint in part. In full and final settlement of this 
complaint, I order PDL Finance Limited, trading as Mr Lender, to put things right as 
follows:
1. Refund any interest and charges paid by Mr E on Loans 5 to 9;
2. Add simple interest at a rate of 8% per annum to each of these amounts from 
the date they were paid to the date of settlement*;
3. Remove any adverse information recorded on Mr Es credit file in relation 
to Loans 5 to 8; and
4. The length of his borrowing relationship means any information recorded about Loan 9 
is adverse. So, all entries about Loan 9 should be removed from Mr Es credit file.
*HM Revenue & Customs requires PDL to take off tax from this interest. PDL must give   
Mr E a certificate showing how much tax it has taken off if he asks for one.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr E to accept or 
reject my decision before 7 December 2020. 
Roslyn Rawson
Ombudsman