DRN-4146707
The complaint
Mr B complains that HSBC UK Bank Plc lent to him irresponsibly.
What happened
In December 2019 Mr B applied for a loan with HSBC. HSBC approved the application and 
gave Mr B a loan for £13,500 repayable over a term of 60 months with monthly repayments 
of £274.58. 
Mr B complains that HSBC lent to him irresponsibly.
HSBC didnt uphold the complaint. It said it had carried out proportionate checks before 
lending to Mr B.
Mr B wasnt happy with the response and brought his complaint to this service.
Our investigator didnt uphold the complaint. She said that HSBC had carried out reasonable 
and proportionate checks before approving the loan.
Mr B didnt agree so Ive been asked to make a final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our approach to complaints about irresponsible and unaffordable lending on 
our website. Ive had this approach in mind when considering Mr Bs complaint.
Before agreeing to lend, the rules say that HSBC had to complete reasonable and 
proportionate checks to ensure that Mr B was able to repay what was being lent. These 
checks needed to be borrower focussed and could include a consideration of things such as 
the amount of credit, the total sum repayable, the amount of repayments and the consumers 
individual circumstances.
Theres no set list of checks a lender must complete. But lenders are required to consider 
the factors Ive set out above when deciding whats reasonable and proportionate.
Mr B declared annual income of £28,600 when he applied for the loan. HSBC validated this 
by looking at salary credits to Mr Bs current account with HSBC, which it verified at £1,831 
per month.
HSBC carried out a full affordability assessment using an industry tool to estimate essential 
monthly expenditure. HSBC also carried out a credit search to check Mr Bs existing credit 
commitments. Based on all of these checks, HSBC calculated Mr Bs outgoings at £1,271 
per month. This left Mr B with around £560 net disposable income each month, which HSBC 
felt was sufficient to afford the loan repayment of £273. 
Based on what Ive seen, Im satisfied that HSBC carried out reasonable and proportionate 
checks. I dont think there was anything in the information gathered by HSBC from the 
checks which suggested that Mr B was struggling to pay his debts, or which wouldve given 
cause for concern or necessitated further checks.
Ive gone on to consider whether the lending decision was fair. HSBC hasnt been able to 
provide a copy of Mr Bs credit file at the time he applied for the loan. Mr B has said that he 
had around £16,978.00 of credit card debt at the time he applied for the loan. Hes provided 
a screenshot to evidence this. Ive had regard to this, but the screenshot isnt sufficient for 
me to assess whether Mr B was managing his other accounts in a satisfactory way, or 
calculate how much he was repaying towards his other credit commitments each month.
Ive looked at Mr Bs bank statements for the period immediately prior to him taking out the 
loan. This is one of the ways in which I can assess what reasonable and proportionate 
checks wouldve shown. The statements are from Mr Bs current account with HSBC, so 
HSBC couldve looked at this information if it had felt that it was necessary to carry out 
further checks. But as Ive said, I think the checks carried out by HSBC were reasonable.
There are a number of cash withdrawals on the statements. Mr B has told this service that 
these withdrawals were for gambling. Whilst I have no reason to doubt what Mr B says about 
this, I dont think there was anything in the information gathered by HSBC which wouldve 
caused it sufficient concern to necessitate further checks of Mr Bs bank statements. So I 
dont think HSBC can reasonable be expected to have made further enquiries about how Mr 
B spent his disposable income.
Mr B has made the point that the money being paid out of his account was around twice the 
amount paid into it by way of salary. Hes told this service that this was due to him 
transferring money in from credit cards. Mr B feels that HSBC shouldve noted this and been 
alerted to the fact that he was gambling.
Ive taken everything that Mr B has said into account. However, considering the amount of 
the loan, the term over which it was to be repaid and the amount of repayments, I think the 
checks carried out by HSBC were reasonable and proportionate. I havent seen anything in 
the information gathered by HSBC to suggest that Mr B was in financial difficulties or that he 
was unlikely to be able to sustainably repay the loan. For the reasons Ive given Im unable 
to uphold the complaint.
My final decision
My final decision is that Im unable to uphold the complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 3 July 2023.
 
Emma Davy
Ombudsman