DRN-4303575
The complaint
Mr F complains that his income protection policy has been cancelled at a time when he is 
expecting to be made redundant.
What happened
Mr F took out an income protection policy in 2011. The policy was previously underwritten by 
another insurer, but is currently underwritten by Monument Life Insurance DAC 
(Monument). The policy was designed to provide Mr F with a fixed monthly benefit for a 
period of up to 12 months, in the event that he was made unemployed. And the policy was 
set to run until Mr F was 70 years old. 
On 10 May 2023, Monument wrote to Mr F. It said it was withdrawing its income protection 
policies. The last premium payment would be taken on 21 June 2023 and Mr Fs cover 
would end on 30 June 2023. 
The policy terms and conditions state the following about cancellation by the underwriter:
We can cancel your insurance by giving you 30 days notice in writing. This does not 
affect your rights in respect of a claim arising prior to the cancellation date of your 
Policy..
Mr F said hes aware he will be made redundant by his current employer by the end of 2023, 
but this hasnt happened yet. So, he said hell no longer have the protection of the policy he 
has been paying for since 2011, and will be unable to obtain a new policy with another 
provider, as the risk is now known. And he complained to Monument. 
Monument said the policy cover will end on 30 June 2023. However, it said if Mr F is made 
redundant before the end of August 2023, he can make a claim and it will make an ex gratia 
payment to him. 
Unhappy with the response, Mr F brought his complaint to this service. He said hes likely to 
be made redundant at some point between September and December 2023. 
An investigator here looked into what had happened. They said they didnt think Monument 
had done anything wrong. And said its offer to make an ex-gratia payment towards a claim 
for a redundancy taking place within two months of the cover ending, was fair. 
Monument made no comment on the investigators view. However, Mr F disagreed and 
asked for a decision from an ombudsman. In summary he said he thought it was unfair that 
Monument could stop offering a product he had been paying into for many years. And he 
said he didnt think his personal circumstances had been taken into account. He said the 
insurer had said he could take out alternative cover, but in his position he cannot. 
And so, the case has been passed to me to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
And Ive looked at the relevant rules and industry guidelines, which say Monument has a 
responsibility to communicate in a way which is clear fair and not misleading. And must act 
honestly and fairly.
Mr F has referred to the Consumer Duty. This was introduced on 31 July 2023 and isnt 
retrospective. So it doesnt apply to this case, as the event complained about happened 
before this was introduced. I will consider the rules and standards that were in place at the 
time instead, as above. 
Having reviewed this complaint, I dont think Monument has done anything wrong. And Ill 
explain why. 
The policy terms allow Monument to cancel the cover and say it must provide 30 
days notice. 
Im satisfied Monument gave adequate notice by writing to Mr F on 10 May 2023, 
before his cover was cancelled on 30 June 2023. 
I appreciate Mr F would have preferred to have continued with his unemployment 
cover as he expected when he took it out. However, we cannot interfere with a 
commercial decision taken by a business to no longer offer an insurance product. 
And as Ive stated above, the policy terms provide the insurer with the right to cancel. 
Monuments letters gave information about taking out alternative policies elsewhere. I 
understand in Mr Fs particular circumstances, hes said cant take out new 
unemployment cover, as hes already aware that he is going to be made redundant. 
However, Im not persuaded Monument has done anything wrong in providing this 
generic information to all of its customers, when it gave notice of cancellation. 
Mr F has said his personal circumstances havent been considered, as he will be 
made redundant by the end of this year, and that will have a significant impact on him 
and his family. However, I think Monument has considered this, as it has made an 
offer to consider a claim after the policy cover ended on 30 June. It said it would 
consider a claim if Mr F is made redundant by the end of August 2023, and that it 
would offer an ex gratia payment. 
As Ive not found that Monument has done anything wrong, I wouldnt direct it to 
consider any claim after the end of the policy. And I think the fact that it has offered to 
do so, shows it is acting fairly towards Mr F. I note from what Mr F has said, that its 
unlikely that he will be made redundant by the end of August 2023, and that it could 
be any time up until the end of 2023. However, as Monument isnt required to 
consider any claims after 30 June 2023, I wont be asking it to extend its offer beyond 
the end of August 2023. 
I think Monument made a legitimate commercial decision that it no longer wanted to offer 
this particular policy. This decision was applied across all policyholders and Mr F was given 
adequate notice of it. I appreciate Mr F now finds himself in a very difficult position, without 
cover for his impending redundancy, but I cant reasonably conclude that Monument acted 
unfairly.My final decision
For the reasons Ive given, its my final decision that I do not uphold this complaint. And I 
make no award against Monument Life Insurance DAC. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr F to accept or 
reject my decision before 19 September 2023.
 
Gemma Warner
Ombudsman