DRN-4300237
The complaint
Mr D, on behalf of himself and the estate of the late Mrs D, has complained that Nationwide 
Building Society mis-sold them a mortgage payment protection insurance (PPI) policy.
What happened
Mr and Mrs D originally arranged their mortgage in 1988 but did not buy PPI at that time. It 
was in 1993, when taking out a further advance, that they were sold PPI. Although it was a 
joint mortgage, the PPI was set up to cover Mr D only.
Our adjudicator didnt uphold the complaint. Mr D disagrees with the adjudicators opinion 
and so the complaint has been passed to me for a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding this case.
Ive decided not to uphold Mr D and the estate of the late Mrs Ds complaint and Ill explain 
why.
Nationwide no longer has any of the sales documents from the time, which is not surprising 
given how long ago it took place. In reaching my decision I have looked at the evidence we 
do have, together with what I consider is most likely to have happened.
From what we know of Nationwides sales process at the time, the PPI would normally have 
been presented as optional and I havent seen anything that would lead me to conclude that 
something different happened in this case.
The sale was a long time ago and so it wouldnt be surprising if Mr Ds recollection of events 
has faded.
Mr D says they converted their mortgage from an endowment to a repayment mortgage and 
were told at that time that the needed to have PPI cover. But from the information Ive seen, 
they arranged the PPI when taking out a further advance in 1993. They didnt convert the 
mortgage to a repayment mortgage until 2000.
Ive no doubt that Mr D has provided his genuine recollection of events. But, based on the 
available evidence, I think it is more likely than not that the PPI was presented as optional. I 
consider that Mr and Mrs D probably decided to buy it, knowing that they didnt have to, even 
if Mr D no longer remembers doing so.
This was a non-advised sale, meaning that Nationwide didnt need to ensure that the policy 
was suitable for Mr and Mrs D. But it still needed to provide sufficient information for them to 
be able to make an informed choice about whether or not the PPI was right for them.
I think they would have known something about the policy  that it would have covered their 
mortgage repayments if Mr D was unable to work  because I doubt theyd have decided to 
buy it without knowing anything at all about it.
Mr D would have received sick pay from his employer. But the policy would have paid out in 
addition to this and potentially for longer than he would have received full pay for. The 
couple had some savings. But having the PPI would have meant that they could retain these 
or use them to cover other outgoings at what would have been a difficult time.
Its possible that Nationwide didnt provide as much information as it should have about the 
policy, particularly about the things that it didnt cover. But Mr D wasnt affected by any of 
those things. For example, he didnt have a pre-existing medical condition that might have 
been excluded under the policy terms. As I consider that Mr and Mrs D had an interest in the 
policy and decided to buy it, I dont think that further information would have caused them to 
change their minds.
This means that Nationwide doesnt have to pay back all of the cost of the PPI to Mr D and 
the estate of Mrs D. But Nationwide had offered to pay back some of the cost of the PPI 
because:
When the policy was sold, Nationwide expected to get a high level of commission 
and profit share (more than 50% of the PPI premium)  so it should have told Mr and 
Mrs D about that. Because Nationwide didnt tell them, that was unfair.
To put that right, Nationwide had offered to pay back the amount of commission and 
profit share that was above 50% of the PPI premium  and I think that is fair in this 
case.
I understand that Mr D received his part of the payment in 2019. However, because he didnt 
return the indemnity form in relation to the redress for the estate of Mrs D, that payment 
remains outstanding. Mr D would need to contact Nationwide to discuss if it would be willing 
to honour the offer to the estate of Mrs D now, subject to Mr D completing the necessary 
forms.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, my decision is that I do not uphold the complaint about the 
PPI being mis-sold.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr D and the 
estate of Mrs D to accept or reject my decision before 27 September 2023. 
Carole Clark
Ombudsman