DRN-2348139
The complaint
This complaints about an equity release lifetime mortgage that the late Mrs S took out 
(jointly with her husband, who died in 2003) on the advice of Aviva Life & Pensions UK 
Limited in 2002. Mrs S then extended the mortgage in 2006. The complaint is that the 
lifetime mortgage and further advance were mis-sold. The complaint has been brought by 
Mrs S daughter as executor of Mrs S estate.
What happened
In what follows, I have summarised events in rather less detail than has been presented, 
using my own words. No discourtesys intended by that; its a reflection of the informal 
service we provide, and if I dont mention something, it wont be because Ive ignored it. Itll 
be because I didnt think it was material to the outcome of the complaint. 
This approach is consistent with what our enabling legislation requires of me. It allows me to 
focus on the issues on which I consider a fair outcome will turn, and not be side-tracked by 
matters which in my view will have little or no impact on the broader outcome. 
Also, a significant part of the estates wider dispute with Aviva (in particular, how Aviva dealt 
with Mrs S son  whom Ill refer to as Mr S - who continued to occupy the property after 
Mrs S died) has been the subject of a separate agreement between the parties. It doesnt 
form part of our remit to consider those matters.
Mrs S and her husband took the mortgage out in 2002; it replaced an earlier equity release 
mortgage that was initially included in this complaint but which doesnt fall within our remit. In 
2006, after her husband died, Mrs S took out a further advance. 
The terms of the mortgage provide that no monthly repayments are required. The intention is 
that the mortgage is due to be repaid if the last surviving borrower goes into full-time nursing 
care or after their death. It can be repaid voluntarily before either of those events have 
happened, but then an ERC is payable. 
Interest on the loan is rolled up into the outstanding balance, and is compounded until the 
debt is repaid. All of this means that if the loan runs for a number of years, there can be a 
significant balance to be repaid. 
Mrs S died in 2010. The executor brought the complaint in 2019; the reason given for the 
delay was that the executor was unaware the mortgage existed until then, so hadnt notified 
Aviva Mrs S had died. Our investigator didnt recommend the complaint be upheld; the 
executor asked for the case to be referred to an ombudsman for review. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ill make some general observations before dealing with the specifics of the complaint.
As I said earlier, if I dont comment on any specific point its not because Ive failed to 
consider it but because I dont think I need to comment on it in order to reach what I think is 
the right outcome in the wider context. My remit is to take an overview and decide whats fair 
in the round. 
Were not the regulator of financial businesses, and we dont police their internal processes 
or how they operate generally. Thats the job of the Financial Conduct Authority.  We deal 
with individual disputes between businesses and their customers. In doing that, we dont 
replicate the work of the courts. Were impartial, and we dont take either sides instructions 
on how we investigate a complaint, or when we have enough information on file to decide it.
Under our rules, we can consider a complaint from a consumer. Mr and Mrs S were 
consumers, and so met the definition of an eligible complainant set out in our rules. 
Following Mr S death, Mrs S became sole eligible complainant, and then following her 
death, the eligibility to complain vested in her estate. 
The rules say that a complaint may be brought on behalf of an eligible complainant by a 
person authorised by the eligible complainant or authorised by law. In this respect, the 
executor is bringing the complaint on the estates behalf.
But I must explain that, although the executor is representing Mrs S estate, it is Mrs S who 
was Avivas customer at the time of her death. The executors role is to bring the complaint 
on the estates behalf, in the same way that other consumers might instruct a solicitor or 
accountant to represent them in a complaint. But this does not entitle the executor to air her 
own grievances (or those of Mr S) about Aviva, because she and Mr S are not its customers; 
the executors role is limited to putting forward the estates complaint.
A great deal of debate has gone into assessing where the demarcation point lies between 
the sale of the mortgage and further advance, and the estates wider dispute (dealt with 
separately between the parties) about how Aviva has handled matters and treated Mrs S 
son since it was informed of her death. In particular, Im conscious that the executor is very 
concerned over the validity or otherwise of Mr S occupancy status; she believes that the 
way this was carried out forms part of the sale of the mortgage.
I dont agree that the occupancy situation and how it was executed in 2002 forms part of the 
sale of the mortgage or its suitability for Mr and/or Mrs S; insofar as it goes to Avivas 
security for the money it was lending, its more a procedural matter to do with underwriting 
and risk management. In any event, a remedy for that is included in the settlement 
agreement to which I alluded earlier, so its not matter for me either way.
In this decision I have looked at the sale of the mortgage (in terms of what was regarded as 
good industry practice at the relevant times) and considered generally whether Aviva did 
anything wrong when the mortgage was taken out, and then extended. 
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. If the available evidence is incomplete 
and/or contradictory, we reach our findings on what we consider is most likely to have 
happened, on the balance of probabilities. Thats broadly the same test that the courts use in 
civil cases.
The starting position here is the point of sale documentation from 2002 and 2006. The value 
of such documents is that theyre contemporaneous; so they should reflect what was said 
and agreed at the relevant time. Theyre not fool-proof, of course; its always possible information might be recorded 
incorrectly; but its typically more reliable than peoples individual recollections at a distance 
of time which, although given in good faith, can sometimes be inaccurate or contradictory. 
So unless theres a compelling reason to believe the information is inaccurate, well 
generally attach some weight to it.
On both occasions, the information-gathering exercise identified specific financial objectives. 
It also indicated, again on both occasions, that Mr and Mrs S (Mrs S alone in 2006) were in 
need of some form of borrowing if they were to be able to realise those stated objectives.
So Ive next considered whether something other than a lifetime mortgage would have been 
a better option. Given the overall financial circumstances that prevailed at both times, it 
shouldnt be assumed that they would have been accepted for another traditional mortgage, 
given their age. 
This, combined with my earlier finding that some borrowing was necessary, meant that 
equity release (which required no monthly repayment) was probably the only viable option 
for Mrs S and her husband in 2002 (Mrs S alone in 2006) given the circumstances recorded 
at the time. Whether the plans for the money being raised came to fruition after the mortgage 
was arranged doesnt affect the suitability or otherwise of the advice given at the time.
Before the 2002 mortgage could proceed, Mr and Mrs S were required to have independent 
advice from a solicitor, who certified that the terms of the mortgage had been explained to 
Mr and Mrs S. 
I think that if there were any concerns that Mr and Mrs S didnt understand the nature and 
effect of what they were signing, the solicitor wouldnt have provided the certification and 
allowed them to proceed. There was no requirement for a similar certification to be executed 
for the further advance in 2006.
Lastly, there is the matter of the accrued interest since Mrs S died in 2010, and the extent to 
which that has eroded the equity position. Im not sure what blame or criticism can be 
attached to Aviva on that; its common ground that it wasnt informed of Mrs S death until 
2019. The executors explanation for that is that neither she nor Mrs S son were aware the 
mortgage existed. 
I mentioned earlier the balance of probabilities test that Im required to apply. It doesnt seem 
likely to me that none of the annual statements that Aviva sent out were delivered 
successfully to the mortgaged property, where Mr S lives; on the balance of probabilities, I 
find that most if not all of them would have been. That invites the question of why Mr S would 
not have passed those statements on to the executor to open. 
Ive also seen a contemporaneous entry in Avivas contact records from 2006; in which its 
noted that a phone call had been received informing Aviva that Mrs S husband had died in 
2003. The note describes the caller as the deceaseds daughter.
My final decisionI dont uphold this complaint. My final decision concludes this services consideration of this 
complaint, which means Ill not be engaging in any further consideration or discussion of the 
merits of it.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask the estate of Ms S 
to accept or reject my decision before 10 February 2021. 
Jeff Parrington
Ombudsman