DRN-3465931
The complaint
Mr and Mrs M complain because Great Lakes Insurance SE (Great Lakes) hasnt paid a 
claim for a cancelled holiday under their travel insurance policy. 
All references to Great Lakes include the agents it has appointed to administer claims on its 
behalf. 
What happened
Mr and Mrs M held an annual travel insurance policy, provided by Great Lakes.
Mr and Mrs M were due to travel abroad in September 2020, on a trip that was booked as a
package. Theyd paid a deposit for their trip and the balance of over £12,000 was due to be
paid in June 2020.
Unfortunately, on 15 March 2020, the UKs Foreign, Commonwealth & Development Office
(FCDO  formerly the Foreign & Commonwealth Office (FCO)) announced that it was
advising against all but essential travel to Mr and Mrs Ms intended destination due to the
circumstances surrounding Covid-19.
Anticipating that theyd be unable to travel, Mr and Mrs M cancelled their trip on 17 March
2020. They made a claim under their policy with Great Lakes for their non-refundable
deposit.
Great Lakes initially said Mr and Mrs M should contact it again in September 2020, within 48
hours of their intended departure date. Great Lakes said, if the FCDO was still advising
against all but essential travel at that point, it would consider the claim.
Mr and Mrs M contacted Great Lakes again in September 2020. The FCDO was, at that
time, still advising against all but essential travel to their intended destination. However,
Great Lakes said the claim wasnt covered. Great Lakes said this was because Mr and Mrs
Ms policy didnt cover the following:
You cancelling or cutting short your trip because of:
your disinclination to travel: or
your loss of enjoyment of the trip: or
reasons which are unnecessary and avoidable.
Unhappy, Mr and Mrs M complained to Great Lakes before bringing the matter to the
attention of our service.
One of our investigators looked into what had happened but said he didnt think Great Lakes
had acted unfairly or unreasonably by declining Mr and Mrs Ms claim. This was because he
said their policy contained an exclusion relating to costs which are recoverable from another
source and, if Mr and Mrs M hadnt cancelled their trip themselves, its likely their package
travel provider would have done so instead  thereby legally entitling Mr and Mrs M to a
refund from their travel provider.
Mr and Mrs M didnt agree with our investigators opinion, so their complaint was referred to 
me. I made my provisional decision about this complaint in April 2022. In it, I said:
Industry rules set out by the regulator (the Financial Conduct Authority) say insurers must
handle claims fairly and shouldnt unreasonably reject a claim. Ive taken these rules into
account when deciding what I think is fair and reasonable in the circumstances of Mr and
Mrs Ms complaint.
Mr and Mrs Ms policy is an all-risks insurance policy. This means the policy, unlike many
other travel insurance policies on the market, doesnt specifically list all the insured perils
that are covered. Instead, the limits of the cover available are defined by the exclusions set
out in the policy.
Mr and Mrs Ms policy says:
We will pay you up to the amount shown in your policy Schedule for your share of
any irrecoverable unused travel and accommodation  charges which you have paid
or are contracted to pay  This must be as a direct and necessary result of any
cause outside of your control, which was unforeseen at the start date of your policy
or at the time of booking your trip, whichever is the later.
So, I think Mr and Mrs Ms claim for cancelling a holiday due to a change in FCDO travel
advice is covered under their policy, unless Great Lakes can demonstrate that an exclusion
applies.
Great Lakes originally said Mr and Mrs M claim wasnt covered because of the policy
exclusion which Ive quoted above relating to disinclination to travel, loss of enjoyment or
reasons which are unnecessary and avoidable.
I dont think either of the first two reasons listed within this policy exclusion apply to the
circumstances of Mr and Mrs Ms claim. Im satisfied that the reason their trip was cancelled
was because of the FCDO travel advice introduced as a consequence of the Covid-19 
pandemic and not because of any disinclination to travel or potential worries about loss of
enjoyment of the trip on the part of Mr and Mrs M. And, I dont think its fair or reasonable in
the circumstances for Great Lakes to conclude that it was unnecessary and avoidable for Mr
and Mrs M to cancel their trip when they did.
Mr and Mrs M may well have ended up in a position where they would have been entitled to
a full refund for the holiday from their travel provider if they hadnt cancelled when they did.
However, the terms and conditions of their policy dont prescribe any time-period
surrounding the intended travel dates within which a policyholder should cancel their trip in
the event of the FCDO advising against travel. And, none of the policy exclusions relating to
cancellation cover refer to a package holiday.
Neither do the policy terms and conditions require a policyholder to contact Great Lakes
before cancelling a holiday in such circumstances. Furthermore, the cancellation section of
Mr and Mrs Ms policy refers to the policyholder being required to notify their travel provider
of cancellation immediately.
Mr and Mrs M cancelled their trip following a change in FCDO advice and, aware that a
significant amount of money remained outstanding, attempted to mitigate their financial lossconsiderably in doing so. Neither Mr and Mrs M nor Great Lakes could have predicted how
the events that surrounded Covid-19 would unfold. So, overall, I dont think Mr and Mrs M
were unreasonable in acting as they did.
Based on the very specific circumstances of this individual complaint  including the policy
wording as a whole  I dont think its fair or reasonable for Great Lakes to rely on the policy
exclusion relating to unnecessary and avoidable cancellation to decline Mr and Mrs Ms
claim.
Our investigator said he didnt think Mr and Mrs Ms claim was covered under their policy
because of the following policy exclusion:
Any costs incurred by you, which are recoverable from the company providing the
accommodation or for which you receive or are expected to receive compensation or
reimbursement.
Mr and Mrs Ms travel provider has, as far as Im aware, no obligation to refund their deposit
to them in these circumstances. So, the costs they are claiming for are not recoverable from
another source. It may have been the case that, if Mr and Mrs M hadnt cancelled when they
did and had waited for their travel provider to cancel instead, that the full cost of the holiday
would have been recoverable from another source. But the above policy exclusion only
excludes claims for costs which are recoverable from another source, so I dont think the
exclusion applies to the circumstances of Mr and Mrs Ms claim.
Therefore, for the reasons Ive set out above, I currently intend to uphold Mr and Mrs Ms
complaint.
Mr and Mrs M accepted my provisional decision. They reiterated that theyd read their policy 
terms and conditions before cancelling their holiday and said their decision wasnt made 
from fear or panic. 
Great Lakes didnt accept my provisional decision. It said there was no need for Mr and Mrs 
M to cancel their holiday in March 2020, when the initial FCDO advice only covered up until 
the end of April 2020, their holiday balance wasnt due until June 2020 and their holiday 
wasnt taking place until September 2020. Great Lakes said it wasnt necessary for Mr and 
Mrs M to cancel their trip when they did, and there was clear disinclination to travel on their 
part. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive taken all Great Lakes comments into account, but I wont be changing my provisional 
decision. The Financial Ombudsman Service considers complaints based on what we think 
is fair and reasonable in the individual circumstances and Im not bound by any previous 
decisions of our service which may involve different policy wordings, different facts and 
different submissions by the parties involved. 
I agree with Great Lakes that there was no way of predicting in March 2020 what the Covid-
19 landscape would be in September 2020. And, I accept that the FCDO advice against all 
but essential travel issued on 17 March 2020 was only in force for a period of 30 days 
initially. There may be certain circumstances when Id agree that a similar timeline 
demonstrated a disinclination to travel by a policyholder which had unfairly disadvantaged an 
insurer. But Mr and Mrs Ms policy provides cover for all-risks and the policy terms dont require 
them to wait until a certain period of time before their intended travel date to cancel a holiday 
due to changes in FCDO advice. Even if Mr and Mrs M had waited to cancel their holiday 
until the balance was due in June 2020, theyd still have been left in the same position that 
they ultimately found themselves in. 
Im satisfied, based on Mr and Mrs Ms evidence, that their holiday wasnt cancelled because 
of a disinclination to travel. And, also taking into account their evidence, the specific facts of 
their complaint and the wording of their policy, I dont think its fair or reasonable for Great 
Lakes to decline their claim based on the policy exclusion relating to unnecessary or 
avoidable cancellation. 
If Mr and Mrs M had waited for their travel provider to cancel their holiday, then theyd have 
received a refund from their travel provider under the Package Travel and Linked Travel 
Arrangements 2018. But, considering the wording of their policy as well as the amount of 
money involved, I dont think they acted unreasonably by cancelling their trip when they did. 
So, for the reasons Ive set out in my provisional decision, I dont think the policy exclusion 
relating to costs which are recoverable from elsewhere applies to their claim either.  
Putting things right
Great Lakes Insurance SE should put things right by accepting Mr and Mrs Ms claim under 
the cancellation section of their policy, subject to any applicable policy limits and/or 
excesses.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold Mr and Mrs Ms complaint and I direct Great Lakes 
Insurance SE to put things right in the way Ive outlined above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs M and Mr M to 
accept or reject my decision before 6 June 2022.
 
Leah Nagle
Ombudsman