DRN-3950243
The complaint
Mr C complains that when his dog had surgery Casualty & General Insurance Company 
(Europe) Ltd made deductions from his vets bill, as they said theyd only cover the market 
average amount of general anaesthetic. And they refused to cover the cost of fluid therapy 
which his vet said they use in every surgery.
What happened
Mr C has insurance for his dog with C&G. His policy started on 22 December 2021 and 
provides £3,000 cover for vets fees subject to a policy excess of £99.
In February 2022 Mr C took his dog to the vet as he was being sick, struggling to breathe at 
night and his sleep was disturbed. He was diagnosed with Brachycephalic Obstructive 
Airway Syndrome (BOAS) and required surgery. He had his surgery on 28 March 2022 and 
Mr C paid his vets bill of £1,790.91.
Mr C submitted a claim to C&G for this amount. On 5 May 2022 Mr C was advised by C&G 
that his claim had been assessed and accepted. But they were only prepared to pay 
£1,297.96, as in addition to Mr Cs policy excess, theyd made the following deductions: -
Admission/Discharge fees £16.63
Buster Collar £10.68
Fluid Therapy £113.95
General Anaesthetic Over £250 £252.69 
They said Mr Cs policy didnt cover administration fees charged by his vet or the cost of a 
buster collar, and he accepts this.
C&G also said it didnt cover the cost of fluid therapy, as they regarded this as elective or 
preventative treatment in a dog younger than eight. And they allow £250 for the cost of 
general anaesthetic, this cost having been deemed a reasonable fee based on their own 
statistical research. 
Mr Cs vet emailed C&G on 6 May 2022 saying that they routinely give IV fluids during BOAS 
surgery, due to potential blood loss and to prevent blood pressure drops or hypovolemia 
(loss of body fluids). And fluids are also used with prolonged general anaesthetic to assist 
patient recovery. 
Mr C also told C&G that hed spoken to his vet about the £250 limit theyd put on general 
anaesthetic, and the vet couldnt understand where this figure came from, as every 
procedure requires a different amount, depending on the complexity and length of the 
surgery.
Mr C wasnt happy with the deductions C&G had made in relation to the cost of fluid therapy 
and general anaesthetic and raised a complaint. 
C&G issued their final response to Mr Cs complaint on 28 June 2022. They didnt uphold his 
complaint. They said that his policy clearly stated in Section 1  Veterinary Fees that they 
didnt cover
Any claim for cosmetic, elective, or routine Treatment or any Treatment which is 
preventative and not treating an Illness of Accidental Injury, including or not limited to the 
following:
Any claim costs where routine Treatment is carried out as part of a wider Treatment.
And in Section 9  General Exclusions
We will not pay claims for any of the following reasons:
Vets Fees will only be paid if they are: - Reasonable and Essential for Your pets 
health and well-being. 
Each and every claim will be reviewed by Our claims assessors and costs will be 
compared against charges for the same or similar Treatment to make sure that the 
Treatment and veterinary fees are reasonable, Necessary, essential, and not 
excessive compared to the rest of the UK market.
They said Mr C was provided with the full terms and conditions when he took out his policy 
and had accepted them, as they hadnt received any notification that he wished to cancel his 
policy. 
C&G regard fluid therapy as a routine treatment, which they would only cover if there were 
extenuating circumstances, such as the fluids being required to save the pets life and they 
wouldnt have survived without this additional treatment. And as the vets notes from the 
surgery hadnt said Mr Cs dog was ever in critical condition, they believed theyd correctly 
deducted the fluid costs.
In respect of the cost of general anaesthetic they said that as insurers they reserve the right 
to pay only reasonable costs. And recent research had shown that £250 was a reasonable 
fee for general anaesthetic. 
Mr C wasnt happy with C&Gs response and complained to our service. Our investigator 
considered the case, and asked C&G to provide evidence of the research theyd relied on to 
say that £250 was a reasonable figure to cover the general anaesthetic required for BOAS 
surgery. C&G didnt provide any evidence. They simply said that this figure was based on 
the standard fees they were regularly presented with.
Our investigator provided her opinion and upheld Mr Cs complaint. She said C&G hadnt 
been able to provide evidence to show the amount Mr Cs vet had charged for general 
anaesthetic was unreasonable. And the amount required would be dependent on the size of 
the dog, his breed, his weight, and the length of the surgery.
She also felt theyd unfairly declined the claim for the cost of fluid therapy, as she didnt 
believe Mr C would have known from his policy that this wouldnt be covered. And Mr Cs vet 
had said the fluid therapy was essential. So it wasnt a separate routine treatment it was 
part of the surgery, and the dog wouldnt have required it if he wasnt having surgery.
So she said C&G should pay the full fluid therapy and general anaesthetic costs together 
with 8% interest.Mr C accepted our investigators opinion, but C&G didnt. They didnt provide any further 
evidence but did say theyd previously provided the wrong policy terms and conditions, and 
his policy wording about the cover provided for fluid therapy was different. 
Our investigator considered this, but said it didnt change her opinion, as Mr Cs vet 
considered the fluid therapy to be an essential part of his dogs BOAS surgery.
The case has now come to me for a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
There are two elements of Mr Cs vets fees which I need to consider. The charges for fluid 
therapy and those for general anaesthetic.
Im going to consider the cost of general anaesthetic first. C&G have said theyre only 
prepared to pay £250 as they consider this to be a reasonable cost based on statistical 
research. When we asked them to provide this research they didnt, and simply said this 
figure was based on the standard fee theyre presented with.
Im not persuaded by this. They havent provided any evidence to suggest that the fee 
charged by Mr Cs vet was unreasonable. The vet has said that every surgery requires a 
different amount of general anaesthetic. I accept this as every surgery is going to differ in the 
time it takes, and its complexity, which is going to affect the amount of anaesthetic required. 
As will the dogs breed, size, and weight. And the person best placed to assess what is 
required is the vet carrying out the surgery. So I dont think it was reasonable for C&G to cap 
the amount of the general anaesthetic they were prepared to pay for.
Turning to the fee charged for fluid therapy, C&G have told us that theres been a change in 
the terms and conditions of Mr Cs policy. But I dont think this is correct. 
C&G say the policy now includes the following exclusion in relation to fluid therapy: -
Any costs in excess of £100 and/or greater than 24 hours relating to intravenous infusion for 
pets younger than 8 unless directly related to treatment that was life-saving for Your pet and 
Your Vet confirms this to Us.
Ive considered the copy of his policy Mr C provided when he referred his complaint to us, 
and it includes this term as part of the list of treatments which arent covered by the policy.
I dont think this exclusion is clear, particularly when considered in relation to the cost of fluid 
therapy given during surgery. Having read this exclusion I dont think Mr C would have 
known that fluid therapy given by his vet during surgery wouldnt be covered.
And its important to note that this wasnt the basis on which the claim for the cost of fluid 
therapy was declined. It was declined as C&G said it was routine treatment carried out as 
part of a wider treatment.
So is this correct? Mr Cs dog was having BOAS surgery. His vet told C&G in May 2022 that 
they give IV fluids during this surgery due to potential blood and fluid loss, to prevent blood 
pressure drops and to assist recovery after prolonged general anaesthetic. And the vet had 
told Mr C that they wouldnt do the surgery without fluid therapy.I dont accept C&Gs view that the fluid therapy was a routine treatment, which was part of a 
wider treatment. Mr Cs dog was having surgery which required the use of fluid therapy. He 
wouldnt have needed this if he wasnt having surgery, and the surgery couldnt go ahead 
without it. So Im persuaded that the fluid therapy was an essential part of the surgery, not a 
separate routine treatment. 
Im persuaded that Mr Cs vet gave IV fluids during his dogs surgery to ensure he came 
safely through the surgery to aid his recovery afterwards. So in this respect the fluids can be 
regarded as lifesaving. And C&G havent provided any evidence to suggest otherwise, so I 
require them to cover this cost.
Mr C has told us about the impact the way in which C&G dealt with his claim has had on 
him. And I accept this. I let the parties know that I intended to require C&G to pay £150 
compensation for the distress and inconvenience their handling of his claim has caused Mr 
C. 
C&G have responded saying that theyve reviewed the case and theyre prepared to pay the 
costs they previously deducted for the cost of general anaesthetic and fluid. But they dont 
agree to pay Mr C £150 for distress and inconvenience as they responded to his complaint 
within eight weeks and they responded to our requests for information promptly.
Im not considering how C&G handled Mr Cs complaint. Im considering how they handed 
his claim. Theyve now agreed to pay the full cost of the general anaesthetic and the fluid 
therapy used during his dogs surgery. But they had the opportunity to do this much earlier 
as Mr Cs vet contacted them in May 2022 about the use of fluid therapy. And Mr C also told 
them his vet didnt understand the limit theyd put on general anaesthetic, as each surgery 
required a different amount.
So Im satisfied that the way in which C&G have handled Mr Cs claim has caused him 
distress and inconvenience. And I require them to pay him £150 compensation for the 
impact this has had on him. 
My final decision
For the reasons set out above my final decision is that I uphold Mr Cs complaint about 
Casualty & General Insurance Company (Europe) Ltd. 
To put things right I require them to cover the full cost of the general anaesthetic and fluid 
therapy used during his dogs BOAS surgery. Together with 8% simple interest on the 
amount paid by Mr C from the date of payment until payment is received by him.
And to pay Mr C £150 compensation for the distress and inconvenience their handling of his 
claim has caused him.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 23 June 2023.
 
Patricia O'Leary
Ombudsman