DRN-3493898
The complaint
Mr C has complained about the service provided by British Gas Insurance Limited (British 
Gas) under his home care policy following a leak.
There were other representatives involved in this complaint on behalf British Gas. For ease 
of reference however, I will only refer to British Gas in this decision. Both Mr and Mrs C have 
been involved in this complaint, however as the named policyholder, I refer to Mr C only. 
 
What happened
Mr C noticed a leak causing staining and damp on the utility room ceiling of his home in 
December 2020. Mr C had a policy in place with British Gas at the relevant time and he 
reported the leak.
British Gas responded to the incident by testing an area of the ceiling for asbestos and 
removing part of the ceiling. Various British Gas representatives attended during the 
following months, and Mr C said that they caused further damage. It was eventually found 
that the leak had been caused by failed shower seals.
Mr C complained that the damage caused by British Gas hadnt been rectified. He thought 
that if British Gas had sent an experienced plumber in the first instance, that damage 
wouldnt have happened. Mr C was dissatisfied with the length of time it took to identify the 
issue, as well as the level of service. He said that British Gas hadnt always responded to 
emails or telephone calls. He said the handling of the issue had led to stress and anxiety.
British Gas then made an offer of compensation in the sum of £250 as a goodwill gesture. 
This was declined by Mr C and a final response letter was issued in March 2022 with an 
offer of £500 in compensation for service failings, however Mr C didnt think that this covered 
the damage caused to his home and wasted time and he therefore complained to our 
service.
Our investigator upheld Mr Cs complaint and considered that the compensation offered by 
British Gas didnt provide a fair and reasonable level of compensation. She considered that 
£750 would be more appropriate. She identified several delays and didnt think it was 
reasonable to expect a consumer to have to continually contact a business to get a claim 
moved on. She said that having a hole in the ceiling, having to repeatedly chase British Gas 
and having to deal with the uncertainty, caused unnecessary inconvenience and distress.
British Gas accepted our investigators view however Mr C wanted the level of compensation 
to be increased further as he thought that the stress, worry, and loss was worthy of this. The 
matter has now been referred to me to make a final decision in my role as Ombudsman.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
My role is to decide if British Gas acted unfairly or unreasonably in relation to this complaint. 
Ive concluded that it did, however I consider that British Gas has now responded in a fair 
and reasonable manner. Its accepted our investigators view that it should pay 
compensation of £750 to Mr C to recognise the impact of its errors. Ill explain how Ive 
reached this conclusion.
Firstly, the timeline set out by our investigator is summarised as follows: -
December 2020. Claim made by Mr C.
December 2020 British Gas stated asbestos check needed.
February 2021. Mr C chased.
February 2021. British Gas appointed representatives.
Representative attended shortly after.
March 2021. Mr C chased.
End March 2021. Further representative attended. Leak not traced.
End March 2021. Mr C made complaint.
April 2021. Mr C chased
April 2021. Further representative attended. Traced leak to toilet.
Towards end April 2021. Mr C chased.
End April 2021. Rep removed tiles, unsealed toilet, chipped cistern. 
End April 2021. Mr C complained again. If reasonable cost, tiles would be paid for.
Beginning May 2021. Appointment cancelled that day.
Beginning May 2021. Rep said leak was coming from shower seals, not the toilet.
Mid May 2021. Representative said cause needed proper assessment.
End May 2021. Representative attended. Found cause of leak. Part re-seal of toilet.
End May 2021. Problem identified as issue with shower tile grouting for Mr C to fix.
Mid July 2021. Above work completed.
July 2021. E-mail exchange. Would mend access hole and pay towards the cistern. 
July 2021. Numerous attempts at contact, Mr C said that British Gas didnt progress.
October 2021. Customer manager took over the case. Mr C explained complaints.
End October 2021. Plastering and replacement of damaged toilet scheduled.
Beginning November 2021. Mr C complained to our service.
November 2021. Work re-scheduled as Mr C didnt see previous e-mail. Plastering.
December 2021. Further work but cistern and toilet not fixed.
Mid December 2021. Problems sourcing cistern and offered specialist repair.
End December 2021. Mr C wished to consider and re-contact in the new year.
January 2022. British Gas contacted Mr C to discuss the cistern.
Mid-January 2022. Mr C accepted repair to cistern and toilet.
End January 2022. Toilet repaired.
Mid-February 2022. Cistern confirmed as fixed.
Secondly, as to the policy terms and conditions, British Gas referred to relevant documents 
which provided: In addition to the cost of parts and labour, our insurance products and our 
non-insurance service and repair warranty products cover up to £1,000 including VAT for 
getting access and making good. The documents also stated that it; wont be responsible 
for repairing any pre-existing damage, nor will we replace or restore the original surface or 
coverings, for example, tiles. As to what is not covered, this also includes Showers and 
their parts, shower pumps, sanitary ware, spa baths, seals and grouting...
It was eventually established that it was failure of shower grouting that was the cause of the 
leak. British Gas nevertheless recognised its service failings in dealing with this matter. It 
stated that by December 2021 it had completed the remedial work requested by Mr C, with 
the exception of the cistern, which they were discussing with him. At this point, they said that Mr C was happy with the way things were progressing as follows; Your colleague was the 
same man who did the plastering and was great and a credit to your team. We are satisfied 
with the work that he has done In its final response letter, British Gas accepted that it had 
caused distress and inconvenience because of the missed appointments and long waiting 
times.
In its file notes, British Gas explained the efforts made to locate the leak. These included 
checks carried out in March 2021 to the soil waste, shower trap, pipes, hot and cold feeds, 
basin trap and pipe toilet cistern and heating pipes however no leak was detected. In a 
further report in April 2021, British Gas thought the leak was coming from a soil pipe and that 
access was needed to fix it. Then in May 2021, further tests were carried out and panels on 
the toilet were removed but no leaks were apparent, however a leak appeared when the 
shower was run upon the back-wall seals. As soon as water was run over the cracked 
grouting, water came through the ceiling. British Gas then informed Mr C that the cracked 
grouting needed to be reinstated by Mr C before it could make good the damage it had 
caused in locating the problem.
Mr C said he was looking for £5,000 in compensation for distress, anxiety, and the time hed 
taken off work. He said that hed wasted an enormous amount of his time and the incident 
had made him ill. He said that other issues which caused stress included British Gas taking 
scrapings from the ceiling in case asbestos was present, which then left dust and mess and 
if asbestos had been present, would have created a hazard. As to the hole British Gas 
created in the utility room ceiling, this exposed the boiler and fuse box. This meant that if 
there was a fire, the ceiling now offered no protection and therefore left his home in a 
dangerous situation. Mr C said workmen had been in and out of the house, not knowing 
what they were doing. He considered that the eventual diagnosis shouldve been reached 
much earlier and may not have led to the ceiling section being removed. He said that the 
chip to the toilet wasnt fixed until February 2022.
In summary, Mr C stated that the matter had been ongoing since December 2020 and had 
been totally mismanaged by British Gas. He was looking to have the ceiling fully repaired, 
the toilet cistern replaced, the area made good (this has since been resolved) as well as 
wanting compensation. The process was described as a nightmare of going backwards and 
forwards, being sent from one person to the next and lack of communication. He described 
this as an absolutely disgraceful service considering we first contacted British Gas in 
December 2020. He considered the initial offer of compensation of £250 to be insulting.
I agree with our investigators conclusions that British Gas has been responsible for 
avoidable delays and a poor standard of customer service here. I note that the repairs have 
finally been carried out, however I dont consider that the offer of compensation of £500 
made by British Gas fully recognised the distress and inconvenience experienced by Mr C in 
this matter. British Gas has however now accepted our investigators view that this amount 
should be increased to £750
I note that the claim took over a year to be fully resolved, and whilst some inconvenience 
can be expected in tracing and resolving leaks in a property, I consider this time-scale to be 
well in excess of what should reasonably be expected. British Gas recognised its failings 
however I agree with our investigator that the compensation offered was insufficient.
The timeline shows that the initial attempts to establish the cause of the leak werent 
methodical or co-ordinated. I see that Mr C needed to chase British Gas on several 
occasions. The quality of some of the work was poor and damage was caused to the kitchen 
ceiling and also to the toilet cistern in trying to find the leak. British Gas took a considerable 
time to repair this damage and to recognise the need for it to compensate Mr C adequately.
Im satisfied that the level of compensation should be raised to £750 in all the circumstances. Although £500 was paid to Mr C, I dont think this was enough to reflect his negative 
experience. I note that Mr C asked for far greater compensation, but I consider that £750 is 
the appropriate amount to reflect disruption here. Im satisfied that this sum is an appropriate 
level of compensation according to our services guidelines, where considerable distress has 
been caused and the impact lasts several months.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I uphold Mr Cs complaint and require British Gas Insurance 
Limited to pay compensation of £250 in addition to the £500 its already paid to Mr C.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 8 July 2022.
 
Claire Jones
Ombudsman