DRN-2241199
The complaint
Mr P says HSBC UK Bank plc mis-sold him a payment protection insurance (PPI) policy.
What happened
This complaint is about a regular premium PPI policy taken out with a mortgage in 1998. Mr 
P applied for the PPI at a meeting.
Our adjudicator upheld the complaint. HSBC disagreed with the adjudicators opinion so the 
complaint has been passed to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding Mr Ps case.
Ive decided to uphold Mr Ps complaint because HSBC recommended the policy to him but I 
dont think it was suitable. Mr P had been treated for a medical condition a few years before 
he took out the policy. So he wouldnt have been able to make a successful claim on the 
policy if hed had to take time off work in connection with that condition.
The relevant exclusion in the policy document says:
4. Exclusions
b. We will not pay any Monthly Benefit for a period of Accident, Sickness or Unemployment 
caused by or resulting from the following:
Any physical or mental condition or disease You knew about, or should reasonably 
have known about, on the Start Date, or which You have received treatment or 
advice for during the 12 months before the Start Date and which comes back within 
12 months of the Start Date.
Mr P received treatment for his condition more than 12 months before the start date. So 
HSBC considers the policy wording meant he wouldve been covered if hed had to take time 
off work in connection with that condition.
But I dont agree. My understanding of the wording above is that customers would not be 
covered in connection with any condition they knew about at the policy start date or any 
condition that had started in the 12 months before the start date, and came back within the 
first 12 months.
Mr P clearly knew about the condition hed been treated for when he took out the policy. Im 
not persuaded that the policy wording that referred to conditions occurring within 12 months 
of the start date was relevant to him.
Im not persuaded that Mr P wouldve been covered by the policy if hed had to take time off 
work in connection with the condition hed been treated for. As such, I dont think he would 
have bought the policy if HSBC had made it clear it wasnt suitable. So, I think Mr P has lost 
out because of what the business did wrong. 
Putting things right
HSBC should put Mr P in the position hed be in now if he hadnt taken out PPI. The policy 
should be cancelled, if it hasnt been cancelled already, and HSBC should:
Pay Mr P the amount he paid each month for the PPI.
Add simple interest to each payment from when he paid it until he gets it back. The rate 
of interest is 8% a year.
If Mr P made a successful claim under the PPI policy, HSBC can take off what he got for 
the claim from the amount it owes him.  
 HM Revenue & Customs requires HSBC to take off tax from this interest. HSBC must give 
Mr P a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if he asks for one.
My final decision
My decision is that I uphold this complaint. I direct HSBC UK Bank plc to pay compensation 
to Mr P in line with the instructions above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision before 16 December 2020.
 
Caroline Stirling
Ombudsman