DRN-3741499
The complaint
Mr S has complained about Talbot and Muir Ltd (Talbot and Muir). He says that its 
responsible for pension losses hes suffered because it failed to carry out appropriate checks 
before accepting his application for a Self-Invested Personal Pension (SIPP) and the 
investments within it.
What happened
The investigator who initially reviewed the complaint previously set out the full circumstances 
of what happened and clarified the circumstances with both parties. I will not repeat in full 
here, but I have reviewed everything and will make reference to the issues I consider to be 
central to the complaint.
Mr S previously transferred a defined benefit occupational pension into a SIPP with another 
provider. Following initial advice, he made some risky investments which performed poorly.  
He was later introduced to a discretionary fund manager (DFM) called Caldwell that 
arranged for Mr S funds to be transferred to a new SIPP with James Hay in 2007. Caldwell 
was also appointed to manage those funds as DFM.
In May 2009 Mr S applied to transfer his SIPP to Talbot and Muir, and he retained Caldwell 
as his DFM. One of Caldwells stipulations as DFM was that it must select the funds within 
the investment portfolio  and it wrote to Talbot and Muir confirming it was acting for Mr S on 
a full discretionary basis.
Mr S says Caldwell discussed some investments with him, but not others  and so he wasnt 
aware of them until much later. Between 2015 and 2017 there was a significant reduction in 
the portfolio value within Mr S SIPP and he ended his relationship with Caldwell in July 
2017.
When initially making his complaint to Talbot and Muir in 2019 Mr S explained that hed been 
let down by Caldwell but had limited success pursuing matters against it  as it was 
regulated overseas in Switzerland.  He questioned Talbot and Muirs duty to carry out due 
diligence on Caldwell and monitor the investments it made on an ongoing basis. Mr S claims 
that the overall losses he suffered over the 10 years since moving his SIPP totalled around 
£290,000.
Talbot and Muir didnt uphold Mr S complaint and responded with a number of reasons why.  
In summary it said:
Whilst it no longer approves overseas investment managers such as Caldwell, it did 
consider and approve them in 2009  particularly in circumstances where an existing 
relationship existed such as in this case.
Although Mr S says he was not a high-risk or experienced investor, his previous 
SIPP held alternative investment classes that were transferred in specie.
As a SIPP operator, Talbot and Muir is required to administer investment choices 
made by a consumer and their investment adviser, and its not permitted to make 
recommendations or check the suitability of investments for an individual.
Mr S business was accepted in 2009 before guidance and examples of good 
practice for SIPP operators was published by the regulator (the FCA).  It has always 
acted in line with or exceeded the standard of industry peers in relation to 
undertaking due diligence, but Mr S relationship with Caldwell pre-dates any 
relationship with Talbot and Muir.
Talbot and Muir wrote to Mr S in February 2015 prior to investments responsible for 
much of the losses incurred.  It raised the potential implications of continuing a 
relationship with Caldwell (following an approach by Atlas Asset Management which 
had acquired Caldwell). But Mr S took no action until 2017.
One of our investigators reviewed everything and concluded that it would not be fair and 
reasonable to uphold the complaint.  In summary, she said:
Although the business was accepted prior to the FCA publications, Talbot and Muir 
still had obligations beyond administration of Mr S SIPP under the applicable 
regulatory framework.
Those obligations include acting in a clients best interests and monitoring the type of 
business it accepted  which includes carrying out due diligence checks when 
accepting applications.
Although Talbot and Muir could have done more when it accepted Mr S SIPP 
application, it wouldnt be fair to hold it responsible for his losses.
Mr S pension was already held in a SIPP being managed by Caldwell as DFM and 
was transferred to Talbot and Muir in specie.  There was a clear record of Mr S 
permitting Caldwell to manage his funds and make investments on his behalf.
Had Talbot and Muir rejected the application at outset, the likely counterfactual 
position would have been that Caldwell would have still been making the same 
investment choices within the previous SIPP wrapper.
So, it wouldnt be fair and reasonable to hold Talbot and Muir responsible for the 
losses Mr S incurred.
Mr S acknowledged the investigators assessment but disagreed and asked for a fresh 
review by an ombudsman. He highlighted that he hadnt previously seen or signed some of 
the of pension documentation and Agreements.
As no resolution could be reached, the complaint has now been passed for me to review 
everything afresh and decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive reached much the same conclusion as the investigator  and Ill explain 
why.Its important I recognise the significant impact this situation has had upon Mr S and his 
retirement planning. I understand he feels badly let down and recognise that he relied upon 
professional advisers to manage his pension funds  and that has clearly not worked out as 
he intended.
When reaching this decision, Ive specifically considered the role and responsibilities of 
Talbot and Muir as the party this complaint is against. Im aware other businesses have been 
involved in Mr S pension and investment transactions, and whilst Ive considered that in this 
complaint, Im not making any findings about those businesses. 
In deciding what is fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of this complaint, I have 
taken into account relevant law and regulations; regulators rules, guidance and standards; 
codes of practice; and, where appropriate, what I consider to have been good industry 
practice at the relevant time.
Relevant considerations
The Principles
In my view, the FCAs Principles for Businesses are of particular relevance to my decision.
The Principles for Businesses, which are set out in the FCAs handbook are a general 
statement of the fundamental obligations of firms under the regulatory system (PRIN 
1.1.2G). And in this case, I consider that the Principles relevant to this complaint include 
Principle 2 and 6 which say:
Principle 2  Skill, care and diligence  A firm must conduct its business with due 
skill, care and diligence.
Principle 3  Management and control  A firm must take reasonable care to 
organise and control its affairs responsibly and effectively, with adequate risk 
management systems
Principle 6  Clients interests  A firm must pay due regard to the interests of its 
clients and treat them fairly. 
Ive carefully considered the relevant law and what this says about the application of the 
FCAs Principles. In R (British Bankers Association) v Financial Services Authority [2011] 
EWHC 999 (Admin) (BBA) Ouseley J said at paragraph 162:
The Principles are best understood as the ever present substrata to which the 
specific rules are added. The Principles always have to be complied with. The 
specific rules do not supplant them and cannot be used to contradict them. They are 
but specific applications of them to the particular requirement they cover. The 
general notion that the specific rules can exhaust the application of the Principles is 
inappropriate. It cannot be an error of law for the Principles to augment specific 
rules.
And at paragraph 77 of BBA Ouseley J said:
Indeed, it is my view that it would be a breach of statutory duty for the Ombudsman 
to reach a view on a case without taking the Principles into account in deciding what 
would be fair and reasonable and what redress to afford. Even if no Principles had 
been produced by the FSA, the FOS would find it hard to fulfil its particular statutory 
duty without having regard to the sort of high level Principles which find expression in the Principles, whoever formulated them. They are of the essence of what is fair 
and reasonable, subject to the argument about their relationship to specific rules.
In R (Berkeley Burke SIPP Administration Ltd) v Financial Ombudsman Service [2018] 
EWHC 2878) (BBSAL), Berkeley Burke brought a judicial review claim challenging the 
decision of an ombudsman who had upheld a consumers complaint against it. The 
ombudsman considered the FCA Principles and good industry practice at the relevant time. 
He concluded that it was fair and reasonable for Berkeley Burke to have undertaken due 
diligence in respect of the investment before allowing it into the SIPP wrapper, and that if it 
had done so, it would have refused to accept the investment. The ombudsman found 
Berkeley Burke had therefore not complied with its regulatory obligations and had not 
treated its client fairly.
Jacobs J, having set out some paragraphs of the BBA judgment including paragraph 162 
set out above, said (at paragraph 104 of BBSAL):
These passages explain the overarching nature of the Principles. As the FCA 
correctly submitted in their written argument, the role of the Principles is not merely 
to cater for new or unforeseen circumstances. The judgment in BBA shows that 
they are, and indeed were always intended to be, of general application. The aim 
of the Principles- based regulation described by Ouseley J. was precisely not to 
attempt to formulate a code covering all possible circumstances, but instead to 
impose general duties such as those set out in Principles 2 and 6.
The BBSAL judgment also considers section 228 of Financial Services & Markets Act 2000 
(FSMA) and the approach an ombudsman is to take when deciding a complaint. The 
judgment of Jacobs J in BBSAL upheld the lawfulness of the approach taken by the 
ombudsman in that complaint, which I have described above, and included the Principles 
and good industry practice at the relevant time as relevant considerations that were 
required to be taken into account.
COBS 2.1.1R 
The rule says: 
A firm must act honestly, fairly and professionally in accordance with the best 
interests of its client (the client's best interests rule).
Unlike the Principles, COBS 2.1.1R was considered by HHJ Dight in the Adams v Options 
SIPP case. Mr Adams pleaded that Options SIPP owed him a duty to comply with COBS 
2.1.1R, a breach of which, he argued, was actionable pursuant to section 138(D) of FSMA 
(the COBS claim). HHJ Dight rejected this claim and found that Options SIPP had complied 
with the best interests rule on the facts of Adams case.  
The Court of Appeal rejected Mr Adams appeal against HHJ Dights dismissal of the COBS 
claim on the basis that Mr Adams was seeking to advance a case that was radically different 
to that found in his initial pleadings. The Court found that this part of Mr Adams appeal did 
not so much represent a challenge to the grounds on which HHJ Dight had dismissed the 
COBS claim, but rather was an attempt to put forward an entirely new case). 
Overall, I am satisfied that COBS 2.1.1R remains a relevant consideration  but that it needs 
to be considered alongside the remainder of the relevant considerations, and within the 
factual context of Mr S case.   So, I have considered COBS 2.1.1R - alongside the remainder of the relevant 
considerations, and within the factual context of Mr S case, including Talbot and Muirs role 
in the transaction.  However, I think it is important to emphasise that I must determine this 
complaint by reference to what is, in my opinion, fair and reasonable in all the circumstances 
of the case.
The regulatory publications
The FCA (and its predecessor, the FSA) has issued a number of publications which 
remind SIPP operators of their obligations and set out how they might achieve the 
outcomes envisaged by the Principles.
The 2009 and 2012 thematic review reports.
The October 2013 finalised SIPP operator guidance.
The July 2014 Dear CEO letter.
As explained above, Talbot and Muir accepted Mr S business prior to these regulatory 
publications.  The publications didnt create new rules or expectations, but essentially 
provided reinforcement of existing rules and obligations, and examples of how they might be 
met. So, Ive considered these regulatory publications in their entirety in considering Mr S 
complaint.
Overall, in determining this complaint I need to consider whether Talbot and Muir complied 
with its regulatory obligations as set out by the Principles to act with due skill, care and 
diligence, to take reasonable care to organise its business affairs responsibly and 
effectively, to pay due regards to the interests of its customers (in this case Mr S), to treat 
them fairly, and to act honestly, fairly and professionally. And, in doing that, Im looking to 
the Principles and the publications listed above to provide an indication of what Talbot and 
Muir could have done to comply with its regulatory obligations and duties.
What did Talbot and Muirs obligations mean in practice?
As Ive already explained, Talbot and Muir as the SIPP operator wasnt responsible for giving 
advice to Mr S, nor could it assess the suitability of any advice Mr S had received.  But as 
set out above, Talbot and Muir did have regulatory obligations to ensure Mr S was being 
treated fairly and reasonably.
In this case, the business Talbot and Muir was conducting was its operation of SIPPs. Im 
satisfied that meeting its regulatory obligations when conducting this business would include 
deciding whether to accept or reject particular investments and/or business.
I note that Talbot and Muir have highlighted it essentially accepted the transfer of Mr S 
pension in specie.  It was a transfer from one SIPP provider to another, and Caldwell 
remained appointed as DFM and with authority to manage and invest Mr S funds. Whilst I 
recognise this would have provided some comfort to Talbot and Muir in accepting Mr S 
business, it does not mean there was no requirement to carry out due diligence checks at 
outset or maintain its obligations on an ongoing basis.
Had further checks been carried out by Talbot and Muir at outset, Ive not seen anything to 
suggest that it would have declined to accept Mr S business. Caldwell had an existing 
relationship with Mr S, and at that point there was an acceptance his investments would be managed by Caldwell and it was inferred that his pension value could fluctuate based upon 
those investment decisions.
I also note that Talbot and Muir did carry out some ongoing due diligence, as in February 
2015, following Caldwell being acquired by Atlas, a letter was sent to Mr S highlighting 
potential risks of using Caldwell as his DFM. This was prior to the most significant of Mr S 
losses.
Is Talbot and Muir responsible for Mr S loss?
As Ive detailed above, Talbot and Muir did have obligations to act in Mr S best interests and 
treat him fairly  both when accepting his business initially and when allowing later 
investments to be made.
The key issue Ive considered is whether it would be fair and reasonable for me to hold 
Talbot and Muir responsible for Mr S losses.  I dont feel that I can fairly say it is responsible 
for losses incurred as a result of the in specie SIPP transfer at outset.  Whilst I could say that 
Talbot and Muir may have undertaken further checks, I cant be sure they would have 
resulted in it decide to reject Mr S business.
In any event, had it chosen not to accept the transfer, its likely Mr S counterfactual situation 
would not have been any different.  Essentially his funds would have remained in a SIPP 
managed by Caldwell as DFM and so on balance the same investments and decisions 
would have been made  resulting in the same losses.
I appreciate Mr S says he was not aware of all the investments made by Caldwell acting as 
his DFM, and he now knows that some of his investments were not suitable for him.  
However, that position was created by, and did not change as a result of, the transfer to 
Talbot and Muir  and it was not able to assess suitability in any event.
Whilst Talbot and Muir did allow Caldwell to place investments and manage Mr S funds, that 
is the nature of a DFMs role  and I dont think that ought to have caused concern in itself.  
And at the point potential risks were identified in 2015, Talbot and Muir did write and make 
Mr S aware.
Given my conclusions I cant say it would be fair and reasonable to uphold Mr S complaint 
against Talbot and Muir  as I dont consider in this case that its responsible for his losses, 
and on balance Im persuaded he would have likely been in the same position had he not 
transferred from the previous SIPP operator.
I realise Mr S is likely to be disappointed with my decision, but I must assure him Ive 
considered everything impartially, afresh and in full  having reviewed everything.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold Mr S complaint against Talbot and Muir Ltd.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 15 May 2023.
 
Ross Hammond
Ombudsman