DRN-2121616
The complaint
Mr D says Lloyds Bank PLC mis-sold him a payment protection insurance (PPI) policy.
What happened
This complaint is about a PPI policy which was taken out in connection with a credit card 
account. It isnt clear when the PPI was added to Mr Ds account. But Lloyds records show 
that Mr D took out the credit card in 1987, and a PPI premium shows on the earliest 
available credit card statement, from January 2000. So its clear that the PPI was either 
added to the account at the outset, or was added sometime between 1987 and 2000.
Our adjudicator didnt uphold the complaint. Mr D disagreed with the adjudicators opinion so 
the complaints been passed to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding Mr Ds case.
Where the evidence is incomplete or inconclusive, I need to decide what I thinks most likely 
to have happened, based on the information I have.
Ive decided not to uphold Mr Ds complaint. Ill explain why.
Lloyds no longer has any of the documents Mr D signed when took out the card or the 
PPI. But I think thats understandable, given the time thats passed. Mr Ds told us he 
applied for the card by post. Hes commented that he may have inadvertently ticked a 
box that implied that he was requesting or applying for PPI cover when it wasnt his 
intention at the time. He says the application form didnt provide enough clarity about 
whether PPI was optional or a requirement of taking out the card. But Ive borne in mind 
that its more than 30 years since Mr D applied for the credit card. And without stronger 
evidence, I cant fairly conclude that Lloyds didnt make it clear to him that the PPI was 
optional, or that the policy was added to the account without his agreement. 
Mr Ds consistently said that he applied for the credit card, using an application form that 
was sent to him. He says he had no face-to-face or phone contact with Lloydss staff at 
the time, and Lloyds didnt recommend the policy to him or give him advice about it. This 
means it was for Mr D to decide for himself whether he wished to take the PPI, knowing 
what alternative means hed have had of making his monthly credit card repayments if 
hed been off sick, or out of work. But Lloyds still had a responsibility to give Mr D 
enough information about the PPI to enable him to decide whether it was right for him.
Mr Ds told us he was self-employed when he opened the credit card account. But he 
says he had an insurance policy which, from memory, would have paid him £200 per 
week for six months, followed by £100 per week for a further six months if hed been off 
sick. He says it also paid out lump sums for significant injuries. But if Mr D had made a 
successful claim on the PPI for accident or sickness, it would have helped with his 
monthly credit card payments for up to 12 months per successful claim. Thats longer 
than Mr Ds told us hed have been entitled to the higher weekly benefit under his 
existing policy for. 
I think the PPI could have been useful to Mr D, particularly as he wasnt entitled to sick 
pay, and even with the policy hes told us he already had, his income would have 
reduced significantly after six months if hed been off sick for an extended period. The 
PPI would also have paid the same benefit if Mr D had been out of work and made a 
successful claim. I acknowledge that he says this would have been unlikely in the line of 
work that he was in. But I think its unlikely that Mr D could have been sure that this 
would remain the case. And as he was self-employed, he wouldnt have been entitled to 
any redundancy pay. Having the policy would have meant that Mr D wouldnt have had 
to use his savings to make his monthly credit card repayments. So he could have kept 
them, or used them to meet other day-to-day expenses.
Its possible that the information Lloyds gave Mr D wasnt as clear as it should have 
been. But based on what hes told us about his circumstances at the time, I think its 
unlikely hed have been affected by any of the policys main exclusions or limitations. Ive 
borne in mind that Mr D was self-employed. But I dont think the policy would have made 
it particularly onerous for a self-employed person to claim successfully.
Im satisfied that the policy was competitively priced. And Ive seen nothing to make me 
think Mr D couldnt afford it. And since he was paying for it monthly, he could have 
cancelled it at any time without further cost if his circumstances changed, or if he 
decided he didnt want the cover.
So taking everything into account, Im not convinced that better information would have 
put Mr D off taking the PPI. This means I dont think hes lost out as a result of anything 
Lloyds may have done wrong.My final decision
My decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision before 4 December 2020.
 
Juliet Collins
Ombudsman