DRN-2050363
The complaint
Mr B has made various complaints about the service he received from National 
Westminster Bank Plc (NatWest) when trying to transfer of funds, resulting in him being 
unable to access his money for a period of some 7 days.
What happened
Our investigators background summary covered all the relevant facts and issues, and 
is known to both Mr B and NatWest, so there is no need for me to repeat it here in any 
great detail. Instead I will focus on giving the reasons for my decision. So, if Ive not 
mentioned something its not because Ive ignored it, rather its because I dont think its of 
direct relevance to the issues I need to deal with. But in summary; in November 2019 Mr B 
wanted to transfer some money to a third party through his online banking. As he could 
not remember his PIN and password, the system sent him a reactivation code by SMS, 
twice, although Mr B disputes this. NatWests system then sent him a reactivation code by 
post which he received 3 days later, but he encountered difficulty entering the code. That 
resulted in another code being sent to him which he received 4 days later, when he was able 
to gain access to his account. Mr B has additional complaints regarding the service he 
received when he rang NatWest after receiving the first code in the post. 
NatWest didnt accept they had done anything wrong, but, and as a gesture of 
goodwill, offered Mr B compensation of £30 plus £10.80 for call costs, which he rejected. 
NatWest mistakenly then paid the £30 to Mr B, which caused him to raise a further 
complained. In their final response letter to Mr B, NatWest accepted they had fallen into error 
regarding the £30 payment and so offered a further £50 to settle the complaint. However, in 
doing so they did not accept they had done anything wrong. 
Mr B was unhappy with NatWests final response and so brought the complaint to 
this service and our investigator looked into it. Having done so, the investigator didnt think 
that NatWest had done anything wrong. Mr B didnt agree with that and asked for the 
complaint to be passed to an Ombudsman for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The role of the Financial Ombudsman Service is to mediate individual disputes 
between consumers and businesses, and to award redress where it is appropriate. I have 
taken into account both sides views in considering whether NatWest acted fairly 
and reasonably. Ive looked at the issues raised and considered all the available evidence. 
Where evidence is not complete, I think about what is more likely to have happened in 
the light of the evidence which is available. I have to make an independent decision about 
what I think is right for each case, and thats what Ive done here. And in this case, I dont 
think that NatWest has done anything wrong. Ill explain why.The starting point to this complaint is when Mr B tried to gain access to his account, 
online, but couldnt because he was unable to remember his PIN and password. The issue  
here is that NatWest say they sent him two reactivation codes, and he says he didnt get 
them.NatWest has produced evidence that it sent the codes and also evidence that they had 
no reported incidents on that day regarding their text system. Thus, on a balance of 
probabilities I am satisfied NatWest sent those texts. I cant say Mr B didnt receive them, but 
Im satisfied they were sent, so I cant find fault with NatWest in relation to this point.
That triggered the sending of an activation code by post and which was received 3 
days later. The delay here, is not caused by NatWest, because they had not done anything 
wrong up to this point. However, Mr B was unable to access his account again despite 
receiving the code. NatWests evidence does show he attempted to access his account, 
because he entered some of his personal details, but the account activation code was simply 
not entered. Mr B argues that this was because there wasnt anywhere to enter the code 
when he tried to do so. I do note that 4 days later when he received another activation code 
he was able to enter it. It seems, therefore, that one of the many explanations as to why Mr 
B couldnt enter his code was either there was something wrong with NatWests systems, or 
it was an error on Mr Bs part in not being able to locate where he should enter the code, as 
he successfully did 4 days later. There is no evidence that NatWests systems were faulty 
or had failed on that day, and so once again, I think it is more likely than not that the error 
lay with Mr B, and so I cannot find that NatWest are at fault here either. 
When Mr B rang NatWest to complain after he had received the first code through the 
post, he complains that the call handler hung up on him. Ive listened to the call, and it does 
end after she told Mr B she was transferring the call to a colleague. Whilst Mr B had become 
very frustrated and had talked over her repeatedly, there is nothing to suggest in her 
responses that she was about to end the call due to his behaviour, in fact the opposite is true 
as she remained calm and collected and was trying to pass him on to a colleague. So whilst 
I accept that the call probably did disconnect, I am satisfied that it wasn't because the 
call handler hung up, and is probably a technical or telephone system error. 
Mr B also complains that he was denied access to his account when he failed security. 
From the call I can hear that Mr B correctly provides some security details but when asked 
about the amount of any one of his direct debits he explains that he can only estimate. The 
figure he provides is about £16 out from the actual figure, which results in him failing 
security checks. Our service doesnt have the power to make rules for financial businesses, 
assess or direct that they change their policy or procedures. We only look at what happened 
in the circumstances of the individual complaint and check that NatWest followed its rules 
and procedures and is applying them fairly to all customers. So, it is a matter entirely for 
NatWest how they administer their security process, and as such I cant say they were 
wrong in failing Mr B though security. Any overall concerns about business process would 
need to be raised with The Financial Conduct Authority (FCA). They take a principles-based 
approach to conduct regulation letting businesses choose how they incorporate those 
principles into the way they deal with customers. This is reflected in the remit the FCA has 
given this service under the Dispute Rules in the FCA Handbook.
I turn finally to the payment of the £30 compensation to Mr B. NatWest did make an 
error here because the call recording is very clear in demonstrating Mr B didnt accept the 
offer of £30. NatWest has accepted that error, and because of that it has offered to pay Mr B 
a further £50.
As Mr B doesnt believe this is sufficient to put matters right, Ive given this some 
further thought and in so doing Ive considered the level of awards this service has made for 
trouble and upset in similar cases. Ive also taken into account, in the light of my findings, the 
impact the error is likely to have had on Mr B. I make the point that the error here is only the payment of the £30 into Mr Bs account, and not his other complaints. So, putting all of 
this into the balance I think what NatWest have paid and offered is fair and reasonable. And 
I think it is enough to put matters right. 
So, although Mr B will probably be disappointed with my decision, I cant say NatWest 
has acted unfairly or unreasonably here and Im not upholding this complaint.
Putting things right
NatWest has already paid £30 to Mr B, and it has offered to pay £10.80 to cover Mr Bs 
call costs and a further £50 to settle the complaint. I think this is fair and reasonable.
My final decision
So my final decision is that National Westminster Bank Plc should pay Mr B £60.80.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 29 August 2020.
Jonathan Willis
Ombudsman