DRN-3217058
The complaint
Ms C is unhappy that British Gas Insurance Limited (BG) cut her handbasin tap in half and 
replaced it with a different type when it responded to her claim under her home emergency 
policy. 
 
What happened
Ms C claimed under her plumbing home emergency cover because the hot water tap on her 
bathroom handbasin had a persistent drip. BG investigated the fault and ordered new parts 
to fix the drip. Several appointments didnt go ahead, but BG did replace the tap. However, 
Ms C was unhappy with the replacement because it wasnt the same type of tap. Ms C 
complained to BG, but it said it had replaced the tap with a standard type in line with the 
terms of the policy.
Our investigator didnt think BG had done anything wrong. He agreed that BG had replaced 
the tap in line with the policy terms and conditions which only required it to fit standard 
replacement parts.
Ms C didnt agree. She wanted BG to replace all taps in her bathroom so that they matched, 
and she asked for compensation of £420 for the inconvenience of the missed or wasted 
appointments.
I issued a provisional decision in November 2021 explaining that I was intending to uphold 
Ms Cs complaint. Heres what I said:
Firstly, I must explain that Ms C experienced leaks from her bathroom plumbing after the 
repair and made a further claim under her policy. This matter is being dealt with separately, 
so I wont address it here and any action I provisionally decide upon is not in consideration of 
the leak.
Ms C has complained about the following key issues:
poor workmanship
failure to fit a tap in line with the policy
poor claim handling
The policy provides for the following:
Whats covered
All repairs to the plumbing system on your property including: 
-Your hot and cold water pipes between your internal stopcock up to, and 
including your taps and garden taps and the flexible pipes to your kitchen 
appliances 
-A replacement of parts that we cant repair. We will replace a pair of taps to a 
single item of sanitary ware where only one cant be repaired
Replacement parts
Well try to get parts from the original manufacturer or our approved suppliers. Well try to 
provide replacements with similar functionality but not necessarily the same features or an 
identical make and model or type of fitting. For example, we may replace a specific design 
of tap with a standard one from our range or replace electrical fittings with our nearest 
white, brass or chrome version. Or you can give the engineer a replacement part that 
youve bought yourself, that we approve, but well only accept responsibility for our 
workmanship.
Im satisfied that BGs policy terms are clear, so Ive thought about what Ms C couldve 
expected BG to do in line with the policy. During the first appointment it shouldve assessed 
the repair needed and then attended the second appointment with the appropriate 
equipment and replacement taps. BG shouldve replaced the taps with a pair having similar 
functionality, albeit at a standard level. This shouldve been done without avoidable delays. 
So, Ive gone on to look at what actually happened to decide whether BG handled the claim 
fairly and in line with the policy.
Poor workmanship
Ms C says special arrangements were made to remove the sink so that the tap could be 
removed without damaging it. BG has no record of this, but I have no reason to doubt that 
Ms C understood that was the arrangement. BG ordered parts and, during the next 
appointment, it cut her hot water tap off the sink. I can understand that Ms C wouldve been 
upset by this because she thought her taps wouldnt be damaged. So, Ive looked at the job 
sheet to see why BG cut the tap:
Basin Hot Tap Loose Rusty Back Nut, cannot Save Tap As Tried To Undo But 
Not Moving, Cannot Use Multi Tool As No Space As Basin Taps Are Deep Inside The 
Sink. only Way To Resolve Problem Is By Cutting Tap Off From Top. cut Tap Off Replaced 
With New Hot Tap And Flexi, Sent Pictures To Parts Team To Find Same Tap To Replace 
Again. [sic]
Based on this description, and the supporting photos which show the rust described, Im 
satisfied that BG removed the tap because it considered it necessary. However, what isnt 
clear is why BG didnt have the taps the original plumber ordered for this appointment if the 
intention was to cut the tap off, rather than remove the sink as Ms C described. The job 
sheet confirms the tap used was Van Stock, indicating that the plumber hadnt arrived 
prepared to cut Ms Cs tap from the sink.
Im satisfied BG completed the repair it considered necessary at the time, whether or not it 
had previously agreed to remove the sink first. But there has clearly been some confusion 
here and I dont think BG handled this part of the claim reasonably. Ive considered this as 
part of the overall compensation.
Failure to fit a tap in line with the policy
Ms C is unhappy with the type of tap BG fitted. The policy explains how BG will complete a 
repair or replacement, as quoted earlier. But I think theres been some confusion about what 
is meant by standard and, in particular, the difference between functionality and 
features. Looking at the photos, I can see that BG replaced the tap with a different type. Ms 
C had a  turn tap - a lever type handle which is pushed to the side - whereas BG fitted a 
round head tap, which must be gripped and twisted round. So, for several months Ms C had 
hot and cold taps which didnt match. While that might seem to be a minor point because 
both taps worked, I dont think it is. Thats because my understanding of the terms is that BG would replace with a standard tap of the same functionality. The functionality here is not just 
that it allowed water to flow but also the way that the tap opened. That was important to Ms 
C because of her inability to grip and twist a round head tap. I think the reference to features 
is more about design, and the way it looks, rather than how it works.
Further, the policy clearly states: 
We will replace a pair of taps to a single item of sanitary ware where only one cant be 
repaired 
BG only replaced one tap so, at this point, I dont think BG had completed the replacement in 
line with the policy. However, I note that the job sheet says, Sent Pictures To Parts Team 
To Find Same Tap To Replace Again. This tells me BG intended to replace the taps on a 
like-for-like basis in terms of functionality, but also reaffirms my previous point that it hadnt 
arrived prepared to do so. BG had already investigated the fault and ordered taps, so its not 
clear why it hadnt ordered taps with the same functionality or why it hadnt replaced the pair 
of taps in line with the policy.
In turn, I think this confusion about what was meant by standard led to Ms Cs refusal to 
allow BG to replace the tap with another standard one. BG sent a photo of the like-for-like 
replacement it found. But the plumber had already told Ms C that a like-for-like replacement 
would be chargeable, so, I can see why she didnt accept its offer and eventually bought her 
own replacement taps.
For these reasons, I dont think BG replaced Ms Cs tap in line with the policy.
Poor claim handling
Ms C says BG failed to return her calls and it didnt handle her claim properly. Ive looked at 
the claim notes and it appears that Ms C asked BG not to call her. So, I cant fairly say it was 
wrong to email rather than call. The records show that BG sent Ms C a photo of the 
replacement pair of taps but theres no record of a response from her. After a while, with no 
response from Ms C to its emails, BG closed the claim. I dont think that was unreasonable.
However, having looked at the overall claim, I can see that there was some considerable 
confusion around whether BG would charge to replace the pair of taps with the same 
functionality as those Ms C had originally. BGs plumber said it would be chargeable 
because they werent standard but, as Ive said, I dont think thats an accurate reflection of 
the terms. So, I can see why Ms C wasnt happy with BGs offer, and why she might not 
have responded to BGs emails about the taps it did find. They were the same functionality 
as hers, but on the understanding shed have to pay for them its reasonable that shed 
refuse to let BG fit them. So, while BG mightve been prevented from completing the final 
replacement of the pair of taps, I think that was at least in part due to its failure to properly 
explain to Ms C what was chargeable and what wasnt.
In the end, Ms C provided her own taps and BG fitted them. I think thats reasonable in 
response to Ms Cs preference for a particular design and to have taps matching the rest of 
the sanitaryware. But if BG had handled the claim reasonably, in line with the policy, I dont 
think Ms C wouldve had to find her own replacements or have the inconvenience of a tap 
she found difficult to use for several months.
I havent seen anywhere in the documents that Ms C made BG aware of her inability to use 
the round head tap until after shed first raised her complaint. So, I dont necessarily think 
BG wouldve known that the  turn function was important to her. That said, when Ms C did 
make BG aware of her need, I cant see that it tried to discuss this with her. Overall, it was nine months from the first replacement to the final replacement and I think BG was 
responsible, at least in part, for some of this avoidable delay.
Putting matters right
As BG fitted the replacement taps Ms C supplied, she is back in the position she was in 
before the complaint started, so theres nothing left for BG to put right in a practical sense. I 
also see that BG fitted the replacement taps free of charge which is in line with the terms of 
the policy. However, for the reasons Ive given, I dont think BG handled the overall claim 
reasonably or fairly. It didnt supply the replacement taps or fit them in line with the policy, 
albeit because Ms C refused some attempts, but her refusal was understandable given the 
confusion about charging. I accept this matter caused Ms C inconvenience because of the 
time it took to resolve, and she has already said that she experienced difficulty using the tap 
because of her health issues. So, Ive provisionally decided that BG should compensate Ms 
C £250 for the distress and inconvenience caused, and for not taking into consideration her 
overall circumstances once she made it aware of them.
I said I was minded to require British Gas Insurance Limited to:
pay Ms C £250 compensation for the distress and inconvenience caused, and the impact 
this matter had on her ability to use her hot water tap for nine months. 
I asked both parties to send me any further comments and information they might want me 
to consider before I reached a final decision.
BG accepted my findings.
Ms C clarified why she asked BG to communicate by email rather than phone. She said it 
was because BG didnt return her calls so she thought it would be more suitable. Ms C also 
said BG missed many appointments. Shed like compensation for each missed appointment.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive considered Ms Cs further comments, but Im not persuaded to increase the award. 
Thats because I took into consideration the service shortfalls when reaching my provisional 
decision. I havent listed the dates or exact circumstances of the appointments as Ms C has 
but, overall, Im satisfied that the compensation of £250 is fair in the circumstances and in 
line with awards wed typically make in similar circumstances. I wont be asking BG to 
increase the award.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained above, and in my provisional decision, I uphold Ms Cs 
complaint. British Gas Insurance Limited must:
pay Ms C £250 compensation for the distress and inconvenience caused, and the 
impact this matter had on her ability to use her hot water tap for nine months. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms C to accept or 
reject my decision before 13 January 2022.
 Debra Vaughan
Ombudsman