DRN-3632453
The complaint
Mr M complains the annuity policy issued by Pension Insurance Corporation plc (PIC) 
contains incorrect and misleading wording.
What happened
Mr M says that when his pension annuity was transferred to PIC in 2021, he received an 
annuity policy document from PIC. Mr M thought section 2.4.1 (b) of it contained an error. It 
said, the amount of the Member's Post 88 GMP will increase by CPI 3% Increases. But 
Mr M thought it should say "CPI will increase between 0% and 3%. 
Mr M complained to PIC about this. PIC didnt uphold his complaint. It said page two of the 
policy document contained an Important information notice that said words with capital 
letters, as in section 2.4.1 (b), were defined in the policy documents glossary. And the 
glossary said "CPI 3% Increases" means the percentage change in CPI over the 12 months 
ending on the 30 September immediately before the relevant Increase Date (see 2.5) per 
annum compound, subject to a minimum increase of 0% per annum and a maximum 
increase of 3% per annum. 
Mr M complained to our Service. He said hed not been caused a financial loss, but he 
wanted PIC to correct the policy document so that section 2.4.1 (b) was consistent with the 
glossary definition, and to tell all policy holders about the correction.
Our Investigator didnt uphold Mr Ms complaint. He said the policy glossary defined CPI 3% 
Increases and while Mr W might have preferred things to be set out differently, PIC hadnt 
made an error.
Mr M disagreed and reiterated his complaint was about the wording in the policy document. 
He understood the Important information notice and the glossary definition. But as a 
standalone statement, section 2.4.1 (b) had only one incorrect meaning if read without the 
notice and glossary  that his pension would increase by 3%. Mr M thought this was 
misleading and not good practice.
As agreement couldnt be reached, this complaint was passed to me for consideration.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive reviewed the policy document in question. I think it makes it reasonably clear early on 
that words with capital letters are defined in the glossary, because page two says: 
Important information
Words with capital letters used in the Summary Statement, Schedule of Benefits and Policy 
Conditions have the meanings given to them in the Glossary of Terms.
On page five, section 2.4.1 (b) says, the amount of the Member's Post 88 GMP will increase 
by CPI 3% Increases. This section includes words with capital letters. And as I say, the 
policy document had already made it reasonably clear that words with capital letters were 
defined in the glossary. So while I acknowledge Mr M says section 2.4.1 (b) is incorrect if 
read as a standalone statement, Im satisfied the policy made it reasonably clear that section 
2.4.1 (b) wasnt a standalone statement and should be read alongside the policy glossary.
I can see that the relevant section in the glossary defines what precisely is meant by CPI 
3% Increases. It says, "CPI 3% Increases" means the percentage change in CPI over the 
12 months ending on the 30 September immediately before the relevant Increase Date (see 
2.5) per annum compound, subject to a minimum increase of 0% per annum and a 
maximum increase of 3% per annum. So broadly speaking, this definition includes the 
wording that Mr M thinks should instead be set out in section 2.4.1 (b).
I appreciate Mr M thinks that how PIC has set this matter out in the policy document isnt 
good practice. But for the reasons Ive explained, I think the policy document was reasonably 
clear here and more importantly, it hasnt caused Mr M any detriment. Therefore, Im not 
asking PIC to do anything here.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I dont uphold this complaint.
 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 1 September 2022.
 
Ailsa Wiltshire
Ombudsman