DRN-3597563
The complaint
Mr S complains Link Financial Outsourcing Limited have:
Purchased two of his debts
Added two defaults to his credit file
Not provided evidence they owned the accounts
Talked down to him when speaking on the phone
Not set up his complaint when he first asked
Set up a payment plan without his authority
What happened
Two of Mr S accounts were sold by B to another company who Ill refer to as L. L have 
appointed Link to act as the debt collector. As I understand it, Mr S had fallen into arrears 
with B, who subsequently defaulted the account. B reported this default to the credit 
reference agencys (CRAs). As can be commonplace, lenders such as B may sell their debt 
on to debt purchasers / collectors like Link. The letters showing Link were asked to start 
collecting on the accounts are dated 30 November, and 8 December 2021.
Mr S originally contacted Link on 20 November 2021 to discuss the accounts but was told 
the accounts hadnt migrated to their systems yet. He then asked to complain but was told 
he couldnt for the same reason. He said hes asked for proof of ownership from Link but 
hadnt received them by the time of the complaint. Also, Link were reporting defaults in 
addition to B  which meant he had four defaults on his credit file instead of two for the two 
accounts. Mr S said hes struggling with stress since Link took over and says Links agent 
was being rude and offensive when speaking on the phone. Mr S also said he never set up a 
payment plan with Link, so didnt think they should have chased him for it.
Link said when Mr S called on 20 November 2021 to register a complaint his accounts 
werent on their system yet, so they couldnt raise a complaint as there was no file to raise 
on their system. Link said further calls took place on 22 and 23 November, when the 
accounts still hadnt transitioned. They said the accounts came over to their systems on 
29 November. They wrote to him on 30 November for the first account, and then 
8 December for the second account which they said was within a reasonable period of time. 
They didnt think theyd done anything wrong in the calls and said Mr S had been offered 
their Specialist Support Team on several occasions.
Link also said in relation to the defaults the balances are the same as what B are recording, 
so theyve not done anything wrong there. They said B had updated the defaults to show 
theyd been assigned, so there was only one default per account showing now. In respect of 
the debts being assigned to Link they said B could transfer the accounts to whoever they 
wanted. As for being contacted, Link said this is because a payment plan had been set up 
with B, so they were continuing with it  and as no payment had been received, they 
contacted him.
Our Investigator looked into things but felt Link had acted fairly. Mr S said he disagreed 
strongly on two points  that the Specialist Support Team hadnt got in touch when he asked, 
which wont be considered as part of this complaint, and the payment plan thatd been set up 
wasnt suitable.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I think its important to firstly explain I cant hold Link responsible for actions taken or not 
taken by B. All I can consider is whether Link have done what Id expect when Mr S raised 
his concerns.
Purchased two of Mr S debts
As Ive set out above Link didnt buy the accounts, L did and asked Link to collect on them. 
But, I can see Mr S main concerns is that given some previous issues hes had with Link he 
doesnt think its ok for them to have been assigned the account.
Ultimately thats a commercial decision for Link and other parties to have made, so I cant 
say theyve done anything wrong on this point.
Added two defaults to Mr S credit file
Generally, when a debt purchaser / collector takes over the debt theyll also take over the 
responsibility for reporting on the debt to the CRAs. Usually, this means the lender would 
stop reporting the debt, because the debt purchaser / debt collector is.
The Information Commissioners Office (ICO) are responsible for upholding information 
rights in the UK. They issue guidance on such matters, and their guidance for this issue 
says:
If it is clear from looking at the two entries that they relate to the same account, with the 
same default date and balances and the original debt is clearly showing as settled then it is 
likely that we would consider this to be fair in terms of the data protection law. However, if 
the entries are recorded on your credit file in a way that may look like they are two different 
debts, or that could make the debt remain on your credit file for longer than six years from 
the date of the original default it is unlikely that we would consider this to be fair.
So, given I can only look at the actions of Link, not B, Ive assessed whether Link are 
recording the defaults in a way that shows them as consistent with Bs reporting.
Having seen the defaults that were recorded by Link they had the same balance, showed 
them as in default, and Links information was updated more recently than Bs. So, I think its 
likely any lender would have realised they were the same defaults  which is what the ICO 
says should happen. That means I dont think Link did anything wrong on this point. Link 
have said theyve also recorded the defaults from the original default date that B used  
which again is in line with the ICOs guidance.
I understand Link have said Bs defaults have now been removed. But, if Mr S has concerns 
over Bs actions here, hell need to raise those with B directly. 
Not provided evidence they owned the accountsWhen buying an account, a debt purchaser is required to send whats called a Notice of 
Assignment (NoA) and its these Mr S was asking to be sent to him when he first got in touch 
with Link on 20 November 2021.
Ive seen copies of the letters that were subsequently issued. The first was sent 
30 November, and the second 8 December. Both letters were correctly addressed to Mr S at 
the same address hes provided to our service. Why he didnt receive them I cant say, but it 
does show Link have acted correctly on this point.
Ive seen no evidence to suggest Link had taken over the accounts before 
29 November 2021 as they then told Mr S. So, issuing the letters within two weeks is 
reasonable I think  and that means I dont think they could have sent them on 
20 November 2021 when Mr S called. Overall then, I think Link have acted correctly by 
sending the NoAs when they could  and I havent identified any errors with them sending 
them.
I note Mr S disputed the balance owing on one of the accounts. All Link can do in this 
situation is ask B if the balance is correct. Link did ask, and B did say the balance was 
correct. If Mr S has ongoing concerns regarding that, then hell need to speak to B directly  
as Link can only act on the information theyre given by B.
Talked down to Mr S when speaking to him on the phone
Ive listened to the call, and Ive not heard Links agent talking down to Mr S or engaging with 
him in a way Id consider inappropriate.
Mr S said he wants to talk to Link about the accounts, Link say they cant talk about the 
accounts because theyre not due to come over to them until 3 December 2021. 
The correct date was 29 November 2021, and I understand Link have said sorry for this 
incorrect information.
But, ultimately, Mr S wanted to talk about the two accounts from B where Link were saying 
they couldnt because they didnt have the accounts at this moment in time  so they had no 
information at all about the accounts.
I think Links agent took a fair approach in terms of what they could or couldnt speak about 
on the call. Ive seen nothing to suggest at the time of this call on 20 November 2021 they 
had recorded the two accounts that were properly assigned on 29 November 2021 on their 
systems. This is supported by Link recording on their internal systems the call on another 
account thatd previously been written off Link had held.
I understand Mr S didnt trust them, or believe they wanted to help him  but given they 
didnt have any information about the accounts on their system at the time I dont think they 
could have done anything else.
Not set up Mr S complaint when he first asked
Our Investigator explained our service cant look into this matter as weve no authority to do 
so. Ive not seen Mr S dispute this, so I wont comment further.
Set up a payment plan without Mr S authorityMr S has raised concerns about contact he received in relation to a payment plan. From the 
evidence Ive been provided, I can see B said Mr S had set up a repayment plan with them, 
and the repayment plan would continue for at least six months with Link.
So, Link were expecting a payment to be made, that wasnt, which is why they then 
contacted him. Given Mr S had been told by B the payment plan would continue, I think Link 
were also told by B to expect a payment from Mr S. As a result of that, I dont think Link have 
done anything wrong  effectively transferring the accounts from B to Link should be 
seamless and any existing arrangements should have continued at least in the short term.
 
Mr S in his response to our Investigator said the setup of the payment plan wasnt suitable. 
But, given the above, this would have been set up by B  and Ive not seen Mr S explain to 
Link the payment plan wasnt suitable before they contacted him. 
Overall then, this means Mr S had an existing payment plan with B  at least according to B 
 and Link were just looking for the existing repayment plan to be kept to but didnt know he 
wanted to discuss it as hed not told them this. So, I dont think Link did anything wrong on 
this point either. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained above, I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 20 September 2022.
 
Jon Pearce
Ombudsman