DRN-2278028
The complaint
Mr M complains about the settlement offered on part of his contents insurance claim by 
Zurich Insurance Plc (Zurich) saying this has been mishandled, causing him distress and 
damaging his health.
What happened
Mr Ms property and contents was extensively damaged when flooded by sewage in April 
2019. Emergency services attended and repairs took many months. Mr Ms contents policy 
was with Zurich. It appointed a specialist firm to handle the claim, who Ill call B. Zurich 
agreed to replace many items considered to be beyond economic repair. B also packaged 
up and were to remove various items including a substantial amount of clothing for 
inspection and it is these items which Mr Ms complaint relates to.
Mr M understood the items were to be bagged and sent to a specialist cleaning firm, who Ill 
call S. Mr M says he asked B for an update and was told the items had been sent to S. But 
when he visited the property a few weeks later he found the bagged items had been left on 
the bathroom floor. He says the bags were unsealed. As the property was heavily 
contaminated with sewage Mr M says he was very unhappy about this and he contacted S. 
His belongings were collected a few days later.
A few days after this the local Council environment department informed Mr M that e-coli 
was present in the property. Mr M told Zurich he didnt want the items cleaned and returned 
under the circumstances and that they should be replaced instead. Zurich said it would have 
samples tested by a laboratory and if any contamination was found it would treat the items 
as beyond economic repair. If there was no contamination it would pay for professional 
cleaning and return them to Mr M.
Mr M selected some items, and these were tested. The report confirmed there was no 
contamination. Mr M complained to Zurich as he didnt want the items back, saying it is 
simply not an option for me and in no way acceptable. Zurich accepted the complaint in part 
and said the claim could have been handled better and offered £500 compensation for this. 
It said that if Mr M didnt want the items back it was prepared to pay the estimated cleaning 
costs of around £4,000 as a cash settlement. Mr M says the items would cost around 
£25,000 to replace and he referred his complaint to our service.
Our investigator looked into it and upheld the complaint in part. He said Zurich hadnt 
handled the claim as well as it should have. He said the amount of time the items had been 
left in the property was unacceptable and was responsible for some of the stress Mr M had 
been under. This may have impacted his health as he had suffered an outbreak of shingles, 
which his doctor confirmed can be induced by stress. Our investigator said the £500 
compensation Zurich had offered wasnt adequate and should be increased to £750. 
But our investigator said as the items werent contaminated it wasnt unreasonable for them 
to be professionally cleaned. So, Zurichs proposal to pay Mr M the cleaning cost as he was 
adamant he didnt want the items back was a fair and reasonable settlement. 
In response Mr M said he reluctantly accepted the cleaning cost as he didnt want the items 
back. But a few days later he said as the items werent going to be cleaned could they now 
be returned as there is a large amount of sentimental and personal items contained in the 
inventory. Our investigator said this was a reasonable request and passed it on to Zurich. 
In reply Zurich raised several points. It said our investigator had agreed that Zurich proposed 
settlement was fair and reasonable. It said that Mr M has always known that his claim would 
be settled fairly, with items to be either professionally cleaned or replaced if contaminated. 
Consequently, most of the distress he had suffered probably resulted from the overall 
damage to his property and possessions rather than this particular matter. 
Zurich said Mr M had consistently refused to accept the items back. But once our service 
had agreed it had acted fairly, hed made a complete turnaround in his position and wanted 
them back without being cleaned. It said this showed he hadnt been concerned about the 
health aspects and the motive was to obtain over £25,000 in cash settlement. 
Zurich said it didnt object to returning the items and paying the cleaning costs as a cash 
settlement. But it said the unnecessary storage costs incurred over a long period because of 
Mr M refusing to accept the items back should be considered. It said in view of these points 
the £500 compensation already offered was very fair and there was no rationale for 
increasing it.
As Zurich doesnt agree it has come to me to decide. 
My provisional decision
I issued my provisional decision on 28 August 2020. In my provisional decision, I explained 
the reasons why I was planning to uphold the complaint in part. I said:
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide (provisionally) whats fair 
and reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Having done so, Im planning to 
uphold the complaint in part but dont intend to ask Zurich to do any more than it has already 
offered. Ill explain why.
I understand that what happened to Mr Ms property and contents was very unpleasant and 
would be distressing, but Zurich wasnt to blame for this. It has dealt with other aspects of 
the claim without complaint from Mr M and I think it has acted reasonably in respect of the 
issue complained about here.
Zurich accepts there was an error and the items were left uncollected once bagged up. Mr M 
has provided a letter from his GP about his shingles which says stress can be a factor. But it 
doesnt say the delay in collecting the items was the factor behind the illness as opposed to 
stress from the overall situation. 
Zurich maintains the bags were sealed and stored safely. Mr M says they werent. When he 
saw the bags Mr M didnt know e-coli was present in the property. Whether open or sealed, 
Zurich agreed to have the items tested for contamination and to replace them if they were. 
Mr M also spoke directly with S about the cleaning process. So, I said I thought Zurich acted 
reasonably to minimise the impact of the error once it was aware of it.
The laboratory report confirmed there was no contamination and it isnt unreasonable to 
have items cleaned rather than replaced in these circumstances. So, I thought Zurichs 
proposal to settle the claim by either cleaning or by paying Mr M the cleaning cost as an 
alternative was fair.Zurich said it has no objection to returning the items. But I thought its point about additional 
storage costs was valid. And I agreed that now wanting the uncleaned items returned did 
suggest that Mr M was less concerned about the health aspects than he initially indicated. 
From this I thought it was reasonable to conclude that any additional distress caused by the 
delay in collecting the items was also less significant and I thought the £500 already offered 
was fair compensation for the trouble and upset suffered. 
I said I thought the settlement offered by Zurich on the items was fair and it isnt 
unreasonable for them to be returned to Mr M. And as I also thought the £500 compensation 
already offered was fair and reasonable, I wouldnt be asking Zurich to do any more than it 
has.  
I asked both parties to send me any more information or evidence they wanted me to look at 
by 27 September 2020.
Response to provisional decision
 
Mr M didnt reply to my provisional decision.
Zurich said it had already paid Mr M the £500 it had offered him in compensation. It said I 
had agreed that the compensation and payment of the cleaning cost of the items was fair. 
So, it didnt think the complaint should be upheld as I wasnt asking it to do any more than it 
had already done. It said it had contacted Mr M again about returning the items, but he had 
refused them. It said it was continuing to incur storage costs on them as a result. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided not to uphold the complaint.
I think the complaint has been dealt with fairly by Zurich and it doesnt need to do any more 
than it has.  As explained in my provisional decision I think that Zurichs offer to pay Mr M the 
cleaning cost of the items is fair. It has agreed to return the items as he has requested. 
I also thought the £500 Zurich offered was fair and reasonable compensation for the trouble 
and upset suffered by Mr M. As this compensation has already been paid to Mr M, it isnt 
necessary for me to uphold the complaint as a fair outcome has already been provided by 
Zurich. 
I would encourage Mr M to contact Zurich to arrange either the return or disposal of the 
items so this aspect of his claim can be finalised, and payment made to him.   
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above and in my provisional decision, my final decision is that I do 
not uphold the complaint.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 19 November 2020.
 
Nigel Bracken
Ombudsman