DRN-4326468
The complaint
Mr C has complained that AA Underwriting Insurance Company Limited (AAU) are unfairly 
recording his claim under his motor policy as a fault claim. 
What happened
Mr Cs car was hit whilst parked in January. He made a claim on his policy and his car was 
repaired and AAU requested its outlay to be paid by the other drivers insurers. As those 
negotiations are still ongoing AAU recorded Mr C claim on his policy as a fault claim. 
Mr C is very unhappy with this as it has increased his renewal premium for his motor 
insurance. 
AAU explained that it is entitled to record the claim as a fault claim until or unless the other 
drivers insurers pay its costs. This is standard industry practice and it doesnt think it has 
done anything wrong. 
Mr C disagreed and brought his complaint to us. The investigator agreed with AAU that she 
didnt think it had done anything wrong either. 
Mr C remained dissatisfied, so his complaint has been passed to me to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so Im not upholding this complaint and Ill now explain why. 
First Mr C has also made a complaint about the renewal premium increase, which I will deal 
with separately as that isnt the responsibility of AAU, so this complaint merely concerns the 
issue that AAU has recorded Mr Cs claim as a fault claim on his policy record until the 
other driver insurers insurers pay its costs. 
Its clear from the facts surrounding the claim that Mr C cant be at fault for causing this 
accident as his car was parked. And thats the position AAU has taken with dealing with his 
claim. It has repaired his car and gave him a hire car for the duration of those repairs which 
obviously incurred costs which it has paid.
Under the regulations which govern motor insurers they are obliged to record a claim as a 
fault claim once they have paid any costs in relation to that claim. Its clear industry practice 
to do this. 
In instances like here, where there is no doubt Mr C didnt cause this accident, AAU correctly 
started negotiations with the other drivers insurers. Until those negotiations conclude and 
AAU are correctly reimbursed for Mr Cs claim, AAAU are doing nothing wrong in recording 
his claim in this way. Sadly, these negotiations take time and not all the delays will be down 
to AAU either. The ultimate method of concluding the matter which everyone tries to avoid is 
issuing legal proceedings. 
Its acknowledged by the regulations that puts Mr C at a disadvantage for a while but once 
the matter is sorted out and claim can then be registered as a non-fault claim any losses Mr 
C has suffered as a result can then be rectified. 
As a means to reassure Mr C here, recording a claim in this manner doesnt put him on any 
debtors list nor indeed does it label him as a debtor. It merely shows that as present he has 
a fault claim (meaning his insurers have not yet got back their costs given the accident 
wasnt his fault) on his insurance record. 
My final decision
So, although I appreciate Mr C will be disappointed with my decision for these reasons, its 
my final decision that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 13 October 2023.
 
Rona Doyle
Ombudsman