DRN-4404430
Complaint
Miss D has complained about a personal loan Fairscore Ltd (trading as Updraft) which she 
says was unfairly lent to her. She says the loan was unaffordable as she was in a constant 
cycle of borrowing and hardship.
Background
Updraft provided Miss D with a loan for £3,500.00 in September 2022. This loan had an APR 
of 25.7% was due to be repaid in 36 monthly instalments of around £145.
One of our investigators reviewed what Miss D and Updraft had told us. He thought that 
Updraft hadnt done anything wrong or treated Miss D unfairly when it provided this loan and 
so didnt recommend that the complaint be upheld. Miss D disagreed and asked for an 
ombudsman to review the complaint.
My findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve explained how we handle complaints about unaffordable and irresponsible lending on
our website. And Ive used this approach to help me decide Miss Ds complaint.
Having carefully considered everything, Im not upholding Miss Ds complaint. Ill explain why 
in a little more detail.
Updraft needed to take reasonable steps to ensure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In 
practice, what this means is that Updraft needed to carry out proportionate checks to be able 
to understand whether Miss D could afford to make her repayments before providing this 
loan. 
Our website sets out what we typically think about when deciding whether a lenders checks 
were proportionate. Generally, we think its reasonable for a lenders checks to be less 
thorough  in terms of how much information it gathers and what it does to verify it  in the 
early stages of a lending relationship. 
But we might think it needed to do more if, for example, a borrowers income was low or the 
amount lent was high. And the longer the lending relationship goes on, the greater the risk of 
it becoming unsustainable and the borrower experiencing financial difficulty. So wed expect 
a lender to be able to show that it didnt continue to provide loans to a customer 
irresponsibly.
Updraft says it approved Miss Ds application after she provided details of her monthly 
income and some information on her expenditure. It says it cross-checked this against 
information on a credit search it carried out which showed Miss Ds existing commitments 
were relatively well maintained at the time  as far as it was concerned there was only an 
issue with a single account which had been defaulted a number of years previously. 
In Updrafts view all of the information it gathered showed that Miss D could afford to make 
the repayments she was committing to. On the other hand, Miss D has said she was already 
in difficulty and couldnt afford this loan.
Ive carefully thought about what Miss D and Updraft have said. 
As Updraft asked Miss D about her income and expenditure and also carried out a credit 
check, its clear that Updraft did obtain a reasonable amount of information before it decided 
to proceed with Miss Ds application. 
Having looked at the credit check, its clear that Miss D had some existing debts. However, 
while I accept that Miss D might not agree with this, I dont think that these were excessive in 
comparison to her income. Furthermore, the information from the time shows that Miss D 
said she was going to use the funds from this loan to reduce what she owed on her credit 
cards. 
I dont know whether Miss D did go on to do this. But Updraft could only make a reasonable 
decision based on the information it had available at the time. It wont have known whether 
Miss D would still have the same balances on her credit cards  all it could do was take 
reasonable steps and rely on assurances from Miss D that the balances would be repaid 
with these funds. So Im satisfied that the proceeds of this loan could and should have been 
used to clear Miss Ds existing credit card balances in the way that she committed to. 
And as this was a first loan Updraft was arranging for Miss D, there wasnt a history of        
Miss D obtaining funds and then failing to consolidate debts elsewhere in the way she 
committed to either. So Updraft was reasonably entitled to believe that Miss D would be left 
in a better position after being provided with this loan.
I accept that Miss Ds actual circumstances may not have been fully reflected either in the 
information she provided, or the information Updraft obtained. But its only fair and 
reasonable for me to uphold a complaint in circumstances where a firm did something 
wrong. 
Given the circumstances here, and the lack of obvious inconsistencies, I dont think that 
reasonable and proportionate checks would have extended into the level of checks Miss D is 
suggesting. As this is the case, I dont think that Updraft did anything wrong when providing 
this loan to Miss D - it carried out proportionate checks and reasonably relied on what it 
found out which suggested the repayments were affordable. 
So overall and having considered everything, Im satisfied that Updraft didnt treat Miss D 
unfairly or unreasonably when lending to her. And Im not upholding Miss Ds complaint. I 
appreciate this is likely to be very disappointing for Miss D  as she clearly feels strongly 
about this matter. But I hope shell understand the reasons for my decision and that shell at 
least feel her concerns have been listened to.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, Im not upholding Miss Ds complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss D to accept 
or reject my decision before 5 December 2023.
 Jeshen Narayanan
Ombudsman