DRN-2539003
The complaint
Miss W has complained about Covea Insurance plc which provides the buildings insurance 
for the block of flats where she lives. She feels it owes her money in relation to a claim made 
when the property suffered flooding.
What happened
There was flooding on 19 July 2019 which caused Miss W to have to move out of her home. 
She initially stayed with friends and discussed with Covea whether it would provide 
alternative accommodation. However, it proved difficult to find somewhere comparable for 
Miss W to stay. So the parties discussed her staying with her friend, with Covea paying an 
amount to defray the friends extra costs and Miss Ws extra travel expenses.
Initially £750 per month was asked for, plus £103 for travel. This was clarified as equating to 
saving the insurer £3,291 over a 90 day period against the cost of rent for a suitable 
property. Then £900 per month was asked for, not including travel. The loss adjuster replied 
stating £900 plus travel costs was excessive. The loss adjuster said Covea would pay 
Miss W £900 a month to stay with friends or the search for alternative accommodation would 
need to be resumed. Miss W replied that she would accept £900 every 28 days. The 
adjuster didnt reply but 15 days later a payment was made of £2,450 which equated to 
£2,700 for three months, less Miss Ws policy excess of £250.
Payments continued from that point  but they werent paid at any specific date and Miss W 
says she often had to chase receipt of the money. However, she understood that Covea, by 
starting to make payments after she had told it she would accept £900 every 28 days, had 
entered into an agreement to do just that. 
In June 2019 Covea said the property was habitable again. Miss W said that to that date, 
18 June 2019, Covea had underpaid her against the agreement to pay £900 every 28 days. 
Covea said it had only ever offered or agreed to pay £900 per calendar month, that is how it 
handles all such payments. Miss W insisted that Covea had entered into a contract with her 
for payment every 28 days and she felt it had now reneged on that and was in breach.
Covea wasnt persuaded a contract for it paying every 28 days had been agreed. But it 
accepted that some payments had been made later than it would have liked, meaning 
Miss W had to chase receipt. It apologised. But it said it didnt accept it owed any allowance 
to Miss W. However, it did think there had been some service failings and, to make up for 
the upset theyd caused, it said it would pay £200 compensation. Miss W complained to us.
Our investigator felt Covea had acted fairly and reasonably. She didnt uphold the complaint.
Miss W asked that we enforce the contract that Covea had clearly, in her view, entered into. 
Failing that, she said, Covea had acted unfairly and unreasonably by misleading her into 
thinking it would pay £900 every 28 days. She said reasonableness implied transparency 
and Covea had a duty to make sure she understood. Our investigator wasnt persuaded that 
Coveas failure to confirm it didnt agree to Miss Ws counter offer amounted to fair and 
reasonable grounds to say it had bound itself to paying in line with that counter offer.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I understand Miss Ws frustration  and I think that Covea should have specifically 
responded to her counter offer. However, I note that prior to Miss W making this counter 
offer, the loss adjuster had clearly said £900 per month was the maximum Covea would pay, 
and if this sum wasnt acceptable alternative accommodation would have to be sought. So 
I think Covea had been clear about its position. 
Covea did start making payments to Miss W following receipt of her email containing her 
counter offer. But it didnt make those payments every 28 days. And I would expect any 
prudent insurer, having set out what it was prepared to pay, to make payment in that 
respect. Any failure to do so would leave its policyholder out of pocket for sums the insurer 
had accepted liability for. And that would be unfair. So, without a clear acceptance by Covea 
of Miss Ws counter offer, which was different to what it had clearly set out as its final offer, 
I cant reasonably conclude that payment being made by Covea equated to its acceptance 
and consideration of that counter offer. 
Coveas payment was what is often referred to as a disturbance allowance. This isnt 
something offered by the policy. But rather the insurance industry accepts that where 
alternative accommodation, like the property insured, isnt provided, a policyholder can incur 
extra costs. And the disturbance allowance is paid to negate those extra costs. Often it is 
paid when a policyholder stays in a hotel or similar. But sometimes an insurer will agree to 
pay it where its policyholder stays with friends. Often an insurer will pay £10 per person per 
day as a disturbance allowance. I note that the sum of £900 whether per calendar month or 
every 28 days, far exceeds that value. It doesnt surprise me that Covea wasnt prepared to 
offer more than £900 per month, and Im satisfied that £900 every 28 days would amount to 
an increase. I think Coveas offer was fair and reasonable. And whilst it should have been 
clear that it was maintaining that offer and not accepting Miss Ws counter offer, I think its 
tacit refusal to meet the counter offer was fair and reasonable too. 
I note Covea has accepted that, at times, it paid the allowance later than it should have 
done. I appreciate that would have been frustrating for Miss W. I also note that Covea 
accepts this caused her some inconvenience as she had to chase it. Whilst I understand that 
Miss W has said this caused her worry due to her financial commitments, Im mindful that 
she would always have needed to pay things like her mortgage. The allowance was to cover 
her extra costs for living elsewhere, and Im not persuaded that Coveas late payments left 
her out of pocket in this respect. 
In terms of upset caused, I think this was a difficult time for Miss W. Her property had been 
damaged and overall it took nearly a year for it to be habitable again. I think she would have 
been under a lot of stress anyway.  I can understand that Covea paying the allowance late 
would have added to the frustration. Covea has apologised for this. Its also offered an 
overall compensation payment which takes this into account, along with upset caused by 
other failures which Im not considering here. Having considered Coveas late payments, Im 
not persuaded to make it do anything more to compensate Miss W for the distress and 
inconvenient caused. I think its response of apologising and taking the upset into account 
when offering overall compensation of £200, is fair and reasonable. 
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint. I dont make any award against Covea Insurance plc.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss W to accept 
or reject my decision before 18 March 2021. 
Fiona Robinson
Ombudsman