DRN-3320546
The complaint
Mrs N complains that The Prudential Assurance Company Limited (Prudential) shouldnt 
have advised her to switch her personal pension to a free-standing additional voluntary 
contributions policy (FSAVC).
Mrs N is represented in bringing this complaint. But for ease of reference, all actions and 
comments will be noted as Mrs Ns.
What happened
Mrs N sought retirement planning advice from Prudential in February 1998. It noted that her 
goal was to retire on a decent income. She was age 47 at the time; was working and wasnt 
expected to retire for 10 or more years.  Her attitude to risk was described as very cautious. 
Prudential noted, amongst other things, that Mrs N had recently joined her employers 
pension scheme and was looking to make further contributions into AVCs or FSAVCs. In a 
later note, it said she preferred to invest in Prudentials FSAVC largely due to its flexibility. 
Prudential sent Mrs N its personal financial review summary report (it looks like it was sent a 
few days after it discussed Mrs Ns retirement needs with her). That set out its formal 
recommendation for Mrs N to invest in an FSAVC in an effort to achieve her desired 
retirement income. Prudential also noted the following: 
It had given Mrs N a copy of the leaflet AVC some important features and had 
explained the contents to her.
It had explained the features of a with profits fund which was felt to be consistent with 
Mrs Ns very cautious attitude to risk. 
It recommended Mrs N pay a premium of £74 a month into an FSAVC over a period 
of 16 years and 6 months.
the relative merits of FSAVC and AVCs were covered. Mrs N had chosen an 
FSAVC because of the choice of investment and its flexibility.
Prudential said its report should be read in conjunction with the key features document and 
personal quotation given to Mrs N.
Mrs N later complained about the sale of the policy to Prudential because:
It didnt properly assess the level of risk she could take.
There was no justifiable reason for her to have a portable FSAVC as she was likely 
to remain in the same employment until retirement.
The adviser didnt establish if her employers scheme had an added years or any 
other enhanced benefit arrangement, which Mrs N would have chosen if shed been 
properly advised.
The adviser hadnt compared the benefits between an FSAVC and an AVC, or 
whether the employer matched or made further contributions in respect of an AVC.
The adviser should have referred Mrs N to her company scheme for full details of the 
charges associated with an AVC.
The adviser didnt make a comparison of charges between an FSAVC and AVC.
Other suitable requirements werent discussed in a fair and balanced way.
If advised correctly, Mrs N would have contributed to the most suitable in house 
option. 
Prudential didnt uphold the complaint and said things such as: 
There was no evidence the adviser hadnt discussed the main features of the policy, 
or alternatives, in a fair and balanced manner.
Charges were shown in the members booklet and the financial review summary 
confirmed the adviser gave Mrs N the leaflet additional voluntary contributions- 
some important features and explained the contents to her. Prudential added that 
Mrs N could have contacted her employer for more information about its in house 
AVCs to discuss things further if shed wanted to.
Mrs N was also likely to have received information about how she could increase her 
contributions through her workplace NHS scheme, as shed fairly recently joined it.  
The FSAVC offered the advantage of portability and there was nothing to indicate 
that Mrs N wouldnt have switched employer. It also suited her very cautious 
attitude to risk as it was invested in a with profits fund.
There were a number of reasons why Mrs N might not have opted to buy added 
years in 1998, not least due to the cost, which would likely have been seen as 
expensive. The costs also needed to be agreed upfront, whereas with an FSAVC the 
contributions could be adjusted as circumstances allowed.
Investment growth was higher in 1998, so the expected return from an FSAVC was 
potentially more beneficial than buying added years.
In conclusion, Prudential didnt think the policy had been mis-sold. And it said that if she 
wasnt happy, Mrs N had had the option of cancelling it within the cooling off period. 
Mrs N complained to our service. One of our investigators considered the complaint and 
didnt uphold it. The investigator said:
As Mrs N had recently joined her employers pension scheme, it was reasonable to 
assume shed have been given information about her employers in house scheme.
Prudential had given her a leaflet Additional Voluntary contributions-some important 
features and discussed the contents with her. That leaflet also explained some of the 
differences in costs, such as the costs being borne by the consumer in the case of an 
FSAVC.
Mrs N chose the FSAVC because of its choice of investment and flexibility. The 
investigator thought the flexibility sought was perhaps indicative of Mrs N potentially 
changing jobs in future or wanting to control the contribution level.
Overall, the investigator thought Mrs N was made aware of the difference in features and 
charges between the FSAVC and in house AVC.
Mrs N didnt agree that enough had been done to make her aware of the difference in 
charges and the effect that could have on her overall retirement provision. She also said 
(amongst other things):
it was the advisers responsibility to make sure she understood the differences 
between AVCs and FSAVCs and it should not have put the burden of liability on her.Prudentials argument regarding choices of investment was flawed on the basis that 
shed invested in a with profits fund, which was also an option available in the in 
house scheme. Mrs N had remained in that scheme during the terms of the policy 
indicating fund choice was not a factor.
Mrs N had recently joined her employers in house scheme. There was nothing to 
suggest she was looking to change employers in the foreseeable future. She thought 
flexibility was a weak attempt at making the FSAVC suitable.
The investigator considered Mrs Ns comments. And whilst they didnt change her opinion 
overall, she did make the following points in response:
Mrs N was given the information the investigator would typically expect from a tied 
adviser.
The leaflet Additional Voluntary Contributions - some important features was used 
as a discussion tool, so the section relating to costs would have been covered and 
Mrs N would have been given an opportunity to question the differences. It was 
evident that she wasnt simply given the literature to read.
Mrs N had recently started a part time role and had a young child. Whilst there was 
no mention of Mrs Ns intentions one way or another concerning her employment, the 
investigator thought given her working and financial arrangements, flexibility would 
be a realistic need given Mrs Ns young family.
The financial review was arranged shortly after Mrs N started her new job and shed 
recently joined her new employers pension scheme. The investigator thought it likely 
Mrs N would already have received the information regarding her employers 
scheme, which was probably the reason for the meeting. As such, she thought Mrs N 
was probably fully aware of the in house option, especially given the notes in the 
fact find.
The process was completed over two meetings giving Mrs N time to review the 
position.
Mrs N asked an Ombudsman to consider the matter afresh, so its been passed to me to 
decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I think its helpful to say at the outset that Prudentials adviser wasnt able to actively 
recommend products offered by other providers, including those available within the 
employers in house pension scheme. Thats because, as a tied adviser, employed by 
Prudential, he could only recommend Prudentials products.
Thats not to say that Prudential didnt have other important obligations though. The 
regulator set out a number of responsibilities for tied advisers. Whilst they couldnt actively 
recommend in house options, they would have known they were available and were 
expected to inform the consumer about them and their generic benefits. 
As an example, money purchase AVCs often had lower charges than an FSAVC. And its 
often the case that within an in house scheme an employer would match or top up the 
amount the consumer contributed themselves.
Some of the responsibilities for tied advisers were reaffirmed in a regulatory update RU20, 
which was issued in May 1996. In short, that update said a tied adviser shouldnt 
recommend their own companys FSAVC until they had:Drawn the consumers attention to the alternatives within the in house scheme;
Discussed, in generic terms, the differences between the in house alternative and 
an FSAVC;
Directed the consumer to their employer; or the pension scheme trustees, for more 
information about the in house option.
These werent new obligations. Rather, it was the regulator restating expectations that were 
already in place.
So, thats the backdrop against which I considered whether Prudential acted fairly and 
reasonably, and in line with the regulators expectations, in Mrs Ns particular case.
It is clear that Mrs N doesnt think Prudential did enough to make direct comparisons 
between the benefits and charges associated with her employers in house scheme and the 
FSAVC it recommended. Whilst I appreciate her point, I dont necessarily agree that as a 
tied adviser, it was for Prudential to go into things in that level of detail. Rather, it was 
required to let the consumer know about the existence of an in house scheme and to 
explain the generic benefits offered. Doing those things wasnt simply a matter of giving the 
consumer information leaflets or other product information either. Amongst other things, 
Prudential needed to be able to demonstrate that it had discussed the key differences with 
Mrs N and let her know that it was open to her to seek additional information from her 
employer if she wanted it. 
Ive been given some documents from the time of the sale and Prudentials personal 
summary report to Mrs N, which it completed having met Mrs N to discuss her retirement 
needs. Within the personal summary report, Prudential states it had given Mrs N a copy of a 
leaflet AVC  some important features and had explained the contents to her. Bearing in 
mind that this report was produced following a meeting with Mrs N, it seems reasonable to 
conclude it was an accurate reflection of what was discussed. Especially as Ive seen no 
evidence that Mrs N disputed its contents.
So, it follows that Im satisfied Prudential had a discussion with Mrs N. And given what was 
noted at the time, it seems likely the discussion followed the format of the leaflet. That leaflet 
talks about the different options available and the key differences between an AVC and an 
FSAVC including, for instance, the way that contributions are taxed or the way that benefits 
can be taken. It also mentions that some employers offer to match a members contributions 
to an in house scheme with extra contributions to their workplace pension. And it says If 
this is the case, it is unlikely that you would be better off with an FSAVC. It also says that 
further information on the in house scheme can be obtained from the employer or pension 
scheme trustees.
Given these statements, Im satisfied that Prudential would have made Mrs N aware of the 
in house scheme and that she could seek further information from her employer before 
making a decision. And, as the advice process took place over the course of two meetings, it 
seems likely that Mrs N would have had the opportunity to find out more if shed wanted to  
even if shed already received information upon joining the scheme (which seems likely). Im 
satisfied that in discussing these things with Mrs N, Prudential would have met at least two 
of the requirements set out in RU20.
Similarly, in discussing the leaflet, I think Prudential would have explained (as the leaflet did) 
that it was difficult to be precise about the specific charges involved due to the differences in 
product structures. However, I think it would have said that the charges associated with an 
AVC are often met by the employer, whereas with an FSAVC theyre met by the consumer. 
So, I think it should have been fairly clear to Mrs N that the charges associated with an AVC 
were typically lower. 
I can fully appreciate why Mrs N might now think its implausible shed have invested in a 
product that was more expensive had she known more about the alternatives available. And I can also see why, on reflection, she thinks Prudential must have been responsible or 
negligent in its actions. Im not able to say with any certainty exactly what was discussed and 
why Mrs N took the decision that she did - bearing in mind that the advice was given over 20 
years ago. But, Im satisfied, on balance, that Prudential did enough to meet its regulatory 
responsibilities in giving Mrs N the information needed to help her to make an informed 
decision. Overall, given her circumstances and objectives at the time, Im satisfied the advice 
Prudential gave wasnt unsuitable for her. 
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs N to accept or 
reject my decision before 28 October 2022.
 
Amanda Scott
Ombudsman