DRN-2752936
The complaint
Mr P complains that Sainsburys Bank Plc (SB) provided poor service regarding a request for 
information connected to his motor insurance policy.
  
What happened
Mr P got car insurance through SB in December 2019. His partner and father were also 
insured as named drivers. His cover started on 4 December 2019.
In March 2020, its underwriters asked SB to get additional detailed documentation for all the 
drivers covered under the Mr Ps policy. 
SB wrote to Mr P on 17 March 2020, asking him to provide the required documents. The 
letter noted that if the documents werent provided, the cover could be changed. Or the 
policy could be cancelled. 
SB also e-mailed Mr P. The email said A document regarding your Sainsburys Bank car 
insurance policy has been uploaded to your online portal. Please login and read it as soon 
as possible.
Mr P says he didnt get the letter. And while he did receive the email, he says there was 
nothing uploaded to the portal.
Because SB didnt receive the requested documents, it sent a Notification of Cancellation on 
25 March 2020. That letter explained that the policy was due to be cancelled on 4 April 2020.
Mr P says he received that letter on 30 March 2020. He says there was no further 
information explaining why the letter had been sent. So he immediately contacted SB to 
discuss it. He says SB told him that he shouldve received a previous letter. He told them he 
hadnt. 
SB told Mr P what was in the missing letter. Mr P says hed never before had to provide this 
information. And he didnt understand why hed been asked to provide it at this point rather 
than when the policy started on 4 December 2019. 
SB confirmed when Mr P asked that if he produced the requested information before 4 April 
2020 the policy wouldnt be cancelled.
Mr P was unhappy with other aspects of the service he received during this call. He felt that 
the agent didnt understand the issues he was facing. And called him by the wrong name. Mr 
P says that the agent eventually explained that the letter requesting the information was also 
available online on Mr Ps account.  But Mr P said this wasnt the case.
Mr P says that he spoke to a manager who gave him two further days to provide the 
information. He says that the whole process was stressful. He was particularly worried about 
the future impact of having his policy cancelled. So he complained to SB.
SB felt itd communicated the request for documentation appropriately by sending a letter 
and uploading it to the portal. It agreed with Mr P that hed received poor service from their 
agent on 30 March 2020. It said itd ensure the agent received appropriate training to 
prevent this happening again. As an apology for the poor service, SB offered £40 worth of 
points.
It was noted that the documents requested had now been provided and accepted. And the 
policy was no longer at risk of being cancelled.
Unhappy with SBs response, Mr P brought his complaint to this service. He said the £40 of 
points offered hadnt been added to his account. And he didnt feel it covered the cost of his 
time, fuel and personal stress the situation had put him under.
In her first view, our investigator upheld his complaint. She felt compensation of £150 for the 
distress and inconvenience Mr P had experienced was fair. 
SB didnt agree. It provided information which it felt proved that Mr P had simply never tried 
to open the information itd put on his portal. So our investigator issued a second view. She 
said that the new evidence had satisfied her that SB did upload the information request to 
portal. So she felt that no further compensation was necessary. 
But Mr P didnt agree that the information had ever been accessible to him through the 
portal. He provided a video showing him follow the step-by-step guide SB had provided. This 
showed that the information request wasnt accessible to him on the portal. 
Given the video evidence from Mr P, our investigator told SB that she felt her first view fairly 
reflected the situation. She felt thered been a glitch in SBs systems which had prevented Mr 
P from accessing the document request. So she felt SB should pay him an additional £150 
compensation.
 
SB didnt agree. It provided information showing that the document request had been added 
to the portal. So the complaint has come to me for a final decision.
  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having looked at all the evidence Im going to uphold this complaint. Ill explain why.
From the information Ive seen, as soon as Mr P says he became aware of the need to 
provide the specific information requested, he took reasonable steps to provide it. He called 
SB as soon as he got the Notice of Cancellation letter. 
Mr P shared a video recording of him following the appropriate process, as detailed by SB, 
to access documents on the portal. It shows that he didnt have access to the document 
request letter on the portal. 
Mr P said there must be a bug in their system. If they can see the letter added to my 
account but however I cannot see it on my account then this is a fault on SBs side and in 
doing so if this letter was available I would not be complaining. He didnt blame SB for the 
letter itd sent in the post going missing. But he did hold them responsible for putting so little 
information in the cancellation letter hed received on 30 March 2020. I acknowledge that SB has shown that it did add the document request letter to the portal on 
17 March 2020. SB has said that this particular document wouldnt be available on the portal 
after the customer has accessed it. It also said the documents will only be viewable by the 
policy holder while the policy is live. As the policy is no longer active Mr P cant see them. 
So it doesnt agree that the video Mr P sent is proof of the document never having been 
accessible on the portal. Further, it says that Given it was also sent by post, I think we 
satisfied the requirements to send the notice of cancellation.
But I dont agree.  I can see that other uploads remain available on the portal, despite the 
policy no longer being active. So from what Ive seen it seems probable that there was a 
systems error which meant Mr P was never able to access the document request letter 
through the portal. 
Mr P says he didnt receive the document request letter in the post either. Taking everything 
into account, Im persuaded that he wasnt aware of SBs requirement for the specific 
documents before he received its letter on 30 March 2020.
On 23 March 2020 we saw the start of the first national lockdown due to Covid-19. So I can 
understand why  after Mr P realised what information he needed to provide - he was 
concerned that he had to provide so much additional information in such a short time. I can 
also see that he was especially concerned about the potential for his car insurance to be 
cancelled at this point in time. Mr P has explained that his car was particularly important to 
him then as he was helping to care for his parents during the Covid-19 lockdown.
Taking everything into account, including the Covid-19 situation, Im satisfied that Mr P 
wasnt aware that he needed to provide the detailed information SB had requested until he 
got its Notice of Cancellation on 30 March 2020. The unhelpful phone call that he then had 
with SBs agent, and the short timeframe he was given to provide all of the information, 
caused distress and inconvenience. 
Putting things right
So I require SB to pay Mr P £150 compensation for the poor service and for the distress and 
inconvenience caused when it didnt ensure he was notified of the potential cancellation in a 
timely manner.
  
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I uphold Mr Ps complaint. 
I require Sainsburys Bank Plc to pay Mr P £150 for the distress and inconvenience it caused 
him.
  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision before 25 May 2021.
 
Jo Occleshaw
Ombudsman