DRN-3170310
The complaint
Mr O is unhappy that National Savings and Investments (NS&I) wont reimburse money 
that was sent by them to an incorrect bank account.
What happened
Mr O provided instructions to NS&I to transfer approximately £11,920 to a bank account held 
with a third-party bank (the Bank). Unfortunately, the bank account details that Mr O 
provided to NS&I were those of an old account that he had previously held, the sort code 
and account number of which had subsequently been reassigned by the Bank to another 
customer (the Recipient).
Mr O realised the mistake and informed NS&I that the money had been sent to the wrong 
account. NS&I attempted to recover the money from the Bank on Mr Os behalf, but the 
Bank explained that the Recipient no longer had the money in their account which meant 
that the money couldnt be returned to NS&I. Mr O wasnt happy about this, and he felt that 
NS&I should reimburse the mis-placed money to him. So, he raised a complaint.
NS&I looked at Mr Os complaint. But they noted that theyd transferred the money to the 
incorrect account on Mr Os instructions and so didnt feel that they should be held liable for 
the mistake. NS&I also felt that theyd undertaken fair and reasonable efforts to recover the 
money for Mr O, albeit without success, but didnt feel that they should be held liable for the 
money no longer being available in the Recipients account to allow it to be recovered. So, 
they didnt uphold Mr Os complaint.
Mr O remained dissatisfied, so he referred his complaint to this service. One of our 
investigators looked at this complaint. But they also didnt feel that NS&I could reasonably be 
held liable for what had happened, and so they also didnt uphold this complaint.
Mr O remained dissatisfied, so the matter was escalated to an ombudsman for a final 
decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I can appreciate how it must have been deeply concerning for Mr O, having realised that 
hed mistakenly instructed NS&I to transfer the money to an incorrect bank account, to have 
later been told by NS&I that the transferred money couldnt be recovered.
When NS&I received the withdrawal request from Mr O, they noted that the recipient bank 
account details that Mr O provided were different to the account details they held on file for 
Mr O at that time. Because of this, NS&I sent a letter to Mr O asking him to confirm his 
current and previous bank details. Mr O replied to this letter providing details of his current 
bank account as being with an account number ending in 343 and specifically confirmed that 
he wanted the money transferred to that account.
Unfortunately, it transpired that the bank account with an account number ending in 343 was 
an incorrect account, which resulted in the money being received by an unintended and 
unknown recipient. 
Mr O has stated that NS&I should have noted at the time of the transfer that the bank 
account details couldnt be confirmed as belonging to an account in his name. But NS&I 
arent part of the bank account corroboration scheme to which Mr O refers to here, whereby 
transfers between financial institutions within the scheme include whether provided bank 
details can be confirmed as being in the intended recipients name. And I feel that the steps 
that NS&I did take to confirm the bank account details with Mr O were reasonable.
Additionally, the Payment Services Regulations 2017 confirm the following:
Where the unique identifier [re: account number] provided by the payment service 
user is incorrect, the payment service provider is not liable   for non-execution or 
defective execution of the payment transaction, but the payment service provider 
must make reasonable efforts to recover the funds involved in the payment 
transaction
In this instance, I feel that because NS&I did ask Mr O to confirm his current bank details 
before making the transfer, and because NS&I then received from Mr O specific confirmation 
of the account to which he wanted the money to be transferred  and given that NS&I did 
ultimately transfer the money to that account which Mr O specifically had specifically 
instructed them to  and also in consideration of the Payment Services Regulations 2017 as 
quoted above, that it wouldnt be fair or reasonable to consider NS&I as being responsible or 
accountable for the money being transferred to the incorrect account. 
Additionally, given that NS&I did attempt to recover to money from the Bank  albeit 
unsuccessfully because the Recipient no longer had the money in their account  I also feel 
that NS&I did make reasonable efforts to recover the money, and dont feel that they can 
reasonable or fairly be held responsible for those recovery efforts being unsuccessful.
Mr O notes that it took NS&I approximately four weeks from his informing them that the 
money had been sent to the wrong account before they initiated recovery proceedings and 
as such he feels that NS&I didnt act quickly enough to try to recover his money.
I can appreciate Mr Os position here, to a degree. But theres no guarantee that had NS&I 
acted more quickly that the money would have been available in the Recipients account at 
that time for them to have been able to recover it. And it also must be noted that Mr O 
himself only informed NS&I that the money had been sent to an incorrect account four 
weeks after the transfer had taken place, which I feel had already given the Recipient ample 
time to withdraw the money from his account, as appears to have been the case here.
All of which means that, for the reasons explained above, I dont feel that NS&I have acted 
unfairly or unreasonably towards Mr O in transferring the money to the account as requested 
by Mr O or in their attempts to recover the money for him. And it follows from this that I wont 
be upholding this complaint.
I realise that this wont b the outcome that Mr O was wanting, and I sympathise with the 
position he finds himself in and hope that a solution can be reached that allows for the 
recovery of this money for him. 
But I feel that any such solution would most likely involve discussions between Mr O, the 
Bank, and the Recipient. And I dont feel that NS&I, in their administrative role as completers 
of the instructions provided to them by Mr O  which as explained above, Im satisfied NS&I undertook and completed fairly and in line with their responsibilities  should reasonably 
bear any liability for the unfortunate outcome that has occurred here. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr O to accept or 
reject my decision before 10 May 2022.
 
Paul Cooper
Ombudsman