DRN-3614463
The complaint
Mr B complains that NewDay Ltd trading as Fluid lent irresponsibly when it approved his
credit card application.
What happened
The background to this complaint and my initial conclusions were set out in my provisional 
decision. I said: 
In October 2020 Mr B applied for a credit card with Fluid. In his application, Mr B said he 
was living with his parents, employed and had an income of £25,500 a year. Fluid carried 
out a credit search and found Mr B owed around £18,400 in unsecured credit with no 
arrears or other adverse information recorded. Fluid approved a credit card with a £900 
credit limit.
Last year, Mr B complained that Fluid had lent irresponsibly. Fluid sent Mr B a final 
response but said it had carried out reasonable checks and approved his credit card in line 
with its lending criteria. An investigator at this service went on to uphold Mr Bs complaint 
and said Fluid shouldve carried out better checks before agreeing to lend. Fluid asked to 
appeal, so Mr Bs complaint has been passed to me to make a decision.
What Ive provisionally decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive reached a different decision to the investigator. Having looked at the information 
available, I havent been persuaded that Fluid lent irresponsibly when it approved Mr Bs 
credit card. Before a business agrees to lend, it should take reasonable steps to ensure it 
does so in a responsible way.
Theres no set list of checks a lender has to complete. In practice, this means businesses 
should ensure proportionate checks are carried out to make sure the customer can afford 
to repay the borrowing in a sustainable way. These checks should take into account 
various factors, like the amount being lent, the costs to the borrower each month, credit 
history and the consumers income and outgoings. As the relationship between lender and 
borrower progresses, the business may need to consider carrying out more comprehensive 
checks to ensure the borrower can afford repayments in a sustainable way.
In this case, Fluid asked about Mr Bs living situation and was told he lived with parents. 
Fluid asked about Mr Bs income and carried out a credit search to look at his ongoing 
commitments. I can see that Fluid found a reasonable level of unsecured credit in Mr Bs 
name. Ive reviewed Mr Bs credit file and note he had a hire purchase agreement that 
made up the majority of his unsecured borrowing. I can see a regular monthly payment of 
around £250 were considered, along with the cost of servicing Mr Bs other credit. Mr B 
told Fluid he was living with his parents and I havent seen anything that shows he gave 
details of other living costs. Im satisfied Fluid factored the ongoing costs of servicing Mr 
Bs existing credit into its application.
I also think its reasonable to note that Mr Bs credit file showed he was up to date with his 
existing commitments and had no arrears, defaults or other adverse credit. The credit limit 
Fluid agreed was reasonably modest at £900 which meant there was a lower risk of 
increasing Mr Bs commitments.
In my view, Fluid did carry out reasonable and proportionate checks before approving Mr Bs
credit card application. I havent been persuaded that Fluid lent irresponsibly in this case.
I invited both parties to respond with further information they wanted me to consider before I 
made my final decision. 
Mr B responded and said that prior to his application with Fluid his credit file had missed 
payments and defaults that have since been removed following successful complaints. Mr B 
also gave details of his regular outgoings required to service credit in his name and said 
Fluid had added to pressure to make repayments. Mr B didnt accept my view of his 
complaint. 
Fluid responded and advised it had nothing further to add. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Id like to thank Mr B for his detailed response to my provisional decision. I appreciate he 
found the findings I reached disappointing and Ive considered the points hes made in 
response. 
Mr B has given us details of his monthly outgoings to service other credit at the time of his 
application with Fluid. Mr B also says he had numerous arrears and some defaults on his 
credit file at the time he applied. But, the evidence Fluid has supplied includes records of 
what it found on his credit file. And theres no active arrears or defaults showing in the credit 
file information it obtained in October 2020 when his application was considered. 
Mr B says the information has largely been removed because of successful irresponsible 
lending complaints. Whilst that may be the case, Im satisfied Fluid has supplied evidence to 
show it found no arrears or defaults on Mr Bs credit file when he applied in October 2020. 
I have relooked at the information Fluid had available when it considered Mr Bs credit card 
application. I still think Fluid carried out reasonable and proportionate checks before 
approving Mr Bs credit card, for largely the same reasons. Im very sorry to disappoint Mr B 
but I havent been persuaded that Fluid lent irresponsibly when it approved his credit card 
application. As Im satisfied Fluid dealt with Mr Bs complaint fairly, Im not telling it to do 
anything else. 
My final decision
My decision is that I dont uphold Mr Bs complaint. Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 25 August 2022.
 
Marco Manente
Ombudsman