DRN-2095643
The complaint
Miss C complains that National Westminster Bank Plc (Natwest) mishandled her account 
switch to another third-party bank (Nationwide).
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I will not repeat them again 
here. Instead, I will focus on giving the reasons for my decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the conclusions reached by the investigator for these reasons:
I appreciate Natwest initially misinformed Miss C as to the whereabouts of her 
money, as they incorrectly told her on 30 June 2020 that they did not have the funds 
when in fact they did. However, they eventually told Miss C on 9 July 2020 that the 
money had indeed been sent back to them by Nationwide, where they offered £100 
in recognition of the distress and inconvenience caused by the misinformation.
I understand that Miss Cs funds going missing caused a lot more than just minor 
distress and inconvenience in these circumstances, as she was struggling to feed her 
family and had to resort to using food banks, which must have been a very 
distressing time for her. However, I have to take into account the fact that there are 
two banks involved here (albeit this decision is purely concerned with the acts and 
omissions of Natwest). And as the third-party receiving bank, Nationwide have 
conceded that the money only went missing in the first place because they incorrectly 
told Miss C to close her new account before the switch from Natwest had taken 
place. So I cannot fairly hold Natwest responsible for all elements of this complaint 
and the fact that she has been deprived of her money. However, for the failings that 
can be attributed to Natwest (i.e. the misinformation about the whereabouts of her 
money) I consider their offer of £100 to be fair compensation in the circumstances.
Miss C says one of the Natwest agents she spoke to on the phone made a rude 
remark about her situation. Unfortunately, there is no evidence of what was said as 
the call recording is not available. But even taking Miss Cs version of events at face 
value, I do not consider any further compensation than the £100 already paid by 
Natwest would be warranted in any event.
 
Natwest have confirmed that Miss Cs funds have been sent back to them by 
Nationwide, but that her account with them has since been closed. They will 
therefore require Nationwide to undertake a trace on the payment so that the funds 
and the account they have been sent to can be identified. If they are not able or 
willing to undertake this trace, this will need to form the basis of a separate complaint 
against Nationwide directly.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I do not uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss C to accept 
or reject my decision before 21 September 2020.
 
Jack Ferris
Ombudsman