DRN-3842776
The complaint
Mr W complains that Hargreaves Lansdown Asset Management Limited (HLAM) didnt 
contact him about two corporate actions. He says he missed the opportunity to subscribe for 
new shares and HLAM didnt sell his entitlement on his behalf. 
What happened
Mr W has an execution only share dealing account with HLAM. He has a holding of overseas 
shares, which Ill refer to as K. Mr W says K had two rights issues and that HLAM failed to 
contact him about either of them. He wasnt given the opportunity to subscribe or sell his 
rights and HLAM didnt give him any information until he complained.
HLAM said that in 2021 there were only three days between announcement and closure of 
the subscription period, which didnt give it enough time to take and process Mr Ws 
instructions. And that in 2022 there was no FCA approved prospectus, so Mr W wasnt able 
to take up the rights. HLAM said it would have attempted to sell Mr Ws rights, but that the 
cut-off date for trading set by its market maker was the same day CREST set up the event, 
so there wasnt enough time for it to trade. It said it wasnt responsible for any financial loss 
Mr W made by not being able to participate in the rights issues.
Our investigator didnt recommend that the complaint should be upheld. She didnt think the 
events were under HLAMs control so she couldnt conclude that it was responsible for any 
loss.
Mr W didnt agree. He said, in summary, that HLAM should have been ready to act ahead of 
CREST setting up the event, and it should have contacted more than one market maker. 
When it failed to sell his rights, it should have let him know. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In 2021, the corporate event would appear to have been a placement, rather than a rights 
issue. But Im satisfied that the timescales HLAM referred to in its final response letter were 
accurate. K allowed existing shareholders a priority period to subscribe for new shares. But 
the subscription price was announced on 12 April 2021 and the priority subscription period 
was from 13 to 15 April. I dont think it was unreasonable that HLAM decided this was too 
short a time period to enable it to seek, and act on, its clients instructions. This is also set 
out in HLAMs agreed terms and conditions which say:
If we receive notice of a Corporate Action relating to a security you hold that will result in a 
material change to your holding, we will use reasonable endeavours to notify you to obtain 
your instructions. There may be instances where we are not notified by the company, its 
registrar, CREST, or our third party data provider of a Corporate Action (or are not provided 
with sufficient information in time by them) and as a result are unable to pass on the details 
to you. In such circumstances, we will not be liable to you for any loss suffered. (A18)
In 2022, K announced a rights issue. HLAM wasnt able to take up the rights on Mr Ws 
behalf because he is a retail client and an FCA approved prospectus wasnt issued in the 
UK. In the circumstances, I dont find HLAM was obliged to contact Mr W about the rights 
issue, because he wouldnt have been able to take up the rights. But HLAM was obliged to 
act in Mr Ws best interests, so it looked to sell his rights entitlement. I find this was set out in 
the agreed terms and conditions which say:
We may attempt to sell any rights you receive in a corporate action without your prior 
instruction where (i) you do not have the option to take up those rights (usually where they 
relate to overseas securities) . (A18)
Im satisfied from the information that HLAM has provided that it didnt have enough time to 
sell Mr Ws rights. I say this because it was reliant on CREST allocating the rights to it and 
setting up the event to exercise the rights. And it was reliant on a market maker to trade. The 
market makers deadline for trading was the same day the event was set up by CREST, so 
I find there reasonably wasnt enough time for HLAM to place an order.
Mr W says HLAM should have tried to sell his rights through other market makers, and not 
just relied on one. HLAMs order execution policy, which forms part of its terms and 
conditions, lists a number of market makers and its possible that another market maker may 
have had a later dealing cut off time. Ive considered this carefully. Whilst I cant say for 
certain what the outcome might have been if HLAM had approached other market makers, 
I think its more likely than not that they would have been subject to a similar dealing cut off 
time. I say this because all the market makers would have been in the same position of 
wanting to exercise any rights they purchased before Ks deadline of 6 June (particularly 
taking into account the bank holidays on 2 and 3 June). So, even if HLAM had approached 
other market makers, Im not persuaded the outcome would have been any different.
I dont find HLAM was obliged to let Mr W know what had happened, although it might have 
been helpful to explain why it had been unable to sell the rights for him. But, even if Mr W 
had been made aware of what happened at an earlier date, I dont find the overall outcome 
would have been any different.
I understand Mr Ws strength of feeling on this matter. But Im satisfied HLAM acted 
reasonably and in line with its agreed terms. And it couldnt have done anything more, taking 
into account the short timescales given for both corporate actions.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, my final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision before 7 August 2023.
 
Elizabeth Dawes
Ombudsman