DRN-2722363
The complaint
Mr and Mrs T complain Bank of Scotland plc trading as Halifax (Halifax) made multiple 
mistakes when they called them to upgrade three of their accounts and this has caused 
lasting and significant problems.
What happened
Mr and Mrs T brought their complaint to us as they were unhappy with the response 
received from Halifax in relation to their concerns. 
Halifax investigated and upheld the complaint. In their Final Response Letter (FRL) dated 
16 November 2000 they apologised for not giving Mr and Mrs T better service and getting 
their request right the first time. They said, based on what Mr T had told them, it was clear 
they were given incorrect information and Halifax apologised that their service had fallen 
short and for any inconvenience this had caused Mr and Mrs T. In the FRL Halifax gave Mr 
and Mrs T the correct information about the maximum number of upgraded accounts they 
could each hold. To put things right Halifax paid Mr and Mrs T a total of £150 compensation 
(paid in three separate amounts of £50, £30 and £70) along with £54 for the costs of the 
calls theyd made under this complaint reference and earlier ones on the 2 and 9 October 
2020 all of which related to the same issue of them upgrading accounts. Halifax also offered 
to consider their call costs further of the were over the £54 paid on receipt of an itemised bill.
Mr and Mrs T told us they didnt think the response adequately addressed Halifaxs 
incompetence and negligence. Or the lasting damage caused to Mrs Ts mental health by 
the episode and invited they Halifax to review the offer explaining their claim was for a 
substantial amount for inconvenience distress and severe pain and suffering - particularly to 
Mrs T. Halifax maintained that the offer in the FRL was a fair and reasonable outcome to 
their complaint. Mr and Mrs T then brought the complaint to us.
Our investigator reviewed the evidence and thought, where there had been failings, Halifax 
had accepted this taken appropriate and timely corrective action. Overall, he thought 
Halifaxs compensation payments - which he calculated as £120 - to recognise the poor 
customer service and the upset to Mrs T was fair and reasonable. He could see the 
accounts had been successfully upgraded and Halifax had repaid the call costs of £54, 
effectively putting Mr and Mrs T in the position they would have been in had this situation 
never occurred. He also thought, although Mr and Mrs T felt Mrs T had been severely 
disadvantaged by having to complete her own upgrade, it was reasonable for Halifax - and in 
line with industry guidelines - to need the account holder to authorise an upgrade on the 
account.
Although Mr and Mrs T thought the view was comprehensive and the investigation had been 
handled largely to their satisfaction, they asked for the matter to be escalated to an 
ombudsman for a final decision.  They told us they decided to pursue the matter further as 
they believed Halifaxs offer of compensation was made before theyd been made aware of 
Mrs Ts anxiety. And they thought Halifax were certainly not aware of her ongoing emotional 
stress. Mr and Mrs T said Halifax had caused untold damage to Mrs Ts mental and 
emotional health through their incompetence in upgrading the account, which, they thought, 
was worth considerably more than the £120 offered. They later sent us further comments on 
the areas they disagreed with the investigators view. And in response to my request to 
clarify what compensation Halifax had paid, Mr and Mrs T told us they were happy to accept 
Halifaxs figures as true but that a substantial slice of what was paid was to repay for phone 
calls so was reimbursement and not exactly compensation.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive come to the conclusion that I should uphold this complaint.
The investigator has given a full summary of the background to this complaint in the letter 
giving his opinion, so I shant repeat that here. Im afraid theres not a great deal I can add to 
what hes already told the parties here. I think hes covered the points raised quite clearly. 
And, apart from the amount of compensation he calculates as having been paid  he refers 
£120 when its £150 - I agree with his analysis and overall conclusions.
Its the role of the Financial Ombudsman Service to resolve individual complaints and to 
award redress where appropriate. It isnt my role to punish businesses for making mistakes; 
its my role to put consumers back into the position that they would have been in if the 
mistakes hadnt been made. And here that would have been for these three accounts to 
have been upgraded when the request was first made, without any delay or misinformation. 
Like the investigator I cant say it was wrong for Halifax to ask for Mrs T to deal with the 
security questions on her own account as its for them to decide their own processes. But I 
do think that legitimate process has been made more difficult by asking the wrong questions 
and giving incorrect information about how the upgrade could be affected. And thats been 
particularly difficult for Mrs T to deal with as shes of a gentle disposition and unfamiliar in 
dealing with such matters. So, Im looking at whether the compensation for distress, 
inconvenience and out of pocket expenses for those failings is enough.
I appreciate Mr and Mrs T, although accepting the need for security check and processes, 
continue to have concerns about whats happened here. But some of their concerns such as 
effectively only being able to change the account online - as branch appointments werent 
available due to the pandemic - were due to factors beyond the banks control at the time. 
So, I dont think its reasonable to hold the bank responsible for this or to suggest this 
marginalised Mr and Mrs T.  And I dont think its reasonable to expect the bank to invite the 
use of a Power of Attorney when they hadnt been informed of its existence. Or to anticipate 
the lasting reaction Mrs T has described experiencing on failing the security questions to 
access her own account. Particularly when it was later established, Mrs T been asked 
questions relating to a different account, so, as a matter of fact, had got nothing wrong in her 
answers. 
Its clear Halifax made mistakes when going through those reasonable security checks that 
have caused Mr and Mrs T inconvenience and distress. I know Mr and Mrs T in their recent 
comments have emphasised the severity of the mistakes made here along with the impact 
thats had upon them, particularly Mrs T. But Halifax accept theyve made mistakes. Their 
contact notes refer to accepting what Mr and Mrs T have told them and giving them the 
benefit of the doubt. So even though some of the calls may not be available here Im afraid 
thats not going to make any difference to my overall findings here.
  
The copy statements for Mr and Mrs Ts joint account satisfy me that three payments of 
compensation totalling £150 were made, as set out in the FRL. And Mr and Mrs T accept 
that. So, £150, not £120 compensation - as referred to in the investigators view - has been paid. Ive carefully considered the information Mr T has given us about his wifes disposition 
and nature. And I dont doubt that in the past hes dealt with all financial matters on her 
behalf. But even taking that into account I think that figure of £150 reflects the distress and 
inconvenience suffered by Mr and Mrs T here through Halifaxs mistakes. And, in the 
absence of any records to suggest the contrary, I think the figure of a further £54 paid for call 
costs is also reasonable. Its the sort of award Id have made if Halifax hadnt already 
suggested it. So, I dont require Halifax to do anything further.
My final decision
My final decision is that Bank of Scotland plc trading as Halifax have already responded 
reasonably to this complaint, so I dont require them to do anything further.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr T and Mrs T to 
accept or reject my decision before 11 August 2021.
 
Annabel O'Sullivan
Ombudsman