DRN-2268923
The complaint
Mrs M has complained about advice she received from Portal Financial Services LLP 
(Portal) to transfer a defined contribution personal pension (PP) she held to a Self-Invested 
Personal Pension (SIPP). 
Mrs M is being represented by a third party, but for ease Ill refer to all representations as 
being made by Mrs M.
What happened
Mrs M was introduced to Portal in 2014 after shed been in contact with another business,
here on referred to as Firm C. At the time, Firm C was an appointed representative
(AR) of a regulated business, Firm S. Firm S was authorised by the Financial Conduct
Authority (FCA) to provide investment advice, but neither it, nor Firm C were permitted to
provide pension transfer advice. 
At the time Mrs M was aged 55 and married. The fact find indicated she was a housewife, 
with savings of £1,000 and that she owned her home, which had a mortgage of £128,000. 
While no details were recorded about Mrs Ms pension in the fact-find, the suitability report 
notes she had a PP, that had a transfer value of £28,473. Her desired retirement age was 
noted as 65.
Portal carried out a risk-profiling exercise and determined Mrs M had a balanced attitude to 
risk (ATR). Portal wrote to Mrs M on 7 April 2015 and recommended that she transfer her 
PP into a new SIPP. It also said that the investment advice in respect of the transferred 
funds would be provided to her by Firm C.
At the same time Portal also recommended Mrs M set up a stakeholder pension plan (SPP) 
with Aviva to which she could make monthly contributions of £88.46 gross. Portal 
recommended the contributions should be invested equally in two mixed investment funds.
The SIPP was established in April 2015 and the value of her PP, which had increased to 
£28,930.70, was transferred on 11 June 2015 and just under £5,000 was invested as 
follows:
Biomass Investments - £800
Brisa Investments - £700
Lakeview UK Invest - £800
Strategic Residential Developments - £1,500
Motion Picture Global - £800
In 2019, Mrs M complained to Portal via her representative that the advice to switch her PP 
was unsuitable. She said the advice was negligent and unsuitable for someone with no 
investment experience, who was risk adverse and had a low capacity for loss. She also 
argued that Portal couldnt make its switch recommendation without taking responsibility for 
assessing the underlying SIPP investments. 
In response, Portal said it said it provided suitable switch advice that met Mrs Ms stated 
objectives. It said Firm C was responsible for any investment advice and it didnt know what 
the current situation was with her investments.
Unhappy with this, Mrs M brought her complaint to us. 
One of our investigators looked into it and said he didnt think Portal had sufficiently 
demonstrated that transferring Mrs Ms PP into a SIPP was in her best interests. He thought 
that Mrs M was likely to be worse off in retirement. The investigator said while the fact find 
said moving to a cheaper pension wasnt a driver for Mrs M the consideration of charges 
was fundamental, as she had a modest pension that she wouldnt be making additional 
contributions to and she wanted better investment performance. The investigator also said 
he didnt believe it was possible for Portal to provide suitable advice without knowing where 
the funds were going to be invested. And that Portal should pay Mrs M £300 for the distress 
and inconvenience caused.
Portal didnt agree. In summary, it said ongoing adviser charges shouldnt be considered as 
they were an additional service provided by Firm C. It said the SIPP charges were cheaper 
and the fund manager charges may have increased the cost, but it didnt expect Firm Cs 
advice to push charges above those of Mrs Ms PP. In any case, performance was Mrs Ms 
driver rather than a cheaper scheme and her PP was underperforming. Portal said Mrs Ms 
investments were recommended by Firm C and so it wasnt responsible. It said it gave its 
advice in knowledge of the likely investment strategy Firm C would employ for Mrs M. Portal  
added that it had undertaken due diligence on Firm C and provided a copy of the 
Compliance Health Check completed in 2012. Firm C said it didnt invest clients funds in 
UCIS so Portal said it shouldnt be held responsible given Firm C had deviated from this.
So the complaints been passed to me for a decision. I let Portal know Mrs M has confirmed 
she made a successful claim to the Financial Services Compensation Scheme (FSCS) in 
respect of the UCIS investments made by Firm C, and she received an award of £3,829.42.
So, I explained to Portal that I think it should compensate Mrs M for the entirety of her loss, 
despite her having received compensation from the FSCS. This was because Mrs M had 
agreed to repay the compensation she received from the FSCS if she received 
compensation from a third party relating to the same claim. So, Im satisfied Mrs M wouldnt 
be compensated twice for the same loss. 
Portal didnt respond. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Portal advised Mrs M to switch her PP to a SIPP but says it didnt provide any 
recommendation regarding the investments to be held in the SIPP as Firm C was providing 
advice on this. 
Ive thought about this carefully. But even if it wasnt specifically intending to advise on the 
investments, I think Portal needed to have an awareness of the intended investments in 
order to give suitable advice. This remains the case even if Firm C was actually providing 
that advice. It is, in my view, reasonable to expect a firm that is assessing the suitability of a 
pension switch to consider the overall investment strategy that applies to that proposed 
switch. This would include a broad understanding of the proposed investments, before it 
could determine whether the switch was in Mrs Ms best interest. I believe that as Mrs Ms financial adviser, Portal still had a duty to ensure the overall transaction was suitable, 
notwithstanding that another regulated firm was going to be involved.
The regulators position
I have taken account of relevant laws and regulations; regulators rules, guidance and 
standards, and what I consider to be relevant industry practice at the relevant time. These 
include the overarching Principles for Businesses (PRIN). Principles 1 (integrity), 2 (skill, 
care and diligence), 6 (customers interests) and 9 (reasonable care) are of particular 
relevance here.
The Conduct of Business Sourcebook (COBS) in the regulators handbook, set out the rules 
regulated businesses have to follow. At the relevant time, COBS 9.2.1R required Portal to 
take reasonable steps to ensure that a personal recommendation was suitable for Mrs M. It 
had to obtain information as to Mrs Ms knowledge and experience (relevant to the specific 
type of designated investment), his financial situation and investment objectives.
COBS 9.2.2R required Portal to gather sufficient information from Mrs M to ensure the 
recommendation met his objectives, that she could bear the risks involved and that she had 
the necessary experience and knowledge to understand the risks involved in the transaction. 
And under COBS 2.1.1R Portal had to act, honestly, fairly and professionally in accordance 
with the best interests of its client."
Having thought carefully about what happened here, I dont think Portals advice to switch 
Mrs Ms PP to a SIPP was suitable for her. At the time of the advice the regulator had made 
its view clear that it considered in order to suitably advise on pension transfers or switches, a 
firm needed to consider the suitability of the underlying investments to be held in it. The 
regulators position was evident in its 2013 alert where it said:
Financial advisers () are under the mistaken impression () they do not have to consider 
the unregulated investment as part of their advice to invest in the SIPP and that they only 
need to consider the suitability of the SIPP in the abstract. This is incorrect.
The [regulators] view is that the provision of suitable advice generally requires consideration 
of the other investments held by the customer or, when advice is given on a product which is 
a vehicle for investment in other products (such as SIPPs and other wrappers), 
consideration of the suitability of the overall proposition, that is, the wrapper and the 
expected underlying investments in unregulated schemes. It should be particularly clear to 
financial advisers that, where a customer seeks advice on a pension transfer in 
implementing a wider investment strategy, the advice on the pension transfer must take 
account of the overall investment strategy the customer is contemplating ()
If you give regulated advice and the recommendation will enable investment in unregulated 
items, you cannot separate out the unregulated elements from the regulated elements.
I acknowledge that in the scenario set out in the alert, the other firm that made the 
investment recommendations for the underlying assets of the SIPP was an unregulated 
introducer. Whereas in Mrs Ms case, Firm C was authorised to conduct investment business 
under its AR agreement with Firm S, and in turn Firm C could itself be pursued for 
compensation by a consumer within the financial services regulatory regime.
Portal may believe that this in turn distinguished the circumstances of Mrs Ms transaction 
from the scenario that the alert was aimed at, and as a result absolved it from its duty to 
assess the overall suitability of the proposed investments. It might say that was particularly the case as it had said to Mrs M that it wouldnt be providing any advice on the underlying 
investments as Firm C was doing that. Whilst Ive given that possibility careful thought, 
I dont agree that the alert was limited to those very specific circumstances.
I can see that the alert makes it clear that suitable investment advice generally requires 
consideration of the other investments held by the customer, as well as the suitability of the 
overall proposition when advice is given on a product that is a vehicle for investment in other 
products (such as the SIPP in Mrs Ms case). It further refers to the broadly applicable rules 
and guidance that ensure that in all instances of advice, a firm must first take time to 
familiarise itself with the wider investment and financial circumstances. In saying that, I dont 
think the FCA intended that in pension switch and transfer cases, regard to the overall 
proposition was only required where the introducing firm was unregulated, or where the 
assets contemplated included unregulated investments.
In my view, the regulator was indicating that these are standards that have broad application 
to pension switch and transfer advice, but pointing out that it had particular concern about 
cases in which unregulated firms and unregulated products put the consumer at risk. So, 
I think the alert is relevant to firms in the position of Portal in this case. This is further 
demonstrated by an alert from the regulator in 2014 which stated:
Where a financial adviser recommends a SIPP knowing that the customer will transfer or 
switch from a current pension arrangement to release funds to invest through a SIPP, then 
the suitability of the underlying investment must form part of the advice given to the 
customer. If the underlying investment is not suitable (), then the overall advice is not 
suitable. 
If a firm does not fully understand the underlying investment proposition intended to be held 
within a SIPP, then it should not offer advice on the pension transfer () at all as it will not 
be able to assess suitability of the transaction as a whole.
I acknowledge that the regulators statement in the alert is not guidance or rules or 
standards in the sense that such requirements are specified by the regulator in its 
Handbook. Nonetheless, I regard it as a relevant consideration when determining this 
complaint by reference to what is, in my opinion, fair and reasonable in all the circumstances 
of the case.
Both alerts specifically referred to PRIN and COBS, which Portal was subject to. And with 
reference to PRIN and COBS the alerts said a firm would fall short of its obligations under 
these precepts if it didnt familiarise itself with the intended investment strategy and that it 
wouldnt be able to recommend a new product, like a SIPP, without doing so. 
Portal appears to have been under the impression that, as it told Mrs M it wasnt providing 
any advice on the underlying investments, this enabled it to provide advice on a restricted 
basis. But this wasnt right. Under COBS 2.1.2 Portal couldnt seek to exclude or restrict its 
duty or liability to Mrs M under the regulatory system. So, saying it was operating under a 
limited retainer didnt absolve it of its duty of care to ensure the advice it was providing was 
suitable  again, this had to include consideration of how Mrs Ms funds would be invested. 
I dont think there was any ambiguity regarding the regulators position on the matter. 
Furthermore, the fact that Portal gave Mrs M advice on how she should invest her SPP 
somewhat undermines its position here.
As part of the fact-finding process Portal had to understand Mrs Ms objectives  two of 
which were recorded as to have greater fund choice and improved performance  and the 
related risks. It wasnt free to ignore how Mrs Ms funds were going to be invested 
irrespective of Firm Cs involvement. I consider the underlying investments in the SIPP to be inextricably linked to the risks relating to the SIPP, so assessing the risk and suitability of a 
switch without knowing what Mrs M would invest in within the wrapper, doesnt in my mind 
seem reasonably possible. 
As Portal didnt consider itself responsible for any advice regarding the underlying assets of 
the SIPP it recommended, it says it was unaware of where, further to Firm Cs involvement, 
Mrs Ms transferred funds would ultimately be invested. And although Portal said in response 
to the investigators view that it set out what a suitable portfolio of assets would be for Mrs M 
in the suitability report, that isnt true. Portal didnt set this out in its suitability report. 
Ultimately though, Portal says that because Firm C was regulated and able to provide 
investment advice with a duty to ensure this was suitable, Portal says it saw no issue with 
Firm C providing the investment advice independently. 
I recognise that the FCA allows for two advisers to work together to provide suitable advice 
to their mutual client. However, the alerts make it clear that a firm that is asked to advise on 
a pension switch needs to be aware of the intended investments before it advises on the 
switch, in order to provide suitable advice. So, it shouldve requested this information from 
Firm C before providing advice. And, as confirmed in the 2014 alert, if it didnt fully 
understand the underlying investment proposition intended to be held within a SIPP, then it 
should not offer advice on the pension transfer or switch at all So, in the absence of Portal 
knowing the investments Firm C intended for Mrs M, it couldnt provide her with suitable 
advice to switch her pension benefits. 
I also accept that as a result of its AR agreement with Firm S, Firm C was required to give 
suitable advice. However, I dont agree that this negated Portals duty to do the same. As 
Mrs Ms appointed financial adviser, it had a significant responsibility to provide suitable 
advice and act in Mrs Ms best interests. And as Ive said, this had to include an awareness 
of where Mrs Ms funds would be invested. 
Portal said in the suitability report that with this plan you do have the choice as to which 
funds your money is invested and I have made recommendations for these as well.. And it 
went on to say that Due to your risk rating balanced, your stated age of retirement and your 
needs and objectives we would recommend that you invest in certain fund asset classes.
It says it detailed the spread of asset classes. As Ive said above, I cant see that it did and, 
in any event, this wasnt enough. Portal didnt actually specify what it considered wouldve 
been a suitable investment portfolio for Mrs M. It also didnt check with Firm C what 
investments it was going to recommend for Mrs M before recommending the switch. So, 
there was no opportunity for Mrs M to assess whether the recommendation made by Portal 
would align with any subsequent recommendation made by Firm C. 
I havent seen anything to suggest that Portal, at any point, checked to see how Firm C 
broadly proposed to invest Mrs Ms funds. And I believe it should have, given the 
unavoidable connection this had to the switch it was proposing. As part of its duty of care to 
Mrs M, I consider that Portal shouldve at the very least asked Firm C at the outset for details 
of the model portfolios it adopted for various risk categories. And in doing so it ought to have 
checked these lined up with what it considered to suit each risk group. Further to this Portal 
shouldve also asked for the details of the portfolio intended for Mrs M and the proposed 
investments. I dont think Portal couldve reasonably assessed the suitability of the 
transaction it was recommending without doing so. 
The reality is that having followed Portals transfer advice, a significant part of the funds 
remaining in Mrs Ms SIPP was invested in UCIS. I think the regulators 2010 UCIS findings 
are relevant here. Here it said that as well as UCIS only being eligible for promotion to 
certain customers (generally sophisticated, high net worth investors), as an example, even 
when a customer was deemed eligible for the promotion of UCIS, suitable advice involved limiting a clients exposure to these investments to 3% to 5% of their retirement provision. In 
Mrs Ms case, around 20% of her SIPP funds were invested in UCIS. I dont think UCIS was 
suitable for Mrs M at all, and certainly not in the proportion invested. Theres nothing to 
indicate Mrs M had the requisite knowledge or experience to accept or understand the risks 
associated with these types of investments. 
In my view, had Portal requested information about the proposed investments and been 
advised that Firm C intended to invest that proportion of Mrs Ms pension in UCIS, it couldve 
queried this, given that it had only determined that she had a balanced ATR. I think that had 
appropriate enquiries been made, it wouldve become apparent something was amiss with 
Firms Cs proposal and that the switch was therefore unsuitable and likely to lead to Mrs M 
being exposed to more risk than Portal considered appropriate. 
Overall, I think Portal needed to satisfy itself that its recommendation to switch took account 
of the investment proposition that Firm C intended for Mrs M. I think it shouldve asked Firm 
C for the specifics of this or, as a minimum, an outline of the proposition. Had it done so, and 
Firm C had given it a clear framework of the proposition, then I wouldve expected Portal to 
have advised Mrs M that it couldnt recommend she switch her pension in those 
circumstances. As a result of Portals shortcomings here, it seems to me that Firm C was in 
effect given the freedom and opportunity to do as it wished with how Mrs Ms SIPP was 
invested. And if Portal had warned Mrs M against investing in line with Firm Cs proposal, 
I think its more likely than not that Mrs M wouldve listened to it and not gone ahead with the 
switch. 
Notwithstanding what Ive said above, I dont think the suitability of Portals advice turns 
solely on where Mrs Ms funds were ultimately invested. Portals recommendation that she 
switch to a SIPP in the first place is an important consideration. And were it not for the switch 
and Portals incomplete and, in my view, flawed advice regarding this, Im not persuaded 
Mrs M wouldve ultimately gone on to invest as she did.
The advice to switch
Having considered if the advice to switch Mrs Ms existing pension plan was suitable, I dont 
think it was. 
At the time of Portals advice Mrs M was 55 years old, a housewife and in good health. She 
was a standard retail investor with 10 years until she intended to retire. The plan being 
switched was most if not all of her retirement provision. Other than her pension she had 
£1,000 in savings. And, although she was a homeowner with her husband, she had a large 
outstanding mortgage and appears to have depended on his income to pay this and for daily 
expenditure.
Mrs Ms objectives were noted as wanting to move to a cheaper scheme, have greater 
investment choice and performance, to provide death benefits and flexibility to access her 
pension earlier than normal retirement age if required. I dont think any of these, either 
individually or collectively, provided a compelling reason to switch her existing pension into a 
SIPP.
Portal said Mrs M was a balanced risk investor, but shes said she was risk adverse. And 
many of the answers Mrs M gave in the risk assessment supports that. For example, she 
said people who know her would describe her as cautious and she generally looked for safer 
investments even if it meant lower returns. Furthermore, while Mrs M had 10 years until 
retirement, she had no investment experience or savings. She had an outstanding mortgage 
and didnt work. And, while I can see her household had a good disposable income per 
month, she had no income herself and no other pension provision. So I think her capacity for loss in respect of this pension was very low. In light of this, I dont think Portals assessment 
of Mrs Ms ATR was correct  I think a fairer assessment of her ATR in the circumstances 
was cautious.
Portal noted that Mrs M wanted to switch to a cheaper scheme. I can see the suitability 
report noted that Mrs M would benefit from lower SIPP wrapper charges and I acknowledge 
that it wasnt particularly expensive  it had an AMC of 0.5%, which was lower than her 
existing scheme at 1%. But there was a clear cost to switching her existing pension plan into 
a SIPP. As well as the 5% initial fee charged by Portal, there would also be charges 
associated with Firm Cs ongoing investment advice, plus other product or fund charges 
depending on the investments selected by Firm C. Of course, some of these could offset the 
charges of the existing plan. But its clear that there would be a significant cost to switching 
and I dont think Portal was able to justify this, particularly in view of the fact that they didnt 
know of the additional charges to be made by Firm C. 
Furthermore, Portals argument that the transfer would result in lower charges in the long run 
was also undermined by its own statement in the suitability report: 
Overall, this strategy will cost more than your existing arrangement. Whilst the intention is 
that this will be more than compensated for by the increased growth of your pension fund 
this cannot be guaranteed.
When considering a pension switch, consideration should generally be given to 
recommending switching to an SPP, because the running costs are generally lower. Aside 
from recommending Mrs M set up a SIPP, Portal also recommended she set up an SPP to 
make contributions to, which she did. This has a total AMC, including fund charges, of 
0.55%. Its clear to me that switching Mrs Ms PP to the SPP (that she would be contributing 
to going forwards) wouldve met her objective of moving to a cheaper scheme. So, I dont 
know why Portal didnt recommend this course of action. And I think its clear the SIPP would 
be more expensive overall once investment costs were included. 
Any additional charge to a consumer would provide a strong reason not to proceed with a 
course of action. So, the benefits of switching would need to outweigh the cost to Mrs Ms 
pension, as she was unlikely to be able to recoup these charges through improved fund 
performance over the short to medium term. So, Ive considered whether it wouldve still 
been suitable advice to switch to the SIPP despite the increased costs.
Portal says Mrs M wanted higher growth and it has argued that its own modelling showed 
that Mrs M would be in a better position in the SIPP. It says its advisers own calculation 
showed Mrs M would be better off in the long run, even after charges were taken into 
consideration.
A copy of this calculation wasnt provided, but I dont think this is needed when making my 
decision. Im not satisfied that this is a strong justification for the recommendation given 
Portal didnt know how the funds were to be invested by Firm C. Portals own model didnt 
know what charges would be applied on the funds within the SIPP, or how they might 
reasonably be expected to perform. Any comparison of both charges and performance 
would therefore be purely speculative and not based on the reality of how the fund was to be 
invested. Furthermore, if Mrs M did in fact want to achieve higher growth, she had numerous 
funds to choose from through the PP instead and I think this shouldve been explored in the 
first instance.
Ive seen nothing to persuade me that Mrs M was seeking a sophisticated investment 
proposition that would give her the chance to invest outside conventional funds that the SIPP 
would provide. Instead I think greater investment fund choice was of limited benefit when Mrs M had little experience of investing in stocks and shares. There wasnt any explanation 
as to why she wanted a greater fund choice, or what investments she wanted to make that 
were not available with her existing providers. Furthermore, the value of her pension was 
relatively low, meaning that she was unlikely to be able to spread her investment across a 
significantly greater range of funds than the funds her existing scheme already employed. 
And I dont think the adviser could reasonably conclude that Mrs M wanted or needed 
access to non-standard or unregulated investments, which the SIPP would provide. 
While Portal noted that Mrs M wanted flexibility and to be able to access her pension 
benefits before she intended to retire at 65, I cant see that there was any discussion about 
why she wanted this or that it was a pressing need for her. I cant see that she took any of 
her benefits early. I appreciate she may still have wanted the choice to if the need came up. 
But, I think that couldve been explored closer to retirement if Mrs M needed flexibility at that 
time.
 
Portal noted one of Mrs Ms objectives to be consolidation, but I cant see how this could 
have been the case when she only had one pension. And, in any case, based on Portals 
advice she went from having one pension to two, which means it made her pension 
arrangements bigger. This also means she was paying the AMC of 0.55% for her new SPP, 
as well as a 0.5% AMC for the SIPP, plus ongoing adviser charge and fund charges, leading 
to a more costly arrangement overall. 
I accept that the investment performance prospects of the PP was poor. The AMC of 1% 
was comparatively too high given the poor past performance, at 2.65% per annum over the 
last five years. And the annual and final bonus had dropped significantly over the years to 
1% and 0% respectively in 2013. In which case, for the reasons given above, I think the 
adviser ought to have recommended either an internal fund switch or that it be switched to 
the SPP when it was set up, not to a SIPP. This wouldve resulted in one AMC of 0.55%. It 
wouldve also provided the opportunity for better growth as the illustration showed the SPPs 
average performance was 5%. And Mrs Ms pension arrangements would have been 
simpler, without exposing it to higher ongoing charges.
For the reasons set out above, I think the advice to switch Mrs Ms plan to the SIPP was 
unsuitable because she wasnt an experienced investor and so didnt need the wider 
investment choice the SIPP would provide. It would also be a more costly arrangement, 
once the SIPP provider, fund and adviser charges were taken into account. Overall, I think 
Mrs M shouldve been advised to switch her PP to the SPP also being set up for her. This 
wouldve met her needs of providing the opportunity for higher growth, ease of administration 
and lower charges. 
Ive thought about whether, if Mrs M had been correctly advised by Portal not to switch to the 
SIPP, she would have gone ahead with it anyway. Having carefully considered all the 
circumstances in this case, I dont believe she would have. Theres nothing to suggest Mrs M 
was seriously considering moving her existing plans prior to being referred to Portal for a 
pension review  she wasnt looking to access her benefits and she expected to retire in 
around 10 years. Also, my understanding is that this referral came about as a result of her 
meeting with another company  Mrs M didnt appear to be proactively seeking pensions 
advice. So, I dont think shed have insisted on pressing ahead against suitable advice.
Is Portal wholly responsible for Mrs Ms loss? 
I recognise it can be argued Firm C is also liable to Mrs M and that in turn I should apportion 
only part of the responsibility to Portal. Having given this careful thought though, in the 
circumstances, I think it is fair to find Portal wholly responsible and, in turn, to direct it to 
compensate Mrs M for the whole of her loss.I think its important to emphasise that Firm C and Portal were in a business relationship in 
which each agreed to provide services designed to bring about a single outcome for clients  
pension transfer advice and investment. Because Firm C wasnt authorised to provide 
pension transfer advice, it referred Mrs M to Portal. Portal advised Mrs M to switch her 
benefits to a SIPP, it set up the SIPP and arranged for her existing pension benefits to be 
switched to this. I acknowledge Firm C advised Mrs M to invest a significant share of her 
SIPP funds in UCIS. But, as Ive explained, Portals understanding that it could reasonably 
limit its advice to just the switch and the SIPP was wrong; it needed to consider the 
proposed investments too, even if Firm C was advising Mrs M on them. It was only as a 
result of Portals involvement that Mrs M switched the funds held in her existing plan to the 
SIPP. Portals role was pivotal, since the eventual investments were fully reliant on the funds 
being switched over first; if that hadnt happened, she couldnt have invested as she did. In 
any event, and as I say, it is clear that Firm C and Portal had agreed to enter a business 
relationship together which was designed to bring about the very outcome thats caused 
Mrs Ms loss.
Portal argues that Firm C is responsible for the investment advice and so Mrs M
should avail herself of any compensation she may be entitled to by making a claim to the 
FSCS. It also says that the amount of any award made against Portal should be limited by 
taking that payment into account. In ordinary circumstances, as the FSCS describes itself as 
a fund of last resort, it is my understanding that it is unlikely it will pay out on claims where it 
is aware that another firm was involved in the transaction, and where it considers there is a 
reasonable prospect of the consumer making a recovery against that firm for the loss 
suffered.
Nonetheless, whether to postpone payment of compensation (to enable the consumer to
recover compensation from a third party) is a matter entirely for the FSCS.
In this case, it seems the FSCS decided to award Mrs M £3,829.42 before the
determination of Mrs Ms complaint with this service. In those circumstances, Im aware that 
as a condition of accepting compensation from the FSCS, Mrs M was asked to give to the 
FSCS an assignment of her rights to make a claim against third parties. This would have 
enabled the FSCS to make a claim in recovery of that compensation against those third 
parties and the PI insurer of Firm C.
It follows that for Mrs M to make a complaint to this service about Portal, she
needed to ask the FSCS for a re-assignment of those rights. I can see Mrs M has now 
obtained that which contains, as a condition, the following requirement:
The Claimant agrees that in respect of the Reassigned Rights the proceeds of the claim 
shall first be applied to repay an amount equal to the Compensation Sum to FSCS together 
with interest on the Compensation Sum from the date of receipt of the proceeds by the 
Claimant to the date of payment by the Claimant to FSCS at a daily rate equivalent to the 
Bank of England base rate from time to time (subject to a minimum rate of 0.1%), such 
payment to be made to FSCS within 14 days of receipt. The payment to FSCS shall be 
made after the deduction from the proceeds of the Claimant's reasonable legal costs 
incurred in pursuing a claim in respect of the Reassigned Rights.
Portal may argue that because Mrs M has already recovered £3,829.42 from the FSCS, it 
should not have to account to her for that portion of her loss. However, as per the
reassignment of rights agreement Mrs M entered into with the FSCS, I can see she has 
agreed to repay the compensation she received from the FSCS if she receives 
compensation from a third party relating to the same claim.From this, I think that:
1. There is no real risk of Mrs M benefiting from double recovery, as shes contractually 
required to pay back to FSCS the full amount of the compensation it paid to her; and
2. I have seen nothing to suggest Mrs M is unlikely to comply with that requirement in 
accordance with the deed of reassignment;
3. If I didnt direct Portal to pay compensation to Mrs M for the full amount of her loss (in 
circumstances where I have determined it is responsible for 100% of that loss), she 
would nonetheless still be required to account to FSCS from the compensation she 
receives from Portal and would, in turn, be left out of pocket.
All in all, I maintain my view that the fair and reasonable outcome is for Portal to pay 
Mrs M compensation for the full amount of her loss.
Putting things right
My aim in awarding fair compensation is to put Mrs M back into the position she would likely 
have been in, had it not been for Portals unsuitable advice. I think this would have meant 
she would have switched the PP to the SPP. 
Compare the performance of Mrs M's investment with the benchmark shown below. 
If the actual value is greater than the fair value, no compensation is payable. If the 
fair value is greater than the actual value, there is a loss and compensation is 
payable.
Portal should add interest as set out below.
Portal should pay into Mrs M's pension plan to increase its value by the total amount 
of the compensation and any interest. The amount paid should allow for the effect of 
charges and any available tax relief. Compensation should not be paid into the 
pension plan if it would conflict with any existing protection or allowance.
If Portal is unable to pay the total amount into Mrs M's pension plan, it should pay 
that amount direct to her. But had it been possible to pay into the plan, it would have 
provided a taxable income. Therefore the total amount should be reduced 
to notionally allow for any income tax that would otherwise have been paid. This is an 
adjustment to ensure the compensation is a fair amount  it isnt a payment of tax to 
HMRC, so Mr B wont be able to reclaim any of the reduction after compensation is 
paid.
The notional allowance should be calculated using Mrs M's actual or expected 
marginal rate of tax at her selected retirement age.
For example, if Mrs M is likely to be a basic rate taxpayer at the selected retirement 
age, the reduction would equal the current basic rate of tax. However, if Mrs M would 
have been able to take a tax-free lump sum, the reduction should be applied to 75% 
of the compensation.
Pay to Mr B £300 for the distress and inconvenience caused by the unsuitable 
advice, which has led to a significant loss.
Income tax may be payable on any interest paid. If Portal deducts income tax from the 
interest it should tell Mrs M how much has been taken off. Portal should give Mrs M a tax 
deduction certificate if she asks for one, so he can reclaim the tax from HM Revenue & 
Customs if appropriate. Investment 
nameStatus BenchmarkFrom (start 
date)To (end 
date)Additional 
interest
SIPP Still exists for half the
investment:
FTSE UK
Private
Investors
Income Total
Return Index;
for the other
half: average
rate from fixed
rate bondsDate of 
investmentDate of my 
final decision8% simple per 
year from final 
decision to 
settlement (if 
not settled 
within 28 days 
of the business 
receiving the 
complainant's 
acceptance)
Actual value 
This means the actual amount payable from the investment at the end date. 
It may be difficult to find the actual value of the portfolio. This is complicated where an asset 
is illiquid (meaning it could not be readily sold on the open market) as in this case. Portal 
should take ownership of any illiquid assets by paying a commercial value acceptable to the 
pension provider. The amount Portal pays should be included in the actual value before 
compensation is calculated.
If Portal is unable to purchase illiquid assets, their value should be assumed to be nil for the 
purpose of calculating the actual value. Portal may require that Mrs M provides an 
undertaking to pay Portal any amount she may receive from the illiquid assets in the future. 
That undertaking must allow for any tax and charges that would be incurred on drawing the 
receipt from the pension plan. Portal will need to meet any costs in drawing up the 
undertaking. 
Fair value 
This is what the investment would have been worth at the end date had it produced a return 
using the benchmark. 
To arrive at the fair value when using the fixed rate bonds as the benchmark, Portal should 
use the monthly average rate for one-year fixed-rate bonds as published by the Bank of 
England. The rate for each month is that shown as at the end of the previous month. Those 
rates should be applied to the investment on an annually compounded basis.
Any additional sum paid into the investment should be added to the fair value calculation
from the point in time when it was actually paid in.
Any withdrawal, income or other distribution out of the investment should be deducted from 
the fair value at the point it was actually paid so it ceases to accrue any return in the 
calculation from that point on. If there is a large number of regular payments, to keep 
calculations simpler, Ill accept if Portal totals all those payments and deducts that figure at 
the end instead of deducting periodically. 
Why is this remedy suitable? 
Ive chosen this method of compensation because: Mrs M wanted capital growth with a small risk to her capital. 
The average rate for the fixed rate bonds would be a fair measure for someone who 
wanted to achieve a reasonable return without risk to his capital.
The FTSE UK Private Investors Income total return index (prior to 1 March 2017, the 
FTSE WMA Stock Market Income total return index) is made up of a range of indices 
with different asset classes, mainly UK equities and government bonds. Its a fair 
measure for someone who was prepared to take some risk to get a higher return.
I consider that Mrs Ms risk profile was in between, in the sense that he was prepared 
to take a small level of risk to attain his investment objectives. So, the 50/50 
combination would reasonably put Mrs M into that position. It does not mean Mrs M 
would have invested 50% of her money in a fixed rate bond and 50% in some kind of 
index tracker investment. Rather, I consider this a reasonable compromise that 
broadly reflects the sort of return Mrs M could have obtained from investments suited 
to her objective and risk attitude.
Distress and inconvenience
Pay Mrs M £300 for the distress and inconvenience caused by Portal failing to act in her best 
interest. 
Future SIPP fees 
The SIPP only exists because of illiquid investments. In order for the SIPP to be closed and 
further fees that are charged to be prevented, those investments need to be removed. Ive 
set out above how this might be achieved by Portal taking over the investment, or this is 
something that Mrs M can discuss with the SIPP provider directly. But I dont know how 
long that will take.
Third parties are involved and we dont have the power to tell them what to do. If Portal is 
unable to purchase the investment, to provide certainty to all parties I think its fair that it 
pays Mrs M an upfront lump sum equivalent to five years worth of SIPP fees (calculated 
using the fee in the previous year to date). This should provide a reasonable period for the 
parties to arrange for the SIPP to be closed.
My final decision
I uphold Mrs Ms complaint.
My decision is that Portal Financial Services LLP should pay the amount calculated as set 
out above. Portal Financial Services LLP should provide details of its calculation to Mrs M in 
a clear, simple format. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs M to accept or 
reject my decision before 27 June 2022.
 
Holly Jackson
Ombudsman