DRN-3941793
The complaint
Ms M complains about the acts of Mr Y. She says he gave her unsuitable advice to switch 
two of her pensions to a self-invested personal pension (SIPP) to be able to invest through a 
discretionary fund manager (DFM)  SVS Securities PLC (SVS). She says Pi Financial Ltd 
(Pi) is responsible because Mr Y was with a business that was an appointed representative 
of it at the relevant time. 
What happened
I can see from the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA) register that Mr Y worked for a 
business called Future Wealth Management Ltd (Future) between 13 May 2015 and 
11 October 2018. That business was an appointed representative of Pi between 
15 January 2015 and 5 March 2019.
Ms M says she was introduced to someone called Mr G by her sister in September 2017 as 
her sister had previously been advised by him. She says she and her husband met with 
Mr G on 29 September 2017 and he advised her to move her pensions to a SIPP to be able 
to invest through a DFM called SVS.
It doesnt seem as though Ms M received any documentation from Mr G however and 
instead the documentation providing the advice was sent by Mr Y, specifically a 
recommendation letter dated 18 December 2017. That recommendation letter was on Future 
headed paper with Mr Ys name at the bottom and read:
It was good to meet with you on 29th September 2017. I am now writing to confirm 
the content and outcome of our discussions
You will recall you were provided with a copy of my Client Agreement on the 
29th September 2017 in which my terms of business and charging structure has been 
laid out. You instructed me to specifically limit my advice to Pension Planning, 
specifically setting up a Self-Invested Personal Pension (SIPP) and I have acted 
accordingly. I have, therefore, only obtained the necessary information from you to 
advise on the above area. You should be aware that my recommendations may have 
differed if I had undertaken a full review of your financial circumstances
At the present time, your prime objective is to review your existing pension 
contractsand set up a SIPP to provide you with greater investment choice and 
flexibility in access when you come to retire. You wish to consolidate all of your plans 
under the one agreement so that you can save on management and administration 
fees, and so that you can have flexibility in terms of access. You wish to have access 
to a wider range of investments and the flexibility to change these to reflect your 
circumstances and your attitude to risk. You also wish to be able to leave your entire 
fund to your husband in the event of your death and wish your new arrangement to 
take advantage of new laws that benefit pensions in the future. You have requested 
that I research the market for a suitable SIPP provider with whom to invest all of your 
pension monies
With regards to the monies that are going to be actively managed on your behalf by 
SVS Securities you confirmed that you would be comfortable with up to 4-6% loss 
before you would look at moving any monies or reinvesting in to a different 
investment plan
You completed a risk profile questionnaire and you scored 4 out of 10. This puts you 
as a balanced risk investor. You agreed with this and feel this is a fair reflection of 
your understanding of financial products and your goals and aspirations
It was clear, given your requirement to have flexibility in terms of where your pension 
monies are invested, that a SIPP would be the best vehicle to allow you to do this
As previously outlined you wish to have your monies managed by an appropriate 
DFM with whom I will be recommending for you, having researched the market
As part of my duty of care to you I have considered the proposed portfolio and 
believe it suitable for you based on your current attitude to risk and capacity for 
loss
After due consideration of your attitude to risk, tolerance and capacity we have 
agreed that the most suitable portfolio for you is within the Income Model Portfolio
I believe that for you the active portfolio management that SVS Securities charges 
represent good value
Our fee structure is detailed in our client agreement which was given to you at your 
meeting.
An initial fee of 3.25% will be charged to meet the cost of our 
recommendation
There is an ongoing 1.00% charge of funds under management for ongoing 
service and advice, payable monthly.
The SIPP was set up on 28 February 2018. It seems that despite the initial plan being for all 
four of Ms Ms personal pensions to be moved to the SIPP, only two actually were. The SIPP 
statements show:
£141,189.67 was transferred in from a previous pension on 9 March 2018.
An adviser fee of £2,117.85 was paid on 12 March 2018.
£138,557.02 was transferred to SVS on 15 March 2018.
£94.83 was transferred in from a previous pension on 19 March 2018.
An adviser fee of £1.42 was paid on 29 March 2018.
£51,710.22 was received from an investment on 11 January 2022.
SVS went into administration and Ms M complained to Pi after having a claim turned down 
by the Financial Services Compensation Scheme. Pi didnt uphold the complaint because it 
said the advice had been given by Mr G, not Mr Y. Although it also had an agreement with 
Mr G, this was an introducer agreement and it said he wasnt allowed to provide any advice. It also said Ms Ms loss had been incurred because of the mismanagement of her funds by 
SVS and referenced a FCA supervisory notice relating to SVS dated 2 August 2019.
After an initial view from an investigator that Ms Ms complaint should be upheld, Pi provided 
detailed information from a number of different complaints that it said showed a pattern of 
behaviour of Mr G holding himself out as an adviser at Future. It said there was a pattern of 
complainants believing that Mr G was their sole adviser  not Mr Y  and of Mr G now 
advising people to make complaints about Pi. It said if Mr Y hadnt given any advice or been 
involved in the switches and investments, as it didnt think he had, we dont have jurisdiction 
to consider Ms Ms complaint against it.
An investigator was satisfied we could consider Ms Ms complaint against Pi and that it 
should be upheld. In summary, she said the evidence suggested Mr Y of Future had given 
advice and made arrangements and this was something that had been allowed under the 
appointed representative agreement.
Pi didnt agree. It said a number of clients in similar circumstances had confirmed theyd 
never met Mr Y and had only ever dealt with Mr G. It said it therefore appears that Mr G 
carried out a fraudulent misrepresentation and the Financial Ombudsman Service isnt best 
placed to consider this, or if it is, an oral hearing is necessary to fairly consider it. I 
responded explaining why I didnt think oral testimony in the case would provide any 
additional assistance and turning down the hearing request.
Pi then provided a detailed response to the investigators view which Ive read and 
considered in full. In summary, it said:
None of the documentation was signed by Mr Y which is unusual.
It would have been easy for Mr G to issue a letter to look as though it was issued by 
Future.
Ms M has been clear that she only met with and was advised by Mr G. The 
recommendation letter says the author met Ms M on 29 September 2017 so the letter 
must have been a fabrication drafted by Mr G. 
Certification of the client identity check was forged to appear as though it was done 
by Mr Y.
The loss was caused by Mr G fraudulently giving advice.
Ms M is not and has never been a client of Pi  theres no past, present or future 
provision of services to Ms M by Future. And as shes not a customer, shes not an 
eligible complainant.
Its clear from Ms Ms evidence that Mr G held himself out to be an adviser. Theres 
no evidence that Ms M had any contact with Mr Y, let alone that she received advice 
from him. Mr G never intended Ms M would get advice from anyone else and he was 
always intending to carry out business with her under the guise of Future. 
The fact fees were sent to it doesnt show it knew of, and had accepted responsibility 
for, the acts of its appointed representative  it passively received them. When the 
first fee was received, it had no prior knowledge of the business, couldnt ask Mr Y as 
hed moved abroad and had no knowledge of the involvement of Mr G or what had 
happened.The investigator ignored the underlying principles that whatever an appointed 
representative does must be lawful otherwise its automatically excluded from the 
principals responsibility. It cant be held liable for fraudulent acts of its appointed 
representative where theyre deliberately concealed from it.
COBS 10 which the investigator had referred to doesnt apply  it only applies where 
theres been a direct offer financial promotion which wasnt the case here.
The investigator assessed the risk profile of SVS with the benefit of hindsight rather 
than with reference to any material available at the time of the events complained 
about. Just because it failed not long after the investment was made, doesnt mean it 
must always have been a greater risk.
Its Mr G that should be held accountable.
The issue has therefore been passed to me for a decision.
What Ive decided  jurisdiction
Ive considered all the evidence thats been provided. Having done so, Im satisfied this 
complaint is one that the Financial Ombudsman Service has jurisdiction to consider.
To carry out regulated activities a business needs to be authorised (Section 19 of the 
Financial Services and Markets Act 2000 (FSMA)). Future (and therefore Mr Y) wasnt 
directly authorised. Instead, it was an appointed representative of Pi. Pi is an authorised firm. 
Its authorised by the FCA to carry out a range of regulated activities including advising on 
investments and arranging deals in investments. We can therefore consider complaints 
about Pi. And this includes some complaints about its appointed representatives.
But this service cant look at all complaints. Before we can consider a complaint, we need to 
check, by reference to the DISP rules and the legislation from which those rules are derived, 
whether its one we have the power to look at.
DISP 2.3.1R says we can:
consider a complaint under the Compulsory Jurisdiction if it relates to an act or 
omission by a firm in carrying onregulated activitiesor any ancillary activities, 
including advice, carried on by the firm in connection with them.
Guidance for this rule at DISP 2.3.3G says that:
complaints about acts or omissions include those in respect of activities for which the 
firmis responsible, to the same extent as if he had expressly permitted it, for 
anything done or omitted by the representative in carrying on the business for which 
he has accepted responsibility.
And Section 39(3) FSMA says:
The principal of an appointed representative is responsible, to the same extent as if 
he had expressly permitted it, for anything done or omitted by the representative in 
carrying on the business for which he has accepted responsibility.The responsibility of a principal was considered by the judge in the case of Anderson v 
Sense Network [2018] EWHC 2834 (this case was the subject of an appeal, but the Court of 
Appeal issued a decision agreeing with the earlier decision). In the High Court, 
Mr Justice Jacobs said, at paragraph 33:
There is no indication in the wording of section 39, or in the case-law, that indicates 
that the business for which responsibility is accepted is to be determined not by 
reference to the contract, but by reference to the authorisations granted to the 
principal which are to be found in the Financial Services register.
So, a principal isnt automatically responsible for the actions of its appointed representatives 
and its necessary to go beyond looking at the activities Pi was authorised to do. 
To decide whether Pi is responsible here, there are three issues I need to consider:
What are the specific acts Ms M has complained about?
Are those acts regulated activities or ancillary to regulated activities?
Did Pi accept responsibility for those acts?
What are the specific acts Ms M has complained about?
Ms M complains Mr Y gave her unsuitable advice to switch two of her pensions to a SIPP to 
invest through SVS.
Are those acts regulated activities or ancillary to regulated activities?
Section 22 FSMA defines regulated activities as follows:
(1) An activity is a regulated activity for the purposes of this Act if it is an activity of a 
specified kind which is carried on by way of business and 
(a) relates to an investment of a specified kind;
(4) Investment includes any asset, right or interest.
(5) Specified means specified in an order made by the Treasury.
The relevant Order is the Financial Services and Markets Act 2000 (Regulated Activities) 
Order 2001 (RAO). The rights under a personal pension scheme (which includes Ms Ms 
previous pensions and the SIPP she moved to) are specified as investments by a provision 
in Article 82 RAO. Advising on investments is a specified activity under Article 53 RAO. And 
making arrangements in relation to them is a specified activity under Article 25 RAO.
Ms M says although she was initially advised by Mr G, she never received any paperwork 
from Mr G and the advice letter she received came from Mr Y. Pi says Mr Y didnt give 
advice and it was only Mr G that did.
Ive thought carefully about all of the evidence. Taking everything into account, Im satisfied 
its most likely Mr Y advised Ms M to switch her pensions and invest through SVS. 
In the circumstances here, there are several things that satisfy me its most likely Mr Y 
advised Ms M:The recommendation letter dated 18 December 2017 clearly gave advice and Im 
satisfied its most likely Mr Y was aware of the content of this letter and allowed it to 
be sent in his name, even if he didnt draft it himself. I say this because Ive seen 
emails from Ms Ms SIPP provider that were either sent to Mr Y direct, or where he 
was copied in which make it clear he knew what was happening. Specifically, Mr Y 
was sent an email on 8 January 2018 thanking him for the SIPP application and 
requesting some further paperwork before the SIPP could be opened. And he was 
copied into an email on 28 February 2018 enclosing documentation for the SIPP. He 
was also sent various communications by Ms Ms previous pension providers that he 
didnt query.
I note everything Pi has said about the validity of the recommendation letter and the 
fact it wasnt signed by Mr Y. But taking everything into account, I dont think theres 
enough to reasonably conclude the recommendation letter was created and sent 
without Mr Ys knowledge.
The SIPP application form named Mr Y as Ms Ms adviser  giving a Future email 
address and Pi as the firm name. It was also selected that advice had been given.
The SIPP operators key facts document named Mr Y of Future as Ms Ms adviser.
A risk profile report Ms M signed on 22 December 2017 has Mr Ys name typed in 
where the advisers signature should be.
Fees were paid to Pi. Pi accepts receiving £2,117.85 which it seems was sent on 
12 March 2018. And it seems a further £1.42 was sent on 29 March 2018.
Pi says it was Mr G who advised Ms M  and Ms M accepts she received advice from Mr G. 
But just because Ms M received advice from someone else, that doesnt mean Mr Y didnt 
also give advice.
Im also satisfied its most likely that Mr Y carried out the regulated activity of making 
arrangements. I say this because in addition to the emails from the SIPP provider referred to 
above, Ive been provided with copies of letters from Ms Ms previous pension providers to 
Future, one with Mr Y as a reference and others sent For the attention of [Mr Y]. Also, 
Ms Ms passport and bank statement seem to have been certified by Mr Y on 9 and 
18 January 2018 respectively  although I note that Pi disputes that. 
My conclusion therefore is that Mr Y did give advice to Ms M about the SIPP and 
investments and made arrangements in relation to these so regulated activities took place.
Did Pi accept responsibility for those acts?
Which business was Mr Y acting for?
Taking everything into account, Im satisfied Mr Y was acting as Future when he advised 
Ms M and made arrangements. The only mention of any other business is that in the two 
emails Mr Y was sent, the email address that was used wasnt his Future one and instead 
was an email address at a different business. But the fact the recommendation letter was 
sent in his capacity at Future, the application documentation all referred to Future and fees 
were paid to Pi satisfy me that he was acting as Future when he carried out the acts 
complained about here. Ive therefore gone on to consider whether Pi accepted responsibility 
under the agreement it had with Future.The agreement with Future
The appointed representative agreement between Pi and Future says:
The Company appoints the Appointed Representative to provide Services for the 
Company on the terms set out in this Agreement and the Appointed Representative 
accepts such terms, with effect from 15th January 2015.
Services was defined as:
any Regulated Activity which the Company is authorised to undertake from time to 
time notified by it to the Appointed Representative and also giving advice, making 
arrangements (or offering or agreeing to do either) in relation to term assurance, 
mortgages, tax planning, long term care products and any other product offered in 
the giving of financial advice pursuant to this Agreement.
And Regulated Activity was defined as:
Any activity requiring authorisation under The Act or by the FCA and Regulated 
Activities means more than one of them. 
The agreement therefore is broad and envisages advice being given on, and arrangements 
made in relation to, investments. And Pi hasnt disputed that.
Instead, Pi said the underlying principles are that whatever an appointed representative does 
must be lawful otherwise its automatically excluded from the principals responsibility. In 
particular, it said it cant be held liable for fraudulent acts of its appointed representative 
where theyre deliberately concealed from it. But Im not persuaded Mr Y acted unlawfully or 
fraudulently in carrying out the regulated activities of advising Ms M and making 
arrangements in relation to her specified investments.
So, Im satisfied that Pi did accept responsibility for Mr Y advising Ms M to switch her 
pensions and invest through SVS. 
My decision  jurisdiction 
I dont agree with Pi that Ms M was never its client and therefore isnt an eligible customer. 
For the reasons set out above, Im satisfied Pi is responsible under Section 39 FSMA for the 
acts being complained about and this is a complaint that we can look at.
What Ive decided  merits
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The investigator didnt refer to COBS 10 in her assessment of Ms Ms complaint. But I agree 
with Pi that COBS 10 isnt relevant in the circumstances here and I confirm I havent taken it 
into account when considering the merits of the complaint.
As Im satisfied its most likely Mr Y advised Ms M to move her pensions to a SIPP to invest 
through SVS, Ive considered whether that advice was suitable. The kind of things I would 
expect Mr Y to consider when assessing suitability are:
The likely cost of the proposed arrangement compared to the existing arrangements.The level of funds involved.
Ms Ms knowledge and experience.
On Ms Ms client fact find signed on 29 September 2017 she was noted to have four 
personal pensions which we know totalled just under £190,000. Her income was £11,700; 
and it seems she had little trading experience or investment knowledge. The pensions that 
were switched made up the bulk of Ms Ms personal pensions therefore and it seems she 
had a low capacity for loss. Ms M says her attitude to risk was low to medium and this is 
borne out in the documentation Ive seen. 
Taking everything into account, Im satisfied Ms M was a low risk, inexperienced, investor 
and someone for whom traditional low-cost pension arrangements would have been 
appropriate.
The new arrangement Ms M entered wasnt a low cost or traditional pension arrangement. 
The SIPP was stated to have a set-up fee of £100 and an annual fee of £199. And the DFM 
service also had costs  it seems Ms M was charged £3,780.09 by SVS up to 24 July 2020. 
Additionally, there were the adviser fees  an initial fee of 3.25% and an ongoing fee of 1%. 
The letter of 18 December 2017 set out the reasons for recommending the SIPP as being:
You wish to consolidate all of your plans under the one agreement so that you can 
save on management and administration fees, and so that you can have flexibility in 
terms of access. You wish to have access to a wider range of investments and the 
flexibility to change these to reflect your circumstances and your attitude to risk. You 
also wish to be able to leave your entire fund to your husband in the event of your 
death and wish your new arrangement to take advantage of new laws that benefit 
pensions in the future. 
But whilst the SIPP may have had some advantages, I havent seen anything that persuades 
me these benefits were needed by Ms M in her circumstances. Theres no evidence that 
Ms M  with her modest pension funds  needed access to a wider range of investments or 
that such funds wouldnt have been available with her previous pensions. And if there was a 
genuine desire by Ms M to consolidate her pensions into one fund, it seems likely thered 
have been cheaper options, such as a stakeholder pension, that would have met her needs. 
Taking everything into account, Im satisfied it ought to have been clear to Mr Y that there 
was no obvious justification for Ms M to move from her existing schemes and enter the 
arrangement she did. And this assessment is based on knowledge Mr Y ought to have had 
at the time  not what we now know about the failure of SVS.
In these circumstances Im satisfied advice to switch Ms Ms pensions to a SIPP to invest 
through SVS should never have been made as a recommendation. Im satisfied that if Mr Y 
hadnt given unsuitable advice, Ms M would have left her pensions as they were.
As Ive set out above, even if Mr Y didnt advise Ms M, he carried out the regulated activity of 
making arrangements. In conducting this regulated activity, he had to act in line with the 
FCAs Principles for Businesses. Of particular relevance here is Principle 6 which says:
A firm must pay due regard to the interests of its customers and treat them fairly.
And COBS 2.1.1R says:
A firm must act honestly, fairly and professionally in accordance with the best 
interests of its client (the clients best interests rule).So, Im satisfied Mr Y would still have needed to consider whether it was in Ms Ms best 
interests to move her pensions to a SIPP for investment via a DFM. For the same reasons 
as set out above, Im not persuaded it was. And if it wasnt Mr Y that advised Ms M, then it 
seems likely he knew shed been advised by an unregulated introducer and he should have 
taken this into account.
Pi has commented on the fact Mr G gave advice. But this decision is about Pis 
responsibility. And because Im satisfied Ms M wouldnt have moved her pensions to a SIPP 
to make the investments she did if Mr Y hadnt given the unsuitable advice or made the 
arrangements he did, I think its fair to ask Pi to compensate Ms M for the full measure of the 
loss she suffered from moving her pensions and making the investments she did.
The DISP rules set out that when an ombudsmans determination includes a money award, 
then that money award may be such amount as the ombudsman considers to be fair 
compensation for financial loss, whether or not a court would award compensation 
(DISP 3.7.2R). Someone else may also have given Ms M advice, but Pi had its own distinct 
regulatory obligations which, if met, Im satisfied would have resulted in the pension moves 
to the SIPP not taking place.
In making these findings, I take account of the potential contribution made by other parties to 
the losses suffered by Ms M. This includes Pis argument that misadministration by SVS 
caused Ms Ms loss. In my view, in considering what fair compensation looks like in this 
case, its reasonable to make an award against Pi that requires it to compensate Ms M for 
the full measure of her loss. But for Pis failings, Ms Ms pension moves wouldnt have 
occurred.
Im not asking Pi to account for loss that goes beyond the consequences of its failings. Im 
satisfied those failings have caused the full extent of the loss in question. That another party 
might also be responsible for that same loss is a distinct matter and that fact shouldnt 
impact on Ms Ms right to compensation from Pi for the full amount of her loss.
Putting things right
In assessing what would be fair compensation, I consider that my aim should be to put Ms M 
as close to the position she would probably now be in if she had not been given unsuitable 
advice.
I take the view that Ms M wouldnt have moved her pensions if everything had happened as 
it should have. Im satisfied that what Ive set out below is fair and reasonable given Ms M's 
circumstances and objectives at the time.
In summary, Pi should:
1. Calculate the loss Ms M has suffered as a result of making the switches and 
investing through SVS.
2. Take ownership of the investments held in the SIPP if possible.
3. Pay compensation for the loss into Ms Ms pension in respect of her pension losses. 
If that isnt possible, pay compensation for the loss to Ms M direct. In either case, the 
payment should take into account necessary adjustments set out below.
4. Pay Ms Ms SIPP fees for the next five years, in the event shes now not able to close 
her SIPP.
5. Pay compensation of £300 for the trouble and upset caused to Ms M.
6. Pay interest on the above if fair compensation isnt paid within 28 days of notification 
of acceptance by Ms M.Ill explain how Pi should carry out the calculation set out above in further detail below:
1. Calculate the loss Ms M has suffered as a result of making the switches and 
investing through SVS
To do this, Pi should work out the likely value of Ms Ms pensions as at the date of my 
decision, had she left them where they were instead of switching to the SIPP.
Pi should ask Ms Ms former pension providers to calculate the current notional transfer 
values had she not switched her pensions. If there are any difficulties in obtaining a notional 
valuation, then a benchmark of 50% of the FTSE UK Private Investors Income Total Return 
Index and 50% of the monthly average rate for one-year fixed-rate bonds as published by 
the Bank of England should be used to calculate the value. That is likely to be a reasonable 
proxy for the type of returns that could have been achieved if the pensions hadnt been 
switched.
The notional transfer values should be compared to the transfer value of the SIPP at the 
date of my decision and this will show the loss Ms M has suffered.
Any additional sum that Ms M paid into the SIPP should be added to the notional transfer 
value calculation proportionately at the point it was actually paid in.
Any withdrawal, income or other distributions paid out of the SIPP should be deducted 
proportionately from the fair value calculations at the point it was actually paid so it ceases to 
accrue any return in the calculation from that point on. If there is a large number of regular 
payments, to keep calculations simpler, Ill accept if Pi totals all those payments and deducts 
that figure at the end.
2. Take ownership of the investments
Ideally, the assets in the SIPP  the investments  could be removed from the SIPP. Ms M 
would then be able to close the SIPP, if she wishes, and avoid paying further fees for the 
SIPP. For calculating compensation, Pi should agree an amount with the SIPP provider as a 
commercial value for the investments. It should then pay the sum agreed plus any costs and 
take ownership of them.
If Pi is able to purchase the investments, then the price paid should be allowed for in the 
current transfer value (because itll have been paid into the SIPP to secure the investments).
If Pi is unable, or if there are any difficulties in buying the investments, it should give them a 
nil value for the purposes of calculating compensation. Pi may then ask Ms M to provide an 
undertaking to account to it for the net amount of any payment the SIPP might receive from 
the investments once shes been compensated in full for her losses if Pi chooses to limit 
compensation to the award limit. That undertaking should allow for the effect of any tax and 
charges on the amount Ms M may receive from the investments and any eventual sums 
shed be able to access from the SIPP. Pi will need to meet any costs in drawing up the 
undertaking.
3. Pay compensation to Ms M for the loss shes suffered in (1)
Since the loss Ms M has suffered is within her pension, its right that I try to restore the value 
of her pension provision if thats possible. So, if possible, the compensation for the loss 
should be paid into Ms Ms pension plan if it still exists. The compensation shouldnt be paid 
into the pension if it would conflict with any existing protection or allowance. Payment into the pension should allow for the effect of charges and any available tax relief. This may 
mean the compensation should be increased to cover the charges and reduced to notionally 
allow for the income tax relief Ms M could claim. The notional allowance should be 
calculated using Ms Ms marginal rate of tax.
If its not possible to pay the compensation into Ms Ms pension, the compensation should be 
paid to Ms M direct. But had it been possible to pay the compensation into the pension, it 
would have provided a taxable income. Therefore, the compensation for the loss paid to 
Ms M should be reduced to notionally allow for any income tax that would otherwise have 
been paid. The notional allowance should be calculated using Ms Ms marginal rate of tax in 
retirement. For example, if Ms M is likely to be a basic rate taxpayer in retirement, the 
notional allowance would equate to a reduction in the total amount equivalent to the current 
basic rate of tax. However, if Ms M would have been able to take a tax-free lump sum, the 
notional allowance should be applied to 75% of the total amount.
4. SIPP fees
If Ms M is unable to close her SIPP once compensation has been paid, Pi should pay an 
amount into the SIPP equivalent to five years worth of the fees (based on the most recent 
years fees) that will be payable on the SIPP. I say this because Ms M wouldnt be in the 
SIPP but for the unsuitable advice. So, it wouldnt be fair for her to have to pay the fees to 
keep it open. And Im satisfied five years will allow sufficient time for things to be sorted out 
with the investments and the SIPP to be closed.
5. Trouble and upset
Pay Ms M £300 for the trouble and upset caused. Im satisfied Ms M has been caused 
significant upset by the events this complaint relates to, and the loss of a significant portion 
of her pension fund. I think that a payment of £300 is fair to compensate for that upset.
6. Pay interest
Pi should pay fair compensation as set out above within 28 days of being notified that Ms M 
has accepted my decision. If it doesnt, interest on the compensation due is to be paid from 
the date of the decision to the date of payment at the rate of 8% simple interest per year. 
Income tax may be payable on any interest paid. If Pi deducts income tax from the interest, it 
should tell Ms M how much has been taken off. Pi should give Ms M a tax deduction 
certificate in respect of interest if Ms M asks for one, so she can reclaim the tax on interest 
from HM Revenue & Customs if appropriate.
My final decision
Where I uphold a complaint, I can award fair compensation to be paid by a financial 
business of up to £160,000, plus any interest and/or costs/interest on costs that I think are 
appropriate. If I think that fair compensation is more than £160,000, I may recommend that 
the business pays the balance.
Decision and award: I uphold the complaint. I think that fair compensation should be 
calculated as set out above and Pi Financial Ltd should provide details of its calculation to 
Ms M in a clear, simple format. My decision is that Pi Financial Ltd should pay Ms M the 
amount produced by that calculation  up to a maximum of £160,000 plus any interest.
Recommendation: If the amount produced by the calculation of fair compensation is more 
than £160,000, I recommend that Pi Financial Ltd pays Ms M the balance. This recommendation is not part of my determination or award. Pi Financial Ltd doesnt have 
to do what I recommend. Its unlikely that Ms M can accept my decision and go to court to 
ask for the balance. Ms M may want to get independent legal advice before deciding 
whether to accept this decision. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms M to accept or 
reject my decision before 11 September 2023.
 
Laura Parker
Ombudsman