DRN-3948193
The complaint
Mr and Mrs R complained that their claim for storm damage under their home insurance 
policy with Royal & Sun Alliance Insurance Limited (RSA) was unfairly declined.
What happened
Mr and Mrs R made a claim on their policy when a violent storm gust caused minor damage 
to their roof, with 13 slate tiles being partially displaced.
RSA appointed a surveyor to review the damage. Based upon the surveyors report, RSA 
decided to decline the claim. RSA accepted there was a storm at the time of the reported 
incident. However, the surveyor reported that the general state of the roof had deteriorated 
over time. RSA said, taking into account the professional findings of [the surveyor] along 
with the pictures and location of your house, on the balance of probabilities we can 
determine the roof was already deteriorating and the storm only highlighted this pre-existing 
condition and therefore the storm was not the main cause of the damage.
Mr and Mrs R want RSA to settle the claim for the damage caused to the roof.
Our investigator decided not to uphold the complaint. He thought RSA had been fair in 
concluding the damage was more likely caused gradually over time rather by the storm, so 
as this type of damage was excluded by the policy he thought RSA had been reasonable in 
declining the claim. Mr and Mrs R disagreed, so the case has been referred to an 
ombudsman. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
When our service looks at a storm claim, there are three questions to consider: 
1.    Do I agree that storm conditions occurred on or around the date the damage is said 
to have happened? 
2.    Was the damage claimed for consistent with damage a storm typically causes?
3.    Were the storm conditions the main cause of the damage?
I will use this structure to work through the complaint. Im likely to uphold the complaint if the 
answer to all three is yes. If the answer to one of the questions is no, Im unlikely to uphold 
the complaint.
Do I agree that storm conditions occurred?
RSA accepted that storm conditions were present at the time of the report incident. So, I will 
move on to the next question.
Was the damage claimed for consistent with damage a storm typically causes?
RSA said there were gusts of wind recorded at 70 mph at the time of the reported incident. 
Mr and Mrs R has claimed for the repair of the displaced tiles on their roof. I think tiles could 
be blown from a roof in strong winds  I think this is consistent with the damage a storm 
typically causes. Therefore, I will consider the final question.
Were the storm conditions the main cause of the damage?
Mr and Mrs R said the storm had caused the damage  they said they heard a loud bang 
whilst they were in the garage, which they said was likely to be when the tiles were 
displaced. However, RSA didnt think the storm caused the damage. RSA said it was caused 
by gradual deterioration of the roof.
I have reviewed the policy. Page 37 states  Maintenance: Your policy does not cover you 
for the cost of gradual deterioration  it is not a maintenance contract. It is a condition of the 
policy that you keep your property in good order and take reasonable steps to avoid loss or 
damage.
The policy excludes gradual deterioration as a cause of damage. So, if RSA has shown 
gradual deterioration was the main cause of damage then Im unlikely to uphold this 
complaint.
RSA had an expert surveyor review the damage  I think this was a reasonable approach. 
Its surveyor said, on inspection of the main roof, there is no sign of any storm related 
damage to this property. On inspection, the damage was found to be as a result of 
delamination of the slates and nail fatigue, which has allowed the slates to slip into the 
gutter, the gutter itself is undamaged. The proximate cause is natural breakdown of 
materials, and this would not be covered under the terms of the policy.
I have reviewed the photographs that support the surveyors report. I think the surveyors 
commentary is consistent with what I can see in the photographs. I think the photographs 
provide evidence the roof hasnt recently been maintained. Its not in a good condition. I can 
see the ridge tiles have missing mortar and some of the slates look like they are crumbling 
away / have structurally broken down. Therefore, I think RSA conclusions are reasonable.
I appreciate Mr and Mrs R said there was no internal damage to their property, and it wasnt 
leaking. However, if I consider the damage they have claimed for  the displaced tiles. I think 
the evidence provided by RSA demonstrates its more likely the damage to the tiles was 
caused by gradual deterioration or wear and tear. The storm just highlighted the pre-existing 
weakness. So, I think RSA has been fair in declining the claim.
Ive based my decision on the expert report and photographs that have bene provided. I 
appreciate Mr and Mrs R have made a detailed testimony. But, on this occasion, I think the 
expert report carries more weight. I havent seen any evidence provided or expert viewpoints 
that provide a contradictory view to the gradual deterioration of the tiles over time. Therefore, 
I dont uphold this complaint.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. I dont require Royal & Sun Alliance 
Insurance Limited to do anything more.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs R and Mr R to 
accept or reject my decision before 10 April 2023.
 Pete Averill
Ombudsman