DRN-2383197
The complaint
Mr K complains about the information Aviva Life & Pension UK Limited (Aviva) gave him 
about the dates it would use to calculate the fund prices when he asked it to switch funds 
within his pension. He wants compensation for the loss he says hes suffered as a result of 
the fall in the value of his fund that occurred during the switching process. He says he 
wouldnt have switched if hed been made aware of the correct process.
What happened
Mr K holds a stakeholder pension with Aviva. On 6 March 2020 he contacted Aviva about 
switching funds in his plan. He explained that hed tried to switch from one fund to another 
online but hadnt been able to complete the switch. He also wanted Aviva to confirm whether 
a transaction hed made two days earlier had gone through. Mr K was advised that an 
outstanding query on the transaction meant that it hadnt completed and was preventing him 
making another switch. The adviser told Mr K he could complete the switch instruction over 
the phone- which he did. 
There was a long discussion about which date would be used to dictate the price of the units 
within the funds, so, after hed asked a question about a switch hed completed for his wife, 
Mr K agreed to contact Aviva after 9 March 2020  the date from which it confirmed the 
switches would be effective.
But on 10 March 2020 Mr K contacted Aviva to dispute the dates used for the switches. He 
said hed been given the wrong information about when they would become effective. Aviva 
listened to the previous telephone calls and confirmed that he had been provided with 
unclear information about when the switch would be settled and what unit prices would be 
used. It said it would calculate what amount of financial loss was involved and contact Mr K 
again to discuss a resolution. However, subsequently Aviva said it wouldnt change the 
dates the switch was effective from as it thought it had been carried out correctly. 
But Mr K said Aviva had provided incorrect information and he wouldnt have completed the 
switch if hed known the correct dates. He wanted the switch to be effective from 
6 March 2020 and said the incorrect information had caused him a total financial loss of 
£2,000. Aviva confirmed that it didnt offer a live service and said it had switched the funds 
using the correct dates. But it offered £100 compensation for the trouble an upset caused by 
its poor service. Mr K didnt think Avivas offer of compensation was satisfactory, so he 
brought his complaint to us.
The complaint was considered by one of our investigators who thought that Avivas offer of 
£100 for the distress and inconvenience it caused was fair. He said there was insufficient 
evidence to show that Mr K wouldnt have conducted the switch if hed known the price to be 
used wasnt going to be the same day price. He said the price Mr K saw online had been for 
the previous day, so he wasnt ever going to receive the same price he saw when he wanted 
to switch. 
He also said that Mr K had stated in the phone call that he tried to do the switch online, 
which the investigator said showed that he intended to make the switch regardless of what 
Aviva told him.
But Mr K didnt accept the outcome, he said hed only decided to switch based on the advice 
he was given by Aviva on the telephone. He said we hadnt investigated his complaint fully 
and he asked for the complaint to be referred to an ombudsman- so it been passed to me to 
review. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
And, having done so, I agree with investigators conclusions and for largely the same 
reasons. I know this outcome will disappoint Mr K  so Ill explain why.
Mr K has brought complaints about his and his partners pension switches. Her complaint is 
being considered separately so what Im considering here is whether Mr K was given 
incorrect information about the date the switch on his plan would become effective, and 
whether his actions might have been different if hed been given correct information. 
Did Aviva use the correct dates for settlement?
Ive seen a copy of Avivas terms and conditions in force at the time of Mr Ks switch. The 
section for changing investment funds sets out the rules for switching. It says once we 
have received your request, we switch units by cancelling enough existing units to raise the 
cash value you requested. We use the cash to buy units at the selling price in the other fund 
you have chosen. Under the cancelling units section it states, when we cancel units, we 
use the next available unit price; 1) at the time we receive your request, but we reserve the 
right to use a later unit price if the use of the next available unit price would allow you to use 
already known market data to your benefit. 
So, as Aviva has confirmed that it doesnt operate a live system, it will always use the next 
day price for cancelling units following a switch of funds. This cancellation then enables it to 
immediately purchase units in the new fund. Aviva has explained the reason behind this 
approach is to prevent market manipulation and also confirmed that this delay in using unit 
prices can range between one to three days depending on where the funds are traded  as 
there can be significant time differences between the various financial markets in different 
countries. 
Its not for me to question Avivas approach to the switching of funds here  its entitled to 
make its own commercial decisions on such matters. But I would expect it to make its 
approach clear to consumers which is what I think its done here. So, Im satisfied that when 
Mr K effected his switch on 6 March 2020 the price that would be used as the settlement 
price would always have been based on the next day basis and therefore, I dont think Aviva 
has done anything wrong regarding the dates and prices it used for his switch.
 
The information Aviva provided on the telephone 
On 6 March 2020 Mr K contacted Aviva as hed tried to switch his pension fund online but 
had been unable to do so. It was explained that a small transaction hed tried some days 
before was still outstanding, and was preventing him from carrying out the switch he wanted 
to make that day. The adviser said he could carry out Mr Ks instruction over the phone 
instead.
Mr K agreed to that but during the process he asked for confirmation of the date that would 
be used for the fund prices in the calculation of the switch. Initially, using the example of the 
small transfer still in progress, the adviser clearly explained that Aviva would use prices at next day close of business. But Mr K queried that information because he thought if a 
transaction was carried out before 5pm it should use the same day prices, and, as a result 
the conversation became confusing.
In my opinion, the adviser left Mr K with the impression that the price that would be used was 
that in force at the end of the day, in this case 6 March 2020. So I think Aviva gave Mr K 
confusing and potentially incorrect information during the second part of the conversation. 
Aviva itself has accepted that the information wasnt clear when it came to explain how 
switches work. This led to a lot of confusion for the customer. Aviva offered Mr K £100 for 
the raising of his expectation around the prices that would be used for the switch.
So I do think Aviva provided Mr K with incorrect information here and, as Mr K says that he 
wouldnt have switched if hed been aware of the correct information, Ive carefully 
considered what I think would have happened.
What Mr K would have done with clearer information
Theres no evidence to show exactly what Mr K might have done if he realised the price of 
the funds he was switching would be taken at the close of business the following working 
day.  But in one of the telephone conversations with Aviva he said he wanted to switch 
because hed been concerned about the fall in the markets that day  which Aviva 
acknowledged had been the case at that time. And Mr K said hed been monitoring prices of 
the funds that day for that reason. 
But I think Mr Ks actions here suggest that he would have carried out the pension fund 
switches regardless on that day  and I say that for two main reasons. Mr K said, when he 
first spoke to the adviser on 6 March 2020, that hed tried to make a switch online, but it 
hadnt worked. He also confirmed that hed switched half of his existing fund, albeit it was a 
small fund at that time, two days previously and hed switched his wifes pension funds 
earlier that day. So hed made, or tried to make, a number of switches without being aware 
of the dates that fund prices would be calculated on. And the only reason he couldnt do an 
online switch for his funds was that he had an outstanding query on the earlier smaller 
switch. Had that not been outstanding his own switch would have completed without any 
problem  again without knowledge of the dates to be used for the switch.
  
So, I think, on balance, that Mr K would have carried out his switch without necessarily being 
aware of the date information, and therefore he would have been in the same position as he 
ended up in on 9 March 2020. If the switch had been successful, as he intended it to be, he 
wouldnt have needed to contact Aviva and I dont think he would have sought the 
information about the dates. 
The reasons that Mr K gave for wanting to switch his funds suggested he wanted to de risk 
in an apparent falling market. And although he wanted the price used to be the one that was 
available that day, I think his desire to switch was the most important thing at that time. I 
think Mr Ks assertion that he wouldnt have switched funds if hed been in possession of the 
correct information, whilst justifiable, has been made with some degree of hindsight. Its not 
possible to be sure exactly what would have happened, but Im satisfied that, based on the 
evidence Ive seen, its more likely than not that Mr K would have switched even if hed 
known the correct dates of the prices to be used. 
 
I have some sympathy for Mr Ks position here. I dont think Aviva was clear with him on the 
phone and, in the end, I think he was left with the understanding that his switch would be 
calculated using the closing price on 6 March 20202. So I can understand why he would have been expecting that to be the case and how frustrated he would have been that it 
wasnt correct. 
But Avivas system  which doesnt use live prices  only calculates a switch using the prices 
at the end of the next working day. This would always have been the situation here. And for 
the reasons Ive given I think Mr K would have authorised the switch online if hed been 
allowed to, without knowing what date was going to be used for the prices of the funds he 
was switching to and from.
Putting things right
Aviva has offered Mr K £100 for the distress and inconvenience caused as a result of 
providing incorrect information. And I think that the content of some of the information Mr K 
received from Aviva fell short of what he might reasonably expect. I think it unfairly raised an 
expectation of what pension value Mr K might receive after switching funds. So, after careful 
consideration of the impact this had on Mr K, Ive decided that the offer from Aviva is fair and 
reasonable and within the range of what I might to expect to see for such matters.  
My final decision
Aviva Life & Pensions UK Limited has already made an offer to pay £100 to settle Mr Ks 
complaint and I think this offer is fair in all the circumstances.
So my decision is that Aviva Life & Pensions UK Limited should pay £100.  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr K to accept or 
reject my decision before 21 April 2021.
 
Keith Lawrence
Ombudsman