DRN-2848463
The complaint
Ms A and Mr A are unhappy that Ozen Financial Services Limited (OFSL) has not refunded 
fees paid to it to act as their mortgage broker.
  
What happened
 In December 2019 Ms A and Mr A approached OFSL, a mortgage broker, for help obtaining 
a mortgage. Ms A and Mr A paid OFSL an application fee upfront, for its services.
A decision in principle was obtained from a lender in April 2020 and a full application 
submitted. A mortgage offer was issued by that lender in June 2020. The mortgage offer was 
on the basis that the property Ms A and Mr A were buying was worth £335,000 and they 
were borrowing £247,995.
The purchase of the property subsequently fell through as the vendors withdrew. So, Ms A 
and Mr A began looking for another property.
OFSL says Ms A and Mr A identified another property, for the same purchase price and the 
details were updated with the lender. But this purchase also fell through.
Ms A and Mr A say they then found another property that they wanted to purchase, so got in 
touch with OFSL. OFSL explained that theyd have to pay a further application fee of £1,500 
for a new application. Ms A and Mr A paid £750 to OFSL between 18 and 23 November 
2020, with the remainder of this second application fee to follow. 
Ms A and Mr A say they then became unhappy with OFSL and contacted the lender. They 
say they were told that a further application wasnt necessary, and the original loan offer was 
still valid. So, they complained to OFSL.
OFSL said the amount it had charged was correct, as a full new application was required. 
However, it offered to refund the £750 Ms A and Mr A had paid so far in respect of the new 
application. It explained it would then cease acting as their broker.
Ms A and Mr A asked our service to look into their complaint shortly after this, as the agreed 
refund had not been received. They said they were unhappy with the service provided by 
OFSL and that its actions recently had caused them to miss out on the property they were 
looking to purchase.
One of our investigators looked into things. She recommended that OFSL honour the refund 
it had agreed to and that it pay £200 for the upset caused to Ms A and Mr A for the delay in 
this being provided and for the service provided in respect of the second application. She 
didnt agree though that OFSL had caused the recent purchase to fall through. And she 
didnt feel the initial fee paid needed to be refunded  as OFSL had obtained a mortgage 
offer as agreed.
OFSL said, while it didnt think it had made a mistake with the second full application it was 
willing to agree to the recommendation to resolve matters. And I understand it has since paid 
Ms A and Mr A £950.
Ms A and Mr A asked for their complaint to be reviewed by an ombudsman as they didnt 
think the recommendation was fair. As a result, the complaint has been passed to me to 
decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
When Ms A and Mr A approached OFSL in December 2019 they wanted help obtaining a 
mortgage. OFSL has provided a copy of its terms of business. The version that has been 
provided is not signed by Ms A and Mr A. But I think on balance these terms were likely 
made clear to them. The terms of business explain that OFSLs fee is payable at application 
 which is what appears to have happened here. It also explains this is not refundable after a 
mortgage offer has been made or if the lender rejects the application.
Ive seen evidence that the application was agreed, and a mortgage offer was provided by 
the lender in June 2020. So as an offer has been made, it appears that the initial fee paid to 
OFSL by Ms A and Mr A then became non-refundable. So, I dont think OFSL has done 
anything wrong by retaining this and I dont think I can reasonably ask it to provide a refund 
of the first broker fee, as it has provided the service that Ms A and Mr A paid for.
The original property purchase to be funded by this mortgage didnt go ahead. And Ms A and 
Mr A have explained this was because the vendors withdrew. 
There are conflicting versions of what happened next. OFSL says Ms A and Mr A found a 
second property they liked straight away. And because the purchase price was the same the 
existing mortgage could be transferred across for this to proceed. OFSL says it carried out 
the relevant administrative tasks to allow this free of charge. But this sale also fell through. 
Ms A and Mr A have not mentioned these events when complaining. Ive seen notes from 
the lender that indicate details of the property to be purchased were changed towards the 
end of June 2020  which would appear to support what OFSL has said. But in any event, I 
cant see there was a further fee charged relating to this from OFSL. 
A further fee was charged in November 2020. Ive seen correspondence between the parties 
to say another £1,500 would be payable. And £750 of this was paid.
Ms A and Mr A say it was unfair that this was charged as, having spoken to the lender, it had 
informed them that the mortgage offer it issued in June 2020 was valid until the end of 
December 2020. So, this couldve been switched to the new property. But OFSL has said 
that the property Ms A and Mr A were looking to buy in November 2020 cost more 
(£380,000) than the ones they were looking to buy previously (£335,000). So as a result, the 
mortgage proposition had significantly changed, including the loan to value ratio, and this is 
why a new application was required  and a new fee was payable.
The mortgage offer from June 2020 does state that it is valid for six months. So, it was still 
valid in November 2020. But it was based on certain agreed parameters  including the 
purchase price and loan to value ratio. So, if these changed, it is reasonable that a new offer 
wouldve been needed.With this in mind OFSLs explanation around why a further fee was due does appear 
reasonable. And notes provided by the lender from November 2020, when Mr A contacted it 
to see if an application had been submitted as he had concerns about OFSL, do indicate the 
lender also said, if the loan-to-value ratio was different a new application would need to be 
made by the broker. Ive also seen evidence from OFSL that it enquired about a new 
decision in principle on behalf of Ms A and Mr A at that time, based on the revised purchase 
price information. So, I dont think OFSL made an error by saying a new application would 
be required or that its usual fee for this would be due.
In any event though, when Ms A and Mr A raised concerns, OFSL agreed to refund the £750 
paid in November 2020. I think this was reasonable. There was a delay in this being paid, 
which I can see has caused Ms A and Mr A distress. And I accept it wouldve been better if 
the refund had been processed at the point it was agreed. So, I think itd be fair for OFSL to 
compensate Ms A and Mr A for the upset caused by this and the subsequent breakdown in 
communication. But taking everything into account I think the £200 compensation 
recommended previously by our investigator, which OFSL has already paid, is a fair way to 
address this.
Ms A and Mr A have said that OFSL caused them to miss out on the property they were 
looking to purchase in November 2020. The information Ive seen does indicate that the 
purchase price of this property was significantly higher than at the point of the earlier 
application. Ms A and Mr A wouldve either needed to pay for the difference through savings 
 which a lender wouldve wanted evidence of. Or theyd have needed to borrow additional 
funds  and show they could afford this on top of the amount they were already looking to 
borrow.  And there is no guarantee that the information provided in either scenario wouldve 
been accepted by a lender. In addition, as Ive said, the evidence Ive seen shows OFSL 
was carrying out preliminary work on their behalf when they paid the first £750 of the second 
broker fee. While Ms A and Mr A later lost faith in OFSL, I dont think it has unduly delayed 
things. And with all of that in mind, I cant agree the purchase falling through was OFSLs 
fault. So, I dont require it to do anything more.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained I think the actions taken by Ozen Financial Services Limited  
refunding the £750 paid in November 2020 and paying £200 compensation as 
recommended by our investigator  are a fair and reasonable way of resolving matters. So, I 
dont require it to take any further action.  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms A and Mr A to 
accept or reject my decision before 2 August 2021.
 
Ben Stoker
Ombudsman