DRN-4321524
The complaint
Mr B has complained about the way HDI Global Speciality SE and its agents handled a claim 
under his Landlord - Residential insurance policy.
HDI is the underwriter (insurer) of this policy. Much of this complaint concerns the actions of 
its appointed agents. As HDI accepts it is accountable for the actions of its agents, in my 
decision, any reference to HDI should be interpreted as also covering the actions of its 
appointed agents.
What happened
The background to this complaint is well known to Mr B and HDI. In my decision, Ill focus
mainly on giving the reasons for reaching the outcome that I have.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the conclusions reached by the investigator for these reasons:
I consider the majority of the claim progressed within reasonable timescales. There was 
a delay due to issues with arranging alternative accommodation for Mr Bs tenant, but 
this wasnt due to anything HDI did wrong. 
I think HDIs requests for Mr B to provide information and some quotations was 
reasonable, as it is for a policyholder to co-operate and support their claim as needed. 
This is provided what they are being asked to do is reasonable; which I think it was in   
Mr Bs case.  
I do however agree there were some communication issues and Mr B wasnt kept as well 
informed by HDI as he should have been. And I think this did cause him distress and 
inconvenience. This is because, as the landlord he had to liaise with HDI, and this wasnt 
easy at times. So, I agree with our investigator that HDI should pay him £150 in 
compensation for the distress and inconvenience this caused him. 
There were some snagging issues with the work carried out by HDIs contractor. But, I 
dont think everything Mr B has suggested went wrong was down to them. Some things 
were simply not due to the leak or the work carried out by HDIs contractor. And anything 
that was due to its contractor, HDI made sure was addressed one way or another.
HDI offered to cover the cost of the tenants food that was damaged as a result of their 
freezer being unplugged. So, it acted reasonably in response to this issue. 
I am satisfied HDI did what it needed to do to explore recovery of Mr Bs excess and its 
outlay from the owner of the flat above his. It became clear recovery was not going to be 
possible. And I think HDI acted reasonably in this regard. 
I cant comment on the fact Mr Bs premiums went up as a result of the claim. Generally, 
what premium to charge is a commercial decision by an insurer and is based on a 
number of factors. Although, it is something we can consider a complaint about. But, I 
cant see Mr B has ever raised this issue with HDI and he needs to do this before we can 
consider a complaint about it. 
Putting things right
For the reasons set out above, Ive decided to uphold Mr Bs complaint and make HDI pay 
him £150 in compensation for distress and inconvenience.
My final decision
I uphold Mr Bs complaint about HDI Global Speciality SE and order it to do what Ive set out 
above in the Putting things right section. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 17 January 2024.
 
Robert Short
Ombudsman