DRN-3388370
The complaint
Mrs K has complained about how Soteria Insurance Limited (Soteria) dealt with a claim 
under her home insurance policy.
What happened
Mrs K made an insurance claim at her property. Soteria carried out a range of works at the 
property. Mrs K was unhappy about various aspects of the claim, so complained to Soteria. 
This included delays and that a dehumidifier installed to dry the property had leaked causing 
damage to Mrs Ks carpets. Soteria accepted that the dehumidifier had leaked and asked its 
contractor to resolve the issue.
Mrs K contacted this service about her complaints, including that the damage caused by the 
dehumidifier hadnt been settled. Our investigator upheld the complaint about the 
dehumidifier and said Soteria needed to deal with settling the damage from the dehumidifier 
directly.
As Soteria didnt agree, the complaint was referred to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I uphold this complaint. I will explain why.
Mrs K asked this service to look at a number of complaints about her claim. However, most 
of these were brought to this service after the six-month deadline for doing so. As a result, 
we were unable to consider those complaints. Im only looking at the complaint that was 
brought to us within the six-month deadline.
When that complaint came to this service, Mrs K was concerned about some snagging 
issues, including to some trims and issues with a towel rail. Ive looked at what happened 
and, in my view, Soteria dealt with those issues reasonably. During the time period covered 
by this complaint, I also didnt see any avoidable delays by Soteria.
However, Mrs Ks main concern was about the dehumidifier. It isnt in dispute that the 
dehumidifier installed to dry the property as part of the claim leaked and caused damage to 
Mrs Ks home. Soteria asked the contractor that installed the dehumidifiers to resolve this. 
The contractors insurer has then been dealing with the claim for the damage to the carpets 
and underlay. I understand that Mrs K wanted the damage to the carpets to be cash settled 
and there have been issues with reaching a settlement.
Looking at this part of the complaint in context, Mrs K doesnt have a direct relationship with 
the contractor or its insurer. She didnt employ the contractor and she isnt the policyholder 
with the insurer. Mrs Ks complaint is about Soteria, as it dealt with the claim and appointed 
the contractor. The contractor damaged Mrs Ks home when it was carrying out work on 
behalf of Soteria. It makes no difference that this damage wasnt part of the original claim. 
Soteria is responsible for ensuring the damage is put right. 
Soteria has told this service the discussions between Mrs K and the contractors insurer 
have reached a stalemate as there were issues with contacting the carpet company that 
provided the quote and Mrs K demonstrating the true extent of the damage and the carpet 
costs being claimed for. So, Soteria is aware of what it needs to do to resolve this complaint 
which, based on what it has said, is to assess the extent of the damage and the cost of 
putting Mrs K back in the position she was in before the dehumidifier leaked onto the carpet 
and to put a settlement offer to Mrs K on that basis. If Mrs K is then unhappy with Soterias 
assessment or settlement offer, she would need to raise a new complaint with Soteria.
Putting things right
Soteria should assess the extent of the damage caused by the dehumidifier leaking and the 
cost of putting Mrs K back in the position she was in before the dehumidifier leaked. It should 
put a settlement offer to Mrs K for the carpet and underlay.
My final decision
For the reasons I have given, it is my final decision that I uphold this complaint. I require 
Soteria Insurance Limited to:
Assess the extent of the damage and the cost of putting Mrs K back in the position she 
was in before the dehumidifier leaked onto the carpet.
Put a settlement offer to Mrs K for the carpet and underlay.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs K to accept or 
reject my decision before 2 May 2022.
 
Louise O'Sullivan
Ombudsman