DRN-3793059
The complaint
Mrs P has complained that when she was sold a Jupiter Merlin investment in 2003, as 
advised by the predecessor business of Origen Financial Services Limited (Origen), she 
wasnt told about any ongoing fees other than the commission charges, or the choice of 
share class. Mrs P found out that she has been paying substantial fees for the investment 
since 2003. She would like for those fees to be returned to her.
In the complaint, Mrs P is being represented by her son, Mr P. Ill be referring to both in my 
decision. 
What happened
Mrs P made several investments in 2003 upon the advice she received from Origen. In 2019 
she found out that she was paying ongoing fees for the Jupiter investment and that there 
was a cheaper class of share she could have invested in. Mrs P says she wasnt properly 
advised of her choice in relation to the fund class and charges. 
Mrs P complained to Origen. In its response it rejected her complaint. It had limited point of 
sale documentation, but Jupiter had said it was satisfied that Mrs P had seen all of the 
relevant information she needed prior to investment. It clarified the class of share Mrs P held 
and why, as well as explaining the ongoing fee incurred. As Mrs P was a valued client, it 
offered her a review of her investments at Origens cost. 
Unhappy with the response Mrs P brought her complaint to the Financial Ombudsman. Our 
investigator who considered the complaint didnt think it should be upheld. He said;
He didnt agree that a full refund of charges was warranted as this wouldnt take into 
account the growth of the original sum invested. And it wasnt for him to punish a 
business for an omission in 2003. 
He thought that between 2003 and 2019 Mrs P was aware that many investments 
come with an ongoing charge and which would apply to this unit trust holding.
After making several investments in 2003 he thought it fair to assume Mrs P was 
aware that the investment into Jupiter wouldnt be for free  over and above any 
initial commission. The management of the fund must be paid for by the unit holders. 
Unit trusts usually deduct shares to pay for the ongoing charges.
The recommendation letter from 2003 does mention charges which suggested to the 
investigator that it was reasonable to assume Mrs P would have known that funds 
have ongoing charges and that Jupiter, albeit not explicitly mentioned, would also 
come with some sort of ongoing charge.
The reclassification of the unit class from L to J was because of the end of Origens 
relationship with Mrs P when the Client Service Agreement was terminated. 
Mr P responded to the investigator. He didnt agree and said;
If Mrs P had known about the charges, she would likely have changed to a similar but 
cheaper investment. And the investment hadnt performed well compared to cheaper 
options. 
Mrs P had for a long time been satisfied with the investment as she was unaware of 
the ongoing costs. There was no evidence that Mrs P was notified of the ongoing fee 
or any changes to that fee.
He didnt think the reclassification of the unit class should have been included with 
the complaint about fees. 
It had been established that it was the adviser that had signed the point of sale 
documents to confirm all the paperwork had been received by the customer, and not 
Mrs P.
It had been decided by an ombudsman that the case was within the Financial 
Ombudsmans jurisdiction remit regarding the time limits that apply to cases it can 
consider. The ombudsman wasnt persuaded that Mrs P ought reasonably to have 
known about the ongoing charges on her funds until her son investigated the matter 
in 2019. Despite this, the investigator concluded that Mrs P would have been aware 
of the charges. He found this perverse. 
The investigator didnt agree. He maintained that that due to Mrs Ps investment experience 
and knowledge she would have known there would have been some sort of ongoing charge 
for the fund and that the redress being requested would be disproportionate. 
Mr P didnt agree with the outcome, so the complaint has been passed to me in my role as 
ombudsman to make a decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
After doing so, Ive decided not to uphold Mrs Ps complaint and for broadly the same 
reasons as the investigator. I appreciate Mrs P will be disappointed with my decision, so Ill 
explain why.
Mr P is adamant that Mrs P is a good record keeper and that he has a full file of documents 
since the time of the investment into the Jupiter fund in 2003. I cant know what was 
discussed at the meeting Mrs P had with the adviser, but I think it more likely there was 
some discussion about the charges that would be incurred in the investments being 
recommended. And we do know that Mrs P did receive a Key Features Document at the 
time of the sale as she referred to it in later correspondence. But Mr P says that none of the 
documents on file  which I assume would include the Key Features Document referred to in 
later correspondence indicate that Mrs P would be charged an ongoing fee for her 
investments. 
Origen doesnt have much documentation from the time of the sale  but I dont find this 
surprising because of the time thats lapsed since then, and businesses arent obliged to 
keep documentation indefinitely. Origen has referred to Jupiter to obtain the Key Features 
Document that would have been applicable at the time of the sale, but Jupiter hasnt been 
able to provide this. It has been able to provide a copy of a document from 2000 but I note 
that includes all of the Jupiter funds which were available at the time so I cant be sure this 
would have applied to Mrs Ps investment. And Ive also seen Jupiter documents that dont 
detail ongoing commission charges. So, I cant know for sure what Mrs P would have seen. Mr P has said that if Mrs P had been aware of the ongoing charges, she would have looked 
for a cheaper alternative. But I have seen nothing to suggest that she wouldnt have 
invested. I say this because I note from the complaint form that Mrs P says she is happy 
with her investment and did agree to it. So, in the absence of knowing what Mrs P would 
have seen at the point of sale, bearing in mind she has said she is satisfied with the 
investment, I have gone onto consider whether she would have still invested if I was satisfied 
that it was most likely she had been given sufficient information about the ongoing costs. 
After careful consideration, I am satisfied that I think it more likely there would have been 
some sort of discussion about charges in general when Mrs P met with her adviser. This was 
standard information. And I think Mrs P would have been made aware that its not unusual 
for unit trusts to incur ongoing charges. The advisers recommendation letter, under the 
section entitled OUR REMUNERATION outlined the commission that Origen would receive 
for those recommendations upon investment. And it went on to say;
Information, including details of the initial and recurring charges of the recommended 
unit trusts(s) may be found in the accompanying literature. [my emphasis]
So while I cant be sure what information Mrs P did receive, she did go on to agree to those 
investments knowing there was the potential they incurred ongoing charges, albeit maybe 
not being informed in as much detail as she would have liked. 
Its inevitable that the ongoing management of the unit trusts would incur ongoing 
management charges. And I think it would not have been unreasonable to assume the cost 
of that management would be paid for by the unit holders in order to cover the costs of the 
investment management, administration, and independent oversight of those funds. As 
outlined above I think it most likely there would have been a discussion about charges, they 
were briefly outlined in the recommendation letter and Mrs P was provided with the product 
literature of the funds she invested into which, from latter correspondence, seems likely she 
would have read and understood. 
The ongoing charges incurred were all an intrinsic part of investing in that particular fund and 
the resulting potential upsides and downsides of that. Quite simply, if Mrs P wasnt willing to 
incur those charges which were implicit in her investing in the fund  albeit potentially not 
being told about them at the outset  then it wouldnt be fair for her to benefit from the 
performance of the fund. I say this because the charges incurred are a tacit part of the costs 
in order to achieve that hoped for better return with which Mrs P has said she is satisfied 
with when she brought her complaint to the Financial Ombudsman. So, I dont agree that 
Mrs P should have those ongoing commission fees returned to her. She has benefited from 
the performance of the fund and so I dont think that its unreasonable she should pay for the 
costs incurred in creating that performance. 
Mrs P has said that she wasnt given a choice of which class of unit she should invest into. 
She was invested into the L class. My understanding is that the L class units denote that 
the investment came about as a result of Mrs Ps use of a financial adviser  Origen  and 
that a fee was paid to Origen by Jupiter because of that. If Mrs P had made the investment 
direct with Jupiter, she would hold the J class units. This is what did happen when Origen 
ended its Client Service Agreement with Mrs P and which would attract the lower charge of 
2.17% rather than 2.47%.
Mr P referred to the I class shares and for Jupiter, Origen has said those are only for 
corporate clients that invest large sums of money. Mr P also asked why the Jupiter 
investment wasnt made via a platform which he said would be cheaper. In its response to 
Mr P, Origen explained that there would a platform fee in addition to the fund and adviser 
charges so the overall fee would be higher at 2.57%. This was compared to 2.47% for the L class shares which included the annual management charge of 1.50% and the 0.5% paid to 
Origen was included within that annual management charge. 
So, taking the above into account, and again not being sure what information Mrs P was 
given at the time of the sale, the explanation from Origen about the class invested into 
seems logical. Mrs P was invested into the L class shares because the investment had 
come about via her financial adviser. From what Origen has said, the L class was the right 
one for her circumstances. 
Taking all of the above into account, and in the individual circumstances of this complaint I 
dont uphold it. I hope I have been able to explain to Mrs P how and why I have reached that 
decision. 
My final decision
For the reasons given above, my final decision is that I dont uphold Mrs Ps complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs P to accept or 
reject my decision before 7 April 2023.
 
Catherine Langley
Ombudsman