DRN-3826171
Complaint
W, a limited company, complains that Starling Bank Limited didnt reimburse it after it fell 
victim to what it claims was fraud. W is represented by its director, Mr U. For simplicitys 
sake, Ive generally referred to Mr U throughout the text of this decision.
Background
In late 2021, Mr U used Ws account to pay £7,880 to a partner business to obtain foreign 
currency. That payment was to another Starling account. Mr U says that it didnt carry out 
their agreement. He contacted Starling and told it hed fallen victim to fraud. Starling 
investigated but didnt agree to refund the money. It said that this was a civil dispute and he 
should attempt to get his money back directly from the business hed transacted with. 
Mr U was unhappy with this response. He says that he did attempt to recover his money 
from that business, but he was told that Starling had restricted its account and removed his 
funds from it. That meant it wasnt possible for it to refund him. Mr U thinks Starling should 
return the recovered funds.
The case was looked at by an Investigator who didnt uphold it. She said that Starling had a 
range of obligations in respect of preventing its customers falling victim to fraud and 
reimbursing them if theyd done so. But she didnt think any of those obligations applied 
here. She agreed with Starling that this should be considered a civil dispute.
Mr U disagreed with the Investigators view. He reiterated that hed attempted to resolve the 
matter directly with the other party but that, due to Starlings actions, it wasnt able to refund 
him. As Mr U disagreed with the Investigators view, the case was passed to me. The other 
business sent him a picture of a message exchange it had with Starling. It asked Starling 
why a deduction had been made from its account. Starling responded:
The deduction was made in connection with the disputed payment of £7,880. You 
have not been able to provide evidence of rightful ownership of funds  As a result, 
we have returned this to the sender.
I asked Starling about whether it was able to recover Ws money from the receiving account. 
It said it was able to recover €58.03. I contacted Mr U to ask if there was any evidence to 
show that Starling had recovered his entire losses as the recipient had claimed, but he didnt 
reply to me. As no agreement has been reached between the parties, the case has been 
passed to me to consider and come to a final decision.
Findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Starling is a signatory to the Lending Standards Boards Contingent Reimbursement Model 
(CRM) Code. That Code says that, in certain circumstances where a customer falls victim to 
a scam, it ought to reimburse that customer. However, it specifically excludes private civil 
disputes, such as where a Customer has paid a legitimate supplier for goods, services, or 
digital content but has not received them, they are defective in some way, or the Customer is 
otherwise dissatisfied with the supplier.
Im not persuaded that W is the victim of fraud here. The recipient of the payment was 
someone known personally to Mr U and someone he was able to contact after the event.
The details of its agreement with the other party are not entirely clear, although I understand 
W was paying to obtain foreign currency. If W is unhappy that the other party has breached 
the terms of its agreement, it would be more appropriate for it to seek a civil remedy through 
the courts. For that reason, Starling isnt obliged to reimburse W under the CRM Code.
Mr U has claimed that he did attempt to get his money back informally by approaching the 
recipient directly. He was told that it couldnt refund him either because Starling had taken 
the money out of their account. However, the message Mr U shared with us shows that a 
deduction was made from the recipients account and that the decision to do this was taken 
in connection with the dispute about a payment for £7,880. It doesnt show unambiguously 
that Starling deducted the full amount or that the full amount remained in the account when 
he notified it of the dispute.
Overall, without stronger evidence, Im not persuaded Starling has done anything wrong 
here. If W wants to recover its money, it should do so directly from the recipient. 
Final decision
For the reasons Ive set out above, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask W to accept or 
reject my decision before 31 August 2023.
 
James Kimmitt
Ombudsman