DRN-2644036
The complaint
The estate of Mrs E complains about a whole of life policy sold by Nationwide Building 
Society in 2012. 
What happened
In 2012 the late Mrs E met with an advisor from Nationwide to discuss inheritance tax and 
estate planning. It was recommended that Mrs E set up a whole of life policy with her three 
daughters as trustees and beneficiaries, and the appropriate paperwork was completed. 
Mrs E sadly passed way in 2020 and it came to light that the policy hadnt been set up in 
trust as agreed. This meant the policy paid the estate rather than the trustees and 
inheritance tax of 40% was applied to the settlement. This incurred a payment from the 
estate of £38,250.80.
The estate complained to Nationwide saying the policy hadnt been set up correctly and 
asked them to pay the amount of the inheritance tax. Nationwide didnt uphold the complaint 
saying as far they were concerned the application and correct documentation had been 
submitted to the product provider of the policy. They felt they had fulfilled their duty of care 
and referred the complaint to the product provider. The estate was unhappy with this and 
brought the complaint to our service.
One of our investigators looked into what happened. Looking at the evidence they werent 
persuaded, on the balance of probabilities, that Nationwide sent the trust form to the product 
provider so upheld the complaint asking them to pay the amount of the inheritance tax. 
Nationwide disagreed so the complaint has come to me for a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Its clear that something went wrong here. Both parties agree the policy shouldve been set 
up in trust - but it wasnt. Everyone also agrees that Nationwide received the completed trust 
documents.  
The estate of Mrs E say Nationwide are to blame for the error. Nationwide say its the 
product provider who is at fault, and that Mrs E and the trustees shouldve checked the 
paperwork. 
This complaint isnt against the product provider so its not my place to come to a decision 
about what they did or didnt do. But as part of the wider investigation about what happened 
theyve given information about their processes which have also been given to Nationwide. 
Ive used my knowledge about what theyve said as part of my thought process and 
reasoning, as did our investigator.
The matter for me to decide is whether I think Nationwide sent the trust documentation to the 
product provider. And if I dont think they did, does this failure mean they should be 
responsible for putting things right?
The adviser at Nationwide who dealt with Mrs E says the trust documents were posted to the 
product provider. However theres no system evidence to back this up. Ive of course 
considered their verbal testimony as evidence, but Ive also considered the wider 
circumstances. Ive also taken into account this is verbal testimony about something that 
happened about nine years ago. 
As part of Nationwides investigation it was noted they didnt have copies of either the policy 
application or the trust form as neither were added to their internal system by the advisor like 
they shouldve been at the time. It seems the advisor knew this at the time and had said they 
would contact the product provider for copies and then have them added. But theres no 
evidence this was done. So it seems to me that the standard procedure for record keeping 
wasnt followed. 
For me these two failures call into question the thoroughness of all the advisers actions at 
the time. And especially throws doubt on what happened to the trust form. Everyone agrees 
Nationwide had the form, but there is no system record of it, and the request to obtain a copy 
wasnt done.
The adviser said the trust from was posted to the product provider at the same time along 
with the application. They also say however that it took some time for Mrs E to return the 
signed paperwork as she had to get her three daughters to sign the trust document. 
Mrs E first met with the advisor on Wednesday 7 March 2012. The next day the adviser 
completed the client review form and the recommendation was made. This is the earliest 
time Mrs E couldve been given the trust document to complete. The policy application was 
signed and sent to the product provider on Tuesday 13 March. 
Whilst the definition of some time varies from person to person, here the application was 
completed and sent just a few days after the first meeting with Mrs E. I dont think it likely 
that the some time the adviser said it took Mrs E to return the trust form meant they were 
returned within a few days in order to be posted along with the application, especially taking 
into account the three signatures that were needed. 
As part of the investigation the product provider has given us persuasive evidence that when 
the application was received they didnt receive the trust document along with it. Of course 
its possible that the product provider might have made an error here, but considering 
everything Ive seen about what happened I dont think thats the case.
Nationwide have said the product provider shouldve chased up the trust documents if they 
werent received. The product provider has told us, and Nationwide, they dont chase up 
trust documents when they arent received. They said because trust documents can be 
added to a policy at any time, and sometimes consumers change their mind about putting 
the policy into trust, they dont chase this information. The product provider sets the policy up 
so the consumer is covered as soon as possible. If the trust documents are sent in at a later 
date then the policy is amended. 
After the application had been submitted to the product provider the adviser from Nationwide 
called several times asking for updates. Our investigator thought it reasonable that the 
adviser had the opportunity to ensure the policy was being put in trust like it shouldve been. 
And I agree. But this didnt happen. 
Nationwide says there was no reason for the adviser to confirm with the product provider if 
the trust documents were received as they had no reason to think they hadnt been received. Nationwide went on to say its not part of the sales process to check about receipt of 
documentation. 
Its not my place to tell Nationwide how to set their procedures. However in this situation, I 
think it wouldve been prudent, and indeed professional, for the adviser to check. This is 
especially the case as setting the policy up in trust was an integral part of Nationwides 
recommendation and was Mrs Es only priority when planning her estate. The failure to 
check receipt of the documents wouldve stopped the problem occurring. This is of course all 
based on the assumption that the adviser sent the product provider the trust documents 
along with the application, and Im not persuaded that happened. 
Nationwide said the adviser wasnt contacted by Mrs E or the trustees to ask why the policy 
hadnt been put in trust. And from what Ive seen this is because Mrs E believed the policy 
had been set up in trust the way Nationwide recommended it should be. In the complaint to 
this service Mrs Es daughters said that their mother regularly spoke about the policy and 
how they would be free of inheritance tax on her passing. Im happy Mrs E thought the policy 
was set up in trust as Nationwide said it would be. She relied on the professional advice and 
service provided by Nationwide. Ive seen no evidence that shouldve alerted Mrs E to the 
fact that things werent as they should have been.
The estate has provided a copy of the policy schedule Mrs E received after it was set up. 
There is no mention that the policy is in trust, and I wouldnt expect there to be as it wasnt 
set up like that. Theres also no mention that its not set up in trust; the schedule is silent on 
the issue.
Nationwide say that Mrs E shouldve read the policy documents and noticed that it wasnt set 
up in trust. But I cant agree thats fair. Ive seen no evidence that Mrs E was asked to check 
the schedule for anything to do with a trust. I think its entirely reasonable that she relied on 
the professional advice she got from Nationwide. I dont think it was reasonable for Mrs E to 
know the absence of the word trust indicated there was a problem.  
As far as Im aware Mrs E didnt have any other policies in trust so wouldnt be aware of 
what to look for. And as I said above, she spoke to her daughters about the policy being in 
trust so firmly believed that Nationwide had done what they said they would do. But they 
hadnt.
Nationwide have also asked why the trustees didnt question things when they didnt receive 
anything about the policy. I havent seen anything to show they were told to expect to 
receive something. This information may have been on the trust form they signed, however I 
cant know this as Nationwide didnt keep a copy of it like they shouldve done. I think its 
unfair to say the trustees shouldve noticed something wasnt right when they had signed the 
form as requested, and theres no proof they were told to expect to receive anything further. 
It was Nationwides responsibility to ensure that the policy was set up in trust as it shouldve 
been. After considering everything carefully, and on the balance of probabilities, Im not 
satisfied that they fulfilled their professional duties to do that. Im not persuaded the trust 
form was sent to the product provider as it shouldve been. This means Nationwide is 
responsible for what went wrong and should put things right for the estate of Mrs E.
Putting things right
To put things right Nationwide should, upon receipt of evidence of payment, pay the estate 
of Mrs E £38,250.80 plus 8% simple interest from the date the cost was incurred until the 
date payment is made.My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained my decision is that I uphold this complaint and direct 
Nationwide Building Society to put things right as detailed above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask the estate of Mrs E 
to accept or reject my decision before 29 April 2021. 
Warren Wilson
Ombudsman