DRN-3879363
The complaint
Mr F complains HSBC UK Bank Plc (HSBC) restricted and closed his account. He also 
complains HSBC has unfairly applied a fraud marker against him. 
What happened
In May 2019, HSBC received allegations from another financial business that Mr F had 
received two fraudulent payments into his account. As a result it blocked Mr Fs account. 
HSBC attempted to contact Mr F on two occasions, asking him to contact it. 
Later, HSBC decided to close Mr Fs account and notified CIFAS (Credit Industry Fraud 
Avoidance System) who applied a misuse of facility marker against him. 
Unhappy with HSBCs actions, Mr F complained. In its response, and in short, HSBC said it 
was unhappy with the operation of the account following a scam allegation it had received 
for two substantive payments. So it decided to close the account and notified CIFAS of its 
concerns. 
Mr F then referred his complaint to this service. He says someone misled him and used false 
information on his account  and that it was something outside of his control. Mr F says that 
as a young person, not being able to get credit has severely affected his plans. 
One of our Investigators then looked into his complaint. In summary, they found: 
- HSBC has the right to review and block Mr Fs account without providing prior notice. 
And HSBC reviewed Mr Fs account in line with its obligations and terms of account, 
nor did it cause any delays
- HSBC isnt obliged to provide an explanation for reviewing or closing the account
- HSBC were entitled to close the account, and complied with terms and conditions of 
it 
- The credited into Mr Fs account were conformed as fraudulent. And, he hasnt 
provided an explanation to show that wasnt the case despite HSBC asking on two 
occasions. Because of this, they were persuaded HSBC carried out enough checks 
to meet the standard of proof needed to record a CIFAS misuse of facility marker 
Mr F did not agree with what our Investigator said. He says hes in no position to disregard 
his rights as he is a civil servant to society, and he should be compensated. He also 
disagrees with the fact hes unable to gain credit to meet his financial needs. 
This complaint has now been passed to me to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided not to uphold Mr Fs complaint. I know this will disappoint him, 
so Ill explain why. 
Banks in the UK, like HSBC, are strictly regulated and must take certain actions in order to 
meet their legal and regulatory obligations. They are also required to carry out ongoing 
monitoring of an existing business relationship. That sometimes means banks need to 
restrict, or in some cases go as far as closing, customers accounts.
Having looked at HSBCs reasons for restricting Mr Fs account, Im satisfied it hasnt done 
anything wrong here. Im also satisfied that HSBC didnt cause any undue delay in carrying 
out its review. 
HSBC is entitled to close an account just as a customer may close an account with it.  But 
before HSBC closes an account, it must do so in a way, which complies with the terms and 
conditions of the account.
The terms and conditions of the account, which HSBC and Mr F had to comply with, say that 
it could close the account by giving at least two months notice. And in certain circumstances 
it can close an account immediately or with less notice. 
Having looked at the information given to me by HSBC, Im satisfied it was entitled to close 
the account in the way that it has done. Mr F may want to know HSBCs reasons for 
restricting and then closing his account. HSBC is under no obligation do this. But it did give 
Mr F some explanation in its final response. 
CIFAS marker 
The marker HSBC have filed with CIFAS is intended to record theres been a misuse of 
facility  relating to using the account to receive fraudulent funds.
In order to file such a marker, HSBC is not required to prove beyond reasonable doubt that 
Mr F is guilty of a fraud of financial crime, but they must show there are grounds for more 
than mere suspicion or concern. CIFAS says:
There must be reasonable grounds to believe that an identified fraud or financial 
crime has been committed or attempted; [and]
The evidence must be clear, relevant and rigorous such that the member could 
confidently report the conduct of the subject to the police.
What this means in practice is that a bank must first be able to show fraudulent funds have 
entered Mr Fs account, whether they are retained or pass through the account. Secondly, 
HSBC will need to have strong evidence to show the consumer was deliberately dishonest in 
receiving the fraudulent payment and knew it was, or might be, an illegitimate payment.
A marker shouldnt be registered against someone who was unwitting; there should be 
enough evidence to show deliberate complicity. So, I need to consider whether HSBC has 
enough evidence to meet the standard of proof and load a marker for misuse of facility with 
CIFAS.
Mr F has, in so many words, said his account was under the control of someone who he 
trusted, and they misused it for illegitimate means. On the face of it, this suggests he was 
unwitting. But Mr F never responded to HSBC when it was investigating the matter despite it attempting to initiate contact on at least two occasions. 
Our Investigator has also sought to gain more information from Mr F about what happened. 
This is important as it allows Mr F to offer up evidence that could show he was unwitting as 
he asserts. But Mr F has not responded to these questions, and it appears as if he is 
evading them. 
Given this behaviour, Im persuaded, on balance, that there isnt enough evidence to 
conclude Mr F was unwitting. And to my mind, its more likely because of this that hes been 
deliberately complicit. 
So, it follows that Im persuaded HSBC has acted fairly in applying a CIFAS marker. That 
means HSBC hasnt done anything wrong. I can understand Mr F feels his ability to get 
credit has now been severely impaired  but that is the impact such a marker can have.  
My final decision
For the reasons above, I have decided not to uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr F to accept or 
reject my decision before 14 February 2023. 
Ketan Nagla
Ombudsman