DRN-3291221
The complaint
Mr H complains that Lloyds Bank Plc (Lloyds) delayed removing a charge on his property 
and then sent correspondence about this to the wrong address.
What happened
In 2008 the partnership business S took out a loan with Lloyds. Mr H was the guarantor, 
with the borrowing secured on his property. In 2012 S closed its accounts with Lloyds having 
repaid the loan, but Lloyds didnt release its security on Mr Hs property.
In May 2021 Lloyds wrote to Mr H confirming it had just discharged the security and 
apologising for the fact this wasnt done sooner. However, it sent this letter to Mr Hs ex-
wifes address. This was an address Mr H didnt know and had no connection with.
Mr H then complained to Lloyds. He raised concerns that the delay in releasing the security
may have caused issues with obtaining credit. Mr H also highlighted that his split from his
ex-wife had been acrimonious and he was very distressed by fact this information had been
sent to her. He highlighted that this was a severe data breach which he wanted investigating.
Lloyds upheld the complaint. It apologised for sending the letter to the wrong address and
added a note to Mr Hs profile to confirm the correct address. It told Mr H it was unable to
explain why the security wasnt discharged sooner but agreed this should have been done.
It confirmed this wouldnt have had any impact on Mr Hs previous attempts to sell his
property. And it offered Mr H £350 compensation for the upset and inconvenience caused.
Mr H felt this compensation wasnt sufficient. He told Lloyds the disclosure of his financial
situation to his ex-wife was worth £3,000-£7,000. He also didnt think Lloyds had fully
investigated or explained why the letter was sent to an address he had no knowledge of.
Lloyds issued a further response but didnt alter its findings. It explained the charge wouldnt
have shown up on Mr Hs credit file and would only have come to light if Mr H had wanted to
take out further borrowing secured against the property  which he hadnt done. It said it
couldnt establish why the charge wasnt removed earlier due to the time elapsed.
Lloyds also explained it had investigated the incorrect address issue. It told Mr H the
association between him and his ex-wife was still in place on its systems and this meant that
when the letter was generated, her current address was pulled through incorrectly.
Our investigator looked into things. They agreed Lloyds had made mistakes but they felt it
had taken the steps they wouldve expected it to do in an effort to resolve things. They didnt
think Lloyds needed to do anything further to put things right.
Mr H disagreed and so his complaint has been passed to me to consider.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Lloyds has agreed it should have removed the charge earlier and not sent the letter to
Mr Hs ex-wifes address  so its accepted it made mistakes. So, in this decision Im going to
focus on what Lloyds has done to put things right.
Mr H wanted Lloyds to investigate and explain what had happened. He also wanted
compensation for the impact of the errors.
Looking at each issue in turn, I can see that due to the passage of time Lloyds has been
unable to establish why the charge wasnt removed sooner. And whilst I can appreciate this
must be incredibly frustrating, I dont think its unreasonable Lloyds is unable to establish the
cause of an error that occurred nearly ten years ago. I say this taking into account data
retention periods.
I can see Lloyds has now removed the charge as Id expect. And whilst Mr H has
understandably raised concerns about the potential impact of this charge on his ability to get
credit and sell his home, Lloyds has explained theres no evidence of impact. Lloyds has
observed that the very fact Mr H and Lloyds remained unaware of the charge for all of this
time, shows it wasnt identified by any potential lenders or anyone seeking to purchase
Mr Hs home. And Ive seen no evidence from Mr H to suggest otherwise. So, whilst I
recognise Lloyds has made a mistake here, I dont think it caused any loss to Mr H. Im also
satisfied there was no inconvenience to Mr H as he wasnt aware and by the time he was
made aware, the matter was resolved.
Moving on to the letter Lloyds sent, it has explained this was a systems issue caused by a
link remaining between Mr H and his ex-wife. And Lloyds has since added information to
Mr Hs profiles to highlight the address that should be used. So, I think its offered an
explanation for the error and has taken steps to ensure it doesnt happen again.
Ive then thought about the impact caused by the letter. Ive seen no evidence to suggest this
letter caused Mr H any loss. But it was clearly distressing for him. He told our service it
caused old wounds to be re-opened and that assumptions and accusations were made.
Whilst Mr H has also told us this error also caused stress to his ex-wife and daughter, I
cannot make an award for the distress they experienced as they are not complainants.
That being said, I can consider the impact this distress had on Mr H. Lloyds has awarded
Mr H £350 and I think this is fair in the circumstances.
I appreciate Mr H thinks he should be compensated significantly more for what he feels is a
severe data breach. I think its important to note that I cannot comment on whether theres
been a data breach here. But if Mr H continues to have concerns over the handling of his
data, he can raise this with the Information Commissioners Office, as it is responsible for
data privacy for individuals.Ultimately, my role is to put Mr H back into the position he would have been in had mistakes
not occurred, compensating for any distress or inconvenience experienced. Its not my role
to punish Lloyds for the errors. And Im satisfied £350 is in line with the types of award our
service makes for the level of distress Mr H has described. So, whilst I appreciate this
decision will come as a disappointment to Mr H, I dont think Lloyds need to do anything
further.
My final decision
My final decision is that Lloyds Bank Plc doesnt need to do anything further.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 2 March 2022.
 
Jade Cunningham
Ombudsman