DRN-2167071
The complaint
Mr H is unhappy that ReAssure Limited has declined a claim he made on his income 
protection policy.
 
What happened
Mr H works in a clinical setting. He was diagnosed with depression in 2015, following a 
complication during a procedure at work. He was prescribed medication. In 2018 Mr H 
became absent from work due to depression. Mr H made a claim on his income protection 
policy. 
ReAssure declined the claim saying that Mr H didnt have an underlying psychiatric or 
physical disease which caused him to be absent from work and that his issues related to his 
relationship with his employer. They said that workplace stress is not considered a sickness 
and is not medically recognised or classified as a sickness. Mr H made a complaint to our 
service. 
Our investigator looked into what happened and she didnt uphold Mr Hs complaint. She 
didnt think ReAssure had declined the claim unfairly. She explained that it was work related 
factors which led to Mr H being signed off work in 2018 and the medical evidence suggested 
that work-related issues were preventing Mr H from returning to work, rather than his 
medical condition. She didnt think it was unfair for ReAssure to conclude that the policy 
terms hadnt been met.  
Mr H didnt agree. In summary, he says that the medical evidence has been used selectively 
and that it supports that he is unable, and unsafe, to work in his own occupation. He says 
that ReAssure has an outdated approach to mental health issues. So, I need to make a 
decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The relevant rules and industry guidelines say that ReAssure has a responsibility to handle 
claims promptly and fairly. And they shouldnt reject a claim unreasonably. 
The policy terms and conditions say that a monthly benefit will be paid when the policyholder 
is unable to work. The policy defines unable to work as: 
You are unable to work for the purposes of this Plan whilst illness or injury makes it 
impossible for you to carry out the main tasks or duties of your normal occupation. 
This means the paid occupation you were following when you became ill or injured. 
Its not for me to decide whether Mr H is fit to practice due to his illness. My role is to decide 
whether it was fair and reasonable for ReAssure to decline the claim Mr H made on his 
insurance policy. Mr H has made a number of detailed representations but Ill only refer to 
those which I think are central to my decision. 
Im not upholding Mr Hs complaint as I dont think it was unreasonable for ReAssure to 
decline his claim. I say that because: 
Mr H has had longstanding and ongoing issues in the workplace, according to the 
evidence Ive been provided with. This goes back to 2011 and there appear to have 
been a number of incidents and investigations between 2011 and 2018. I note that 
during this period of time, when Mr H sought support in relation to his mental health, 
there is reference to these work place issues
In January 2019 Mr H was seen by an occupational physician who concluded that 
Mr H wasnt fit to work. However, I think the context of the report is also relevant. It 
referred to workplace issues in 2011, 2015 and 2018. The final investigation took 
place shortly before Mr H became absent from work. The physician made a number 
of observations about Mr Hs circumstances including the following statements, his 
current illness episode started during a meeting with the management, during this 
consultation, Mr H did not have any objective clinical signs of serious mental illness 
and he was not suicidal: this matches the evidence in his primary care records and 
the Counselling Psychologists report, Mr H is too anxious and fatigued to function 
in his job His fear and lack of trust in management are barriers to a successful 
return to work: the sooner your [redacted] can resolve these issues with him, the 
sooner he will feel well enough and confident to resume some work. Whilst she 
concluded Mr H wasnt fit to work, that isnt the same as saying that Mr H meets the 
specific definition of unable to work set out in the policy. And I dont think that it was 
unreasonable for ReAssure to conclude on the basis of the evidence above that his 
unresolved issues with his employer were the main reason for his absence
Ive also taken into account the letter from Mr Hs doctor. She also concluded Mr H 
wasnt fit to work. However, as Ive outlined above, thats not the same as being able 
to demonstrate that the policy definition of unable to work as it has a specific 
definition. I also note that the GP states, his symptoms over this time have 
continued to deteriorate which has been as a result of a breakdown of trust between 
the [redacted] management and Mr H and, he felt that he could no longer work 
under the current conditions as he felt victimised and bullied by managers. So, I 
think this further demonstrates the link between Mr Hs workplace issues and his 
absence from work. I appreciate that Mr H feels this is selectively applying the 
medical evidence but I think it gives important context to the circumstances of his 
claim. 
Mr H says that nothing in the policy excludes work related stress as a legitimate 
basis for a claim. But, the policy terms say that it must be illness or injury that makes 
it impossible for the policyholder to carry out the main tasks and duties of their 
normal occupation. So, its for Mr H to demonstrate that he has a valid claim on the 
basis that illness makes it impossible for him to work. Given the history of workplace 
relations and the medical evidence Ive outlined above, I dont think it was unfair for 
ReAssure to conclude this was the main reason for Mr Hs absence and decline his 
claim. Mr H doesnt dispute that his depression was made worse by work related stress. 
Hes referred me to a number of sources which he says demonstrates the well-
established relationship between the two. This hasnt changed my thoughts about 
the outcome of this complaint. Ive placed more weight on the medical evidence that 
is specific to Mr H and his condition as I think that most fairly reflects his specific 
circumstances 
Mr H has also referred to wider issues with his health which he doesnt feel have 
been taken into account. On his claim form he cited depression and the main reason 
for his claim. He did mention that he had other conditions which were present. 
However, I dont think it was unreasonable for ReAssure to focus on depression 
given that Mr H described that as the main reason for his claim.
My final decision
Im not upholding Mr Hs complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 8 October 2020.
 
Anna Wilshaw
Ombudsman