DRN-3898719
The complaint
Mrs R complained that Hargreaves Lansdown Asset Management Limited (HLAML) has 
been taking commission in respect of single payments and transfers into her personal 
pension without authorisation. She also complains that these payments are excessive and 
unjustified in relation to the service it provides.
She would like to be compensated for the lower present value of her pension which has 
resulted from these payments. 
What happened
Mrs R took out a personal pension with Friends Provident in 1999, with HLAML acting in the 
capacity of a broker through its Hargreaves September 1999 Special Deal Global 
Employees promotion. Further investment into the pension was typically made by lump sum 
in some, but not all subsequent years.
Friends Provident was acquired by Aviva in 2015, and Mrs Rs pension was included in the 
acquisition. Mrs R believes that following this event, HLAML began receiving commission 
payments of 4% of the value of the lump sum payments made into her policy. These totaled 
around £300 for the tax years 2020/21 and 2021/22.
Mrs R complained to HLAML in 2021 when her husband became aware of similar payments 
being taken from a pension he held under the same terms as hers.
HLAM responded on 18 October 2021, explaining that it would not be upholding her 
complaint. It stated that it had acted only as a broker, that the commission it had received 
was in respect of Mrs Rs pension sale alone, and not to fund ongoing service and support. 
HLALM also stated that Mrs R would have received an illustration and application when the 
pension was set up in 1999, which would have outlined the level of commission payable to 
HLAML.
HLAML also said it believed that Mrs R had brought her complaint too late for it to be 
considered by this service
Mrs R disagreed and brought her complaint to this service. Our investigator considered 
whether Mrs R had indeed complained too late for this service to consider it. She decided 
that Mrs R had not complained too late and began to investigate the merits of the complaint.
During the course of her investigation, our investigator gathered and reviewed evidence 
provided by both HLAML and Mrs R. Neither HLAML nor Mrs R were able to provide any 
copies of the competed application forms or correspondence sent to Mrs R when her 
pension was established. 
Mrs R was able to provide evidence that showed no reference to charges or commission 
relating to future single payments in information leaflets she received from HLALM around 
the time she set up the pension in 1999. One leaflet stated:
The annual management charge on this new generation pension is usually 0.95%, making it 
one of the best value pensions in the UK. We have negotiated to reduce this charge by over 
10% to an annual management charge of 0.85% of the fund value, well below the 
Governments proposed stakeholder maximum charge of 1%. There are no other expenses 
 the 0.85% charge includes everything.
Post sale documentation relating to a payment her husband made in June 2015 stated 
No remuneration will be paid to HARGREAVES LANSDOWN PENSIONS for arranging this 
plan
HLAML reviewed these documents and replied that
The original Friends Provident policy was set up that the regular savings and the single 
payments at that time was only subject to 0.85% management fees and no initial charge. 
However, Friends Provident was subsequently taken over by Aviva and the client was then 
bound by the terms offered by Aviva and this information would not have been 
communicated to HL[AML] and would have been outside of HL[ALM]s control.
It went on to say
Had the client then topped up their account with Aviva, they would then be subject to the 
terms provided by Aviva. Aviva should have provided Mrs R with an illustration, Key 
Features and Terms & Conditions that she should have read and questioned if she did not 
believe this is line with her Friends Provident agreement.
Mrs R believed the commission payments disputed in this complaint only arose after Aviva 
took over her pension from Friends Provident on 1 October 2017.
Our investigator reviewed the evidence and formed the view that the complaint should not be 
upheld. Mrs R disagreed, so this case has been passed to me to review the evidence again 
and make a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, and considering the view of our investigator, I have reached the same 
conclusion and will not be upholding Mrs Rs complaint.
I can appreciate that this will be disappointing for her, so let me explain how I have reached 
my decision.
Firstly, I have to determine whether Mrs R has complained in time for her complaint to be 
considered by this service. The rules under which the service operates are set out in the 
Dispute Resolution (DISP) rules in the Financial Conduct Authoritys handbook. The relevant 
part of DISP 2.8.2 states:
The Ombudsman cannot consider a complaint if the complainant refers it to the Financial 
Ombudsman Service:
(1) more than six months after the date on which the respondent sent the complainant its 
final response, redress determination or summary resolution communication; or(2) more than:
(a) six years after the event complained of; or (if later)
(b) three years from the date on which the complainant became aware (or ought reasonably 
to have become aware) that he had cause for complaint;
unless the complainant referred the complaint to the respondent or to the Ombudsman 
within that period and has a written acknowledgement or some other record of the complaint 
having been received. 
Mrs Rs pension was set up in 1999, which is more than six years ago. So, when referring to 
this time limit, the complaint had been made out of time. 
So I need to decide whether or not Mrs R complained within three years of being aware or 
ought to have reasonably become aware that she may have cause for complaint.
Looking at the evidence provided by Mrs R, I am satisfied that she was unaware of the 
commission being paid to HLALM prior to being made aware of this when her husband 
reviewed the post sale documentation sent to him by Aviva in May 2020. The statements 
she had received from Friends Provident or Aviva prior to this date did not disclose these 
costs, so I find that there is no evidence to suggest that she should have been reasonably 
aware that she had cause to complain before then. Given this, I find that this is a case that 
this service can consider.
Turning now to the merits of this case, I have to determine whether HLALM was responsible 
for the charges that it received in respect of the lump sum contributions made by Mrs R. 
Unfortunately neither Mrs R nor HLALM have been able to provide copies of the original 
documentation signed in 1999. The information leaflets Mrs R was able to provide leads me 
to conclude it likely that HLALM acted as a broker in the establishment of Mrs Rs pension, 
and that it is very likely that she received the benefit of a discount to the annual management 
charge on her pension by this arrangement.
When she took out her pension, Mrs R would have been issued with an application form and 
an illustration which would have outlined all the charges associated with her pension. She 
would have needed to sign and confirm her acceptance to these terms before the pension 
would have been set up, so she would have had to have agreed to any charges specified at 
that time. Having said that, if the charges levied on her pension contributions had varied 
once Aviva took over the policy, those changes should have been communicated to her for 
her acceptance.
I have not been able to establish exactly when or why Aviva began to make payments to 
HLALM, as Mrs R has not granted permission HLALM to contact Aviva about her plan. Aviva 
has not provided any information related to this, so I have to make the decision on the 
available evidence. Given this, I think on balance that it is likely the payments have arisen 
from an action Aviva has taken in the process of taking over her plan from Friends Provident, 
possibly from a change in the terms and conditions that apply to the policy. There is no 
evidence that HLALM has requested or taken any action to initiate these payments, and I 
find it likely that Aviva has made these payments as a commission to HLALM for acting as 
the broker when the plan was initially set up. With no evidence to the contrary, I find that 
HLALM has not done anything wrong in accepting the commission payments made to it in 
respect of Mrs Rs pension. I think it likely that HLALM did have an agreement with Friends 
Provident under which it would have earned a commission for acting as a broker, and it is 
not unusual for such agreements to include an element of ongoing commission. It also 
seems reasonable to conclude that Aviva may have changed the payment terms for this commission element, but I cannot hold HLALM responsible for that. HLALM received rather 
than took these payments from Mrs Rs pension, so I find that HLALM is not responsible for 
the charges made.
I understand that Mrs R has made a separate complaint to Aviva for taking the charges from 
her pension and paying them to HLALM, but I cannot comment on the merits of that 
complaint here.
My final decision
For the reasons explained above, I do not uphold Mrs Rs complaint.
As a result, I will not be asking Hargreaves Lansdown Asset Management Limited to do 
anything else
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs R to accept or 
reject my decision before 28 June 2023.
 
Bill Catchpole
Ombudsman