DRN-3805572
The complaint
Mr B complains that National Westminster Bank Plc caused him unnecessary stress and 
worry when he attempted to make a payment.
What happened
Mr B was arranging to purchase a new vehicle and had paid a small deposit towards it. The
next stage of the process was to make a more substantial payment (in excess of £6,000).
When Mr B attempted to make the payment, it was blocked by NatWests fraud detection
system. Mr B spoke with NatWest about the payment and was asked a series of questions to
make sure that it was legitimate. This was done in order to protect Mr Bs own funds.
Mr B told NatWest that the car dealer had asked for this payment to be made prior to seeing
the car. NatWest thought this was unusual and advised Mr B to wait and examine the vehicle
before releasing the payment.
Mr B chose to delay the payment until hed arrived at the dealership and it was agreed that
hed call the fraud team to go through the payment. NatWest advised that these payments
would usually be very quick but could take up to two hours.
Later, Mr B arranged to collect his car and pay for it. He called NatWest from the car
dealership to clear the payment. In the first call, Mr B didnt pass security but was
immediately called back and the call handler was then satisfied that Mr B had passed
security.
Mr B was then informed that a further series of small payments were also blocked because
of the car payment still being on hold. Mr B was taken by surprise by this and was advised
that unless he could satisfy NatWest about all the payments, it could be difficult to
release any of them.
Mr B was asked a few specific questions about the car purchase including the registration
number and some questions that hed already answered in the earlier call. Mr B was then
asked detailed questions about the other payments. One of which required Mr B to make a
second call to a childhood friend who Mr B was sending a small sum of money to. Mr Bs 
partner had to make the call whilst he was still on the phone to NatWest. Fortunately, Mr Bs 
friend answered the phone and was able to confirm the account number and sort code to
NatWests satisfaction.
Mr B was asked other detailed questions about small payments and transfers which caused
Mr B to become unhappy at the continued questioning of his accounts. NatWest continued to
enquire about these payments even though the conversation was becoming more heated.
More general questions about the use of the account were asked of Mr B and various
scenarios were given to him about other types of scams and whether hed experienced
certain suspicious calls or requests for information.
Eventually the call handler was satisfied with Mr Bs answers and all the payments were
released, including the one for his vehicle.
Mr B raised a complaint about the way he was treated by the call handler. NatWest looked
into the matter and didnt agree that theyd acted inappropriately towards Mr B.
Mr B then brought his complaint to the Financial Ombudsman Service for an independent
review where it was looked into by one of our investigators. They didnt think that NatWest
had acted unreasonably, and Mr Bs complaint wasnt upheld.
Mr B disagreed with the investigators outcome and asked for a further review of his
complaint.
Mr B wanted an apology from NatWest and the call handler. He wanted to understand what
the relevance of the questions were and how the bank could act like they did. Mr B also 
wanted a copy of the calls.
I issued a provisional decision where I said:
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
My focus is on what I think the key issues are as our rules allow me to do this and it reflects
the nature of our service as an informal alternative to the courts. So, if theres something Ive
not mentioned, it isnt because Ive ignored it, its because Im satisfied that I dont need to
comment on every individual argument to be able to reach what I think is the right outcome.
NatWest have an obligation to both protect Mr Bs funds and to follow his instruction. This is
a balance that they must constantly strive to meet. On the one hand to carry out sufficient
security checks to stop Mr B from becoming a victim of fraud and the other hand to allow as
streamlined a service as possible for him.
Mr B asked how NatWest could stop his payments  as Ive explained they have an
obligation to protect his funds, which can mean stopping the payment even though Mr B may
think its legitimate at the time. Im sure Mr B would prefer some inconvenience if it meant
that his funds were ultimately protected from fraud  but I accept theres a balance to be
made here.
Mr B had had several calls with NatWest about the payment for his car and was under the
impression that once hed inspected it at the dealership, it would be a simple matter to
release the funds.
The original call handler didnt specifically say this was going to happen when Mr B made
the call to release his funds, just that they would process the payment when he called from
the dealership.
I can understand why NatWest would want to refresh some of the detail which they hadnt
covered earlier such as the registration number and how the inspection had gone. It was
unfortunate that either notes about the earlier call hadnt been made or read because Mr B
was asked questions that hed already answered which would no doubt have felt
unnecessary at the time.
If that was the extent of the discussion then I think Mr B probably wouldnt have made a
complaint to NatWest. But Mr B wasnt told that the block on this payment would cause other
payments to be blocked. He was clearly taken by surprise by this when he was at thedealership inspecting his new vehicle.
Whilst I appreciate NatWests concerns and theyre fraud detection process, the continued
questioning of the other smaller payments that had also been blocked caused Mr B some
distress. Having listened to the call, its apparent that Mr B was getting more and more upset
by the questions he was being asked. I dont think that asking him to call his childhood friend
who he was sending a small sum to, in order to confirm the account details was helpful. Mr B
explained to the call handler that hed had the account details for some years, so the
likelihood of further fraud seemed quite low. Other smaller sums were questioned in detail
which continued to cause Mr B more distress.
Whilst Im not second-guessing NatWests fraud detection policy, the implementation of it in
this specific complaint seemed to be in excess of the situation as a whole. The payment that
NatWest stopped was for a vehicle purchase, whilst the other much smaller sums, which
were also blocked were for very different purposes, but they seemed to be treated with the
same degree of concern.
I accept its a question of balance and Im sure Mr B would want NatWest to protect his
account from fraud and scams, but I do think the continued questioning was excessive here
and caused Mr B unnecessary distress.
Mr B hasnt sought any financial redress here, only an apology from NatWest about their
approach to him. I think thats a reasonable way for NatWest to settle this complaint and its
currently what Im intending to say in my final decision. Mr B also asked for a personal
apology from the call handler  but I dont think thats appropriate here as Mr Bs complaint is
against NatWest and not an employee who was carrying out their instructions.
Mr B also asked for a copy of the call. Hes previously been advised to approach NatWest
about this and ask them for a copy  which I can only repeat here.
I invited Mr B and NatWest to give me any more evidence and information they wanted me 
to consider before issuing my final decision. Mr B generally accepted my provisional 
decision, commenting that:
He was disappointed he wouldnt get a personal apology from the call handler.
He remained frustrated that he hadnt been able to obtain a copy of the call.
He still believed the call from the car showroom was just to confirm the release of the 
funds.
NatWest provided additional comments, summarised as:
They didnt believe their security checks were unnecessary.
They recognised that it was inconvenient at the time for Mr B.
They had to be sure the payment was genuine in order to protect Mr Bs funds.
That any future payments identified by their fraud detection systems would require Mr 
B to answer appropriate questions.
They were concerned that an apology would be viewed as NatWest having done 
something wrong.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, and as neither party had anything further to add that would change my 
provisional outcome, I see no reason to reach a different conclusion. So, this final decision 
confirms the findings set out in my provisional decision.
I appreciate Mr Bs comments about the provisional decision, but as they were essentially a 
repeat of what he complained about, Ive already considered these points and dont need to 
consider them further.
NatWests response was to ask for their additional comments to be considered before 
issuing the final decision and thats what Ive done here. I understand and accept that their 
general position is that they wish to protect their customers accounts (specifically here Mr 
Bs) and there may be some inconvenience while these additional checks are carried out.
But here, as Ive already mentioned, I think the additional questioning of Mr Bs other 
unrelated payments was excessive and only caused to worry and cause Mr B additional 
stress. Ive explained my reasoning about this in the provisional decision and havent 
changed my position about this.
I do think that NatWest could have better informed Mr B of the effect of the block on the 
other payments  he was under the impression of what was to happen when he called from 
the dealership, but what actually happened was quite different. Ive no doubt this was the 
main reason for his frustration. 
NatWest have concerns about being seen to be wrong because they have to provide an 
apology  but here I do think their approach to this specific situation was wrong, as Ive 
explained. But, this decision is not meant to be a general assessment of NatWests 
approach to fraud detection or related to any future potential fraud interventions NatWest 
feel they must make.
Overall, NatWest protected Mr Bs funds but their approach to questioning him about 
unrelated payments was excessive and served to cause him unnecessary stress. 
Putting things right
NatWest are required to write to Mr B and apologise for their treatment of him, but only in 
relation to this specific incident hes complained about.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint against National Westminster Bank Plc and 
theyre instructed to settle this complaint as outlined above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 16 December 2022.
 
David Perry
Ombudsman