DRN-4294684
The complaint
Mr Y complains that Tesco Personal Finance Plc are holding him liable for the debt on a 
credit card which he says he didnt apply for or use. 
What happened
The detailed background to this complaint is well known to both parties. So, Ill only provide 
a brief overview of some of the key events here. 
In 2020 Mr Y reported to Tesco that the credit card in his name had been taken out by his 
wife. He didnt want to be held liable for the outstanding balance of around £8,000. Tesco 
investigated and concluded that the debt was Mr Ys. In 2022 Mr Y complained about 
Tescos decision to hold him liable. Tesco looked into things and when they maintained their 
position, Mr Y referred his complaint to our service. 
One of our Investigators didnt recommend that the complaint should be upheld. She didnt 
think the conclusion that Tesco had reached was unfair or unreasonable. Mr Y disagrees 
and has asked for an Ombudsman to make a decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive reached the same outcome as our Investigator and for largely the same 
reasons. I know this will be disappointing for Mr Y, so Ill explain why. In reaching my 
decision, Ive also considered Mr Ys personal circumstances, but this doesnt change my 
mind as to the outcome of the complaint.  
Mr Ys testimony is that his now ex-wife took out the card in his name without his knowledge 
or agreement. He says he hasnt benefitted from any of the spending on the card and has 
been left with the debt. He says his ex-wife handled all the finances and that he didnt 
discover this card until March 2020 (at which point it had already been open for a few years). 
The evidence from Tesco shows that theyd received contact from Mr Y in relation to 
payments made on this card at a time when he says he had no knowledge of it. One 
example of this is that a claim was made under the protections available to purchases using 
credit in 2019. The notes of a call at the time include references to speaking to the 
cardholder (Mr Y himself). I think its most likely that this was Mr Y on that call. And this 
contradicts his testimony that he didnt know about the card until March 2020. 
There is also another instance in March 2019 where Tesco sought to confirm a money 
transfer from the card as genuine. The call notes record that they spoke to Mr Y and during 
that call it was confirmed that they had his wifes mobile number on file and this was 
removed. Again, I think its most likely this was Mr Y, as if it had been his ex-wife 
impersonating him, it would seem unusual for her to have requested the removal of her own 
number from the account. 
The account that the direct debits making payments to the card came from, was a joint 
account that Mr Y was a party to. Tesco have also pointed out that many of the payments, 
and at least one balance transfer on the card went to accounts or businesses with which 
Mr Y was associated. I appreciate that Mr Y says his ex-wife handled all these matters and 
that hed consented to her doing so on his behalf. But overall, Im more persuaded by the 
evidence from Tesco than by Mr Ys testimony. 
I dont think the conclusion Tesco reached is unfair nor unreasonable. The evidence 
supports that Mr Y either applied for the card or agreed for his then wife to do so on his 
behalf. It also supports that he was using the card prior to the point at which he says he 
became aware of its existence. In these circumstances, there isnt a reasonable basis upon 
which I can direct that Tesco need to do anything further to resolve this complaint. Id expect 
Tesco to treat Mr Y positively and sympathetically in relation to any outstanding debt. 
My final decision
For the reasons outlined above, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr Y to accept or 
reject my decision before 13 September 2023.
 
Richard Annandale
Ombudsman