DRN-1640423
The complaint
Miss P complains on behalf of Mr B that a car he acquired with the assistance of finance 
from BMW Financial Services (GB) Limited trading as MINI Financial Services was mis-sold 
to him because it didnt have a full service history. 
What happened
Mr B bought a used mini in June 2018. The car was just over 2 years old, had travelled 9375 
miles and cost £14,700. Mr B traded in his old car, but the part exchange value wasnt 
enough to cover the outstanding finance on that car and there was a shortfall of £422.78 
which he paid as a deposit.
Mr B took the car in for some work to replace brake pads and other items were repaired 
under warranty it then came to light that the car had not been serviced. In June 2019 Mr B 
complained to Mini Financial Services that the agreement had been mis-sold to him because 
the car didnt have a full service history as he had been led to believe. Mr B wanted to return 
the car and have a refund of all money he had paid under the agreement.
Mini FS made some enquiries and initially said that the car had been serviced. It agreed to 
carry out a service straightaway. Because Mini were taking too long to investigate Mr B 
referred his complaint to this service.
Our investigator looked into the complaint and thought that there wasnt enough evidence to 
show that the car had been serviced before Mr B bought it and so he had been mis-sold. But 
they thought that this wasnt the main reason Mr B bought the car and so they didnt think it 
was fair that Mr B should be allowed to reject the car and unwind the agreement. They 
thought that it was fair for Mini FS to pay for a service to the car, to provide a service booklet 
and to ensure that no penalty charges were applied to Mr Bs agreement on termination of 
the agreement in respect of the lack of a service. They carried out some research on an 
industry website to compare car values and considered that the lack of this service would 
make no difference to the price of the car either now or in the future. In these circumstances 
they thought that Mini FS should pay £150 for the inconvenience caused.
Miss P on behalf of Mr B didnt agree. They thought that this wasnt enough and provided 
some evidence from car sale websites to demonstrate that there was a £3000 difference in 
car values with a partial service history. They said that it was clear that the car would be 
devalued without a full service history and they would not have bought the car if they had 
known. They explained that they had the option to buy a new car and they would have done 
this if the service history was not complete. They said they had the car serviced elsewhere 
and they wanted a refund of everything they had paid, and they wanted to reject the car. 
Miss P said that Mr B had incurred expenses as he had not used the car since this all came 
to light. Miss P on behalf of Mr B asked for an ombudsman to review the complaint.
     
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The Consumer Credit Act sets out that the provider of credit is equally responsible with the 
supplier of goods if there has been a breach of contract or misrepresentation. So, in these 
circumstances, because Mr B acquired the car with the assistance of finance provided by 
Mini Financial Services, it can be required to put matters right for Mr B.
Mr B says there was a misrepresentation because the car was sold to him on the basis that 
it had a full service history. It seems that the service was due just around the time Mr B 
bought it and it should have had its first service before it was sold to him. Mini hasnt 
provided any evidence that this service was carried out and so I think it is likely that there 
was a misrepresentation.
Mr B says that this should in effect result in a complete unwinding of the agreement and a 
full refund of all the money he has paid. I dont think that this is fair or reasonable or a 
proportionate outcome. Mr B has had the benefit of the car and has been able to use it, 
despite the lack of the first service.
This service doesnt punish businesses for mistakes and instead looks to see what it is 
reasonable to expect the business to do to put matters right. In these circumstances I agree 
with the investigator that the business should pay for the service to be carried out 
straightaway. It appears that Mr B has arranged for this to be done and Mini Financial 
Services should pay the costs of this invoice if it hasnt already done so. I note that Mr B has 
an inclusive service package, but this service should not impact on that package.
Mr B wants to reject the car on the basis that he would never have bought it if he had known 
it didnt have a full service history. I cant tell from the information I have exactly what was 
discussed but I can see that Mr B chose this particular car because he wanted a manual 
transmission. This car had to be sourced from another dealership.
I think that if Mr B had known the true history of the car it is likely that he would have 
required the service to be carried out before he took delivery of it. But I have considered the 
fact that the service has not been carried out until much later and when it was considerably 
overdue. The investigator has researched the position using an industry standard tool called 
cazana. The outcome using this tool, is that the price of the car is not affected by the lack 
of this service.
Mr B has provided car adverts showing a £3000 price gap between cars one with a partial 
service history and one with a full service history. I have taken these into account, but they 
are different models. The more expensive car has more features and is considered by the 
website to be at the high end of the price range. So, I cant say based on this evidence that 
the service history is the reason for the price difference.
In these circumstances I cant say that Mr B is out of pocket because of the lack of the 
service. I agree with the investigator that Mini should ensure that Mr B is provided with a 
service booklet and there should be no penalties or charges added at the end of the 
agreement for the lack of this service.
I think that this has caused Mr B some trouble and upset and I agree with the adjudicator 
that £150 is a reasonable amount to reflect the inconvenience caused. I appreciate that Mr B 
doesnt think this is enough and he has stopped using the car. But as I said at the outset, I 
can only consider what is fair and reasonable and the awards made by this service are not to 
punish businesses. I appreciate that Mr B is likely to be disappointed with my decision, but I 
cant ask Mini Financial Services to do any more than Ive set out.      Putting things right
BMW Financial Services (GB) Limited trading as MINI Financial Services should do the 
following:
Pay for the service carried out upon receipt of the invoice from Mr B if it has not 
already done so;
Provide a service booklet;
Ensure no end of contract charges are applied for the lack of the first service;
Pay Mr B £150 compensation. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint and BMW Financial Services (GB) Limited 
trading as MINI Financial Services should put things right as I have set out above. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 13 January 2021.
 
Emma Boothroyd
Ombudsman