DRN-3804196
The complaint
Ms D, through her representative, complains that Morses Club PLC lent to her when her 
financial situation was already poor.
What happened
Using information from Morses, here is a brief table of the approved loans.
Loan Start Date End Date Capital 
AmountInterest 
amountTerm Repayment 
amountWeeks 
Live
1 07/07/2017 23/11/2017 £300.00 £195.00 33 £15.00 20
2 23/11/2017 21/11/2018 £700.00 £574.00 52 £24.50 52
3 21/11/2018 22/10/2019 £700.00 £574.00 52 £24.50 48
4 22/10/2019 06/11/2020 £800.00 £684.00 53 £28.00 54
After Ms D has complained, Morses issued its final response letter to her representative
giving reasons why it felt it had done nothing wrong.
Ms D referred it to the Financial Ombudsman Service and one of our adjudicators looked at
it. He thought that by loan 4 Morses ought to have ceased lending as it shouldve reasonably
questioned whether continuing to offer such similar loans with such a lengthy repayment
period to a customer who appeared to be reliant on this form of lending was unsustainable or
otherwise harmful. Our adjudicator explained that he had come to this view because:
by loan 4 Ms D would have been indebted to Morses for over 27 months.
the amounts Ms D was borrowing generally increased throughout the lending period
and loan 4 had been the highest capital amount borrowed.
furthermore, Ms Ds borrowing trends should have alerted Morses in that she took 
substantially lengthy loans with no breaks and with one loan straight after the other.
Morses disagreed and in summary it said as follows:
it noted that £800 at loan 4 was higher than the previous loans, but Ms Ds record of 
repayments had been good
it carried out an income and expenditure assessment (I&E) and Ms D signed it as
being true and correct
the weekly income for loan 4 had been declared by Ms D as £419 which Morses
confirmed through the credit reference agencies (CRA) and so it was confident as to
its accuracy
it used Office of National Statistics (ONS) figures to complete the expenditure details
and it knew Ms Ds rent and council tax was paid by DHSS  Morses phrase not
mine.
It had calculated that Ms D had a disposable weekly income of just under £280 a
week and the £28 a week to pay for loan 4 translated into 10% of her income which it
considered satisfactory.
Morses never was made aware of any financial difficulties
Ms D overpaid on several of the loans
There was no legal requirement to look at an applicants bank account statements
before lending
Theres no evidence to suggest that Ms D was having to use other funds to service
the Morses loans.
Ms D did take the loans consecutively but essentially that was her choice.
Ms Ds representative acknowledged receipt of the adjudicators view and that it was
being passed to an ombudsman but no further representations have been made about the
complaint. From that it seems that Ms D was content with outcome and that suggests 
content with the outcome for loans 1 to 3 as well. 
The unresolved complaint was passed to me to decide and I issued a provisional decision  
which is duplicated here in smaller type for ease of reading. 
What Ive provisionally decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. 
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about high cost, short-term and home credit 
lending - including all the relevant rules, guidance, and good industry practice - on our website.
Morses had to assess the lending to check if Ms D could afford to pay back the amounts
shed borrowed without undue difficulty. It needed to do this in a way which was
proportionate to the circumstances. Morses checks could have considered several different
things, such as how much was being lent, the size of the repayments, and Ms Ds income
and expenditure.
I think in the early stages of a lending relationship, less thorough checks might have been
proportionate. But certain factors might suggest Morses should have done more to establish
that any lending was sustainable for Ms D. These factors include:
 Ms D having a low income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make any loan
repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income);
 The amounts to be repaid being especially high (reflecting that it could be more
difficult to meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income);
 Ms D having a large number of loans and/or having these loans over a long period of
time (reflecting the risk that repeated refinancing may signal that the borrowing had
become, or was becoming, unsustainable);
 Ms D coming back for loans shortly after previous borrowing had been repaid (also
suggestive of the borrowing becoming unsustainable).
There may even come a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable for Ms D. Our adjudicator considered this
to be the case for Ms D in relation to loan 4.
Morses was required to establish whether Ms D could sustainably repay the loans  not just
whether he technically had enough money to make her repayments. Having enough money
to make the repayments could of course be an indicator that Ms D was able to repay his
loans sustainably. But it doesnt automatically follow that this is the case.
Industry regulations say that payments are sustainable if they are made without undue
difficulties and, made on time, while meeting other reasonable commitments and withouthaving to borrow to make them. If a lender realises, or ought reasonably to have realised,
that a borrower wont be able to make their repayments without borrowing further, then it
follows that it should conclude those repayments are unsustainable.
Ive considered all the arguments, evidence and information provided in this context, and
thought about what this means for Ms Ds complaint.
I am issuing a provisional decision and so both parties have time to send me further
information or evidence if they wish. And so, I will take this relatively briefly. 
The evidence I have does not indicate that Ms Ds financial situation was particularly poor before she 
took the loans, which is what her representative has said in the complaint form. And I say that as
I have seen the credit search that Morses undertook in July 2017. That indicated that she
had two active accounts which can include a bank account, relatively little other debt (around
£1,100) and one defaulted account from nine months before (£290 on a mail order account)
which I would not consider to have been enough of a concern to Morses.
I have seen the repayment records for loans 1 to 3 and I do not get the impression Ms D
struggled to repay the loans. I have no other information from Ms D to support her claim or to
demonstrate that the loans were unaffordable. And using the information I have from Morses
it appears that she had enough income each week to repay loan 4.
After 27 months from when Morses did its credit search result and assessed Ms D for loan 1,
then by loan 4 and an application for £800, I do think that Morses ought to have sought more
information and not relied simply on what it was being told by Ms D. 
But as I have no information about Ms Ds finances in October 2019 when she applied for loan 4 then 
I cant review what it is that Morses may have discovered if it had asked for more details.
On current evidence, I plan not to uphold Ms Ds complaint.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Both parties have responded to the provisional decision. 
Morses agrees with it and Ms Ds representative has informed us that it has passed the 
provisional decision to its client. Nothing further has been received and as this has 
happened before on this case it seems unlikely that anything will be forthcoming from Ms D.
The reply date for additional comments and/or evidence has been reached.
And so, in the interests of both parties, and to resolve this complaint, for the same reasons 
as those set out in the provisional decision and with nothing further from Ms D to support her 
claim, then I do not uphold her complaint. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms D to accept or 
reject my decision before 11 January 2023.
 
Rachael Williams
Ombudsman