DRN-3220473
The complaint
Mr W complains about the information given to him by Clydesdale Financial Services Limited 
trading as Barclays Partner Finance, when he called to report the theft of his mobile 
telephone.
Throughout Mr Ws complaint with us, he has been represented by a family member. But, to 
make things simpler, Ill just refer to Mr W.
What happened
In December 2020, Mr W signed a fixed sum loan agreement with Barclays, so he could get 
a brand new mobile telephone. The agreement meant that Mr W would make monthly 
payments to Barclays over the following two years, to pay for the handset.
After a few days of having the handset, Mr W says it was stolen from him. So, after dealing 
with the initials distress of the theft, Mr W contacted Barclays to talk about the agreement he 
had with them. During the call, Mr W says he was told that the agreement would be 
cancelled, meaning hed owe nothing further to Barclays.
Although he was relived with what Barclays had told him, Mr W says he called them again, 
shortly afterwards, to double check. In their second conversation, Mr W says Barclays 
changed their approach. He says Barclays told him they had given him incorrect information 
and that he was still responsible to maintain the repayments under his agreement, despite 
the theft.
Dissatisfied with the way Barclays had treated him, Mr W made a complaint. In their final 
response to Mr Ws concerns, Barclays apologised for giving him incorrect information, 
during the first call about the theft. They also paid £100 to Mr W for the distress and 
inconvenience they caused to him. But, Barclays reiterated that Mr W was still responsible to 
meet the repayments for the fixed sum loan agreement.
Mr W didnt accept Barclays response and brought his complaint to us. One of our 
investigators looked into Mr Ws case and concluded that although Barclays had given Mr W 
incorrect information, they had put matters right fairly quickly. The investigator also 
concluded that the payment of £100, for the distress caused was fair.
Mr W didnt agree. He said that Barclays had made the distress he was experiencing from 
the theft worse. He asked the investigator to consider asking Barclays to increase the award, 
to take account of the size of the mistake they had made.
The investigator didnt change their opinion and Mr Ws case has now been referred to me to 
make a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Before I go on to explain my final decision, Id like Mr W to know that I acknowledge the very 
difficult personal circumstances which led to the theft of the mobile telephone. It must have 
been extremely troubling for him to deal with those circumstances, alongside the worry hes 
told us about, from his conversations with Barclays.
This case is about a fixed sum loan agreement, which is a regulated financial product. As 
such, we are able to consider complaints about it.
I can see from Barclays records that Mr W called them in January 2020 to report the theft of 
the handset. In the same telephone call, the records show that Barclays spoke to Mr W 
about cancelling his fixed sum loan agreement. Barclays have also told us they gave Mr W 
the incorrect information when he called.
Having considered everything, I think Barclays told Mr W that the fixed sum loan agreement 
could be cancelled, when he called them in January 2020. The terms and conditions of 
Mr Ws agreement with Barclays dont specifically describe what would happen in the event 
of the theft of the handset. So, I think, other than prompting Mr W to make an insurance 
claim, the information given to Mr W was incorrect.
To consider if Barclays have treated Mr W fairly after they gave him incorrect information, 
Ive looked at how quickly Barclays corrected their error. Ive also looked at the impact of that 
mistake on Mr W.
A couple of days after Mr W spoke to Barclays, he called again to check what they had told 
him about cancelling his agreement. I acknowledge here that it was Mr W who took the step 
to clarify things and not Barclays. 
I think Barclays may have contacted Mr W around the time the next repayment was due. So, 
had it been left to Barclays to take the first step, I dont think it would have been anymore 
than a few weeks later. In other words, I think Barclays error may have been corrected soon 
after they had made it.
During Mr Ws follow up telephone call, I can see from Barclays records that he was told 
they had given him incorrect information previously. The records show that Barclays 
explained to Mr W that the repayments under his agreement would continue to be owed. 
Mr W has also described the same content of this conversation to us.
Having looked at all the evidence, I think Barclays made Mr W aware of the correct position 
with his fixed sum loan agreement around two days after they gave him the wrong 
information. I agree it must have been very disappointing for Mr W to learn he was still 
responsible to meet the repayments under the fixed sum loan. But, I think he became aware 
within a short space of time, of being told he could cancel the agreement.
Ive concluded that the terms and conditions of Mr Ws agreement dont refer to what would 
happen in the event of a theft. And Mr W has told us that he doesnt think he can claim for 
the theft under an insurance policy. I understand that Mr W is now in the position of having to 
make repayments to a handset that he no longer has. But, I dont think Barclays have 
treated him unfairly by asking him to continue making the repayments under the agreement.
Barclays made a payment of £100 to Mr W, for the distress and inconvenience caused by 
giving him incorrect information. I acknowledge that Mr W says this payment should be 
increased, because he went from relief of thinking the agreement would be cancelled, to the 
worry of being held responsible for the repayments.
Overall, I think Barclays caused Mr W distress and inconvenience when he was given the wrong information. But, I think that was quickly put right and that on balance, Mr W was 
reasonable aware, from looking at the terms of his agreement, that he would still be 
responsible for the repayments. 
In all the circumstances, I think the payment of £100 made by Barclays, for the distress and 
inconvenience is fair, considering the impact on Mr W.
While I understand my decision may disappoint Mr W, I hope he has been able to put the 
difficult circumstances hes described behind him.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold Mr Ws complaint, in the sense that I dont require 
Clydesdale Financial Services Limited trading as Barclays Partner Finance to take any 
further action to settle this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision before 4 April 2022.
 
Sam Wedderburn
Ombudsman