DRN-4027481
The complaint
Mrs T is unhappy that a monthly subscription payment to an online merchant keeps being
declined by Santander UK Plc.
What happened
Mrs T first raised her concerns about the repeated declining of the monthly subscription
payment in September 2021, but the issue continued to occur, which ultimately led to the
issue being considered by this service in July 2022. At that time, it was understood that the
issue had been resolved by Santander who had removed the blocks on Mrs Ts account that
were causing the subscription payment to be declined and who had paid Mrs T
compensation totalling £175 for the trouble and upset shed incurred up to that time.
However, the declining of the monthly subscription payment by Santander continued to
occur, which led to Mrs T raising a new complaint which was reviewed by Santander and
then referred to this service by Mrs T.
One of our investigators looked at this new complaint. They felt Santanders system notes
confirmed that not all blocks had been removed when Mrs Ts first complaint had been
resolved, as they reasonably should have been, and noted that several blocks associated
with the online merchant in question remained on Mrs Ts account. 
Because of this our investigator felt that Santander should contact Mrs T to discuss the 
remained blocks on her account and should also pay further compensation totalling £125 to 
Mrs T for the ongoing frustration shed incurred. Mrs T didnt agree with the view of this 
complaint put forwards by our investigator, so the matter was escalated to an ombudsman 
for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I issued a provisional decision on this complaint on 16 February 2023 as follows:
I can understand how the continuing declining of the monthly subscription payment 
by Santander  which led to repeated suspensions of Mrs Ts account by the online 
merchant involved  would have been both inconvenient and frustrating for Mrs T.
In their response to Mrs Ts present complaint, Santander acknowledged that their 
systems should have recognised that the recurring monthly subscription payment to 
the online merchant was a legitimate payment that shouldnt be declined. Its 
disappointing that this wasnt the case. And its also disappointing, given that this 
complaint is a continuation of a prior complaint that had already been reviewed by 
this service, that Mrs T continued to experience the issues she did and that it 
appears that not all the blocks were removed from Mrs Ts account following the 
resolution of the prior complaint as should have been the case.
And, given that this is a continuing complaint, I dont feel that the recommendation 
made by our investigator that Santander should pay a further £125 compensation 
payment to Mrs T goes far enough to account for the significant and ongoing 
frustration Im satisfied that this unresolved matter has caused, and as Mrs T has 
herself explained.
Accordingly, my provisional instruction here is that Santander must do all that they 
can to ensure that all blocks relating to this issue are removed from Mrs Ts account 
and must make a further compensation payment, so that the total additional 
compensation payable to Mrs T for this present complaint is £500. This £500 is in 
addition to the £175 paid to Mrs T for her prior complaint.
In arriving at this increased compensation amount, Ive considered the unreasonable 
length of time that this complaint has been ongoing, including that Santander have 
failed to resolve the issue despite it being previously referred to this service.
Its my understanding that Mrs T has recently contacted Santander herself and she 
reports that all the blocks on her account have been removed. But I would strongly 
encourage Santander to verify that this is indeed the case and to contact Mrs T 
directly if any further issues are discovered, as its hoped this will mitigate against the 
possibility that this unfortunately repeated complaint will be seen by this service for a 
third time.
Santander responded to my provisional decision and confirmed that they were happy to 
accept it. Santander also confirmed that Mrs T had not yet received the £175 they had 
previously offered to her, and that as such they were happy to make payments of £175 and 
£500 to Mrs T  totalling £675.
Mrs T didnt respond to my provisional decision. As such, having received no objection to my 
provisional decision, I see no reason not to issue a final decision upholding this complaint in 
Mrs Ts favour on the basis outlined above. And I confirm that I do uphold this complaint on 
that basis accordingly.
Putting things right
Santander must make payments totalling £675 to Mrs T.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint against Santander UK Plc on the basis 
explained above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs T to accept or 
reject my decision before 17 April 2023.
 
Paul Cooper
Ombudsman