DRN-4095195
The complaint
Miss H complains that Admiral Financial Services Ltd (Admiral) is holding her liable for a 
loan in her name which she says she did not consent to.
What happened
The circumstances of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I will not repeat them 
all again here in detail.  But I will provide an overview of events below.
Miss H disputes a £10,000 Admiral loan which was taken out in her name in June 2021.  
She says scammers took this loan out without her consent and coerced her into transferring 
the funds to them.  Miss H raised this matter with Admiral, however, unhappy with its 
response  she referred her complaint to our Service.
One of our investigators considered Miss Hs complaint and partially upheld it.  Both Miss H 
and Admiral disagreed with the investigators findings (although Admiral did initially agree 
with the investigators provisional thoughts about the complaint which echoed her findings).  
As no agreement has been reached, this matter has been passed to me to make a decision.
On 12 April 2023, I issued a provisional decision not upholding this complaint.  For 
completeness, I repeat my provisional findings below:
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I do not agree with the investigators findings for reasons I set out below.
But first, I would like to say at the outset that I have summarised this complaint in far less 
detail than the parties involved.  I want to stress that no discourtesy is intended by this.  If 
there is a submission I have not addressed, it is not because I have ignored the point.  It is 
simply because my findings focus on what I consider to be the central issues in this 
complaint.
The first thing I need to consider in this complaint is whether, on balance, Miss H consented 
to the Admiral loan in question.  That is, whether Miss H took the loan out herself, or 
provided consent to a third party to do so on her behalf.
To help determine this, Ive looked at Miss Hs current account activity (with Bank S) once 
the Admiral loan funds credited her current account on 25 June 2021.  (The Admiral loan 
appears to be the last in the chain of other disputed loans credited to Miss Hs current 
account.)  From what I can see, after the Admiral loan was credited, several payments were 
made from Miss Hs current account, towards a credit card account in Miss Hs name which 
was also with Bank S.  I can see at least five of these payments were made  with the first 
one on 26 June 2021, and the last one on 8 July 2021: £5,500; £2,000; £700; £200; and 
£100.
Part of Admirals argument to support the proposition that Miss H consented to the loan is   
she used the loan funds to pay towards her Bank S credit card.
Miss H has not been entirely clear about what her position is regarding the Bank S credit 
card in her name.  On the one hand, she has told the investigator she did not have a credit 
card, only the scammers did.  But on the other, she has accepted she had one, but it was 
taken off her.
Whilst Miss Hs testimony is conflicting, the difficulty I have is  why would the alleged 
scammers want to make payments towards a credit card in Miss Hs name?
Whether Miss H took out the Bank S credit card herself, or the alleged scammers did so 
fraudulently  it does not seem likely that the alleged scammers would use the loan funds 
(from Admiral or any of the lenders concerned) to make payments towards Miss Hs credit 
card.  To my mind, scammers would want to utilise the loan funds to their personal benefit  
rather than use them to pay towards a credit card account.  In my view, this is not indicative 
behaviour of a scammer.  
Alternatively, I can see that the Bank S credit card account in Miss Hs name was opened in 
January 2019  much before the start of the events we are concerned with in this case.  This 
means that the probabilities point in the direction that: Miss H made the payments from her 
Bank S current account towards her credit card account using the loan funds, rather than the 
alleged scammers.  This proposition is supported by the fact that I can see direct debits were 
collected to pay towards the credit card as far back as March 2019.
I note Miss H says other lenders have found in her favour regarding loans taken out in her 
name.  However, I consider matters on a case by case basis, so I am unable to comment on 
what other lenders have decided.  I also note Miss H says the police have made several 
arrests in this matter.  Whilst this may be the case and Miss H has been a victim of a scam, 
this does not take away from the fact that the key issue I am concerned with in this matter is 
 whether Miss H consented to the Admiral loan in her name.
I am sorry to hear about the personal circumstances Miss H has described.  However, taking 
together the above factors  I am persuaded, on balance, that Miss H consented to the 
Admiral loan in her name: either by taking it out herself or providing consent to a third party 
to do so on her behalf.  Therefore, I find that it is fair and reasonable for Admiral to hold her 
liable for the loan if it so wishes.
Responses to my provisional decision
Neither party responded to my provisional findings in this matter.
What I have decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Given that neither party responded to my provisional findings  I see no reason to depart 
from them.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss H to accept or reject my decision before 22 May 2023.
 
Tony Massiah
Ombudsman