DRN-1855901
The complaint
Ms G is unhappy about Aviva Life & Pensions UK Limiteds decision to decline a critical 
illness claim.  
What happened
Ms G has life and critical illness cover with Aviva. She's unfortunately been diagnosed with 
central nervous system (CNS) inflammation caused by Neuromyelitis optica spectrum 
disorder (NMOSD) and so she made a claim to Aviva. Aviva declined the claim because 
NMOSD isnt a specified condition in the terms and conditions of Ms Gs policy. 
Ms G complained to our service. She said the cause and symptoms of her NMOSD are the 
same as those associated with Multiple sclerosis (MS). And because NMOSD is a new and 
rare condition, she believed she wouldve been diagnosed with MS if her symptoms had 
appeared sooner  or if shed been under a hospital with less expertise in this area. As MS 
is a specified condition in her critical illness policy, Ms G said Aviva should consider her 
claim. 
One of our investigators looked at Ms Gs complaint but didnt uphold it.  He said NMOSD 
isnt a specified condition in Ms Gs policy terms and conditions. And whilst Ms Gs condition 
was similar to MS, the medical evidence available to Aviva showed shed been diagnosed 
with NMOSD. So, our investigator said Avivas decision not to consider Ms Gs claim was in 
line with the terms and conditions of her policy. 
Ms G didnt agree with our investigator and asked for an ombudsman review. She 
appreciated how Avivas decision needed to be based on the policy terms and conditions. 
But she didnt think Aviva had acted in the sprit of the policy. Ms G said shed been 
diagnosed with CNS inflammation  that up until around 2007 wouldve been linked to MS. 
And because her policy covered claims for MS, she felt Aviva should consider her claim. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im not upholding it for largely the same reasons as the investigator. I know 
this will be very disappointing for Ms G as this has been a difficult time for her. But Id like to 
take some time to explain how Ive reached my decision.  
Ive read and considered the whole file, but Ill concentrate my comments on what I think is 
relevant. If I dont mention any specific point, its not because Ive failed to take it on board 
and think about it, but because I dont think I need to comment on it to reach what I think is 
the right outcome.
In reaching my outcome Ive only looked at whether Avivas decision to decline Ms Gs claim 
was fair, and in line with the policy terms and conditions, based on the information available 
to it at the time. Claims to Aviva are only payable on diagnosis of a specified critical illness.  NMOSD is not 
a specified critical illness under the terms and conditions of Ms Gs policy  so unfortunately 
Aviva cant consider Ms Gs claim based on that diagnosis. Ms Gs NMOSD may be similar 
to MS, and others with her symptoms mightve been diagnosed as such. But Ms G doesnt 
have a definite diagnosis of MS, as the policy terms and conditions require. So, it wasnt 
unreasonable for Aviva to decline Ms Gs claim.    
I appreciate Ms Gs point about the spirit of the policy  but I dont think Aviva acted unfairly 
or unreasonably in declining her claim. Its decision was based on the evidence available to it 
at the time. Aviva cant be expected to pay claims on what a diagnosis mightve been, when 
the evidence doesnt support that. So, I wont be asking Aviva to take any action.  
I appreciate this isnt the outcome Ms G was hoping for. This has been a difficult case to 
review, not only because of the difficult positon Ms G has found herself in, but also given her 
strength of feeling about her NMOSD diagnosis and its similarity to MS. Whilst it might be 
little comfort to Ms G now, she is able to make a new claim to Aviva, any time before the 
policy ends, if her situation changes.  
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms G to accept or 
reject my decision before 3 July 2020.
Anna Jackson
Ombudsman