DRN-1049275
The complaint
Ms R complains that Nationwide Building Society didnt tell her how long a cheque would 
take to clear. Ms R complains that when she visited her local Nationwide branch the 
treatment she received caused her to have a seizure. Ms R complains about the way 
Nationwide dealt with her complaint. 
What happened
Ms R visited her local branch of Nationwide to ask how long a cheque takes to clear. Ms R 
says that information wasnt made clear when she previously spoke with the bank. Whilst Ms 
R was in branch she complains that Nationwides staff were rude, aggressive and unhelpful. 
As a result of the way her query was handled, Ms R says she suffered a seizure and an 
ambulance had to be called. As a result of the seizure, Ms R missed work for two days and 
lost some personal property while she was in hospital. 
Ms R complained and told Nationwide she suffers from a serious heath condition that is 
made worse by stressful situations. Ms R said branch staff were aggressive, unhelpful and 
the situation caused her to have a seizure. Nationwide didnt uphold Ms Rs main complaint. 
Nationwide didnt agree that its branch staff had been rude or unhelpful. Nationwide 
apologised that Ms R hadnt been called back as promised and paid her £50. 
As she remained unhappy with Nationwides response Ms R referred her complaint to our 
service and it was passed to an investigator. The investigator didnt uphold Ms Rs complaint 
and wasnt persuaded that Nationwide had treated her unfairly when she visited the branch. 
Ms R asked to appeal so her complaint has been passed to me to make a decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I can see how upset Ms R was about how her questions were handled when she visited 
Nationwide. I dont doubt how upset Ms R was by the events that occurred and that she 
suffered a seizure while in branch. Ive thought very carefully about whether Nationwides 
response to Ms Rs complaint is fair and reasonable. 
In response to the investigator, Ms R confirmed that her key complaint surrounds how she 
was treated in branch. Shes given us a lot of detail concerning how she feels Nationwide 
treated her and how that impacted her health. Were an impartial service, that means we 
dont take sides and well review information from each party to a complaint to decide what is 
fair and reasonable. That means we also have to take the evidence provided by Nationwide 
into account when deciding how to resolve with this complaint. 
Ms R says that a particular member of staff was rude and extremely unhelpful. As a result of 
how her query was handled Ms R says she had a seizure. We asked Nationwide to get 
statements from the staff involved. Nationwide has sent us three statements from different 
members of staff who were in branch on the day in question. The statements say that Ms R told branch staff she had suffered seizures on her journey to the branch on the day of her 
visit. The statements all say Ms R was agitated throughout her visit and thought something 
had happened to her cheque funds. The statements agree that Ms R became unwell at 
which time the branch was shut and an ambulance was called. 
I note that one of the statements provided is from the member of staff Ms R found to be rude 
and aggressive. But the other two come from different people. They both say that the 
member of staff that dealt with Ms R was calm and tried to assist her and answer questions. 
So whilst I dont doubt what Ms R says, I have to extend the same courtesy to the 
statements provided by Nationwides staff. Where information is unclear or disputed Ill base 
my decision on the balance of probability. That is, what I consider most likely to have 
occurred based on all the available evidence. 
In this case, I think its more likely than not that there was a genuine misunderstanding in 
branch when Ms R visited. I can see that the situation escalated and became very heated. 
But I havent been persuaded that Nationwide provided poor service or that the staff involved 
sought to upset Ms R. As Ive said, I think its likely there was a genuine misunderstanding 
between the parties involved. Im very sorry to disappoint Ms R as I can see how strongly 
she feels in this matter but I havent found grounds to uphold this part of her complaint. 
Ms R says that her complaint was handled badly. But Ive not found that to be the case. Ive 
listened to Ms Rs calls with the complaints team and, overall, I thought they were handled 
professionally. I agree that Nationwides final response could have contained a more 
comprehensive explanation of what happened. However, I remain of the view that the overall 
outcome Nationwide reached was fair. Nationwide paid Ms R £50 because it didnt call her 
back as promised. Ms R has confirmed receipt of the payment. And Im satisfied £50 fairly 
reflects the impact of Nationwides failure to call Ms R. 
I understand my decision will come as  a disappointment to Ms R, but for the reasons I've 
given above, I haven't been persuaded to uphold her complaint. 
My final decision
My decision is that I don't uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms R to accept or 
reject my decision before 27 April 2020.
Marco Manente
Ombudsman