DRN-3838715
The complaint
Mr N is unhappy about the way Barclays Bank UK PLC  trading as Barclaycard handled his 
claim for a refund after he says a business (that I will call A) failed to honour a date for the 
supply and fit of four windows to his property.
What happened
On 1 June 2021 Mr N entered into a contract with A for the supply and fit of four windows to 
his property. The price of the contract was £6,870.90 and Mr N paid a deposit of £1,030.64 
(15%) on his Barclaycard.
On 21 September 2021 a planned fit date of 18 October 2021 was advised to Mr N by A.
On 14 October 2021 A advised Mr N that the fit date had now been moved to 
mid-December 2021. Mr N responded to this advice to say that a fit date move of eight 
weeks with such short notice constituted a breach of contract and he wanted his deposit 
returned to him.
On 16 December 2021 A contacted Mr N to arrange a convenient fit date for his four 
windows.
In March 2022 Mr N contacted A to ask for a refund of £900 and confirmation that he wasnt 
liable for the amount of £4,466.08.
In March 2022 Mr N contacted Barclaycard seeking a refund of the £1,030.64 he had paid A.
In March 2022 Barclaycard raised a chargeback (dispute) with As bank.
In April 2022 this chargeback was defended by A and declined by As bank.
In April 2022 Barclaycard raised a second chargeback (pre-arbitration) with As bank.
In May 2022 this second chargeback was defended by A and declined by As bank.
Having reviewed the evidence provided by A and As bank in respect of both chargebacks, 
Barclaycard took the decision to not pursue the matter any further under the Visa 
chargeback scheme.
In August 2022, and unhappy with Barclaycards failure to secure a refund from As bank 
under the Visa chargeback scheme, Mr N complained to our service.
In September 2022 Barclaycard confirmed to our service that it stood by its decision to not 
pursue the matter further under the Visa chargeback scheme. It also said that it had 
considered whether it was liable to Mr N under section 75 of the Consumer Credit Act 1974 
(section 75) but was satisfied that it wasnt given it had been unable to establish any 
breach of contract or misrepresentation by A.
Mr Ns complaint was considered by one of our investigators who came to the view that 
Barclaycard had done nothing wrong in not refunding him the sum he was seeking. In 
summary he said he was satisfied there had been no misrepresentation or breach of 
contract by A.  
Mr N didnt agree with our investigators view, so his complaint has been passed to me for 
review and decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
And having done so, like the investigator, I dont think Barclaycard has done anything wrong 
in the particular circumstances of this case.
Im aware Ive summarised this complaint very briefly, in less detail than has been provided, 
and largely in my own words. No discourtesy is intended by this. Instead, Ive focussed on 
what I think is at the heart of the matter here. Namely, did Barclaycard act fairly and 
reasonably when it declined Mr Ns claim for a refund.
I would also like to make it clear that my decision must focus solely on the way Barclaycard 
handled Mr Ns dispute. And in doing that, I need to consider what Barclaycard is 
responsible for under the specific card protections which are available. In this case these are 
(amongst other things) the Visa chargeback scheme rules and section 75. 
chargeback 
Chargeback is a way in which payment settlement disputes are resolved between card 
issuers and merchants. They are dealt with under the relevant card scheme rules, in this 
case thats Visa. In certain circumstances the process provides a way for Barclaycard to ask 
for a payment Mr N made to be refunded. 
There is no obligation on a card issuer to raise a chargeback, nor does the raising of one 
guarantee a refund for the card issuers customer. But I would consider it good practice for a 
chargeback to be attempted where the right exists and there is a reasonable prospect of 
success. 
When a card issuer raises a chargeback this can be defended by the merchant. When this 
happens the card issuer can choose to present the chargeback for a second time 
(pre-arbitration) or choose to not peruse matters any further. When a second presentment is 
defended by the merchant the card issuer can choose to ask the card scheme to intervene 
and decide the outcome of the payment dispute (arbitration) or choose to not peruse matters 
any further.In this case Barclaycard raised a dispute and a second presentment. But it didnt choose to 
ask Visa to intervene and decide the outcome of the payment dispute. This was because 
having considered As two defences to its two chargeback attempts it felt the claim, if 
progressed to arbitration, had no reasonable prospect of success. 
Now I appreciate Mr N wont agree. But having considered all the available evidence I dont 
think Barclaycards decision to not pursue matters to arbitration was unreasonable or unfair.
section 75
Its not clear if Barclaycard considered Mr Ns claim for a refund under section 75 before, or 
after, he complained to our service. But Im satisfied that it did so before our investigator 
came to his view that Barclaycard had done nothing wrong. 
In certain circumstances, section 75 gives a consumer an equal right to claim against the 
supplier of goods or services or the provider of credit if theres been a breach of contract or 
misrepresentation by the supplier. But for a valid claim to be made, Barclaycard would need 
to have enough evidence to show that there had been a breach of contract, or a 
misrepresentation.
Mr N states that by advising him on 14 October 2021 that the fit date (planned originally for 
18 October 2021) had been moved to mid-December 2021 A was in breach of its contract 
with him, specifically term/condition 14(a) of the contract which states:
If the Company is unable to meet a date for installation or remedial works, it shall 
give the Purchaser as much notice as possible and arrange an alternative convenient 
date. 
Now I can fully understand Mr Ns frustration in being advised four days prior to 
18 October 2021 that the fit date had been moved to mid-December 2021. But like the 
investigator Im not persuaded that Barclaycard was wrong to conclude that this period of 
notice didnt constitute a breach of the contract. 
I accept I cant say for certain that A gave Mr N as much notice as it could have done, but 
equally, based on everything that has been said and submitted, I cant say for certain that it 
didnt. I also think its worth noting that A did arrange, or at least tried to arrange, a new fit 
date convenient for Mr N.
In support of his complaint Mr N makes reference to one or more pieces of consumer 
protection legislation. Now as Mr N clearly understands this legislation gives him certain 
contractual rights and protection, even where these rights and protection arent explicitly 
noted or referenced in his contract with A. But having considered the rights and protection, 
Mr N has, or might have, under the various consumer protection legislation he makes 
reference to Im not persuaded Barclaycard was wrong to conclude that it wasnt liable to 
him in respect of his refund claim. For example, Im not persuaded that A ever advised Mr N 
that a fit date of 18 October 2021 was definite or fixed, that A wasnt prepared to fit the 
windows within a reasonable timeframe or that A has tried to restrict or exclude any of its 
obligations to Mr N (whether expressed or implied) by drawing up the contract in the manner 
that it did.
I appreciate Mr N will be disappointed but given what I say above Im satisfied that 
Barclaycard treated Mr N both fairly and reasonably in its handling of, and its ultimate 
declinature of, his claim for a refund.My final decision
My final decision is I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr N to accept or 
reject my decision before 30 March 2023.
 
Peter Cook
Ombudsman