DRN-3893939
The complaint
This complaint is about a mortgage Mr D holds with Santander. He wants to leave his fixed 
rate product early and secure a new one. But if he does that, hell incur an early repayment 
charge (ERC) which Mr D cant afford to pay up front. He is unhappy that Santander wont 
add the ERC to his balance. Additionally, Mr D says Santander delayed sending him 
information requested by another lender he approached for a new deal.
What happened
The broad circumstances of this complaint are known to Mr D and Santander. Im also aware 
that the investigator issued a response to the complaint, which has been shared with all 
parties, and so I dont need to repeat the details here. 
Our decisions are published, and its important that I dont include any information that might 
result in Mr D being identified. Instead Ill give a brief summary and then focus on giving the 
reasons for my decision. If I dont mention something, it wont be because Ive ignored it. Itll 
be because I didnt think it was material to the outcome of the complaint. 
Mr D is on a fixed rate that is due to end in the summer of 2023. In the autumn of 2022, he 
wanted to secure a new deal with Santander early, as he was concerned about rates rising 
generally. He asked Santander if the ERC that would apply for leaving his current deal early 
could be added to the mortgage balance if he switched to a new Santander product, but was 
told no. When Mr D then approached another lender, it asked him for some information 
about his Santander mortgage. He says that Santander took too long to provide it, because 
the new lender withdrew the rates he was trying to apply for.
In two separate final responses, Santander paid Mr D £75 and £100 respectively for delays, 
but rejected the underlying complaints. Our investigator thought Santander had dealt with 
the complaints fairly, so didnt recommend any further redress. Mr D has asked for the 
complaint to be reviewed and decided by an ombudsman. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ill start with some general observations. Were not the regulator of financial businesses, and 
we dont police their internal processes or how they operate generally. Thats the job of the 
Financial Conduct Authority (FCA). We deal with individual disputes between businesses 
and their customers. In doing that, we dont replicate the work of the courts. 
Were impartial, and we dont take either sides instructions on how we investigate a 
complaint. We conduct our investigations and reach our conclusions without interference 
from anyone else. But in doing so, we have to work within the rules of the ombudsman 
service, and the remit those rules give us.
Mr D has said that hed like a discussion with me about his complaint before I determine it. 
That wouldnt be appropriate. It would, in effect, be giving Mr D a one-sided personal hearing 
to press his case directly without the business being involved and being able to contribute. 
On the rare occasions we conduct a direct hearing, it's at the discretion of an ombudsman, is 
called solely because he or she thinks it's essential to reaching a fair outcome, and both 
parties to the complaint are present. Anything else would be procedurally unfair, and 
introduce the risk of bias. Im satisfied this is a complaint I can fairly deal with on the basis of 
the evidence on file from all parties.
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
That includes listening to recordings of the phone calls between Mr D and Santander. 
Having done so, what follows are my conclusions and the reasons for them.
Its common ground that Mr D spent a lot of time on the phone trying to progress things with 
Santander, and subsequently, that it accepted it could have provided the information he 
asked for sooner than it did. However, I agree with the investigator that £175 in total is fair in 
the circumstances. 
From the outset of being contacted in the autumn of 2022, Santander let Mr D know its 
position on the ERC clearly and unambiguously. Mr D was naturally entitled to challenge the 
position and argue for a different outcome. Ive also noted that on occasions, Mr D said he 
was experiencing a weak signal, that means calls were missed. But I cant in all fairness say 
it is Santanders fault that Mr D spent so much time on the phone to it. That happened 
because Mr D refused to accept what Santander told him. That was his right, but it was also 
his choice. In all the calls I listened to, the call handlers remained courteous and professional 
at all times, even if they couldnt ultimately tell Mr D what he wanted to hear. 
In one of the calls, Mr D protests that no one had told him previously about not being able to 
add the ERC to the balance. In fact, he had already been told that in an earlier call; as I said 
a moment ago, Santander set out its position very clearly from the outset, and never 
wavered from it. 
In any event, I dont consider that the wider outcome of the complaint turns on the phone 
conversations between Santander and Mr D. The case turns on a rather more fundamental 
point. Mr D has said, in effect, that the mortgage agreement is silent on whether ERCs can 
be added to the balance on a switch to another Santander product, and therefore it should 
be assumed, in his favour, that it can be. Im afraid I dont agree. 
On the point of the mortgage agreement not specifying that the ERC cant be added to the 
balance, thats not something Id expect to see. The form and content of the mortgage offer 
is consistent with the requirements of the FCA in its capacity as regulator. The offer also 
shows that Mr D took the product without receiving advice from Santander. That means it 
was up to him to satisfy himself that the terms of the product were suitable for his needs and 
circumstances. 
If there was information Mr D needed but couldnt find in the offer  such as, for example, 
whether an ERC could be added to the balance if he later wanted to swap products early - it 
was also incumbent on him to ask questions and satisfy himself of the answers before 
accepting the offer. 
No one is entitled to borrow money; even when theyve borrowed before, it should not be 
assumed that theyre automatically entitled to borrow more. Adding an ERC to a mortgage 
balance means borrowing more money. Santanders lending policy is not to do that. It 
doesnt have to: its a commercial judgement that Santander is entitled to make, and I have 
no power to interfere with. My remit is to ensure the policy is applied fairly and consistently, 
and theres nothing in the evidence to suggest it hasnt been here.The obligation to treat consumers fairly doesnt simply mean giving them what they want. 
Here, the obstacle for Mr D is that to find that Santander should have given him what he 
wanted requires me to second guess Santanders judgment (and impose my own judgement 
in its place) on its lending policy. In the circumstances, that would not be appropriate.
Santander accepts it could have provided the information Mr D was asked to give to the new 
lender more quickly than it did. But I share the investigators view that this need not 
necessarily have stopped Mr D finding a new deal. The information in question was 
requested by one lender, but other lenders offering similar rates may not have asked for it. 
Lenders borrow in the wider market to offer a product at a particular rate, and once all the 
funds for a specific product have been reserved, the rate is withdrawn. Staff dealing with 
mortgage applications wouldnt be aware of when a particular rate is going to be withdrawn 
or new rates introduced, as these are matters decided at corporate level. So, even if the 
information had been provided before the rates Mr D was interested in applying for were 
withdrawn, it cant be assumed any application he made would necessarily have been 
successful at the rate he was hoping to secure, or even at all. 
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint. My final decision concludes this services consideration of this 
complaint, which means Ill not be engaging in any further consideration or discussion of the 
merits of it.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision before 27 March 2023. 
Jeff Parrington
Ombudsman