DRN-3425614
The complaint
Mr G complained that Aviva Insurance UK Limited (Aviva) unfairly deducted a policy 
excess before paying his settlement under a block of flats insurance policy where he was a 
beneficiary.
What happened
Mr Gs property was impacted by a significant leak. Mr G benefitted from insurance for his 
flat as part of a policy that had been arranged by his management company for the whole 
block of flats. Aviva arranged for the remedial works to be carried out.
Mr G is unhappy as Aviva deducted a £350 excess from a settlement payment  he said the 
deduction shouldve been made from the policyholder (his management company). Mr G 
wants the excess reimbursed and has asked for compensation.
Aviva said regarding the policy excess this is a non-insurable loss. The policy excess is 
required to be deducted from a claims settlement. There would normally be an agreement 
within the scheme on who is liable to reimburse the excess. This isnt something Aviva can 
get involved with, and this would need to be discussed with the Management Company.
Our investigator decided not to uphold the complaint. He said Aviva had fairly settled its 
liability under the claim by deducting the policy excess before any settlement was paid. Mr G 
disagreed, so the complaint has been referred to an ombudsman.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Aviva said the policy excess is required to be deducted from a claims settlement. I have 
checked Avivas policy  the policy sets out Avivas liability under a claim and the policy 
excess that applies to each claim. The policy excess is £350. The excess is the first part of a 
claim that the consumer must pay. Its sometimes called a deductible in commercial 
policies. Consumers can choose to have a higher excess to reduce the premium as the 
insurer wont be paying as much if a claim is payable.
As the premium will have been set based upon a policy excess of £350 per claim, I think 
Aviva has been fair in deducting this payment before settling the claim. Aviva has reasonably 
settled its liability for the claim. Therefore, I dont uphold this complaint.
I appreciate Mr G has said he is not the policyholder and therefore, he thinks hes not liable 
to pay the excess payment. However, Mr G has made a claim and benefitted from the policy. 
The policy has been taken out by the Management Company on behalf of the owners / 
residents of the block of flats. Therefore, as Aviva have settled the claim in line with the 
policy terms, I think it has settled the claim fairly. 
Aviva has said Mr G could speak to his Management Company to understand whether it 
would reimburse the excess payment. However, as Aviva have done what it needs to under 
this policy, I dont uphold this complaint.
My final decision
My final decision is I dont uphold this complaint, I dont require Aviva Insurance UK Limited 
to do anymore.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision before 6 July 2022.
 
Pete Averill
Ombudsman