DRN-2657860
The complaint
Mr S complains about an invoice he has received from SN Marketing Services Limited 
trading as My PPI Refund (My PPI Refund) for work theyve carried out on a claim for    
mis-sold Payment Protection Insurance (PPI). He says he never instructed them and wants 
them to cancel their invoice. 
What happened
Mr S says he approached Lender B direct to enquire about any accounts he held where they 
might have mis-sold him PPI. Lender B identified an account and paid Mr S compensation of 
£3,734.65. My PPI Refund then contacted Mr S and issued an invoice for 20% plus VAT of 
the compensation for work they had carried out. Mr S says he wasnt aware who My PPI 
Refund were and claimed the signature on the Letter of Authority (LoA) provided by them 
was forged, so he complained. 
My PPI Refund responded to Mr S and explained they understand he believes the signature 
on the LoA isnt authentic. My PPI Refund attached a copy of a letter they received from 
Lender B which showed they lodged the claim on Mr Ss behalf. My PPI Refund said Lender 
B accepted the LoA as an authentic signature of Mr Ss. They also provided details of the IP 
address from where the sign-up process occurred as well as the date the information was 
entered online and the system used. My PPI Refund said, from the information they have 
reviewed regarding the sign-up process, they acted on Mr Ss behalf in the claim against 
Lender B with genuine information they had received so they didnt uphold the complaint.    
Our investigator looked into things for Mr S. She thought My PPI Refund hadnt acted 
unreasonably in pursuing Mr Ss claim and charging him a fee. Mr S disagreed so the matter 
has come to me for a decision.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided not to uphold the complaint. I understand Mr S will be 
disappointed by this but Ill explain why I have made this decision. 
Its clear theres a dispute here about whether Mr S instructed My PPI Refund to handle his 
claim against Lender B for mis-sold PPI. Mr S says he never provided any instructions and 
the signature on the LoA isnt his. My PPI Refund say Mr S has completed the sign-up 
process which gave them authority to deal with the claim. Given the different accounts, Ive 
looked at the evidence and what I think is more likely to have happened than not.  
My PPI Refund have provided a signed Letter of Engagement authorising them to act on    
Mr Ss behalf and a signed LoA authorising them to pursue a claim against Lender B. Both 
documents contain Mr Ss name, date of birth and contact number. And, theyre both dated 
13 August 2019. My PPI Refund have also provided their account notes and this shows 
electronically signed documents being received. So, I think the account notes support what 
the signed documents show  and that is that My PPI Refund received signed instructions 
authorising them to pursue a claim for Mr S.  
I understand Mr S says he didnt sign the documents but they both contain personal details, 
including his full name, date of birth and mobile number  and these are the same details we 
have. So, if someone other than Mr S has signed these documents and completed the sign-
up process, they will have had to know Mr Ss personal details as well as the fact that 
Lender B mightve mis-sold him PPI. And, on the balance of probabilities, I think its unlikely 
someone else wouldve known about all these details. 
Mr S has provided a copy of what he says is his genuine signature and he says it doesnt 
match the signature on the LoA and the Letter of Engagement. I agree they arent an exact 
match but, from the information Ive seen, I think its reasonable for My PPI Refund to 
believe the signature on the documents belongs to Mr S. I say this because, in order to settle 
the claim, My PPI Refund sent Lender B Mr Ss form of authority. Generally, a lender will 
verify a customers signature against what they have on their records. And, My PPI Refund 
say Lender B accepted the LoA as an authentic signature of Mr Ss. While I do understand 
signatures can vary over time, I believe its more likely than not, that a lender wouldve 
raised a concern if they felt the signature was different to the one they have on their record. 
And, given that theres no evidence Lender B raised a challenge, I think its reasonable for 
My PPI Refund to believe Mr S has provided his signature. 
My PPI Refund have provided a call recording during which they update Mr S on the position 
with his claim against Lender B. The call starts with the call handler confirming Mr S has 
instructed them to look into PPI claims against a number of lenders. The call handler 
explains the lenders have now responded and Mr S confirms those lenders have responded 
to him direct  and this includes Lender B. The call handler explains the reason the lenders 
are corresponding with Mr S is because of the claims submitted by My PPI Refund on his 
behalf. The call handler explains Mr S has signed documents authorising My PPI Refund to 
look into his claims and Mr S says Ive signed documents, have I? Mr S asks for a copy of 
the documents he has signed. 
The call handler then runs through some caller verification questions with Mr S  which Mr S 
answers  and then the call handler confirms Lender B have found PPI. The call handler 
explains they will need to send out a questionnaire for the claim against Lender B and Mr S 
explains he has already completed a questionnaire and sent it direct. The call handler says 
he will send the questionnaire to Mr S and he can check whether its the same form he has 
already completed. The call handler then explains Lender B will then confirm whether 
compensation is due or not and if they do pay compensation then Mr S will need to pay My 
PPI Refund their fee of 20% plus VAT. The call handler says Mr S signed the documents 
with My PPI Refund on 13 August 2019 and Mr S replies Right, ok The call handler then 
asks further questions about Mr Ss financial circumstances at the time the PPI was mis-sold 
to him and Mr S answers the questions put to him.      
I acknowledge Mr S does, at the start of the call, question whether he has signed documents 
with My PPI Refund and asks for a copy. But, thereafter, Mr S doesnt provide any challenge 
to My PPI Refunds involvement. Instead, he confirms his personal details as part of the 
caller verification process and also answers further questions about his financial 
circumstances. 
Taking this into account, Im not persuaded Mr S hasnt instructed My PPI Refund. I say this 
because I wouldve expected there to have been a challenge from Mr S when being asked, 
by a business Mr S says he never knew, personal information and details about his financial 
circumstances. I think its reasonable to expect a customer wouldnt share such details with 
a business they havent instructed. I understand Mr S maintains he made enquiries direct with Lender B and this is what led to 
the successful claim. I can see our investigator has asked Mr S for evidence of this and he 
has provided a letter from Lender B which thanks him for his enquiry and his request for 
Lender B to check their records for any PPI policies. Im not persuaded this demonstrates  
Mr S made his claim direct  and I say this for a number of reasons. 
Firstly, its not uncommon for lenders, once an enquiry is made by a claims management 
company, to then correspond with a customer direct. Secondly, the timing of this letter to Mr 
S is consistent with the details on the account notes provided by My PPI Refund. The 
account notes show they made an enquiry with Lender B in late August and I believe this is 
what led to Lender Bs letter to Mr S. And, finally, I can see Lender B write directly to Mr S 
with a final response letter to say they agree they mis-sold PPI and they will be paying 
compensation. A copy of this letter is sent to My PPI Refund with a cover letter which says 
Please find enclosed a copy of our letter, which has been sent directly to your client. This 
shows Lender B are aware My PPI Refund are acting for Mr S. In addition to this, Lender Bs 
reference number is the same on both letters which suggests the successful claim relates to 
the enquiry which was originally made by My PPI Refund.   
Taking this all into account, I dont think its unreasonable for My PPI Refund to have acted 
in the claim against Lender B. And, given the claim led to a successful outcome, its not 
unfair for them to issue an invoice which is in line with their terms and conditions.  
My final decision
For the reasons I have given, it is my final decision that the complaint is not upheld. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 19 November 2021.
 
Paviter Dhaddy
Ombudsman