DRN-4427962
The complaint
Miss A complains that HSBC UK Bank Plc (HSBC Bank) irresponsibly gave her three 
loans that she couldnt afford.
What happened
HSBC Bank provided the following loans to Miss A:
Loan 1 started on 1 June 2022 for £15,000 over 60 months and a monthly repayment of 
£328.45. Loan 1 was repaid from the proceeds of Loan 2 and was closed on 6 June 2022. 
Loan 2 started on 5 June 2022 for £20,000 over 96 months and a monthly repayment of 
£356.57. Loan 2 was closed on 27 June 2022. Miss A told us she repaid loan 2 by 
borrowing from a friend.
Loan 3 started on 13 June 2022 for £15,000 over 60 months and a monthly repayment of 
£355.82. Loan 3 was closed on 21 June 2022. Miss A told us she repaid loan 3 by 
borrowing from a friend.
On 15 June 2022, Miss A complained to HSBC Bank to say that the loans shouldnt have 
been opened because they werent affordable and that HSBC Bank ought to have made a 
better effort to understand her financial circumstances before it provided her with credit. 
HSBC Bank did not agree. But they did think their customer service had, at one point, not 
been at the level they might have wished it to be, and so they credited Miss As account 
with £75. 
Miss A was not satisfied and brought her complaint to this service.
Our investigator thought the lending on the first loan was reasonable. He thought the 
lending on Loan 2 was not reasonable and that redress should be paid. Its not entirely 
clear to me what the investigator thought about Loan 3, except that, as Loans 1 and 3 had 
been paid off by Miss A within the first 14 days of the agreement, it seems likely that he 
thought Miss A had suffered no detriment from those loans. Which was the case.
HSBC Bank agreed with the investigators recommended redress which was for the 
standard redress to be applied on Loan 2 (which in simple terms was the return of interest 
and fees caused by the loan plus interest to be added from the date of calculation to the 
date of settlement). In addition, the investigator thought that HSBC Bank should increase 
to £200 the amount it had already paid for its lapse in customer service  so it would pay 
Miss A another £125. 
Miss A didnt agree as she wanted the loan amount paid to her as redress. So, the 
complaint was passed to me to decide.
I issued my provisional decision on 25 October 2023 in which I said that I agreed with our 
investigator. In my provisional decision I set out the reasons why I intended to uphold the 
complaint about the second loan. I set out an extract below:
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Weve set out our general approach to 
complaints about unaffordable and irresponsible lending - including the key relevant rules, 
guidance and good industry practice - on our website. 
After reviewing all of the information provided in this complaint, I have reached the same 
outcome as our investigator, and for the same reasons. I explain below why I intend to 
partially uphold Miss As complaint. 
HSBC Bank needed to take reasonable steps to ensure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In 
practice this means that it should have carried out proportionate checks to make sure Miss 
A could afford to repay what she was being lent in a sustainable manner. These checks 
could take into account a number of different things, such as how much was being lent, 
the repayment amounts and the consumers income and expenditure. With this in mind, in 
the early stages of a lending relationship, I think less thorough checks might be 
reasonable and proportionate. 
But certain factors might point to the fact that HSBC Bank should fairly and reasonably 
have done more to establish that any lending was sustainable for the consumer. These 
factors include: 
the lower a consumers income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make any loan 
repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income); 
the higher the amount due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to meet a 
higher repayment from a particular level of income); 
the greater the frequency of borrowing, and the longer the period of time during which a 
customer has been indebted (reflecting the risk that prolonged indebtedness may signal that 
the borrowing had become, or was becoming, unsustainable). 
There may even come a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly 
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable. 
So how does that affect Miss As three loans. Our investigator found that there was no 
redress payable on Loans 1 and 3. But he did think that redress should be paid on Loan 2. 
I provide a summary of why he thought that below.
Miss As complaint is that HSBC Bank made credit available that was unaffordable. For 
loan 1, HSBC Bank told us it took into account the financial information Miss A declared in 
her application and cross-referenced the declared income against the money passing into 
Miss As current account. This seemed to support the declared income. And Miss A had 
also declared she lived at home with her parents. The subsequent estimated expenditure 
suggested there was sufficient affordability for the first loan. HSBC Bank also told us they 
obtained credit reference data about Miss A at the time of each loan application. This 
showed modest other borrowings.  
Nothing in the information that HSBC Bank had presented to it or that it procured for itself 
at that time would, in my opinion, have suggested that they needed to make more detailed 
investigation into Miss As expenditure before agreeing the loan. For the reasons given 
above, I think the lending on Loan 1 was reasonable.
But even if I felt that HSBC Bank had failed in this matter, Loan 1 was repaid in full within 
the cooling off period and so Miss A has incurred no interest or charges in having that 
lending. And in this complaint, that reasoning also applies to Loan 3. That third loan was also repaid within the cooling off period and so Miss A has incurred no interest or charges 
in having that lending. And so, there is nothing for HSBC Bank to compensate Miss A for 
in Loans 1 and 3, even if I thought they had been lent in an unreasonable manner. 
For Loan 2, our investigator thought it was not reasonable lending and he suggested our 
standard redress be applied for that loan. HSBC Bank has agreed to pay that standard 
redress. Miss A feels that she should receive the loan amount back. The standard redress 
for unaffordable lending is for the business to return the interest and charges that it 
attached to the unaffordable lending. The idea is that the business should not benefit from 
the unaffordable lending it provided. And that would be the fair way to compensate 
someone who experienced unaffordable lending, normally. 
It would not be normal redress to suggest that the loan amount be returned to the 
consumer. I say that because in such a case it could be argued that the consumer had 
access to the capital amount twice. And for the reasons given above, I have seen 
insufficient evidence that would be a fair settlement in this case. 
In addition, the investigator thought that HSBC Bank should increase to £200 the amount it 
had already paid for its lapse in customer service  so it would pay Miss A another £125. I 
have seen insufficient reason to think that amount is not fair.
So, I have no reason to recommend that HSBC Bank pay any more in redress than it has 
already offered to pay. But for completeness I will set that out again. HSBC Bank should 
put things right with reference to Loan 2. 
Putting things right  what HSBC Bank needs to do 
Loan 2 was repaid after the 14-day cooling off period had expired and so accrued interest
was applied to the settlement amount. I think this should be refunded. I cant see that any 
capital repayments were made.
To settle Miss As complaint HSBC Bank should do the following:
To add up the total amount of capital Miss A received as a result of having been given Loan 
Two. If any repayments were made these should be deducted from this amount.
Any overpayments should be refunded along with 8% simple interest (calculated from the 
date the overpayments were made until the date of settlement). 
To remove any negative information recorded on Miss As credit file as a result of the 
interest and charges on loan two.
Pay Miss A £200 for her distress. As HSBC Bank has already paid £75 its entitled to deduct 
this from this amount. 
If HSBC considers that its required by HM Revenue & Customs to deduct income tax 
from that interest, it should tell Miss A how much its taken off. It should also give Miss A a 
tax deduction certificate if she asks for one, so she can reclaim the tax from HM Revenue 
& Customer if appropriate.
I asked the parties to the complaint to let me have any further representations that they 
wished me to consider by 8 November 2023. Both parties have acknowledged receiving the 
decision. HSBC Bank has accepted the provisional findings and suggested redress. Miss A is disappointed with my provisional findings. As both parties have made their further 
submissions to me, Im proceeding to my final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Miss A told us she had a separate complaint upheld and received an amount that she told us 
was similar to the suggested award for distress and inconvenience in this case, Miss A 
considered the other award was for a less serious fault than the irresponsible lending and 
customer service failing in this case. 
We consider each case on the particular details and circumstances of each complaint. The 
redress for the irresponsible lending is our standard redress for unaffordable lending. Having 
reviewed Miss As comments, I still think I have seen insufficient evidence to be able to 
recommend a redress different to the standard redress in this case. 
Having considered afresh all the submissions made to me in this case and given that theres 
no new information for me to consider following my provisional decision, I have no reason to 
depart from those findings. And as Ive already set out my full reasons for upholding Miss As 
complaint, I have nothing further to add. 
My final decision
For the reasons set out, my decision is that the lending on loan two was not reasonable 
and so I uphold that part of the complaint. HSBC Bank should put things right in the way 
set out above including the award for the customer service issue.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss A to accept 
or reject my decision before 28 November 2023.
 
Douglas Sayers
Ombudsman