DRN-3564427
The complaint
Mr K complains that The Co-operative Bank Plc (Co-op) cancelled his debit card without
notifying him. Mr K also complains about how long it took to receive a replacement debit
card and the level of inconvenience caused.
What happened
The background to this complaint and my initial conclusions were set out in my provisional 
decision. I said: 
Mr K contacted Co-op on 15 July 2021 after noticing an unrecognised transaction on 
his bank statements. The call handler went on to cancel Mr Ks debit card but didnt tell 
him during the call.
Mr K called Co-op back the next day and asked why his card had been blocked. The call 
handler explained the card was blocked as Mr K had raised concerns about a transaction 
and that he shouldve been notified at the time. The call handler said a new card would be 
issued but that Mr K wouldnt receive it before the weekend. Mr K explained he needed his 
debit card to collect family members. Mr K confirmed one of his family members is 
disabled and that it was important he had access to funds.
The call handler attempted to retrieve Mr Ks call from the day before but was unable to do 
so due to systems issues. Co-op says that as the call handler was unable to retrieve the 
call recording from the day before, it wasnt able to confirm whether a mistake had been 
made. As a result, Mr Ks replacement debit card wasnt expedited as a priority.
Mr K says Co-op failed to call him back. But Co-op says it attempted to get back in touch 
with Mr K later on 16 July 2021 and again on 20 July 2021.
On 22 July 2021 Mr K spoke with Co-op again and advised no call backs had been 
received. Mr K explained that he was without access to funds over the weekend so had to 
transfer funds to a friend who withdrew cash on his behalf. Mr K also explained he had to 
arrange for someone to collect him from work at a cost and that his family routine had been 
impacted.
Co-op sent Mr K a final response on 29 July 2021 and agreed it had failed to tell him his 
debit card had been cancelled when he called on 15 July 2021. Co-op offered Mr K £125 
to apologise. Co-op said it had tried to call him back on 16 July 2020 and a few days later.
An investigator at this service looked at Mr Ks complaint but thought Co-op had dealt with 
it fairly. Mr K asked to appeal and said he didnt think Co-op had offered a fair level of 
compensation for the issues raised. As Mr K asked to appeal, his complaint has been 
passed to me to make a decision.
What Ive provisionally decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Co-op accepts the call handler Mr K spoke with on 15 July 2021 didnt handle his enquires 
properly. Mr K called to query a transaction and the call handler cancelled his debit card 
without notifying him. The call handler shouldve told Mr K his debit card would be blocked 
and Im satisfied failing to do so has caused Mr K unnecessary distress and 
inconvenience.
Ive listened to Mr Ks call with Co-op on 16 July 2021. In my view, the call handler 
appeared more concerned with checking whether his colleague had made a mistake the 
day before than he was in resolving Mr Ks issue. The majority of the call was spent with 
the call handler trying to access a call recording from the day before. But despite being told 
Mr K needed access to funds over the weekend to support his family, one of whom has a 
disability, they didnt discuss how new cards were ordered or whether a replacement 
couldve been sent as a priority. 
If the call handler was unable to verify Mr Ks version of events, I think the fairest approach 
wouldve been to take his word and arrange for a card to be provided as a priority. Co-ops 
final response confirms the call handler would most likely have taken that step if theyd 
been able to listen to the call from 15 July 2021. Im not persuaded that it was fair to limit 
the assistance offered to Mr K on the basis that the call handler was unable to retrieve a 
recording from the day before.
The call handler said he would call Mr K back later that day. Mr K has told us he didnt 
receive the calls, but Co-op has provided call recordings. And the call recordings show it 
did call Mr K back as claimed.
Mr K has told us the way his card was cancelled without notice and the delay in receiving 
a replacement caused him a considerable level of distress and inconvenience. I 
understand Co-op offered Mr K £125 to resolve his complaint but Im not persuaded thats 
reasonable. I think a figure of £250 more fairly reflects the impact of the above issues on 
Mr K and the level of distress and inconvenience caused and is a fairer way to resolve Mr 
Ks complaint. Based on the information Ive seen so far, I intend to uphold Mr Ks 
complaint and increase the compensation awarded from £125 to £250.
I invited both parties to respond with any additional comments they wanted me to consider 
before I made my final decision. Mr K confirmed he had nothing further to add. Co-op said it 
accepted the provisional decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As neither party has provided new information for me to consider, I see no reason to change 
the conclusions I reached in my provisional decision. I still think Mr Ks complaint should be 
upheld, for the same reasons. 
My final decision
My decision is that I uphold Mr Ks complaint and direct the Co-operative Bank Plc to pay 
him a total of £250 (less any compensation already paid). 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr K to accept or reject my decision before 29 July 2022.
 
Marco Manente
Ombudsman