DRN-1518756
The complaint
Ms F complains about the service she got from Right Choice Insurance Brokers Ltd when 
she changed the car covered on her motor insurance policy.
What happened
Ms F renewed her policy in September 2018. A month later she changed her car and was 
charged an extra £224 in premium. The new car was written-off a few months after that 
when it was damaged by a fire started nearby. Ms F found a replacement car similar to the 
one shed lost. But an advisor from Right Choice told her in February 2019 that there would 
be a further extra premium and administrative charges totalling £285 to add it to the policy. 
He also told Ms F in error that the increase may be due to the open claim. 
After Ms F complained to Right Choice, it contacted the insurer. It emerged that she should 
only have been charged administrative fees when changing the car for the second time. 
Right Choice offered to waive its charge, but Ms F didnt respond. It said it would also refund 
the extra sum shed already paid and wouldnt collect the rest of the £285. Ms F wasnt sure 
if Right Choice and the insurer had acted fairly, so she complained to us.
One of our investigators reviewed Ms Fs complaint. He thought Right Choice had resolved 
the matter fairly. And he noted that it and the insurer had put a process in place to ensure 
the systems error that had occurred in Ms Fs case didnt happen again.
Ms F said she hadnt received a refund. She also said shed paid £950 for the policy at 
renewal and was charged £285 for each change of car. She said she could have had a 
similar policy for £750, but that the cancellation charges quoted by Right Choice were 
excessive. She also said shed been held at fault wrongly for the claim.
The investigator checked that Right Choice had paid the refund. It confirmed it had done so 
in April 2018 and told us which card had been credited. The investigator reminded Ms F that 
she could still accept the offer made by Right Choice to waive its administrative fee. He also 
pointed out to her that hed only investigated the charge that was made when she changed 
her car for the second time  which he thought Right Choice had dealt with properly.
As Ms F remained unhappy, the investigator said hed arrange for her complaint to be 
reviewed by an ombudsman. Ms F said she wanted the ombudsman to review the proposed 
cancellation charges, both mid-term increases in premium, the effect of the claim on her no 
claims discount (NCD) and the poor service she got when she made the claim.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I think the service Ms F got when she made the claim  and any issues with her NCD  are 
for the insurer to address. Ms F has also made a complaint about the insurer that has been 
dealt with separately.
I think weve established (by contacting Right Choice and by listening to calls) that Ms F 
didnt complain to it about anything other than the increase in premium for the second 
change of car before complaining to us. In my opinion, the first rise in premium and the 
proposed cancellation charges are likely to be issues for the insurer to address. But as Right 
Choice hasnt had a chance to comment on its own role in setting out / applying those 
charges, I cant consider that as part of this complaint. 
I can see why Ms F was so upset by what was an inexplicable rise in premium for the 
second replacement car. Its unfortunate that the advisor she spoke to at that point 
suggested the wrong reason for the increase. But I think Right Choice then acted quickly to 
liaise with the insurer and put matters right. It can show that a refund was paid to Ms F and 
that it also offered to refund its administrative charge. 
As I dont think it would be fair and reasonable to require Right Choice to do anything more, I 
cant uphold Ms Fs complaint.   
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms F to accept or 
reject my decision before 8 October 2020. 
Susan Ewins
Ombudsman