DRN-3315889
The complaint
Mr L has complained that Skyfire Insurance Company Limited refused to pay his claim on his 
motor insurance policy following an accident.
What happened
Mr L took out a motor insurance policy with Skyfire through an online price comparison site. 
When he had an accident, he tried to claim on his policy. 
Skyfire declined his claim. When Mr L complained, it said hed answered the question hed 
been asked about how he used his car incorrectly. And that it considered this to be a 
deliberate or reckless qualifying misrepresentation, which entitled it to refuse his claim. 
our investigators view
Mr L brought his complaint to us and our investigator thought it shouldnt be upheld. He 
agreed there had been a qualifying misrepresentation and he thought this was deliberate or 
reckless. The policy didnt cover commuting. And so he thought Skyfire was entitled to 
decline the claim.
Mr L didnt agree with the investigator and asked for an ombudsmans decision. 
my provisional decision
After considering all the evidence, I issued a provisional decision on this complaint to Mr L 
and to Skyfire on 9 February 2022. I summarise my findings:
I was satisfied that the relevant law in this case is The Consumer Insurance (Disclosure and 
Misrepresentation) Act 2012 (CIDRA). This requires consumers to take reasonable care not 
to make a misrepresentation when taking out a consumer insurance contract (a policy). The 
standard of care is that of a reasonable consumer. 
And if a consumer fails to do this, the insurer has certain remedies provided the 
misrepresentation is - what CIDRA describes - as a qualifying misrepresentation. For it to be 
a qualifying misrepresentation the insurer has to show it would have offered the policy on 
different terms or not at all if the consumer hadnt made the misrepresentation. 
CIDRA sets out a number of considerations for deciding whether the consumer failed to take 
reasonable care. One of these is how clear and specific the insurers questions were. And 
the remedy available to the insurer under CIDRA depends on whether the qualifying 
misrepresentation was deliberate or reckless or careless. 
If the misrepresentation was reckless or deliberate and an insurer can show it would have at 
least offered the policy on different terms, it is entitled to avoid the consumers policy. If the 
misrepresentation was careless, then to avoid the policy, the insurer must show it would not 
have offered the policy at all if it wasnt for the misrepresentation. 
If the insurer is entitled to avoid the policy, it means it will not have to deal with any claims 
under it. If the qualifying misrepresentation was careless and the insurer would have 
charged a higher premium if the consumer hadnt made the misrepresentation, it will have to 
consider the claim and settle it proportionately if it accepts it. 
Skyfire thought Mr L failed to take reasonable care not to make a misrepresentation when he 
stated in his application via a comparison site that he used his car for Social, Domestic and 
Personal (SDP) use only. And I looked at the question he was asked when he completed the 
application and agreed he failed to take reasonable care. This was because he was asked:
What do you use the car for?
Social, Domestic and Pleasure Only (SDP)
Social, Domestic, Pleasure and Commuting (SDPC)
SDPC and Business Use.
Explanations were then provided for each of the categories of use.
And I thought this was a clear question asked by Skyfire through the comparison site Mr L 
used.
Mr L hadnt disagreed that he chose SDP, as shown by the policy documents. And hed 
provided various explanations of how he used his car. But in the call where Mr L notified 
Skyfire of the claim, he said he was driving home from work and this had been his normal 
routine since the start of the policy. So I thought it was most likely the car was going to be 
used for commuting whilst it was insured under his policy with Skyfire. And I thought this 
meant Mr L failed to take reasonable care not to make a misrepresentation when he said he 
used the car for SDP purposes only. 
Skyfire provided evidence which showed that if Mr L had not made this misrepresentation it 
would still have offered him cover and it wouldnt have charged him a higher premium: 
Mr Ls premium at renewal was £289.95 exclusive of fees and ancillaries, had commuting 
cover been included the premium would have been £289.95 exclusive of fees or ancillaries.
As Ive said above, for it to be a qualifying misrepresentation under CIDRA the insurer has to 
show it would have offered the policy on different terms or not at all if the consumer hadnt 
made the misrepresentation. The terms would have been the same if Mr L had chosen 
SDPC. This meant I was satisfied Mr Ls misrepresentation wasnt a qualifying one.
Therefore, I wasnt satisfied Skyfire was entitled to decline Mr Ls claim in accordance with 
CIDRA. And I thought Skyfire did have to deal with his claim. And  as CIDRA reflects our 
long-established approach to misrepresentation cases, I thought not allowing Skyfire to rely 
on it to decline Mr Ls claim produced the fair and reasonable outcome in this complaint. 
When a business makes a mistake, as I thought Skyfire had done here, we expect it to 
restore the consumers position, as far as its able to do so. And we also consider the impact 
the error had on the consumer. 
To put things fight for Mr L, I thought Skyfire should stop pursuing him for its outlay, remove 
any record of the repudiation of the claim and consider Mr Ls claim for the loss of his car 
under the remaining terms and conditions of his policy. As Mr L has been without his money 
for some time, I thought Skyfire should add interest to any settlement made. 
Mr L has been able to borrow money from a family member to replace his car and keep 
mobile. I thought this was a reasonable step to mitigate his losses. But he has been caused 
considerable stress and upset over eight months by Skyfires unfair decision. So I intended 
to require Skyfire to pay Mr L £500 compensation for the distress and inconvenience it has 
caused him. This is in keeping with our published guidance. 
Subject to any further representations by Mr L or Skyfire, my provisional decision was that I 
intended to uphold this complaint. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Skyfire replied that it accepted my provisional decision. Mr L had no further comments to 
make. So I can see no reason to change my provisional decision. 
Putting things right
I require Skyfire Insurance Company Limited to do the following:
1. Stop pursuing Mr L for its outlay. 
2. Remove any record of the repudiation of the claim from any database where its been 
recorded. 
3. Consider Mr Ls claim for the loss of his car under the remaining terms and conditions of 
his policy. 
4. As Mr L has been without his money for some time, Skyfire should add interest to any 
settlement made at the rate of 8% simple from the date of repudiation to the date of 
settlement . 
5. Pay Mr L £500 compensation for the distress and inconvenience it has caused him. 
 HM Revenue & Customs requires Skyfire to take off tax from this interest. Skyfire must 
give Mr L a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if he asks for one.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, my final decision is that I uphold this complaint. I require 
Skyfire Insurance Company Limited to carry out the redress set out above. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr L to accept or 
reject my decision before 16 March 2022.
 
Phillip Berechree
Ombudsman