DRN-4212669
The complaint
Miss D complains that Bamboo Limited, lent to her irresponsibly and without carrying out 
proper affordability checks.
What happened
In July 2022 Bamboo approved a loan of £5,000 for Miss D, which was scheduled to be 
repaid at approximately £500 per month over a term of 12 months. Bamboo says that the 
loan was intended to consolidate other debt, but I have been given no confirmatory evidence 
of that.
When assessing the applications, Bamboo took steps to verify Miss Ds financial 
circumstances and carried out a credit check before approving the lending.
It would appear that Miss D managed to maintain the repayments, although the updated 
status of the loan has not been confirmed.
When Miss D complained to it, Bamboo didnt accept it had done anything wrong. So she 
brought her case to this service. The investigator thought that Bamboo shouldnt have given 
Miss D this loan, but Bamboo doesnt accept that and has asked for an ombudsman to look 
at the complaint.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im going to uphold this complaint broadly for the same reasons as those of 
the investigator.
Bamboo is aware of its obligations under the rules and regulations in place at the time of 
this lending decision, including the Consumer Credit Sourcebook (CONC), so I wont 
repeat them here. But, briefly, it was required to carry out sufficient checks to ensure that 
Miss D would be able to repay the borrowing applied for in a sustainable way. As set out 
in CONC 5.3.1G(2) that means that she could manage the repayments,
withoutincurring financial difficulties or experiencing significant 
adverse consequences
Essentially, she needed to be able to meet her financial commitments and not have 
to borrow elsewhere to repay Bamboo for the loan to be considered affordable and 
sustainable.
Did Bamboo carry out proportionate checks before granting this loan?
Bamboo asked Miss D about her income and expenditure (I&E); used some statistical tools 
about I&E; and carried out a credit check when considering her loan application. Like the 
investigator, Im satisfied that its checks went far enough.
Did Bamboo respond appropriately to the information it had when deciding whether to 
provide this loan?
Based on what it knew about Miss D, I dont think Bamboo could reasonably have 
concluded that this loan would be sustainable for her, bearing in mind the regulations in 
force.
The investigator thought that Miss D needed to spend such a significant proportion of her 
income on servicing her debts that Bamboo should not therefore have lent to her. Bamboo 
did not accept that, highlighting that there were no defaults or CCJs on her credit file; that 
she wasnt overly indebted in relation to her income; and that this loan would have been 
large enough to enable her to consolidate all her debts. So, in the round, it thought the 
evidence supported the borrowing being affordable and sustainable for Miss D.
I share the investigators concerns about the proportion of income needed to service debt. 
Miss Ds income was not large, at approximately £1,500 per month. So this repayment 
alone would have claimed a third of her income each month. But in addition, I have 
identified some other reasons why I think Bamboo ought to have concluded that this 
borrowing was not sustainable for Miss D, and that she probably had some fairly 
entrenched financial problems.
But first, I have thought carefully about Bamboos assertions that this loan was for debt 
consolidation and so therefore would have improved Miss Ds financial position 
significantly. There is no persuasive evidence that was the purpose of the loan. Bamboo 
has offered no information from its records as to why it believes that, and its summary of 
the I&E assessment does not support that conclusion. In its final response to Miss D, 
Bamboo set out that, even after making this monthly repayment of nearly £500, she would 
have had approximately £530 for daily expenses (such as food and bills presumably). 
However, that simply ignores some of the expenditures she declared at the time, so 
doesnt make sense. In its loan application screenshots from 2022, it is clear it was not 
considering the consolidation of other borrowing in its assessment. So, on the basis of that 
contemporary evidence, Miss D would have been left with less than £200 disposable 
income after she had made this repayment.
So, due to lack of consistent evidence, I cannot conclude that the purpose of this loan was 
for debt consolidation and therefore that it is reasonable to say it would overall significantly 
improve Miss Ds financial situation by eliminating almost all of her other debt.
However, the issue of disposable income, which frankly remains somewhat unclear, is not 
really relevant to the outcome of this case. As mentioned above, I have identified other 
issues of concern from the credit file it obtained which ought to have led Bamboo to decline 
this application.
Crucially, Miss D had an aggregate overdraft limit across three accounts of nearly £3,200. 
Two of those accounts appear to have been consistently at the overdraft limit for several 
months. The third (and largest) overdraft balance had reduced significantly in May 2022, 
but had been over the agreed limit in March 2022. So, even taken at the most recent (and 
arguably favourable) position shown on the credit file, Miss D was persistently in an 
aggregate overdraft of at least £2,200 and there was no evidence of her ever being in 
credit on those accounts. Given that her income was around £1,500 per month, it ought to 
have been clear to Bamboo that Miss D effectively had no disposable income that wasnt 
funded by borrowing. Regardless of her other lines of credit, her aggregate overdraft 
balance was well in excess of her income each month. The logical conclusion of that fact is that she was dependent on borrowing to survive.
Its also clear from the credit file that Miss D regularly, and recently, took fairly large cash 
advances on her credit cards. Given the expense of this, I consider it reasonable to 
conclude that was because she absolutely needed that cash in order to function. Again, 
this cannot be taken as a sign of financial health.
In the round, it therefore follows that the evidence in this case leads me to uphold the 
complaint on the basis that Bamboos assessments did not demonstrate that the borrowing 
was affordable and sustainable for Miss D.
Putting things right
It may well be that Miss D has now settled this loan. In order to put things right for her, 
Bamboo must do the following:
A) Bamboo must remove all interest, fees and charges from the loan, and treat any 
repayments made by Miss D as though they had been repayments of the principal on the 
loan. 
B) If this results in Miss D having made overpayments then it must refund these 
overpayments with 8% simple interest* calculated on the overpayments, from the date the 
payments were made, to the date the complaint is settled. 
C) Whilst I dont believe there is, should there still be an outstanding balance following the 
actions set out in A, then Bamboo should agree a suitable repayment plan with Miss D.
D) It must remove any adverse information recorded on Miss Ds credit file in relation to this 
loan, once it has been repaid.
*HM Revenue & Customs requires Bamboo to deduct tax from this interest. It should
give Miss D a certificate showing how much tax its deducted, if she asks for one.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, I uphold this complaint and direct Bamboo Limited to put 
things right as set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss D to accept 
or reject my decision before 21 September 2023.
 
Siobhan McBride
Ombudsman