DRN-4332594
Complaint
Mrs W is unhappy that Starling Bank Limited hasnt reimbursed her after she fell victim to a 
scam.
Background
In November 2022, Mrs W was contacted on a social messaging app from a number she 
didnt know. The sender of that message claimed to be one of Mrs Ws children. 
Unfortunately, that wasnt the case and Mrs W had actually been contacted by a fraudster.
Mrs W responded by saying Is it No 1 or No 2? In reply, she received a message saying 
Its your eldest/favourite of course. They said that their phone had been damaged and so 
this was now their new number. However, theyd tried unsuccessfully to re-register for online 
banking on their new device and so their account had been frozen. They told Mrs W that 
they had an urgent payment that needed to be made. They had bought Christmas presents 
using a buy now, pay later arrangement and so, although they had received the goods in 
question, they still had to pay off the money theyd borrowed to buy them. The sender said 
they needed the payment to be made soon otherwise theyd face further interest and 
charges.
Mrs W agreed to make the payment to an account in the name of a private individual. She 
made 2 payments of £1,550.25 and £650 respectively. The scammer then attempted to 
obtain Mrs Ws debit card details to make a further payment. It was at this point that she 
became very suspicious and suspected that she must have fallen victim to a scam. 
She notified Starling. It contacted the receiving bank  i.e. the bank account controlled by the 
fraudster  and was only able to recover £7.44. It didnt agree to reimburse the remainder of 
Mrs Ws losses. Mrs W was unhappy with that and so she brought her complaint to this 
service. It was looked at by an Investigator who upheld it. He considered the complaint 
under the terms of the Contingent Reimbursement Model (CRM) Code and was satisfied 
that, as Mrs W had a reasonable basis to believe she was making the payments at the 
request of her son, she was entitled to be refunded.
Starling disagreed that Mrs W had a reasonable basis for believing shed been messaged by 
her son. It pointed out that Mrs W started the process of making a payment and answering 
Starlings questions about its purpose. She then cancelled that payment request and started 
again but answered its questions differently. It considered this behaviour unusual.
In addition to that, in her exchange of messages with the fraudster, Mrs W said that she felt 
uneasy about doing what she was being asked to do. Starling says this suggests she had 
doubts about whether she was really interacting with her son.
Finally, Starling noted that Mrs W messaged the scammer and observed that they seemed 
to be having a hard time. Starling says that such concerns would justify a phone call to make 
sure everything is ok.
Because Starling disagreed with the Investigators opinion, the complaint has been passed 
to me to consider and come to a final decision. 
Findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In broad terms, the position at law is that a firm is expected to process payments and 
withdrawals that a customer authorises, in accordance with the Payment Services 
Regulations and the terms and conditions of the customers account. Theres no dispute 
here that Mrs W authorised this payment. However, Starling has signed up to the Lending 
Standards Boards voluntary Contingent Reimbursement Model Code (the CRM code). 
Under that code, the starting principle is that a firm should reimburse a customer who is the 
victim of a scam like this one. There are a limited set of circumstances set out in the code in 
which a firm can choose not to fully reimburse its customer and Starling has argued that one 
of those exceptions are applicable in this instance
It is for Starling to establish that Mrs W failed to meet her requisite level of care under one or 
more of the listed exceptions set out in the CRM Code. The relevant exception here is where 
the customer made the payment without a reasonable basis for believing that: the payee 
was the person the customer was expecting to pay; the payment was for genuine goods or 
services; and/or the person or business with whom they transacted was legitimate.
Im satisfied that Mrs W had a reasonable basis for believing she was genuinely interacting 
with her son. From the evidence Ive seen, these messages were broadly similar in content 
and tone to legitimate messages shed received from her son. They were in regular contact 
via this social messaging app and she had needed to send him money on a previous 
occasion.
The explanation given as to why Mrs W needed to make a payment on his behalf was a 
believable one. Furthermore, Mrs W told us that her family was anticipating a bigger 
Christmas celebration than normal in 2022 because pandemic restrictions had stopped them 
meeting for some time before that. As a consequence, it wasnt implausible that her son 
wouldve spent a large sum of money on Christmas gifts.
Ive considered the arguments Starling has made about the red flags it considers Mrs W 
ignored, but I dont find them persuasive. The fact that Mrs W cancelled an earlier payment 
attempt and then restarted the process answering questions differently isnt necessarily an 
indication that shed recognised something was awry about the request.
The options that were available to categorise these payments didnt perfectly fit the scenario 
she was faced with. To give an example, she told the app that she was paying rent or bills 
only to then be asked Have you visited the property? That follow up question wouldnt be 
relevant to her given what she believed she was doing and so its understandable that she 
might want to restart the process and select the correct option. Essentially, Mrs W was 
trying to fit a square peg into a round hole  I dont think this was an indication that shed 
recognised something was awry.
Starling also pointed out that Mrs W told the scammer that she was uneasy about what 
shed been asked to do. However, I interpreted this message as being one of concern for her 
son and whether she was doing the right thing in making this payment on his behalf. I dont 
think it was an indication that she recognised she might not be interacting with her son.
Starling also argued, as Mrs W messaged saying that her son appeared to be having a hard 
time, that this wouldve warranted a phone call. However, as with the argument above, I think this was really an indication of her concern for her sons well-being rather than anything 
else. Whilst I recognise that some parents might call their child if they had such concerns, 
Im not persuaded that is a correct way to respond in a scenario like that one given that 
every parent-child relationship is different. 
Overall, Im unpersuaded by the arguments Starling has made and so I dont find that it can 
rely on this exception to reimbursement.
Final decision
For the reasons Ive set out above, I uphold this complaint.
If Mrs W accepts my decision, Starling Bank Limited should refund the money she lost to the 
scam, less the sum it was able to recover from the receiving bank. It will also need to add 
8% simple interest per annum to this sum calculated to run from the date it declined her 
claim under the CRM Code until the date any settlement is paid.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs W to accept or 
reject my decision before 5 October 2023.
 
James Kimmitt
Ombudsman