DRN-4479909
The complaint
Miss G has complained that Domestic & General Insurance Plc (D&G) unfairly declined a 
claim under a warranty, cancelled the warranty and returned her property with further 
damage.
What happened
On 31 July 2023 Miss G took out a warranty with D&G to cover a laptop. She made a claim 
under the warranty on 14 August as the screen was cracked. The laptop was sent to D&Gs 
repairer. D&G asked her for proof of purchase and a completed damage form. 
On 29 August D&G told Miss G it was cancelling the warranty as it had seen unusual activity 
on her account. It said she had failed to comply with the warranty conditions and/or the 
claims shed made were too frequent, appeared to be co-ordinated, occurred too soon after 
taking out the warranty or were so unusual that they were unlikely to be coincidental or 
unintentional.
Despite this, the repairer told Miss G shed receive a replacement laptop. It later returned the 
original laptop to her. D&G apologised for the fact that Miss G had been given incorrect 
information by the repairer. 
Miss G said the laptop wasnt working at all when it was returned to her whereas previously 
she had been able to use it. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Under the terms of the warranty D&G is entitled to cancel the warranty where there is a 
valid reason for doing so. Valid reasons include but are not limited to the following:
Where you fail to co-operate with us or to provide us with information or 
documentation we reasonably require and this substantially affects our ability to 
process your claim or deal with your policy.
There is also a right to cancel if D&G has reasonable grounds to believe that a customer has 
provided it with false information with respect to another warranty they held with D&G. I find 
these terms reasonable given the nature of the warranty. What I must decide is whether 
D&G applied them fairly.
Taking into account the fact that the claim was made shortly after the warranty was taken 
out, I can understand why D&G requested proof of purchase and a damage claim form. In 
addition D&G has provided us with information about Miss Gs claims history. I think this 
supports its request for further information from her. I appreciate that Miss G has since 
provided proof of purchase to us but D&G hadnt seen this or the damage claim form when it 
cancelled the policy. So I think it was justified in cancelling the policy on the ground of a 
failure to co-operate.
Miss G says when the laptop was returned to her, it had suffered further damage and wasnt 
working at all. She thinks D&Gs repairer is responsible for this. However, D&G confirmed 
that the repairer didnt carry out any work on the laptop, the laptop wasnt opened nor any 
parts removed as the warranty was being cancelled.
I cant be sure when the damage occurred. However, for me to uphold this part of Miss Gs 
complaint, I would need to be satisfied that it is more likely than not that the damage 
occurred either in transit or at the repairers. Based on the available evidence, whilst Im 
sorry to disappoint Mis G, I am unable to conclude this was the case.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss G to accept 
or reject my decision before 25 January 2024.
 
Elizabeth Grant
Ombudsman