DRN-3020898
Complaint
Miss G has complained about the overdraft fees and interest Lloyds Bank PLC (Lloyds) 
applied to her current account. Shes said the interest, fees and charges added caused her 
financial hardship.
Background
Miss G complained to Lloyds in August 2019. Lloyds didnt agree with Miss Gs complaint. 
Miss G was dissatisfied at this response and asked us to look at her case.
Miss Gs complaint was then looked at by one of our adjudicators. She didnt think that 
Lloyds had done anything wrong as it refunded some of the fees, froze the interest for 
periods and also set up a repayment plan to reduce what was owed. So she didnt 
recommend the complaint be upheld. Miss G disagreed with the adjudicator and asked for 
an ombudsmans decision.
My findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having carefully considered everything provided, Ive decided not to uphold Miss Gs
complaint. Ill explain why Ive done so in a little more detail.
Before I go any further, I want to be clear in saying that I havent considered whether the
various amounts Lloyds charged over the years were fair and reasonable, or proportionate in 
comparison to the costs of the service provided. Ultimately how much a bank charges for 
services is a commercial decision. And it isnt something for me to get involved with.
That said, while Im not looking at Lloyds charging structure per se, it wont have acted fairly 
and reasonably towards Miss G if it applied these interest, fees and charges to Miss Gs 
account in circumstances where it was aware, or it ought fairly and reasonably to have been
aware Miss G was experiencing financial difficulty. So Ive considered whether there were
instances where Lloyds didnt treat Miss G fairly and reasonably. 
I think its important for me to start by saying that Lloyds did refund a proportion of the 
interest, fees and charges it added to Miss Gs overdraft. And it also didnt add interest and 
fees and charges for periods either. I can see that Lloyds arranged a plan which would 
gradually reduce what Miss G owed too. And by the time Miss G had to start making the 
payments she was once again in employment. 
So, Im satisfied that Lloyds did respond to what it was told by Miss G at the time. It also 
seems to me that Lloyds did treat Miss G fairly and reasonably when it was notified of her 
difficulties by giving her some breathing space to allow for a longer-term solution. 
Furthermore, as Miss G was able to start reducing what she owed I dont think that the 
overdraft had become demonstrably unsustainable for her. So I dont think it would have 
been fair, reasonable or proportionate for Lloyds to have taken corrective action by removing 
the facility and recording a default or other adverse information, which was likely to be a 
consequence of permanently freezing the interest, fees and charges, in these 
circumstances. 
As this is the case, Im satisfied that Lloyds did appropriately respond to Miss Gs requests 
for assistance, I dont think that it needs to refund any of the other interest, fees and charges 
and Im not upholding Miss Gs complaint. I appreciate that this will be very disappointing for 
Miss G. But I hope shell understand the reasons for my decision and that shell at least feel 
her concerns have been listened to.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, Im not upholding Miss Gs complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss G to accept 
or reject my decision before 1 October 2021.
 
Jeshen Narayanan
Ombudsman