DRN-3704916
The complaint
Mr R complains advice Barclays Bank UK PLC gave him in 2001 to invest in an investment 
portfolio was unsuitable as he shouldnt have been advised to take risk in his circumstances. 
Mr R is represented by a claims management company (CMC) and Ive referred to Mr R 
below when referring to things said or done by him or by the CMC on his behalf. 
What happened
In 2001, Mr R was in his mid-forties with no dependants and lived with his parents in a 
property he owned a quarter of. He was employed with a monthly disposable income of 
£700, of which he saved £400 every month. He had £20,000 invested in a bond of some 
kind, around £45,000 in cash and around £30,000 in stocks and shares. 
The stocks and shares were recorded as being mostly made up of holdings in a growth PEP 
and a European growth fund, with a small single company shareholding in a demutualised 
former building society and another small PEP. So this was mostly equity, meaning shares.
Mr Rs objective at the time of advice was recorded by Barclays as capital growth over the 
medium to long term. Barclays adviser assessed Mr Rs attitude to risk as medium risk.
Medium risk was defined by Barclays as follows: You are a more typical investor, requiring 
a portion of your savings to be in cash form. For the remainder of your investment, you are 
prepared to see a greater degree of fluctuation than the low risk investor, in return for a 
potentially higher level of long term growth.
Barclays recommended that Mr R invest his stocks and shares and £25,000 of his cash into 
an investment portfolio with an objective of Capital Growth with Safety. Barclays defined 
this objective as follows: The level of income is not a factor. You are more concerned with 
the growth and protection of your capital over the longer term.
A total of just over £52,000 was invested in the Barclays portfolio  being the £25,000 cash 
plus the value of Mr Rs existing stocks and shares. The investment made up around 55% of 
Mr Rs savings and investments at that point. 
The portfolio had a target asset weighting at the start as follows: 
International Equities - 21%
UK Equities - 57%
Fixed Interest - 22% 
The portfolio weighting could vary though, with the fixed interest element (which might have 
a very small amount of cash within it) potentially reducing to a lower target level of 10% in 
which case the rest of the fund would be exposed to either UK or International equities.
After investing, Mr R was left with cash of around £20,000. Barclays recorded that he also 
had instant access to some funds in the bond he had.
Mr R has said the advice to take risk was unsuitable as he only owned a quarter of the 
property he lived in and he may have had to take steps in the future to buy the remaining 
part of it or to sell it to fund his parents long term care costs. 
Our investigator considered the complaint and didnt think Barclays advice was unsuitable. 
Her findings were, in brief summary: 
Mr R was an experienced investor with a reasonable understanding of risk and rewards, 
given that he had been invested in bonds, stocks and shares and funds in a medium risk 
environment for at least five years at the time of advice. The portfolio was affordable and 
in line with Mr Rs attitude to risk, and he had the capacity to make up any loss.
Barclays advice was based on Mr Rs circumstances at the time of the advice. Buying 
property or funding care costs doesnt appear to have been mentioned by Mr R to 
Barclays at the time and so doesnt appear to have been an immediate concern for him. 
The possibility that this might become a concern for Mr R at some unforeseeable point in 
the future didnt mean he couldnt afford to take any risk or that Barclays ought 
reasonably to have concluded he couldnt. 
Barclays didnt give us anything new to consider. Mr R replied saying he didnt agree with 
our investigators assessment. His reply included the following points:
He was not a typical investor. He had never previously made a significant lump sum 
investment. He had saved since he started working at 16 and had built up significant 
savings over 27 years from his relatively low paying job earning £14,400 before tax. It 
wouldnt have been easy for him to recoup any losses the portfolio made. He shouldnt 
have been advised to take excessive risk with these hard-earned savings. The risk rating 
Barclays associated with him hadnt been sufficiently assessed. 
Barclays assessed the portfolio as having an objective of Capital Growth with Safety and 
as suitable for clients who are more concerned with the growth and protection of your 
capital over the longer term. But the portfolio didnt match this description and wasnt 
suitable for him. Despite the safety qualifier in its name, the portfolio was only slightly 
different to the most risky or adventurous one. A past decision from this service had said: 
the only major distinction between the two appears to lie in the asset allocation, with 
the capital growth with safety portfolio investing slightly less in equities  He should not 
have been advised to invest into a product with this level of risk.
The suitability assessment was of course based on his circumstances at the time of the 
advice, but it would be negligent to fail to assess clear potential needs for the future. The 
future care of his parents would have a direct impact on his finances and housing. It was 
not some distant possible need for parents living separately but something that clearly 
might impact him and was particularly relevant as he did not have a controlling stake in 
the property he lived in or own his own property. Further consideration should have been 
given to this, which further supports the unsuitability of this investment.
Overall the advice to invest into the portfolio wasnt appropriate. 
 As the complaint couldnt be resolved informally, it has been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive arrived at the same conclusion as our investigator did and for broadly 
the same reasons. Ill summarise these briefly.
Mr R was assessed by Barclays as wanting to invest for growth over the medium to long 
term. It is apparent that he agreed with that assessment at the time. I do note that he did not 
own his own home, but only part of one. I also note that he shared his home with his parents 
and so if their circumstances changed there was a possibility this would affect Mr R. Mr R 
has pointed out one way in which at the time it was possible that their circumstances might 
change in future. 
But I havent seen anything to make me think that this was something Mr R ought to have 
been advised to make immediate provision for in the short term. Nor do I think that because 
of this Barclays ought not to have advised him to place some of his funds in a medium to 
long term investment for the future. In saying this I note he did keep cash he could access in 
the short term and he had the capacity to draw from other resources like the bond he held. 
Also the possible future scenario that Mr R has highlighted in his complaint was, from what 
Ive seen, only one of a variety of possibilities that at the time could have arisen in the future 
years. Ive not seen anything to persuade me that this was bound to happen or that Mr R 
had grounds at the time to think it might happen in the near future such that Barclays ought 
to have advised him to make provision for this in the short term.
Mr R was advised to invest in a portfolio described by Barclays as medium risk. Whether this 
was a fair description or not, it does appear that the composition of the portfolio was not 
unlike the composition of some of Mr Rs existing equity-based funds and investments. I say 
this bearing in mind his holdings in growth funds including a European growth fund. So while 
I would hesitate to call Mr R an experienced investor, he was certainly someone who held 
investments and had some experience of investing in equity linked investments. 
Also I understand from Mr R that these investments were built up over time by monthly or 
periodic contributions  he says he hadnt invested a large lump sum before. If his existing 
investments were built up over time, it follows that he had at least a few years of experience 
of holding these investments - which were similar in kind and composition to the portfolio 
Barclays recommended. It is apparent that he wished to invest more into this sort of area.
I note that the years from 1995 had been generally positive for equity investment and the fall 
in the market in 1998 was reversed after not too long. So it appears Mr Rs experience was 
for the most part during a time when the stock market had been doing very well for a time. 
Still, there will have been fluctuations and overall I cant ignore that Mr R had experience of 
risk investment not unlike the investment Barclays was recommending. 
I dont overlook that the description of medium risk does not say much about risk and using 
the word typical might suggest a sort of risk that doesnt match well with the risk involved in 
shares. I also note that the use of the term safety and reference to the protection of capital 
all had the potential to mislead in this context. 
But Mr R wasnt entirely reliant on these risk descriptions given by Barclays to outline and 
understand the risk he was taking - the risk level of the portfolio was not unlike the risk level 
of existing investments he had held for at least some time. On balance, I think it likely Mr R 
understood enough to appreciate the sort of risk he was taking by following Barclays advice 
to invest in the portfolio. 
The effect of putting his existing investments into the portfolio will likely have reduced the equity exposure carried by those investments, based on the target allocation of the Barclays 
portfolio. But the portfolio could rebalance such that the equity exposure would be very 
similar in broad terms to that carried by those existing investments. Also he introduced cash 
that increased the size of his exposure to those sorts of risk investments to nearly twice the 
what it was before. So Ive considered whether Mr R had capacity to take this risk.
I note Mr Rs relatively low income and I note his investments were fairly large relative to that 
income. I agree it would be hard to recoup large losses given his income. His overall position 
was such that he did not have a large amount of spare or excess wealth. I note he appears 
to have just started pension provision at the time of the advice. All this in my view highlights 
that there were limits to his capacity to take risk at the time.
But on balance I dont think that those limits were such that in his circumstances Barclays 
ought to have advised Mr R that the risks of the portfolio were unsuitable for him. I say this 
bearing in mind Mr R kept substantial funds elsewhere including cash. He had a surplus 
monthly income and Barclays recorded he didnt expect his employment situation to change. 
His cash funds were sufficient if anything did occur in the short term. He had a reasonable 
amount of working years to go until retirement. He held a bond investment which gave him 
more diversification and could also provide more funds if he needed them. 
With all this in mind, the amount Mr R invested on balance doesnt seem unreasonable to 
put into an equity backed portfolio for the medium to long term if he wished to do so. Overall, 
I do think Mr R could afford to take the risk of loss involved with the portfolio. 
Overall Im not persuaded that Barclays was wrong to recommended Mr R invest in the way 
that he did here. Taking everything into account, I havent identified grounds for upholding 
Mr Rs complaint about this investment or Barclays advice that he invest in it.
Barclays has asked us to note that it has offered Mr R £200 for delays in its complaint 
handling. Im not considering Barclays complaint handling here - so if Barclays hasnt yet 
paid this sum to Mr R and it wishes to do so, it may do so separately.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given and in light of all Ive said above, I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision before 28 April 2023.
 
Richard Sheridan
Ombudsman