DRN-3836450
The complaint
Mr S is unhappy that Aldermore Bank Plc rolled over his three-year fixed rate account to 
another term without his authority. 
The complaint has been brought to our service by Mr S son, Mr K.
What happened
Mr S three-year fixed rate account matured on 15 September 2021. He says he received a 
letter from Aldermore Bank dated 16 August 2021 which he shared with Mr K. Mr K then 
contacted Aldermore Bank to instruct them to transfer the funds out to another bank. 
However, he was told that the deadline to provide maturity instructions had passed and the 
funds had been rolled over into another three-year fixed rate account.
Mr K was unhappy with this and raised a complaint. He said Mr S found it difficult and 
confusing to understand the letter as English wasnt his first language. He explained the 
letter wasnt clear, it didnt explain how to give instructions and there were no dates. He also 
felt the deadline shouldve been included in the main body of the letter. 
He also complained that Aldermore Bank placed preventative measures on Mr S account 
and wont remove these restrictions until Mr S provides proof of identity and proof of address 
documents. He believes Aldermore Bank should pay for Mr S to have his documents 
certified as theres a cost associated, which Mr S cant afford.
Aldermore Bank said theyd acted appropriately in rolling over Mr S savings into another 
three-year fixed rate account as they didnt receive any instructions from him. They said they 
wrote to Mr S on 16 August 2021 to inform him theyd do so, unless he provided his 
instructions by logging into his online account by 13 September 2021. They said they also 
sent a reminder email to Mr S on 1 September 2021. And they wrote to Mr S on 15 
September 2021, to confirm his funds were moved into a new three-year fixed rate account 
and gave him 14 days to change his mind.
They explained they may allow a customer to break the terms and conditions to access all or 
part of their funds, if they were experiencing ill health, financial difficulties or hardship. But 
they review all requests for early withdrawal on an individual basis. They asked Mr S to 
provide details and supporting documents to consider his request to make a withdrawal.
They said they had to take the protection of their customers accounts and personal 
information seriously and decided to place preventative measures on Mr S account as there 
was a request to update Mr S phone number which wasnt made by him. They said the 
request was made by Mr K who was calling as Mr S. They said theyd be unable to remove 
the preventive measures until Mr S had provided them with proof of identity and proof of 
address.
Mr K referred the complaint to our service. In summary, our investigator didnt think 
Aldermore Bank had acted unfairly, so didnt ask them to do anything. He said the letter they 
sent was clear in explaining the two options and deadline Mr S had to take action. He said it 
wasnt unreasonable for them to ask Mr S to provide documents. Mr K disagreed and asked 
for an ombudsman to review the complaint.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive looked at the terms and conditions of Mr S fixed rate savings account. They state:
We will contact you a minimum of 21 calendar days prior to maturity to advise you of 
the options available to you with an additional reminder issued around 14 calendar 
days prior to your account maturing. You will be able to view your maturity options 
and provide your maturity instructions by logging into your Account through our 
Internet Banking Service a minimum of 28 calendar days prior to maturity. If we do 
not receive any instructions from you before the maturity date of your Fixed Rate 
Account, we will place the proceeds of your Fixed Rate Account into a new Fixed 
Rate Account of the same or similar term.
Mr S agreed to these terms and conditions when he invested in the three-year fixed rate 
account in 2018. Based on the above, Im satisfied Aldermore Bank made it clear they will 
place the proceeds of Mr S fixed rate account into a new fixed rate account of the same or 
similar term, if they didnt receive instructions from him before the maturity date. 
Aldermore Bank sent Mr S a letter on 16 August 2021, which is more than 21 calendar days 
prior to maturity. Mr S doesnt dispute receiving this letter, but his point is that Aldermore 
Bank werent clear about what he should do and by when, if he wanted to withdraw his 
funds.
Having looked at the letter, I cant agree that Aldermore Bank wasnt clear about the options 
available to Mr S. The letter clearly stated the maturity date of 15 September 2021 and 
explained that Mr S had two options  take no action or give instructions. 
The letter also explained what would happen if Mr S took no action in the main body as well 
as in a grey box to the left of the page. Essentially, if Mr S took no action, Aldermore Bank 
would move his money into a new account of the same fixed term as his existing account or 
the closest similar term. Aldermore Bank also guaranteed to pay the fixed rate shown in the 
letter or if the rate increased, the higher rate.
The other option explained was for Mr S to give Aldermore Bank instructions by logging into 
his account, for example to switch to another account, or return some/ all of his money to his 
nominated account. The grey box on the left of the page provided further information on how 
to make a change. It asked Mr S to log in to his account before 13 September 2021 and click 
on Account Options and then select Maturity Options.
 
It follows, Im satisfied the letter of 16 August 2021, was clear about what Mr S options were 
and the date by which he had to contact Aldermore Bank if he wished to withdraw his funds 
to his nominated account.
Aldermore Bank sent Mr S an email on 1 September 2021 to remind him that he hadnt given 
his maturity instructions yet. Ive seen a template of this email and it reiterates the message 
shared in the letter of 16 August 2021. I understand Mr S didnt receive this reminder, but 
Ive seen evidence to show Aldermore Bank sent the email.Based on this, I cant agree Aldermore Bank treated Mr S unfairly by rolling over his savings 
into a new fixed rate account of the same term. Im satisfied they followed the terms and 
conditions by contacting Mr S on 16 August 2021 and 1 September 2021. They were also 
clear in explaining to Mr S what his options were and when he needed to take action by.
Mr K has told us that Mr S didnt understand the letter as English isnt his first language. He 
feels that key information in the letter isnt clear enough to someone who is elderly and relies 
on his son to manage his finances. 
I dont doubt Mr S wouldve asked Aldermore Bank to withdraw his funds if he understood 
the maturity options, how to provide his instructions and by which date. But this doesnt 
mean the letter Aldermore Bank sent was unclear  as Ive explained above, Im satisfied it 
was. 
I think the onus was on Mr S to contact Aldermore Bank if he didnt understand the contents 
of the letter or was confused about what he had to do and by when. I can see there was a 
phone number provided within the letter of 16 August 2021 and email of 1 September 2021. 
Mr S also had other options available to him, such as reaching out to Mr K sooner, or 
speaking to another trusted family member or friend, or contacting Citizens Advice.
Aldermore Bank have also provided evidence to show they wrote to Mr S on 15 September 
2021 to confirm that theyd rolled over his savings into another fixed rate account. In this 
letter, they also explained that if Mr S had changed his mind, he had 14 days from the 
maturity date in which to give them his new instructions.
So, Im satisfied Mr S had a further opportunity until 29 September 2021 to contact 
Aldermore Bank and request to withdraw his savings. Unfortunately, Mr S didnt ask 
Aldermore Bank to withdraw his funds until 28 October 2021, and this was far too late as by 
this point his savings were locked in again for another three years. 
I cant fairly ask Aldermore Bank to return Mr S savings as they wrote to him and clearly 
explained what would happen if he took no action before 13 September 2021. They also 
gave him a further 14 days to change his mind after the funds were rolled over into a new 
three-year fixed rate account. 
Im sorry to hear that Mr S is facing a financial strain as a result of not having access to his 
savings and its impacted his mental health too. I think Aldermore Bank have acted fairly and 
reasonably by offering to consider Mr S request to withdraw funds from his fixed term 
account, if hes able to provide further details of his circumstances, such as financial 
difficulties or ill health, along with supporting evidence. Mr S may wish to take Aldermore 
Bank up on this offer and provide the information theyve asked for.
The terms and conditions of Mr S account allow Aldermore Bank to suspend, withdraw or 
restrict the account if they have reasonable grounds to believe or suspect that  someone 
else is trying to access or use Mr S account or if Mr S customer ID and/or security details 
may be known to or used by someone else. 
Ive listened to the calls of 28 October 2021 when Aldermore Bank was contacted regarding 
Mr S account. During one of the calls, there was a request to change Mr S phone number. 
Its clear from these calls that the caller wasnt Mr S. It appears the caller was Mr K 
impersonating Mr S and his security details. The new phone number provided to Aldermore 
Bank also appears to be Mr Ks phone number. Based on this, I dont think its unreasonable 
that Aldermore Bank placed preventative measures on Mr S account.I appreciate Mr S wants Aldermore Bank to pay for the costs of having documents certified. 
But as I explained, they had a legitimate reason to place preventative measures on his 
account. So, I cant say theyve acted unreasonably in requesting proof of identity and proof 
of address documents from Mr S. Since I dont think Aldermore Bank have done anything 
wrong in requesting these documents from Mr S, I cant fairly hold them liable for the costs to 
have the documents certified.
I can see Aldermore Bank have provided guidance on how to obtain certified copies from a 
list of professional people  for example, a bank or building society official, a dentist or 
doctor  so Mr S may be able to get his documents certified at a small or no cost at all.
I dont underestimate the difficulties Mr S is facing without access to his savings, but Im 
satisfied Aldermore Bank havent treated him unfairly. So, I wont be asking them to return 
his funds before the end of the new three-year term (15 September 2024). I suggest Mr S 
provides Aldermore Bank details of his circumstances and supporting evidence to help them 
consider his request for early withdrawal.
My final decision
For the reasons explained above, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 10 March 2023.
 
Ash Weedon
Ombudsman