DRN-3836929
The complaint
Miss M complains that a car she acquired through a conditional sale agreement with 
Moneybarn No.1 Ltd (Moneybarn) wasnt fit for purpose. She would like to reject the car and 
be refunded the payments she made whilst without use of the car.
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties so I wont repeat them again here 
instead I will focus on giving the reasons for my decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so I have reached the following conclusions:-
Miss M took out an agreement for a used car with 76060 miles on the clock in 
September 2020. Whilst consumers might expect more wear, tear, and repair issues 
with a used car than with a new one we do expect them to be fit for purpose at the 
point of sale. Miss M says the car broke down in July 2022 so nearly two years after 
she had it. When issues arise more than six months after getting a car we usually say 
its the consumers responsibility to show there is a problem that was present or 
developing at the point of sale.
Miss M has told us that when she got the car the dealership serviced and repaired 
the car including fitting a new timing belt and water pump. She has provided an 
invoice to confirm this. She has also provided notes on the breakdown from a 
technician who confirmed   confirm fault, found belt shredded due to  water pump 
seizing causing belt to fail and engine internal damage. Req new engine and fuel 
pump. So, I am persuaded that the parts that failed were the ones the dealership 
replaced when Miss M got the car.
Timing belts might reasonably be expected to last around 50-100,000 miles and 
water pumps 60-90,000 miles. Miss M only drove 16,512 miles. I have no evidence to 
show that Miss M contributed to the car failure and whilst I accept Moneybarns point 
that a fault might have shown sooner than it did I am of the view that Miss M could 
reasonably have expected the replaced timing belt and water pump to have lasted 
longer than they did.
I think Miss M has evidenced the reason for the car failure and that it relates back to 
work caried out on the car when she got it. Miss M has provided a quote for repair 
work in the region of £6000. I agree with her that it would be uneconomic to repair 
the car so I think its reasonable to allow her to reject it.
I agree with the redress our investigator recommended as detailed below however I 
dont agree with Miss Ms request to have a refund of all the payments she has made 
as she did have use of the car until it broke down.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint.  
In full and final settlement Moneybarn No. 1 Limited should :-
End Miss Ms agreement with immediate effect and take the car back at no cost to 
her.
Refund any deposit Miss M  paid towards the agreement with 8% simple interest 
from the date of payment to the date of settlement
Refund all monthly payments Miss M made from July 2022  when the car broke down 
with 8% simple interest from the date of payment to the date of settlement
Pay Miss M £100 for the distress and inconvenience
Remove any adverse information from Miss Ms credit file in relation to this 
agreement and show the agreement as settled from July 2022
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss M to accept 
or reject my decision before 27 March 2023.
 
Bridget Makins
Ombudsman