DRN-3235217
The complaint
The estate of Mr S is unhappy Legal and General Assurance Society Limited has declined 
its life insurance claim. 
The estate is being represented by the late Mr Ss wife. 
What happened
In July 2019 Mr S applied for life insurance with L&G through a broker. 
In October 2020 a claim was made on behalf of Mr S for terminal illness, but he sadly died a 
few days later. L&G considered a life insurance claim but decided not to accept it. L&G 
believes Mr S didnt answer the following questions correctly when he applied for the policy;
Health  Last 2 years
 When answering the following questions, if you're unsure whether to tell us about a medical
condition, please tell us anyway.
 Apart from anything you've already told us about in this application, during the last 2 years
have you seen a doctor, nurse or other health professional for:
 any condition affecting your stomach, oesophagus or bowel, for example Crohn's disease,
ulcerative colitis?
A: Yes
 Please select from this list. Only select other when you cannot find a match.
A: Other digestive condition
 Name of the medical condition or illness
A: Haemorrhoid
 How long ago was this first suffered or diagnosed?
A: discovered a few days ago - just gets discomfort when sits down - doesn't need to see a
doctor as is going to get over the counter cream
 Please give details, including dates and results, of any tests or investigations for this.
A: discovered a few days ago - just gets discomfort when sits down - doesn't need to see a
doctor as is going to get over the counter cream
 Please give details of any treatment you have had, or are having, for this.
A: discovered a few days ago - just gets discomfort when sits down - doesn't need to see a
doctor as is going to get over the counter cream
 Please give details of any time off your normal work or daily activities you have had for this.
A: discovered a few days ago - just gets discomfort when sits down - doesn't need to see a
doctor as is going to get over the counter cream
 Please give details of when you last suffered any symptoms and whether you are fully
recovered.
A: discovered a few days ago - just gets discomfort when sits down - doesn't need to see a
doctor as is going to get over the counter cream
 Have you another condition or illness to tell us about under this heading?
A: No
L&G added that Mr S had been referred to a gastroenterologist before he applied for this 
policy, and if it had been made aware of this the application wouldve been postponed until 
the investigations had been completed. It added that Mr S wasnt discharged before he was 
later diagnosed with adenocarcinoma in April 2020. So, it wouldnt have offered Mr S a 
policy. 
Mrs S remained unhappy, so she made a complaint to this service. She said Mr S was 
honest when he completed the application with his broker and that the application came at 
an emotional time for Mr S because of her health issues and that this situation was also due 
to L&Gs negligence in not querying the answers Mr S gave on the application. 
Our investigator didnt think the complaint should be upheld. He said the above questions 
shouldve been answered differently by Mr S and if they had been, L&G wouldnt have 
offered him a policy. The investigator said that even though a broker obtained the 
information from Mr S and completed the application form on his behalf, this didnt change 
his opinion that it was Mr Ss responsibility to check the application form. And if Mrs S was 
unhappy with the way the broker had completed the application form, she should raise a 
separate complaint about that to the broker. 
The investigator added that Mrs S hadnt raised a complaint about the way L&G had 
communicated with her during the claim. So, this would have to be raised as a separate 
complaint. 
Mrs S disagreed and has asked for an Ombudsmans review. She said that a recording of 
the conversation between the late Mr S and the broker had been obtained and said this 
showed Mr S didnt provide misleading information on his application. And that L&G 
shouldve asked for more information in relation to some of the vague answers the broker 
had written on the application form on Mr Ss behalf. Mrs S added that a letter in May 2019 
from Mr Ss GP provided evidence that the GP was reassured Mr S didnt have cancer and 
this wouldve likely been passed on to Mr S. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.Having done so, Im afraid Im not upholding it. I know this will be very disappointing for 
Mrs S and her family. Id like to assure her I havent made this decision lightly. In doing so, 
Ive looked at and considered all the evidence Mrs S and L&G have provided to this service 
 and Id like to assure her that if I dont mention a particular point, its not because I havent 
considered it, but because Im focusing instead on whats important to the outcome. 
Where the evidence is incomplete, inconclusive, or contradictory (as it is here), I have to 
make my decision on the balance of probabilities  that is, what I consider is more likely than 
not to have happened in the light of the available evidence and the wider surrounding 
circumstances. 
In reviewing this case Ive considered the Consumer Insurance (Disclosure and 
Representations) Act 2012 (CIDRA), which mirrors this services longstanding approach to 
cases like this. It sets out the roles and duties of the consumer and insurer when entering 
into an insurance contract. CIDRA places the consumer under a duty to take reasonable 
care not to make a misrepresentation (i.e. to say something untrue or misleading), provided 
the insurer has asked a clear question. If the consumer doesnt take reasonable care to 
answer questions accurately, CIDRA sets out the remedies available to the insurer.
So, the issues for me to consider are whether Mr S misrepresented his medical history when 
taking out this policy. And if so, L&G needs to show it wouldnt have offered the policy at all 
or on different terms. 
Was there a misrepresentation in relation to Mr Ss medical history?
CIDRA requires me to consider whether a reasonable person wouldve made 
L&G aware of Mr Ss medical history when applying for the policy. Having done so, I dont 
think a reasonable person wouldve forgotten about the referrals when completing the 
application and considering the questions L&G asked. 
Ive considered all the questions and answers Mr S gave here and compared these to the 
medical evidence both sides have provided to this service. 
In February 2019 Mr Ss Colorectal Consultant said he needed to have a flexible 
sigmoidoscopy. This took place in March 2019 and biopsies were taken with indications on 
the report being noted as inflammatory bowel disease surveillance. In May 2019 Mr Ss GP 
was told a follow up appointment was being arranged with the Colorectal Consultant. The 
consultant wrote a letter in May 2019 to say there wasnt any sign of cancer following the 
sigmoidoscopy and that Mr S would be seen further to see how he could be helped with the 
symptoms. A further letter was sent to Mr Ss GP from his Urologist on 13 July 2019 to 
confirm that Mr S was awaiting a further appointment from the gastrointestinal team. 
In August 2019 Mr S was seen by a Consultant Gastroenterologist who mentioned Mr S had 
been suffering with pain and other symptoms for several months and he was noted as 
needing an MRI. Mr S had further appointments later that year until he was referred for 
surgery in early 2020 and sadly diagnosed with adenocarcinoma in 2020. 
I note Mrs S said that the letters from Mr Ss GP in May 2019 show that Mr S was likely told 
he didnt have cancer and that he was distracted emotionally at the time of the application 
due to Mrs Ss health. Ive considered this very carefully. But Im satisfied that Mr S didnt 
answer the questions correctly given his medical history and that he was reasonably aware 
of this information at the time he applied for this policy. 
I think its worth adding here that despite Mr S being told in May 2019 he didnt have cancer 
that doesnt persuade me that the questions were answered correctly. Thats because Im satisfied the questions were sufficiently clear to allow Mr S to answer them differently. L&G 
didnt want to only know if there had been a cancer diagnosis. It asked about any symptoms, 
tests, diagnosis, treatments and whether he was fully recovered. And from his medical 
history, Im satisfied there was more information that reasonably shouldve been provided 
here. 
I note Mrs S says the broker is responsible for the repetitive answers that were given to L&G 
here. But I agree with the investigator that the onus was still on Mr S to check the answers 
he gave and there were suitable warnings given by L&G to him about the importance of 
doing so. Ive seen on the file that Mrs S has a recording of a call with the broker which took 
place around the time of the application. But I cant consider that here because that needs to 
be brought as a separate complaint against the broker. I can only assess the information that 
was provided to L&G and whether L&G can reject the claim under CIDRA on the grounds of 
misrepresentation. 
Im also not satisfied that it was up to L&G to make further enquiries of Mr S and his broker 
due to the repetitive answers given on the application form. L&G was entitled to consider the 
information about Mr Ss history on the application as accurate, and part of the application 
process is to request that the information provided is checked, but no further amendments 
were made. I note Mr Ss application was also completed with details about his other 
medical history. So, I dont think it was unreasonable for L&G to conclude the information put 
on the application form was accurate.  
As a result, I believe Mr S did make a misrepresentation here. 
What would L&G have done differently? 
L&G has treated this misrepresentation as reckless. But its applied a careless remedy under 
CIDRA, which is to cancel the policy and refund the premiums. Im not satisfied Mr S 
deliberately or recklessly misrepresented his medical history. So, I believe its appropriate to 
categorise his actions as careless here. And under CIDRA, when its found a consumer has 
made a careless misrepresentation, L&G can take whatever action it wouldve taken if the 
correct answers had been given at the point of application. 
Based on what we know about Mr Ss referral and investigations at the time of the 
application, L&G has provided its underwriting criteria which shows if it was made aware of 
this, it wouldnt have offered a policy until an outcome was known. And because it was the 
investigations that led to the cancer diagnosis, this means L&G wouldnt have offered Mr S 
any cover here. 
The investigator has correctly pointed out that the way L&G considered and corresponded 
with Mrs S during the claim hasnt been mentioned in L&Gs complaint response, so I cant 
see that its had an opportunity to consider those points. As a result, I cant fairly comment 
on that here. Mrs S will have to raise that as a separate issue with L&G if she wishes. 
I know my decision leaves Mrs S in a difficult position following her loss and her current state 
of health. Im sorry to disappoint her, but overall, I dont think shes been treated unfairly. So, 
Im not going to ask L&G to take any further action here. 
My final decision
For the reasons given above, Im not upholding this complaint.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask the estate of Mr S 
to accept or reject my decision before 11 March 2022.
 
Mark Dobson
Ombudsman