DRN-2500533
The complaint
D complains that TSB Bank plc sent it another customers account statements. D is 
represented by Mr R.
What happened
Mr R says he asked TSB for Ds last 12 months account statements for preparation of a tax 
return. He says TSB sent him another customers statements and meant he had to pay his 
accountant a cancellation fee of £84. Mr R says TSB hasnt handled this matter 
appropriately and questions if Ds statements were sent to another customer. 
TSB accepts it made a mistake and has paid £35 compensation for the inconvenience and 
£2 call costs. It says it will pay for the cancelled appointment.
Mr R brought the complaint to us and our investigator upheld it and recommended TSB 
increase its compensation offer. The investigator accepted the invoice for £84 may have 
been sent incorrectly to TSB but thought Mr R had been caused stress by what took place 
and that TSB hadnt told Mr R that his statements hadnt been sent to someone else. The 
investigator thought TSB should pay a further £50 compensation.
TSB doesnt accept that view and says the invoice was sent using an incorrect e-mail and 
says the compensation its offered is appropriate. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so I uphold this complaint but for slightly different reasons to those of the 
investigator and I will explain why.
Im satisfied this is a complaint by D which of course is a company. It follows that I cant 
consider the impact any mistakes may have had on Mr R or consider if he was caused 
distress and inconvenience as a result of what took place. But I can consider the impact 
what took place on D.
Im satisfied that TSB made a mistake and sent the wrong account statements to D. I accept 
that as a result D was caused inconvenience and that resulted in a cancellation fee of £84. I 
find that TSB has fairly agreed to pay that and said that it would do so in its final response 
letter. I accept there may have been an issue over the e-mail address that the invoice was 
sent to, but I think the important issue is that TSB will pay for it.
I appreciate Mr Rs concern about Ds account statement being sent elsewhere but that is 
not something I can consider as I dont think there is any evidence of that. And I have to 
consider what did happen.
The key question is the level of compensation. I have explained why I cant fairly consider 
the impact on Mr R personally. But I dont think TSBs offer goes far enough as I accept D 
was caused inconvenience. Im satisfied that a further appointment would have to have been 
made with the accountant and that would have let to further inconvenience. So, I think the 
fairest approach would be for TSB to pay a further £50 compensation.  
Putting things right
TSB should pay for the missed appointment fee of £84 and pay a further £50 compensation 
to D.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint and order TSB Bank plc to pay D £134 
compensation.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask D to accept or 
reject my decision before 28 February 2021.
 
David Singh
Ombudsman