DRN-4501204
The complaint
Miss H has complained about her car insurer Advantage Insurance Company Limited, she 
feels it treated her poorly following an accident, as well as paying her an unreasonable 
settlement for the total loss of her car.
What happened
Miss H had an accident on 17 March 2023. She made a claim to Advantage. Initially there 
was some difficulty in it providing her with a hire car. She then wasnt contacted by solicitors 
as Advantage had promised. Advantages salvage agents also caused Miss H worry as she 
understood shed have to collect her items in the car within 48 hours. When she called 
Advantage, it was able to explain that she just had to make an appointment for collection. 
But when she went to collect her belonging, she was sent to the wrong location.
On 30 March 2023 Advantage called Miss H. It said it had used two motor valuation guides 
to find a market value for her car (which she was aware was a total loss). It said the market 
value was £8,359.90, and this is what it would pay her in settlement of her claim. Payment 
was made shortly thereafter. Miss H was unhappy. She said shed bought the car just a year 
before (for around £16,000) and it was in excellent condition  she expected it would cost 
her at least £12,000 to replace it. Especially given hers had featured a touchscreen 
navigation and camera display an expensive adaptation shed required for a back issue.
Advantage reviewed the settlement. It said it would increase the market value to £10,509. 
On 14 April 2023 Advantage paid Miss H the difference in the two market values, £2,149.10. 
In response to concerns Miss H had raised with it about the service received, Advantage 
apologised and paid Miss H £60 compensation.  
Miss H remained unhappy. She complained to the Financial Ombudsman Service. She said 
she was unhappy about the settlement  all the cars she found for sale were around 
£13,000. But also the amount of stress shed been caused trying to resolve everything, not 
only in the aftermath of the accident but also during a period of exams. She explained that 
around mid-April, when a hire car was taken back, shed had to take out a bank loan to 
replace her car.
Our Investigator noted the two motor valuation guides referenced by Advantage had 
returned market values of £10,147 and £10,870. He reviewed a further two guides. They 
returned values of £11,297 and £11,673. He noted £10,509 was within the range of all the 
guides. So he felt the settlement had been fair. He noted Advantage had paid Miss H £60 
compensation for upset and felt that was reasonable.
Miss H remained unhappy. She said she felt the motor valuation guides were outdated, that 
they hadnt kept up with current trends. She felt it had also been unfair for Advantage to 
have offered such a low sum initially, increasing it by over £2,000 only when she 
complained. Miss H said Advantage hadnt even replaced her childs car seat. She remained 
unhappy about the service shed received. Miss Hs complaint was referred to me for an 
Ombudsmans consideration.
I was minded to uphold the complaint as I thought Advantages settlement was unfair and 
unreasonable. I felt it should pay a further £1,010 for the car, some interest and a further 
£190 compensation (where £60 had already been paid). I felt it should settle or consider a 
claim for a childs car seat too. So I issued a provisional decision to explain my views.
My provisional findings were:
Childs car seat
Im going to deal with this item first as its not one thats received much attention to date. 
I need to acknowledge that Miss H did not raise this initially in her complaint to us. And its 
not something Advantage has commented on before. Strictly speaking then my response 
should be to require Miss H to go back to Advantage with a view to letting it sort things out. 
But, in the circumstances here, I dont think thats really fair on either party and as this 
seems a relatively simple matter it makes sense for me to deal with it here, within this 
provisional decision. Which will hopefully result, following my final decision, in the whole 
matter concluding. I think thats particularly important as I can see the accident was quite 
traumatic for Miss H. 
Miss H has said that Advantage hasnt paid for her childs car seat. I note the policy wording 
Advantage provided does say:
If you have a childs car seat or booster seat fitted in your Car and you make a claim under 
sections 1 or 2 of this Policy your Insurer will pay for the cost of a replacement of a similar 
model and standard, even if theres no apparent damage, up to the value of £300 per 
incident. You should provide proof of purchase of the original item or evidence of 
ownership. 
If Miss H has provided evidence, I see no good reason why Advantage hasnt settled this 
aspect of the claim. I intend to require it to do just that. If evidence is still required, Miss H 
should provide that and Advantage will have to consider it. As Im only offering judgement on 
this in order to round things up, Im not going to award interest or compensation. If 
Advantage thinks its settled this issue, or wants to explain why it feels it has no liability to do 
so, it should let me know in response to this provisional decision. Ill consider its reply and if 
my view changes, Ill let the parties know before making a final decision.   
Market Value
I see Advantage made quite a low settlement to Miss H initially. From the motor valuation 
guides its shared with us, I see that figure seems to have come from the market valuation 
generated for trade sales. Advantage should be aware that the Financial Ombudsman 
Service does not find it fair, where someone isnt a motor trader and doesnt have a motor 
trade policy, for their insurer to base market valuations on trade sale values. Miss H would 
never have been able to replace her car for that price. She shouldnt have had to complain 
and wait for a review in order to be paid in line with retail market values. That initial 
settlement, in my view, was entirely unfair and unreasonable.
Advantages further market value was based on two valuation guides. But there are four 
generally relied upon in the insurance industry. And the Financial Ombudsman Service, 
recognising the currently competitive second-hand car sales market, also finds it fair to take 
adverts for car sales into account. By themselves adverts are often not reliable sources for 
determining market valuations. But, particularly where there is a spread in values they can 
be useful in showing whether all of the guide values are likely reliable. Given the significant 
difference even in only the two valuations Advantage returned, I think it should have 
reviewed current sale adverts and sought values from the other motor guides to ensure a fair 
market value was set for Miss Hs car. Ive not seen the adverts Miss H found for cars for sale like hers. But, Ive reviewed some 
on-line adverts for cars similar to Miss Hs, to see what those details tell me about the guide 
values. In this case, Im currently minded to think the adverts show that the lowest value 
returned by Advantage, £10,147 is likely an unreliable indicator of the market value for 
Miss Hs car. So I intend to discount it. Thats because all of the adverts Ive seen for cars 
similar to Miss Hs are priced within or above the range of the three upper guide values. 
In reviewing adverts for cars for sale like Miss Hs I didnt find that many comparable cars 
when focussing on the key features that often so greatly affect value; age and mileage. 
There were four; two priced within the range of the three remaining guide values and two at 
£11,975 and £12,495 respectively. With such a small sample, set against three motor guide 
valuations which are all similar (and bearing in mind those values are returned based on a 
much larger data pool) I cant reasonably say the guide values are wholly unreliable. But the 
small number of cars available for sale, similar to Miss Hs, as well as the prices being 
sought, does make me think that advertised sale values should reasonably be factored into 
the market value assessment. 
An average of the upper two advertised prices is £12,235. The values presented by the 
lower two advertised prices are already accounted for by the lower two of the three guide 
prices Im taking into account. So its not fair to double count them by including them in the 
advert average. Ive then set the sum of £12,235 alongside the motor guide values of 
£10,870, £11,297 and £11,673. The average (rounded up) of all four of them is £11,519. 
I think thats a fair and reasonable market value for Miss Hs car. 
Advantage paid Miss H a total of £10,509 in settlement. So it will now need to pay her 
£1,010, the difference between the sum it paid and what Ive found to be the fair and 
reasonable market value for her car, £11,519.
I say that knowing that Miss Hs car had a touchscreen navigation and camera display. 
I know that feature was important to Miss H. And that if fitted as an optional extra to a new 
car of this model it would be quite an expensive addition. However, optional extras like this 
(optional for the car, I know Miss H required it) dont necessarily add or secure extra value in 
second-hand sales. In my review I havent found anything which makes me thinks an 
additional sum should be factored in for the touchscreen feature in order to reach a fair and 
reasonable market value for Miss Hs car.
Interest
Given Advantages initial unfair and very low settlement, Im going to require it to pay Miss H 
interest* on the sum of £3,159.10 (£2,149.10 and £1,010) from the date it paid her £8,359.90 
until the date it paid the additional £2,149.10. Then interest on the sum of £1,010 until the 
date it pays her this remaining sum. This to make up for Miss H not having had those funds 
at her disposal.
Im aware that Miss H took a bank loan to purchase a new car. I think that when she did that 
Advantage had paid her £10,509. That wasnt all she was reasonably due, but it was most of 
it. Such that I dont think Advantages unreasonable settlement caused her to need to take a 
loan to finance a new car. So I wont make it pay interest at the loan rate, just the usual rate 
awarded by the Financial Ombudsman Service of 8% simple per year.  
Service
I can see that Miss H had a number of issues during the course of the claim. Ive detailed the 
unfair settlements above which I accept caused Miss H upset and worry. I see she also had 
to follow up and chase Advantage on the hire car, solicitors and collecting her belongings. 
I note shes explained that regarding collecting her belongings, she was sent to the wrong 
place. Which was all the more difficult and frustrating for her because she was relying on a friend to take her. I think she had to call Advantage more than she should have had to if the 
claim had been handled well, with calling impacting her over a number of days and at an 
already busy and stressful time for her. Im satisfied that a total of £250 compensation is 
fairly and reasonably due (with Advantage already having paid £60 of that sum). 
Miss H didnt respond to my provisional decision. Advantage said it hadnt had a claim for a 
car seat from Miss H  but it would consider one if she sent it details. Advantage though 
disagreed with what Id said about the cars market value and the award Id made. 
Advantage said it didnt think the lowest of the values it had initially found (£10,147) should 
be discounted. It said it had run a further valuation which generated a sum of £10,434  
although it hadnt used the actual date of loss to generate that. It said that as that value is 
more in-line with both its original values (£10,147 and £10,870) than the adverts found, the 
adverts should be discounted. Although it also said that the two lower priced adverts found 
supported that the values it had obtained could be relied upon.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive noted the detail now provided by Advantage. But it hasnt explained how it has come 
about this valuation. Or why it didnt use this source initially. It has said though that it hasnt 
used the date of loss to generate this value. I note it appears to be presented by the same 
company that provided the valuation of £11,673 to our Investigator. With the valuation of 
£11,673 having taken into account the date of loss, Im most satisfied that its likely the most 
reliable value of the two. So whilst Ive considered the new valuation provided by Advantage, 
it hasnt changed my view on what I think is the fair and reasonable outcome for the 
complaint.
I appreciate that adverts only show an asking price. Which is why adverts alone are not 
usually relied upon. As I said provisionally, the adverts are used alongside the guides. Im 
satisfied that my provisional findings are fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this 
complaint.
Advantages objection has not persuaded me to amend my view on the complaint. Miss H 
did not respond. I note Advantage did not object to my compensation award and it has 
agreed to consider a claim for the car seat. So Ive no need to review these complaint points 
further. I can confirm that my provisional findings, along with my comments here, are the 
findings of this, my final decision.  
  
Putting things right
I require Advantage to:
Consider Miss Hs claim for a childs car seat. 
And pay Miss H:
£1,010 in final settlement of her total loss vehicle damage claim.
An amount equivalent to interest* on the sum of £3,149.10 from the date it paid her 
£8,359.90 until the date it paid the additional £2,149.10.
An amount equivalent to interest* on the sum of £1,010 from the date it paid her 
£2,149.10 until the date it pays her £1,010.
A further £190 compensation, where my total award is £250 but £60 has been paid.*Interest is at a rate of 8% simple per year and paid on the amounts specified and from/to 
the dates stated. HM Revenue & Customs may require Advantage to take off tax from this 
interest. If asked, it must give Miss H a certificate showing how much tax its taken off.
My final decision
I uphold this complaint. I require Advantage Insurance Company Limited to provide the 
redress set out above at Putting things right.
 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss H to accept 
or reject my decision before 4 January 2024.
 
Fiona Robinson
Ombudsman