DRN-2573786
The complaint
Mr M complains Gain Credit LLC (trading as Lending Stream) lent to him irresponsibly.
What happened
Mr M took twelve instalment loans between March 2013 and August 2014. Ive included
some of the information weve received about these loans in the table below.
Loan 
NumberLoan Amount Received Date Actual Repayment Date
1 £140 21/03/2013 28/03/2013
2 £150 05/04/2013 24/04/2013
3 £250 10/04/2013 24/04/2013
4 £330 25/06/2013 18/07/2013
5 £440 19/07/2013 15/08/2013
6 £100 02/09/2013 12/09/2013
7 £150 20/12/2013 23/12/2013
8 £150 14/02/2014 02/04/2014
9 £410 04/04/2014 16/04/2014
10 £80 20/05/2014 19/06/2014
11 £350 01/06/2014 19/06/2014
12 £580 16/08/2014 *
*when we received the complaint Lending Stream told us there was an outstanding balance 
for loan 12 which had been sold to a third party to collect. 
Our adjudicator didnt think there was enough evidence to say Lending Stream was wrong to 
have granted the first eight instalment loans. But he thought the remaining instalment loans 
(loans 9 to 12) shouldnt have been given. 
Lending Stream agreed with the assessment. In line with the adjudicators recommendation 
it agreed to calculate whether any refund of interest would be payable and to remove the 
loans from Mr Ms credit file. 
Lending Stream said that no refund would be payable to Mr M because the outstanding 
principal for loan 12 exceeded the refund of interest. But Mr M would be left with a small 
balance to repay for loan 12, once the calculations had been carried out, and this didnt 
include any repayments Mr M may have made to the third party. 
Mr M disagreed with the adjudicators assessment. In summary, he says that:
he had bad credit and was in a payday loan cycle from pretty much the very start of 
his relationship with Lending Stream  so the offer shouldnt be just for loans 9 to 12 
and
there isnt an outstanding balance for loan 12. 
As no agreement has been reached, the case has been passed to me for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about short-term lending - including all of
the relevant rules, guidance and good industry practice - on our website.
As Lending Stream has agreed loans 9 to 12 shouldnt have been lent, I no longer think that 
I need to make a finding about them. So, this decision will focus on whether Lending Stream 
did anything wrong when it lent loans 1 to 8 as well as what I think it should do to put things 
right for loans 9 to 12 considering, for example, Mr Ms repayment history. 
Lending Stream had to assess Mr Ms applications for loans 1 to 8 to check if he could afford 
to pay back the amounts hed borrowed without undue difficulty. It needed to do this in a way 
which was proportionate to the circumstances. Lending Streams checks could have taken 
into account a number of different things, such as how much was being lent, the size of the 
repayments and Mr Ms income and expenditure. With this in mind, I think in the early stages 
of a lending relationship, less thorough checks might have been proportionate. 
But certain factors might suggest Lending Stream should have done more to establish that 
any lending was sustainable for Mr M. These factors include: 
Mr M having a low income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make any loan 
repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income); 
The amounts to be repaid being especially high (reflecting that it could be more 
difficult to meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income); 
Mr M having a large number of loans and/or having these loans over a long period of 
time (reflecting the risk that repeated refinancing may signal that the borrowing had 
become, or was becoming, unsustainable);
Mr M coming back for loans shortly after previous borrowing had been repaid (also 
suggestive of the borrowing becoming unsustainable).
There may even come a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly 
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable for Mr M.
At the time loans 1 to 8 were lent, Lending Stream was regulated by the Office of Fair 
Trading (OFT). The OFT required businesses to lend responsibly, this meant Lending 
Stream needed to check that Mr M could afford to repay his loans sustainably.
The guidance states that creditors should take reasonable steps to assess borrowers likely 
ability to be able to meet repayments under the credit agreement in a sustainable manner. 
And it states that this is likely to involve more than solely assessing the likelihood of the 
borrower being able to repay the credit in question. 
Ive considered all the arguments, evidence and information provided in this context, and 
thought about what this means for Mr Ms complaint.loans 1 to 3
These loans were relatively modest, ranging between £140 and £250. I can see that loan 3 
was taken out before loan 2 was repaid but the overall highest repayment that Mr M needed 
to repay each month didnt seem to be particularly concerning. 
Lending Stream asked Mr M about his income, normal expenditure and his credit expenses, 
so hed been given the opportunity to declare expenses for all his credit commitments. I think 
at this early stage in the lending relationship Lending Stream was entitled to rely on what   
Mr M declared. 
Whilst Mr Ms income appeared quite modest (£1,000), the expenditure he declared for 
these loan applications left him with at a disposable income of at least £500. So, I think the 
highest monthly repayment he needed to pay for these loans (around £208) wouldve 
seemed affordable and sustainable.
Lending Stream also completed a credit check for loans 1 to 3, which Ive seen, but this 
didnt reveal any adverse information or outstanding credit of any significance. So these 
results wouldnt have led Lending Stream to either ask Mr M for more information or to have 
declined his loan applications.   
I think its important to say that I dont think Lending Stream at this stage was required to 
complete a full review of Mr Ms circumstances. Furthermore, the information a consumer 
might see, when they request a copy of their credit file, might be very different to that seen 
by a lender. A lender might only see a small portion of the credit file, or some data might be 
missing or anonymised, or the data might not be up to date. So, this may explain any 
differences between the information Lending Stream saw and what Mr M says shouldve 
been seen. 
Considering everything, I dont think Lending Stream was wrong to have provided these 
three loans.  
loans 4 to 8
By loan 4 there was an increase in lending to £350 and it was the fourth loan in around three 
months. And Mr Ms declared income remained quite modest. Whilst the loans appeared 
affordable based on the declared income and expenditure, I think these circumstances 
indicated that Lending Stream ought to have completed a full review of Mr Ms financial 
circumstances. This wouldve enabled Lending Stream to gain a full understanding of his 
actual financial position to ensure further loans were affordable and able to be repaid 
sustainably. 
There was a break of two to three months between loans 6 and 7 as well as loans 7 and 8. 
But I dont think fewer checks shouldve been completed considering the previous lending 
history.  
The information weve been provided with, though, doesnt indicate Mr M wouldnt have been 
able to repay loans 4 to 8 sustainably had further checks been completed. I can see that Mr 
M was borrowing from another lender during this period, but from what Ive seen it doesnt 
appear any of those loans were outstanding at the point loans 4 to 8 were given by Lending 
Stream. So, I dont think this was enough to suggest he was in financial difficulties and 
unable to manage his money.  The credit check data that Lending Stream gathered also didnt suggest that Mr M was 
struggling financially or was, for example, reliant on other forms of high cost credit. 
Mr Ms repayments for loans 6, 7 and 8 (between £51 and £81) were also lower than the 
previous three loans. And with the break in lending before loans 7 and 8 were given, these 
circumstances dont suggest to me that Mr Ms lending history was indicative of repayment 
of these later loans being unsustainable.   
From what Ive seen, loans 4 to 8 seemed to be affordable and sustainable, so I dont think 
Lending Stream was wrong to have provided them.
As this is the case, Im not upholding Mr Ms complaint about loans 1 to 8. I appreciate this
will be disappointing for Mr M. But I hope that hell understand why Ive reached the findings
that I have. 
Putting things right
Lending Stream accepts that loans 9 -12 shouldnt have been lent. And it has therefore 
agreed to refund the interest that Mr M has paid towards these loans together with 8% 
simple interest and to offset this amount against the outstanding principal sum he borrowed 
for loan 12 (£580). I think this is fair as wed expect Mr M to repay the principal as he had the 
benefit of it. Lending Stream has also agreed to remove these loans from Mr Ms credit file 
which I think is reasonable
. 
Mr M has suggested that he repaid loan 12 in full although Ive not seen evidence that this 
has happened. To be clear, in completing the refund of interest outlined above, Lending 
Stream should buy back the outstanding debt if it can or, if it isnt able to, it should
liaise with the new debt owner to achieve the same result. This is to ensure that all the 
payments made by Mr M are considered in completing the calculation. Itd be helpful if 
Lending Stream provided a breakdown of payments  the ones it has collected and any paid 
to the third party. 
So, to be clear, Lending Stream, as it has agreed to do, should carry out the following;
a) Lending Stream should add together the total of the repayments made by Mr M 
towards interest, fees and charges on all upheld loans without an outstanding 
balance.
b) Lending Stream should calculate 8% simple interest* on the individual payments 
made by Mr M which were considered as part of A, calculated from the date Mr M 
originally made the payments, to the date of settlement.
c) Lending Stream should remove all interest, fees and charges from the balance on 
any upheld outstanding loans, and treat any repayments made by Mr M as though 
they had been repayments of the principal on all outstanding loans. If this results in 
Mr M having made overpayments then you should refund these overpayments with 
8% simple interest* calculated on the overpayments, from the date the 
overpayments would have arisen, to the date of settlement. Lending Stream should 
then refund the amounts calculated in A and B and move to step E
d) If there is still an outstanding balance, then the amounts calculated in A and B 
should be used to repay any balance remaining on outstanding loans. If this results 
in a surplus, then the surplus should be paid to Mr M. However, if there is still an 
outstanding balance then Lending Stream should try and come to a mutually 
agreeable way forward. But Id remind Lending Stream of its obligation to treat Mr M 
fairly. e) The overall pattern of Mr M borrowing for loans 9 -12 means any information 
recorded about them is adverse, so Lending Stream should remove these loans 
entirely from Mr Ms credit file. Lending Stream dont have to remove loan 12 from 
Mr Ms credit file until these have been repaid, but you should still remove any 
adverse information recorded about these loans.
*HM Revenue & Customs requires you to deduct tax from this interest. You should give 
Mr M a certificate showing how much tax has been deducted if he asks for one. 
My final decision
My final decision is that the offer made by Lending Stream is a fair resolution to the 
complaint and it doesnt need to do anything more than it has already agreed to.
 
Gain Credit LLC should put things right for Mr M as set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 13 May 2021.
 
Robert Walker
Ombudsman