DRN-2541393
The complaint
Mr S complains that a car that was supplied to him under a hire purchase agreement with 
Advantage Finance Limited wasnt of satisfactory quality. Hes being helped with his 
complaint by a representative.
What happened
A used car was supplied to Mr S under a hire purchase agreement with Advantage Finance 
that he signed in May 2020. The car was repaired a few days later and Mr S complained to 
the dealer later that month about an oil leak. The dealer arranged for the car to be inspected 
by an independent expert who said that the car was devoid of engine lubricant leaks and 
that the car had been repaired by a third party which absolved the dealer of any liability.
Mr S then complained to Advantage Finance and it arranged for the car to be inspected by 
another independent expert in July 2020. The inspection report said that the car had an oil 
seepage that would benefit from repair and was considered a pre-existing condition, an oil 
seepage had been repaired at the front of the engine which had been successful and the car 
met minimum MOT standards and its condition was consistent with its age and mileage. 
Mr S says that the car developed an electrical fault and broke down later that month so was 
recovered to a garage which identified a number of issues with the car and it and hasnt 
been driven since. Advantage Finance didnt uphold Mr Ss complaint so he complained to 
this service.
A third independent inspection of the car took place in took place in December 2020. The car 
couldnt be started, the report said that the oil seepage remained within the engine and that 
The current issues could not have been present at the point of sale.
Our investigator recommended that Mr Ss complaint should be upheld. She described in 
detail what had taken place and thought that the car wasnt of satisfactory quality when it 
was supplied to Mr S and that it would be fair if Advantage Finance covered the cost of the 
repair of the oil leaks. She recommended that it should collect the car and carry out repairs 
to the oil leak (and if the repairs failed Mr S should be entitled to reject the car); inspect the 
electrical issue, identify the fault and determine whether it wouldve been present or 
developing at the time of sale; pay £100 to Mr S for the stress and inconvenience caused by 
the ongoing faults with the car; refund Mr Ss monthly instalments from the end of July 2020 
to account for the time the car has been off the road; refund repair costs totalling £255.92; 
and remove any adverse information from his credit file.
Mr Ss representative, on his behalf, says that they really do appreciate the investigators 
recommendations and hope that Advantage Finance accepts them  but it has asked for this 
complaint to be considered by an ombudsman. It has responded to the investigators 
recommendations in detail and says, in summary, that: 
Mr S entered into the agreement of his own volition, choosing the dealer and car 
himself;
he wouldve had an understanding of how wear and tear would affect a car;
the May 2020 independent report explains quite clearly that there was no engine 
lubricant leak at that time;
the car has been inspected three times and been deemed to have been fit for sale; 
and
the independent experts have confirmed that the oil leak wasnt present when the car 
was initially inspected and is nothing more than in service wear that would be 
associated with the car.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the conclusions reached by the investigator for these reasons:
Advantage Finance, as the supplier of the car, was responsible for ensuring that it 
was of satisfactory quality when it was supplied to Mr S - whether or not it was of 
satisfactory quality at that time will depend on a number of factors, including the age 
and mileage of the car and the price that was paid for it;
the car that was supplied to Mr S was about eleven years old, had been driven for 
68,477 miles and had a price of £4,295;
satisfactory quality also covers durability which means that the components within 
the car must be durable and last a reasonable amount of time  but exactly how long 
that time is will also depend on a number of factors;
there was clearly an issue with a split air flow pipe on the car soon after it was 
supplied to Mr S  but that was dealt with by the dealer;
Mr S complained to the dealer about an oil leak about a week later and it arranged 
for the car to be inspected by an independent expert  but no fault was found;
Mr S took the car to another garage and it found an oil leak and Mr S paid for work to 
be done on the car;
he complained to Advantage Finance about the on-going oil leak and it arranged for 
another independent inspection of the car;
that inspection took place in July 2020 when the cars mileage was recorded as 
69,996 and an oil leak was identified  which it said would have been a pre-existing 
condition;
the car broke down later that month and was recovered to a garage which identified a 
number of electrical issues with the car and it hasnt been driven since;
a third independent inspection of the car took place in December 2020 - the car 
couldnt be started, the report said that the oil seepage remained within the engine 
and that The current issues could not have been present at the point of sale;
Mr S first complained to the dealer about an oil leak in May 2020  less than two 
weeks after the car had been supplied to him  he also complained about other 
issues;
the May 2020 inspection arranged by the dealer didnt find an oil leak but both 
inspections since then and the third party garage have found oil leaks on the car and 
I consider it to be more likely than not in these circumstances that the there was an 
oil leak present or developing when the car was supplied to Mr S;the car stopped working only about ten weeks after it was supplied to Mr S and he 
says that hes not used it since and a number of electrical faults with the car have 
been identified;
I consider it to be more likely than not that the car wasnt of satisfactory quality when 
it was supplied to Mr S  our investigator has recommended that the oil leak should 
be repaired and the electrical fault should be investigated  and Mr S has accepted 
those recommendations; and
I find that to be fair and reasonable in the circumstances and that Advantage Finance 
should take the actions set out below.
Putting things right
I find that Advantage Finance should arrange and pay for the oil leaks on the car to be 
repaired. I find that it should also arrange for the electrical issue to be investigated and the 
fault identified. I consider it to be unlikely that the electrical fault was present or developing 
when the car was supplied to Mr S but, if its found that it wouldve been present or 
developing at that time, I find that Advantage Finance should also arrange and pay for the 
electrical fault to be repaired. I consider it to be more likely than not that the electrical fault 
has developed since the car was supplied to Mr S and, if that is confirmed by the 
investigation, it will then be Mr Ss responsibility to arrange and pay for the electrical fault to 
be repaired.
Mr S hasnt been able to use the car since July 2020 and I find that it would be fair and 
reasonable for Advantage Finance to refund to him the monthly payments that hes made 
under the agreement since then, with interest. Mr S has incurred repair costs totalling 
£255.92 in relation to the oil leaks and I find that it would also be fair and reasonable for 
Advantage Finance to reimburse him for those costs, with interest.
These events will have caused distress and inconvenience for Mr S. I find that it would also 
be fair and reasonable for Advantage Finance to pay him £100 to compensate him for that 
distress and inconvenience. I also consider that it should remove any adverse information 
about the hire purchase agreement that its recorded on his credit file.
My final decision
My decision is that I uphold Mr Ss complaint and I order Advantage Finance Limited to:
1. Arrange and pay for the cars oil leaks to be repaired.
2. Arrange for the electrical issue to be investigated and the fault identified - with the 
fault dealt with as described above.
3. Refund to Mr S the monthly payments that hes made under the agreement for 
the period from July 2020, when he stopped using the car, until the oil leaks are 
repaired.
4. Pay £255.92 to Mr S to reimburse him for the repair costs that hes incurred.
5. Pay interest on the amounts at 3 and 4 above at an annual rate of 8% simple 
from the date of each payment to the date of settlement.
6. Remove any adverse information about the hire purchase agreement that its 
recorded on Mr Ss credit file.7. Pay £100 to Mr S to compensate him for the distress and inconvenience that hes 
been caused.
HM Revenue & Customs requires Advantage Finance to deduct tax from the interest 
payment referred to at 5 above. Advantage Finance must give Mr S a certificate showing 
how much tax its deducted if he asks it for one.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 21 June 2021.  
Jarrod Hastings
Ombudsman