DRN-4066987
Complaint
Mr L is unhappy that Santander UK Plc hasnt reimbursed him after he claimed that hed 
fallen victim to a scam. Mr L is represented, but for simplicitys sake Ive referred to him 
throughout the text of this decision.
Background
Mr L wanted to have home improvement works carried out. He contacted a particular 
contractor that had been informally recommended to him. The works were extensive and 
involved extending Mr Ls home into his garden. There were other supplementary pieces of 
work that needed to be completed to rewire the now extended ground floor and to preserve 
the structural integrity of the rest of the house.  
The contractor estimated the works would cost £21,000 and set out a schedule of payments. 
Mr L paid £4,000 upfront and in cash. Mid-way through the project, Mr L queried why so little 
work had been done. By this point, hed paid £19,600 and there didnt appear to be anything 
meaningful to show for it. The contractor said he was not willing to continue work unless he 
was paid more. He also claimed that there had been a verbal variation to his agreement with 
Mr L  and that the total price of the job was now around £29,000.
Mr L decided to not pay any more money to his contractor. Hes told us that he sought the 
advice of a different builder who told him that the works werent up to scratch. He needed to 
pay more to rectify the poor-quality work that had been carried out up until that point. This 
included a rewiring of the ground floor of Mr Ls home and steps to make sure the property 
was gas safe.
Mr L believed that hed fallen victim to a rogue trader scam. He contacted Santander. It 
looked into his concerns, but it didnt think it should be expected to reimburse him.  In its final 
response, it said:
 you have willingly made the payments therefore Santander cannot be held liable 
for any financial loss. In this case, this is not a true APP (authorised push payment) 
scam as there is no social engineering element involved  you were making a 
legitimate payment for building work and the builder exists. It is suggested that a 
small claims court is more appropriate in this case as this is a civil dispute.
Mr L disagreed with the response from Santander and so he referred his complaint to this 
service. It was looked at by an Investigator who upheld it. The Investigator didnt agree that 
this was a civil dispute. She said it was appropriate to treat this as a scam. Her primary 
reason for coming to that conclusion was that the receiving bank (i.e. the bank that operates 
the contractors account) confirmed that there has been another report of fraud against this 
customer.
She also said that Santander ought to have been concerned when Mr L visited a branch to 
withdraw £2,000 in cash on two consecutive days. This was atypical of his previous account 
usage and so shouldve been seen as a sign that he was at risk of financial harm due to 
fraud. She also looked at the later payments that were made by bank transfer. These are 
covered by the Lending Standards Boards Contingent Reimbursement Model (CRM) code. 
Under that code, Santander is expected to reimburse its customer where they fall victim to a 
scam, unless one of the exceptions to reimbursement apply. The Investigator was satisfied 
that no exceptions applied.
Santander disagreed with the Investigators opinion.  It argued that Mr L hadnt fallen victim 
to a scam but had a civil dispute with the contractor. As a result, it shouldnt be expected to 
reimburse him under the CRM code. It said that fundamentally Mr L was unhappy with the 
quality of the work performed by the contractor. It suggested that the extra £500 that the 
contractor requested from Mr L could simply have been a consequence of rising costs of raw 
materials.
Santander also contacted the contractors bank to confirm whether it had received fraud 
reports. It said that it had received one. It was disputed by the contractor who said he would 
provide photographic evidence to support his position. 
As Santander disagreed with the Investigators opinion, the case was passed to me to 
consider and come to a final decision.
Findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Cash withdrawals
The first payments Mr L made to the contractor were made in cash. Mr L visited a Santander 
branch to make withdrawals over the counter. The Investigator said that these cash 
withdrawals werent consistent with the way the account was normally used. Mr L should 
therefore have been asked about what his reasons were for withdrawing the funds to ensure 
that he wasnt at risk of financial harm. 
Im not persuaded by that argument. I dont think it wouldve been apparent to Santander 
that there was a fraud risk associated with two relatively small cash withdrawals. In addition 
to that, even if Santander had questioned the withdrawals with Mr L, I dont see what 
information it could have elicited from him that might have protected him from the losses he 
went on to suffer. From Santanders perspective, it had no way to know that there would be 
any problems with the agreement Mr L had reached with this contractor. For that reason, I 
dont think Santander did anything wrong in allowing Mr L to withdraw the £4,000 in cash 
and so I dont direct it to pay any refund in connection with it.
Bank transfers
The later payments made to the contractor were carried out by bank transfer. That means 
different rules and regulations are applicable. Since Mr L authorised these payments, he is 
presumed liable for them under the Payment Services Regulations 2017 (PSRs). However, 
Santander is a signatory to the CRM code. This code sets out a basis on which it should 
retrospectively reimburse its customer if they fall victim to an authorised push payment 
(APP) scam.
It only applies to APP scams which it defines in the following terms:
 a transfer of funds executed across Faster Payments, CHAPS or internal book 
transfer, authorised by the Customer in accordance with regulation 67 of the PSRs where . the Customer transferred funds to another person for what they believed 
were legitimate purposes but which were in fact fraudulent.
The code specifically excludes what it refers to as private civil disputes from its application. 
As an example of such a scenario, it says:
 where a Customer has paid a legitimate supplier for goods, services, or digital 
content, but has not received them, they are defective in some way, or the Customer 
is otherwise dissatisfied with the supplier.
Its quite clear that it doesnt protect customers in circumstances where they havent fallen 
victim to a scam. To find that Mr Ls losses fall within the ambit of the code, I need to be 
persuaded that its more likely than not that he was a victim of fraud. This isnt a 
straightforward question to address. I need to be persuaded that the contractor he hired had 
a settled intention to scam him. I cannot know what was in the minds of the contractor at the 
time. As a result, I must infer what his intentions were based on what the available evidence 
tells me.
This case is finely balanced. However, Im satisfied that the evidence supports the 
conclusion that this was a scam, rather than a purely civil dispute. The evidence shared by 
the receiving bank is relevant here. This shows that the contractor was accused of fraud by 
another client. He told his bank that he would demonstrate that this claim was bogus by 
providing photographic evidence. He never did so, and the receiving bank has since closed 
his account. I think a legitimate trader wouldve followed through and shared that evidence 
with their bank if they were able to do so. 
The report from the other client is also consistent with the means of operating that has been 
described to us by Mr L  in other words, taking payment up front and then not carrying out 
or only partially carrying out his side of the agreement. In addition, the evidence provided by 
Mr L suggests that the work carried out by this contractor was not merely low quality, but 
unsafe. 
Im therefore persuaded that the bank transfers Mr L paid to the contractor are covered by 
the CRM code. As a starting point, the code says that he should be reimbursed. However, 
Santander doesnt need to reimburse him if its able to show that an exception to 
reimbursement applies. As I understand it, no warnings were displayed during the payment 
process and so it cant be said that Mr L ignored an effective warning when making these 
payments. Ive also considered whether it can decline to reimburse him on the basis that he 
made these payments without a reasonable basis for believing that he was paying for 
genuine goods or services.
Im not convinced this exception is applicable here either. Mr L hired the contractor based on 
an informal recommendation and signed a clear agreement setting out what works were to 
be completed. I dont think he could have reasonably anticipated the difficulties with the 
contractor that were to follow. 
Final decision
For the reasons Ive set out above, I uphold this complaint. If Mr L accepts my decision, 
Santander UK plc should refund him £15,600. It should add interest to this sum at the rate 
applicable to the account from which the funds originated.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr L to accept or 
reject my decision before 22 June 2023.
 
James Kimmitt
Ombudsman