DRN-3893442
The complaint
The trustees of a trust, which Ill refer to as M, complain about Barclays Bank UK PLC 
closing Ms account without notice and about the time taken to sort things out.
What happened
The circumstances of this complaint are familiar to both parties, so I wont repeat them all 
here. In summary:
In 2021, Barclays conducted a review of accounts of deceased customers. In early 
June, it closed four accounts held under the personal record of an individual who had 
died in 2003. Barclays identified that these accounts should have been closed at the 
time and the funds transferred to two trusts: M and another trust, which I shall call L. 
However, the accounts had erroneously remained open and continued to be 
operational. The trustees of M and L had operated the accounts in the understanding 
that they were accounts of the trusts. At the time of closing the accounts, Barclays 
was unable to notify anyone as the address and contact details on record related to 
the individual.
The trustees of M and L became aware of Barclays actions in August 2021 when a 
VAT cheque was returned unpaid. 
When Barclays looked into things, it also found that accounts for M and L were both 
under the entity record of L, rather than under two separate trust entities. This also 
needed rectifying.
The process to rectify matters took several months, requiring the trustees to supply 
various documents, for example a death certificate and grant of probate form. By 
October, the trustees had provided all the required documents.
Through this period, Barclays put measures in place to enable the trusts to continue 
to operate, including providing a temporary overdraft facility. By these measures, 
both M and L were able to continue to make payments.
By the end of November 2021, Barclays had established the new accounts and 
recovered the funds, rectifying its previous errors.
The trustees of M and L complained to Barclays. They said it had taken them and their 
professional advisers many hours to resolve things, which warranted compensation. They 
said that, not only had they needed to source and provide documentation required by 
Barclays, they had also needed to engage with creditors and find alternative means by which 
to make some payments. 
Barclays upheld the complaint and offered the trustees £600 (relating to both M and L) as 
compensation for the inconvenience caused. 
Not content with this offer, the trustees brought their complaint to our service. 
We identified that there were two complainants (the trustees of M and L respectively), so set 
up two separate complaints. 
This decision relates to the complaint brought by the trustees of M. Barclays has offered 
£300 to resolve this complaint. A separate decision has been issued relating to the complaint 
brought by the trustees of L.
Our investigator gathered information from both the trustees of M and Barclays. He noted 
that matters had now been resolved but said that, in his view, Barclays should increase its 
compensation to M by £150 to £450.
The trustees of M didnt agree. They said it had taken them and their accountants, land 
agent and solicitors a substantial amount of time and effort to resolve matters, including 
arranging alternative payment methods to their creditors. They said the cost of this time 
significantly exceeded the £300 offered by Barclays. They also pointed to the reputational 
harm to M in its relationships with suppliers and HMRC, and the inconvenience and 
embarrassment caused to Ms beneficiaries from not receiving their funds to make 
payments.
As the matter could not be resolved, it was passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Its not in dispute that Barclays made mistakes in not identifying earlier that accounts which 
should have belonged to M and L had continued for many years to be under the entity record 
of a deceased individual, and that Ms other accounts were erroneously under L. Barclays 
has apologised for this. Barclays has rectified its mistakes by establishing the accounts 
under the right entities and recovering all funds. 
I have seen no evidence to indicate that these errors caused M any financial loss. However, 
the trustees of M were inconvenienced as they had to source and provide documents to 
Barclays and make suitable arrangements with Ms creditors. 
The trustees have also pointed to the reputational impact on Ms relationships with its 
suppliers and HMRC, and on Ms beneficiaries with their payees, but I have seen no 
evidence of financial loss arising in these relationships.
Therefore, the subject of this dispute, and the matter for me to decide, is the extent of 
inconvenience caused to the trustees of M, and the appropriate compensation Barclays 
should pay. 
The trustees of M said that, to resolve matters for both M and L, they had spent 10 to 15 
hours of their own time and incurred substantial fees from the trusts professional advisers. 
The trustees provided an estimate of their time cost based on an hourly rate. They also 
provided invoices from their land agent totalling over £2,500. The trustees said further costs 
had been incurred by the trusts solicitors and accountants, though these werent quantified.
In determining a fair amount of compensation payable by Barclays to M, I have noted:
Much of the effort required by the trustees to address Barclays requests would have 
been required at some point in time. The entity record of the deceased individual would have had to have been closed at some point and the accounts under that 
record reassigned, and subsequent changes in the circumstances of trustees or 
enhancements to Barclays regulatory checks would have required further action. 
Therefore, although Barclays should have identified the situation earlier, it is likely 
that, had it done so, it would simply have required the same documentation earlier. 
With no mistakes, M might not have had a payment returned or had to make 
alternative arrangements for some payments, but it is likely that the documentary 
burden on the trustees of M would have been similar. For this reason, while I do not 
doubt the burden on the trustees of M to resolve matters, I believe Barclays mistakes 
principally affected the timing of that burden rather than the extent of it. 
Although it took several months for the problems to be fully rectified, this process 
does not appear to have been unduly delayed. Having identified the problem, 
Barclays made clear to the trustees of M what it needed and, when these documents 
were provided in October, it conducted the necessary checks and processed the 
changes within around six weeks. This seems reasonable. I also note from Barclays 
records that Ms relationship manager remained closely involved throughout the 
process.
The trustees of M chose to appoint professional advisers to support them in providing 
the necessary documentation to Barclays, and to address issues with payments. 
However, this was their choice. Moreover, as I believe this work would have been 
needed at some point in time, as explained above, I believe that it was principally the 
timing of this cost which was in consequence to Barclays mistakes rather than the 
extent of it.
While I acknowledge the professional qualifications and experience of Ms trustees, 
this service does not typically award compensation for inconvenience based on a 
complainants or representatives hourly rate. Rather, we look at the overall impact 
that the mistake had.
In these circumstances, I do not believe that the amount of compensation sought by the 
trustees of M would be fair or reasonable.
Barclays has already offered to pay M £300 to compensate for the inconvenience caused to 
the trustees of M. This is a little lower than I would typically award in such circumstances. I 
believe this should be increased to £450, which is reasonable in the circumstances.
I acknowledge that the trustees of M will be disappointed with this decision given the time, 
effort and cost which has been required of them and their advisers to address matters. 
However, in the circumstances of this complaint and for the reasons set out, I believe this 
compensation is fair.
My final decision
I require Barclays Bank UK PLC to pay M £450.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask the trustees of M 
to accept or reject my decision before 6 March 2023.
 
Andy Wright
Ombudsman