DRN-4038933
The complaint
P, a limited company, complains that it found itself without insurance cover when its Director, 
and sole employee, Mr B, was injured at work which meant that P was unable to trade whilst 
he was off.
Mr B, on behalf of P says that McMorrow Murphy Limited trading as MCM Insurance (MCM) 
who brokered the sale of its insurance policies, told him P would be covered in these kind of 
circumstances, but that didnt bear out.
What happened
P has bought commercial insurance policies from MCM since 2013. In 2021 Mr B was 
injured at work. This meant he couldnt work for around six months. As Ps sole employee, 
Mr Bs injury meant P was unable to trade.
Following his injury, Mr B contacted MCM to make a claim on the employers liability section 
of Ps policy. MCM, as broker assessed the circumstances of the claim but didnt make a 
physical claim on the policy. Based on the information Mr B had provided them with, MCM 
said that the policy wouldnt engage because Mr B would need to make a legal claim against 
P but that would mean he would effectively be claiming against himself as Director of P- and 
the law didnt allow him to do that. They also said they didnt think a claim like Mr Bs would 
be successful in any event because he accepted he was aware of and responsible for Ps 
health and safety procedures but didnt comply with them, which caused his injury.
Mr B is unhappy. He says P lost a considerable amount of money during the time it couldnt 
trade and that he was assured by MCM that claims for personal injury like his would be 
covered when he was sold the employers liability cover. 
Our investigator considered Ps complaint concluded that it shouldnt be upheld. Mr B 
doesnt agree so the matter has been passed to me to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I am sorry to hear about the considerable financial impact Mr Bs inability to work whilst 
injured had on P, including the losses it suffered as a result of being unable to trade. But for 
broadly the same reasons the investigator set out, I wont be upholding this complaint. Ill 
explain why.
As matters stand, Mr B hasnt yet made a claim against any of Ps commercial insurances 
so the insurers for those policies have yet to consider them. What hes currently unhappy 
about is his brokers advice that his claim would not be covered.
I dont know what his commercial insurers would make of his claim so without him 
contacting them and obtaining a decision on cover, I cant say with certainty that the claim 
would be declined. What Im looking at here is MCMs actions- in particular that Mr B feels 
the policies he was sold werent suitable for him because they wouldnt cover him in the 
circumstances applicable to his claim.
It appears the policies were sold in person and on an advised basis. That means MCM had 
a duty to both sell insurance that was suitable for Ps demands and needs and ensure they 
provided Mr B with clear, fair and not misleading information about what P was getting.
Mr B says MCM told him when they visited him at his premises that he would be covered 
should anything ever happen to him on site.  He says that copies of minutes of those 
meetings would support this, but MCM havent documented anything that explains what was 
discussed at those meetings. In the absence of that, Ive considered the type of cover P was 
sold. It includes employers liability insurance but not personal accident cover. Broadly, 
employers liability insurance extends to is indemnity against legal liability for injury to or 
illness of employees arising out of or in the course of Ps business. Mr B accepts he doesnt 
have and wasnt seeking to purchase personal injury cover on behalf of P. So the complaint 
isnt that he wasnt sold this cover, but more that he feels he was told the employers liability 
cover would extend to him in the event he was injured at work.
MCMs interpretation of the employers liability policy may well be right but without Mr B 
making a physical claim against that policy, I cant know for certain how that insurer would 
treat the claim.  But even if it were to turn down the claim for the same reasons cited by 
MCM, Im not sure that this means they mis-sold the policy. Firstly, I have nothing to 
corroborate Mr Bs account that MCM told him the employers liability cover would extend to 
him in the event he was injured at work in the form of minutes of meetings or otherwise. 
Secondly and more generally, all insurance policies are subject to terms and conditions and 
each claim turns on its own facts. So, I dont think its plausible for a commercial entity to 
accept cover would universally be available in any given circumstance for injury against an 
employee, particularly when the terms of the policy were disclosed in advance which do limit 
cover in certain circumstances. 
But even if I accept that P was given the wrong information about the policy he was sold, I 
would need to be satisfied he would have done something differently and taken out a 
different sort of cover that would have addressed the losses P wants to claim for. Mr B didnt 
take out personal accident cover on behalf of P. I appreciate that might be because he 
thought his employers liability policy might cover him (which it still might if he claims on it) 
but Ive seen nothing to suggest he was interested in paying for cover for this specific sort of 
claim other than what hes told us. MCM have said that Mr B had historically wanted to limit 
the insurance cover he was buying for P and looking at the policy premiums P has paid, I 
dont think this lends itself to a situation in which taking out more insurance was important. I 
cant of case say for sure but on the balance of probabilities, I have nothing to support that 
Mr B would have taken out personal accident cover. But even if he did and thinking 
generally about the circumstances of Mr Bs claim and what MCM have said was reported to 
them, I think its unlikely that kind of policy would have covered him in the circumstances 
anyway. I say so because insurance generally requires a policyholder to mitigate its own 
loss. And from what MCM have said, its unlikely an insurer would perceive him to have 
done so if he was aware of health and safety procedures (presumably having designed or at 
least been responsible for them as Director) and didnt comply with them. 
So, on balance, I struggle to find a scenario in which P would have been sold cover that it 
could successfully have claimed on in these circumstances.
Taking all of the above into account, I cant safely say that MCM mis-sold the insurances P 
took out with it.It is however worth pointing out that P wont know with certainty whether its claim is covered 
under any of its commercial insurances by insurers of those policies without first making a 
claim. So, if it wants to find out, Mr B should submit a claim accordingly. 
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I dont uphold Ps complaint against McMorrow Murphy 
Limited trading as MCM Insurance
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask P to accept or 
reject my decision before 23 June 2023.
 
Lale Hussein-Venn
Ombudsman