DRN-4358007
The complaint
Mr K complained because he believed Nationwide Building Society didnt agree with him 
when he disputed a cash withdrawal from his account.
What happened
In February 2021, Mr K went to his local Nationwide branch with his passbook to withdraw 
some money.
Mr K said he withdrew what he thought was £2,500 in cash, and he put the money in his 
safe when he got home. 
In August 2022, Mr K counted the cash, and realised he had only been given £1,000. Mr K 
also looked at the passbook, and saw that it was a different one from the one hed taken into 
the branch in February 2021. The new book showed a £1,000 cash withdrawal in February 
2021 and another in March 2021 for £1,500. Mr K didnt understand why his old passbook 
had been changed to a new one, or why it showed two separate entries. He just 
remembered asking for £2,500, and thought this was what hed been given but hadnt 
checked it at the time. Mr K thought he was missing £1,500, as he only had £1,000 cash 
instead of £2,500. He contacted Nationwide, but wasnt happy with its response. 
Mr K contacted this service for help in June 2023. He provided copies of the old and new 
passbooks.  The old one was stamped cancelled. The new book, which Mr K had been 
given on 23 February 2021, shows a £1,000 cash withdrawal on 23 February 2021, and a 
£1,500 cash withdrawal on 29 March 2021. Mr K didnt use his account often, and the other 
entries in the new book are all interest credits and tax debits.
Mr K said that Nationwide branch staff had shown him signature slips which he was 
supposed to have signed, but they were shown to him from behind the screens, and looked 
like photocopies. He also asked if Nationwide had CCTV to show how much hed taken out.
Our investigator contacted Nationwide, which then issued its final response to Mr Ks 
complaint on 14 June. Nationwides letter said it had checked, and the branch had 
completed security for the two withdrawals. It went on to say it had withdrawal slips for both, 
and the signatures would have been checked against the signature in Mr Ks book. 
Nationwide said that the book would have been present on both occasions, and it had 
followed its processes to confirm that the person making the withdrawals had been the 
account holder.
Mr K wasnt satisfied with Nationwides final response, so the investigator considered Mr Ks 
complaint.
Our investigator didnt uphold Mr Ks complaint. She noted that Mr K accepted hed made 
the £1,000 withdrawal, and that the £1,500 withdrawal also looked like his signature, but he 
didnt believe hed signed it, and hed said why would he have gone back a month after the 
first withdrawal to take out more money especially as this was in a covid lockdown. The 
investigator looked at the copies of the old and new passbooks which Mr K had sent, and 
said she thought the old passbook was the one Mr K had taken into the branch in February 
2021, and that this and the new passbook had been given back to Mr K that day. The 
investigator didnt think the cashier had kept any passbook to make a fraudulent withdrawal 
later, as Mr K believed. The last page of the old book showed that gross interest, tax 
deducted, and net interest due in 2018 had been added onto the passbook when Mr K 
visited in February 2021. The transactions filled up the old passbook, so a continuation 
passbook had been issued so that the rest of the figures, for interest and tax from 2018 
onwards, could be printed too. The investigator explained that the last entry in the old 
passbook was £2,449.07 as at 19 June 2018, and the same figure and date was shown as 
the first line of the new passbook. The rest of the interest figures from 2018 onwards 
appeared at the start of the new book, followed by Mr Ks £1,000 withdrawal.
The investigator also explained that the computer records showed that the £1,500 
withdrawal had been carried out by a different cashier, and that the passbook had been 
present and the withdrawal had been authorised on a slip using Mr Ks signature. So this 
didnt tally with Mr Ks belief that the February cashier had kept the old passbook and had 
fraudulently withdrawn the £1,500 a month later. So the investigator said that she didnt think 
the events happened as Mr K had suggested, but that hed visited the branch again in March 
2021 and had made the £1,500 withdrawal himself.
Mr K didnt agree. He sent a copy of a handwritten note about an appointment on Tuesday 
19 June at 1pm with a Nationwide employee whom Ill call J.  Mr K said this had been given 
to him that day with the cancelled passbook and a new passbook, and he hoped there would 
be a record of that meeting, which had been to discuss what to do with £2,500 in his 
account. 
But the investigator said that she didnt think Mr Ks meeting with J related to what happened 
in February 2021. She thought the meeting Mr K referred to had happened in 2018, when 19 
June had been a Tuesday. The cancelled passbook, a copy of which Mr K had sent in, 
showed that on 19 June 2018, Mr Ks account had been converted from a Cashbuilder 
account to a Loyalty saver account.  And that same book had later been the one which had 
been used up and replaced when Mr K went into the branch in February 2021. So the 
investigator said this didnt change her view about what had happened in early 2021.
Mr K asked for an ombudsmans decision. He said he was a victim of someones 
wrongdoing and the stress was affecting his health.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I can see that Mr K genuinely feels that hes lost money here. I do understand its worrying 
and upsetting to feel youve lost a large sum of money, and Im sorry about his distress, 
especially as hes told us about difficult personal health issues too. Ive looked carefully at all 
the evidence to try to work out whats most likely to have happened. 
I cant know for certain what happened, because I wasnt present when the two withdrawals, 
or the meeting with employee J, took place. When that happens, I take my decision on the 
basis of what I think is more likely than not to have happened, taking into account all the 
evidence which is available.
First, CCTV evidence isnt available, because Nationwide has confirmed that it only retains 
this for up to 90 days. So for the disputed withdrawals in February and March 2021, this 
would have been deleted some two years ago. I also agree with the investigator that Mr Ks meeting with Nationwide employee J is most likely to have happened in 2018, not 2021  
and in any case, that doesnt affect what happened in February and March 2021.
The evidence I do have includes copies of Mr Ks old and new passbooks, which he helpfully 
sent to us; copies of the signature slips for the two withdrawals; and computer records from 
Nationwide.
From these, I can see that:
- the two withdrawals were made using the genuine passbook;
- a signature was obtained for both. Im not a handwriting expert, but the two 
signatures are similar, and Mr K confirmed that he did sign for a withdrawal in 
February 2021;
- both withdrawals were made using the new passbook, which was issued to Mr K 
when he went into the branch with his old passbook in February 2021. He hadnt 
used his account for some time, so the computer updated it with interest which had 
been credited to his account but not yet printed in his book.  There wasnt enough 
space in the old passbook, so that the balance was transferred into the new 
passbook and the old one cancelled. I dont think there was anything suspicious 
about the issuing of the new book when the old one had run out of space.
Ive considered how anyone else could have fraudulently obtained Mr Ks money by making 
the disputed £1,500 withdrawal in March 2021. 
Mr K told us he lives alone, so its not likely that a third party took his passbook without his 
knowledge and used it to make the disputed second withdrawal. Any such person would 
have also have had to forge Mr Ks signature. The signature stored in the passbook is 
hidden and only visible under a Nationwide device, so any fraudster who might have stolen 
the book from Mr Ks home couldnt just have copied it. And theyd also have had to return 
the book without Mr K realising.
Mr K thinks that a Nationwide employee kept his passbook, and then fraudulently used it to 
make the £1,500 withdrawal on 29 March 2021. Ive considered this, but I dont think its 
likely. First, Mr K still had his old and new passbooks when he complained about the 
disputed transaction. So any such fraudulent employee would somehow have had to get this 
back to Mr K without him knowing. 
And if there had, hypothetically, been a fraudulent Nationwide employee, I dont think theyd 
have stolen the money this way. The transactions were over a month apart, and I think any 
such fraudster would have taken the money out straightaway. Thats because fraudsters 
tend to maximise their gain as quickly as possible, before they can be found out.  
Also, the computer records show that the £1,500 transaction was verified by a different 
cashier from the one who served Mr K in February. So there would have had to be two 
separate dishonest employees combining together, which makes this scenario much less 
likely.
Finally, any hypothetical dishonest cashier in February 2021 who was trying to rob Mr K 
would have been much more likely to have got Mr K to sign a £2,500 slip, and recorded a 
£2,500 withdrawal in the passbook, then just given Mr K £1,000 hoping he wouldnt check 
his cash straightaway and challenge it. But that isnt what happened here. The cashier in 
February 2021 gave Mr K a £1,000 withdrawal slip which he signed, and she only debited 
£1,000 from Mr Ks account. Taking all these facts into account, Im not persuaded that the 
February 2021 cashier acted dishonestly.Given that both withdrawals took place using Mr Ks genuine book and a signature which 
looked very much like his; and that he kept the old and new books safely at home where no-
one else had access to them, I cant see how anyone other than Mr K could have carried out 
the withdrawals.
Its very easy to forget details after a span of years. And it was a difficult time, for everyone 
because of the covid pandemic, and for Mr K personally. So while I sympathise with Mr Ks 
distress, I think its more likely than not that he withdrew the £1,000 in February 2021 and 
then a month later withdrew the disputed £1,500 and used it for some other purpose, 
whether another savings account, gift, or other spending. I find that the facts of this case 
indicate that its unlikely that no-one other than Mr K could have carried out the transactions, 
so Nationwide doesnt have to refund him.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr K to accept or 
reject my decision before 4 November 2023.
 
Belinda Knight
Ombudsman