DRN-4010767
The complaint
Mr M complains that Santander UK Plc blocked his account and withheld funds without 
reason. He would like an explanation and £20,000 compensation.
Mr M is represented by Ms D.
What happened
The facts which led to Mr M bringing his complaint to our service are well known to both 
parties, so I am not repeating them in full here.
In summary Mr Ms accounts were blocked and he had no access to his funds. Mr M had 
paid three cheques into his savings account.  The cheques had previously been issued by 
Santander. He transferred these funds to his current account and closed his savings 
account.
Mr M says his account was blocked between 8 March 2022 and 24 April 2022.He wasnt 
given warning of the account being unblocked.
Mr M has mentioned how he was impacted by the block on his account. He made daily trips 
to the branch, he had no money to pay for food and essential items and had to use a food 
bank. His bills went unpaid due to the block on the account. He was unable to take part in 
religious celebrations and all this had an impact on his health. 
Our investigator thought Santander were entitled to review and block the account. However, 
she thought Santander should have let Mr M know that the account was operating again 
once the block was lifted. She thought Santander should pay Mr M compensation for this in 
the sum of £100.
Mr M through his representative said he was unhappy with the view.  He didnt think it took 
into account the impact the block had on him. He thought that as there was no evidence of 
fraud on his account, he didnt know what had led to a review of his account. He didnt think 
the bank could be right to block the account and deny him access to his money. Mr M 
wanted to know what evidence we had relied on to reach our view and what reasons the 
bank could have to block his account given the circumstances.
As there was no agreement the matter has come to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I would like to reassure Mr M that while I may not comment on everything raised, Ive 
thoroughly read and considered all the evidence and arguments from both sides. My 
outcome focuses on the relevant key issues, and on what I consider fair and reasonable in 
all the circumstances of the case.
Mr M wants to know what evidence we have relied on to reach our view on his case. Our 
rules allow us to receive evidence in confidence. We may treat evidence from banks as 
confidential for a number of reasons  for example, if it contains information about other 
customers or security information. Some of the information Santander has provided is 
information that we considered should be kept confidential, so I wont be sharing a lot of 
detail with Mr M, but Id like to reassure him that Ive considered everything.
Account review
Mr Ms account was blocked. The business has said Mr Ms account was blocked from 
5 April 2022 to 20 April 2022. Mr Ms representative states that Mr Ms account was blocked 
from 8 March 2022. However, looking at the statements I can see Mr M was able to use his 
card to make payments in supermarkets and make a couple of card withdrawals after 
8 March and the evidence on his current account statements suggest his account was 
blocked from 5 April 2022. I can see that the savings account was closed on 8 March 2022 
and the savings account balance of over £43,000 was credited to Mr Ms current account. I 
accept that during the period of the account block from 5 April to 20 April Mr M didnt have 
access to the funds in his account.
Ill start by setting out some context for the review of Mr Ms account. UK legislation places 
extensive obligations on regulated financial businesses. Financial institutions must establish 
the purpose and intended nature of transactions as well as the origin of funds, and there 
may be penalties if they dont. This applies to both new and existing relationships. These 
obligations override all other obligations. These obligations mean they have to monitor their 
customers accounts and may need to review an account at any time. While that is 
happening, they may need to block or restrict any payments.
This is reflected in Santanders terms and conditions. These say Santander can block an 
account or card to meet its legal obligations and delay payments if needed to carry out 
further checks. I am satisfied Santander were complying with these obligations when they 
reviewed Mr Ms account. So, I dont think they have acted unfairly by carrying out the 
review.
Mr M through his representative has said that Santander had no evidence of fraud on the 
account so no reason to block Mr Ms account and no reasons had been given to Mr M. In 
essence Mr M s representative thought that as the cheques paid into Mr Ms account were 
issued by Santander it meant Santander could have no reason for reviewing Mr Ms 
accounts.
I Understand what Mr M is saying. However, as the investigator mentioned Santander isnt 
obliged to give Mr M a reason for the account review. I understand that Mr M wants 
Santander to explain the reason it applied the block to his account. And he wants the 
information it relied on to do so. But Santander doesnt disclose to its customers what 
triggers a review of their accounts. And its under no obligation to tell Mr M the reasons 
behind the account block, as much as hed like to know. So, I cant say its done anything 
wrong by not giving Mr M this information. And it wouldnt be appropriate for me to require it 
to do so. 
Mr M has said that the account was blocked for 7 weeks. Ive looked at the evidence and Im 
satisfied as I mentioned before that Mr Ms account was blocked for around 2 weeks, I have gone on to consider if Santander caused any delays whilst it reviewed Mr Ms accounts and 
Im satisfied that it didnt.
Mr M has said that Santander should have told him that the account was unblocked on the 
20 April and given him notice or warning that the account was unblocked. I understand from 
Mr M and his representative that staff at the branch saw him passing and let him know that 
his account had been unblocked.  Mr M was able to withdraw £2,000 from his account on 
22 April 2022.  Our investigator awarded £100 in compensation for this and having reviewed 
the evidence I dont see a reason to increase this amount.
Opening other accounts
Mr M has said he had difficulty opening another account and he is concerned that Santander 
have placed a marker on his file. I have looked at the evidence and Im satisfied that 
Santander havent placed a marker on Mr M. I cant account for why Mr M may be finding it 
difficult to open another account, but Santander cant be held liable for this.
Impact of the block.
Mr M has told us of the impact the block had on him. I appreciate he had to use a food bank 
and borrow money from family and friends to pay telephone bills that were due. I know Mr M 
went to the bank almost daily and contacted his representative almost daily also as he was 
anxious to know the outcome of the situation. I accept that Mr M had no other account and 
he had been a long-standing customer of the bank. Mr M has also said he was unable to 
celebrate a religious festival due to not being able to access the funds in his account. Mr M 
has provided us with information including a doctors letter that sets out the impact all this 
had on his health.
Mr M has suggested he would like compensation of £20,000 for the impact the block had on 
him. Firstly, Id like to say Im very sorry that Mr M had such a lot of trouble because of the 
review and block on his account. I appreciate the timing of the block coincided with a 
religious festival and because of lack of funds he wasnt able to celebrate as he would have 
liked. When deciding on compensation in these circumstances I must look at whether the 
bank made an error. Having done so I cant say that Santander made an error when they 
reviewed and blocked Mr Ms account so it follows, I cant award Mr M compensation 
although I appreciate the block had an impact on him. 
 
I know Mr M will be disappointed by my decision. In summary I accept Santander acted fairly 
and in line with its legal and regulatory obligations when it reviewed and blocked Mr Ms 
account. It follows I wont be awarding compensation for the impact the block had on Mr M. I 
consider £100 compensation because Santander didnt let Mr M know the block was lifted is 
fair and reasonable and I wont be increasing this amount.
Putting things right
Santander should pay Mr M £100 compensation for the delay in communicating the account 
restriction had been lifted.
My final decision
For the reasons stated above I require Santander UK Plc to pay Mr M the amount of £100 in 
compensation.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or reject my decision before 12 April 2023.
 
Esperanza Fuentes
Ombudsman