DRN-4328744
The complaint
Mr N complains about problems that occurred when he made a partial withdrawal from his 
Scottish Widows Limited (SW) personal pension.
What happened
n 23 March 2023, Mr N completed a form for a partial withdrawal from a personal pension 
plan held with SW. SW then asked Mr N to submit identification documents for the 
withdrawal.
Mr N was entitled to receive 25% of the withdrawal tax-free, and the tax-free portion of the 
withdrawal was paid to Mr N on 17 April 2023. SW applied an emergency tax code to the 
taxable portion and the remaining taxable amount was paid on 21 April 2023.
Mr N called SW to question the amount which had been paid to him. Mr N says he was told 
by SW that it should have used a basic rate tax code rather than the emergency tax code 
and that it would call him back. SW didnt call Mr N back, so he complained. 
In summary, Mr N complained that:
The delay of his withdrawal meant hed had to withdraw funds from elsewhere.
SW failed to call him back as promised.
SW had asked for identification, and he doesnt think it should have.
SW had used an emergency tax code, despite having been provided with the correct 
tax code previously.
SW explained that as it hadnt received a tax code from HMRC for the current tax year, it 
was right to use an emergency tax code and Mr N would need to reclaim the excess tax from 
HMRC directly. It agreed it hadnt called back when it said it would and offered Mr N £55 in 
compensation for this. 
Mr N didnt accept this and referred his complaint to our Service where and Investigator 
looked into things. The Investigator didnt think the complaint should be upheld. Mr N 
disagreed and asked for a further investigation. So, the complaint has been passed to me to 
consider and make a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Id like to note that Mr N has responded to our Investigator in detail, and Ive thought
about everything he has said. However, I wont respond to each, and every, point made. 
Instead, Ill be focusing on the crux of this complaint. This doesnt mean I havent considered 
all of the arguments or thought about everything Mr N has said, it simply reflects the informal 
nature of this service. 
Ive also noted Mr Ns request that we conduct a forensic review of his complaint to include 
contacting HMRC. Our role is as an alternative to a court, and we are required to resolve 
complaints with minimum formality. We dont conduct forensic investigations to the level I 
think Mr N is expecting. Furthermore, HMRC or its actions, dont fall within the jurisdiction of 
this service, so we cant consider any mistakes it may have made or the impact mistakes by 
HMRC might have had on Mr N. Whilst we can contact HMRC to request information, if 
necessary, Im satisfied this complaint can be decided without any further information.     
Mr N has also referred to appropriate sanctions being placed on SW for its failures. 
However, thats not the role of this Service. That would be a matter for the industry regulator, 
the FCA. Our role is to consider individual complaints and put right financial losses, and 
thats what Ive focussed upon within this decision. Ill address Mr Ns various complaint 
points under different headings for ease. 
The request for identification
Mr N is correct in saying that SW wasnt required to ask for identification before allowing this 
withdrawal. However, SW does have a duty to protect its customers money. And to do so, 
its entitled to take a risk-based approach. It had been five years since Mr N had made a 
withdrawal from this pension, so I dont consider it unreasonable for SW to have asked Mr N 
to provide new identification to ensure the request for a withdrawal was genuine. And 
providing identification isnt a particularly arduous task, especially when considering that it 
was done to protect Mr Ns pension from potential fraud. 
Ultimately, whether to ask for identification or not is a matter for SWs commercial 
judgement, and Im satisfied its exercised this fairly in this situation. 
Delays in the withdrawal
Mr N completed the withdrawal form on 23 March 2023. It took just under a month from Mr N 
making the request for the withdrawal to it being paid to him. SW says within its withdrawal 
form that it will aim to pay the funds within 14 days of it having all of the information it 
requires. SW decided it required identification (and Ive set out above why I felt this was 
reasonable). Mr N says this was sent immediately and that this was verified on 
28 March 2023. 
14 working days from the date the ID was verified would be 17 April 2023, and the second 
payment was made on 21 April 2023 to Mr N. I accept this is a few days outside of the 
timescales SW aims for, but I dont think this is an unreasonable or particularly long delay. 
Use of an emergency tax code
Mr N says that SW had been provided with his correct tax code when he made his previous 
withdrawal in 2018. However, this was five years ago. And tax codes are only applicable for 
a single tax year. 
The withdrawal form completed by Mr N says:
This will be calculated using the Emergency Tax Code we discussed on the call or the actual 
Tax Code supplied by HMRC if we already have this.
So, Im satisfied SW made Mr N aware that it may use an emergency tax code.As Ive said, SW had Mr Ns tax code for a previous tax year. Mr N believes that HMRC 
provides the tax code to SW each year, and in coming to this opinion hes relying on a part 
of his HMRC tax code notice letter which says:
Your tax code is used by your employer(s) and/or pension provider(s) to work out how much 
Income Tax to collect from your pay or pension. We send them a separate tax code notice.
So, I do understand why Mr N thinks SW wouldve had his tax code. However, SW tells us it 
didnt, and Ive not seen enough to suggest it is incorrect in this assertion. When an income 
is paid by a pension provider it informs HMRC of the payment(s). HMRC then provides it 
with the correct tax code to apply to further payments in that tax year. However, Mr N didnt 
take a regular income in the way another pension might provide. Mr N instead took ad-hoc 
payments. 
I can see that Mr Ns tax code letter of January 2023 set out which providers had been 
provided with a tax code. And whilst one of them was SW, I think this was likely for a 
different pension plan. I say this as another tax code letter was sent in April 2023, and this 
now showed a second BR tax code for an SW pension shown as Scottish Widows 
Workplace Savings. This was not on the tax code letter from January 2023, and I suspect 
was driven by this withdrawal.
My understanding is that tax codes such as this are applied to individual pensions, rather 
than providers. Therefore, until this withdrawal was made, I dont think it likely that SW did 
have a tax code for the pension at the centre of this complaint. 
As Mr N hadnt taken any income or made a withdrawal for five years, there wouldve been 
no reason for HMRC to provide SW with the tax code for this particular pension. So, Im 
satisfied SW didnt make an error or treat Mr N unfairly when it used the emergency tax 
code.
As Ive said, I do understand the confusion here. But I think this was most likely caused by 
HMRCs letter, not by SW. I also understand Mr Ns frustration in having to now claim this 
excess tax back from HMRC, but I understand he will be able to do so. So, he hasnt 
suffered a financial loss as a result. And in any case, as Ive set out above, Im satisfied that 
SW hasnt made a mistake here. 
Customer service
Mr N has complained about the amount of time he had to spend calling SW and that he 
didnt receive a promised call back. I can also see that Mr N chased SW regularly to verify 
his ID. But SW completed this verification within around four to five days, which I think is a 
reasonable time frame. I also accept Mr N mayve spent some time on the phone when 
making his complaint. But complaint handling isnt in itself a regulated activity, so we are 
unable to consider complaints about the way SW dealt with his complaint so I cant make 
any award for that.
SW agrees it didnt call Mr N back when it said it would, and I can see this wouldve likely 
caused Mr N some inconvenience. But I cant see this was significant or caused Mr N 
anything other than short-term irritation, so Im satisfied the £55 SW has already offered 
fairly reflects this. Im not going to ask it to pay anything else.
Putting things right
Scottish Widows Limited should pay Mr N £55 for the inconvenience caused by not calling 
him back when it said it would. I make no further award.My final decision
I uphold this complaint and direct Scottish Widows Limited to put things right as set out 
above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr N to accept or 
reject my decision before 29 September 2023.
 
Rob Deadman
Ombudsman