DRN-3849510
The complaint
Through her representative, Mrs H raised various complaints about the way that Barclays 
Bank UK PLC, trading as Barclays Smart Investor, formerly Barclays Stockbrokers Ltd 
(Barclays) handled her portfolio, in particular when it was on notice of a corporate action 
concerning a company in which she had shares. 
When Mrs H brought her complaint to us, she wanted Barclays to close her account, pay her 
£1,000 that she believes she is owed plus another £1,000 compensation to reflect 
multiple errors stretching back almost two years and a complete failure to address them. 
Mrs H also wanted an apology from Barclays. 
What happened
Mrs H held shares in a company that I will refer to as U in her Barclays Smart Investor 
execution-only Investment account and Investor ISA account. She had particular concerns 
that Barclays:
placed restrictions on her account and wouldnt accept her written instructions to lift 
the restrictions
asked her to repeat personal information she had already provided when the account 
was opened 
failed to notify Mrs H of the corporate action during the takeover period so she lost 
the opportunity to be able her to make an informed decision about what she wanted 
to do with her shares
delayed crediting to her account following the corporate action the resulting cash and 
shares in the new non-UK company I will call T 
failed to credit to her account the full amount of cash she was due 
failed to action a request to close her Barclays accounts sent after Barclays failed to 
address her complaint.
When Mrs H complained to Barclays, it said:
a restriction was added on the account in March 2017 at Mrs Hs request as she was 
worried she had been hacked and she wanted Barclays to restrict the account until 
she felt it was safe to remove the restriction  when she would call again. Barclays 
said it acted on her instructions but never received any further contact from Mrs H 
about having the restriction removed. 
Following a new regulatory directive in 2018, Barclays issued letters to all customers 
to ensure their information was up to date and correct. Some historic details for 
Mrs H, dating back to when she was a Barclays Stockbrokers Ltd customer, were 
missing from her Barclays Smart Investor account. Barclays said its terms of 
business put the onus on the customer to ensure information held is up to date and 
relevant but Mrs H had not updated Barclays with the information requested. This 
resulted in a second restriction being added to her account. 
Barclays told Mrs H its normal process was to speak to customers on the phone and 
if she spoke to its customer services team about lifting the restrictions on her account 
this could be done. It said if she preferred to do this in writing, it would accept a letter 
from her and it would remove restrictions to bring the account up to date. 
In June 2020, a corporate action was announced which affected holdings in Mrs Hs 
account with Barclays Smart Investor and ultimately resulted in her receiving a cash 
payment of £83.33 into her account and an allocation of non-UK shares that cannot 
be held on the Barclays Smart Investor platform. 
Barclays said payment of the £83.33 had been delayed because the original cheque 
hadnt been received by Barclays so a new request was made for a replacement. It 
said it credited to Mrs Hs account the amount it had received.
Barclays agreed that overall communication about the corporate action could have 
been better and offered to pay Mrs H £205 in settlement of her complaint. This 
reflected redress of £175 for the trouble and upset caused and £30 on top of the 
£83.33 sent already to reflect a shortfall of £28.32 her representative had worked out 
based on the exchange rate he applied. 
Barclays said Mrs H could obtain a certificate and either retain the T shares with 
another broker or arrange to sell them through a broker able to accommodate foreign 
shares. It said she would need to write an explicit letter detailing her request for her 
share certificate. Or, she could phone Barclays with her representative on hand to 
support her making the call and Barclays would take Mrs H through security and she 
could then pass the call to her representative to request the shares.
Barclays said its records showed it had not received any valid closure requests made 
by Mrs H, and she hadnt complained about that previously, but it would look into this 
further if she wished to raise a new complaint.
Mrs H didn't feel this went far enough to resolve things and so she brought her complaint to 
us and one of our investigators looked into what happened.   
Our investigator considered that Barclays existing redress offer was fair and reasonable to 
put things right for Mrs H. She explained her reasons for coming to this view (which I will 
briefly summarise here):
Restrictions on the account
The restrictions were put in place at Mrs Hs request and in order to meet Barclays own 
regulatory obligations to protect customers, so she couldnt say that Barclays had made any 
error. In addition, Barclays had clarified how Mrs H could have the restrictions removed  
which included her preferred option of writing a letter. 
The payment received following the corporate action
Barclays had explained the corporate action was announced in June 2020 by an overseas 
Registrar and the outcome was a foreign one. Barclays platform only accommodates 
UK stock so could not physically hold the stock in company T on Mrs Hs portfolio. The 
original cheque and statement for this outcome were not received by Barclays and had to be 
requested again. The £83.33 Barclays paid to Mrs H was in line with the declared price of 
GBP 0.041665000 per share and the number of shares held by Mrs H. Barclays couldnt 
provide the commercial exchange rate used at the time so it agreed to award the perceived shortfall in value Mrs H had complained about and rounded this up to arrive at the figure of 
£30.
The non-UK T shares
Barclays had stated the shares are available for certification should Mrs H wish to access 
them in this form and explained how she could do this  respecting her preference for written 
communication but also explaining how she could deal with this over the phone with her 
representative. 
Closure requests
Our investigator noted that Barclays had stated its records showed no valid closure requests 
had been received so she forwarded some letters that Mrs H and her representative had 
sent Barclays so this could be looked into further. 
Whilst our investigator was sympathetic to Mrs Hs position and recognised her strength of 
feeling about what happened, she felt that the offer to pay £205 compensation was fair and 
reasonable overall and she didnt feel that Barclays needed to do anything further. 
Mrs H disagreed with our investigator. She mainly said:
our investigator had failed to consider a key consequence of Barclays actions which 
was that it had left her with shares she was unable to sell. 
In line with its terms and conditions, Barclays should have shared information about 
the takeover that would have been sent to all shareholders on February 4, 2020 
detailing options, together with any subsequent updates, so she could have decided 
what to do.  
She remains unhappy that Barclays keeps insisting on speaking with her when she 
has explained (on multiple occasions) that using the phone doesnt work for her and 
she has arranged for her representative to handle the matter. 
Barclays still hasnt explained why it took nearly two years to credit her account with 
her new shares and cash, why her shares are shown as having nil value, and why 
there was a shortfall on the cash.
The complaint came to me to decide. I issued a provisional decision. 
What I said in my provisional decision
Here are some of the main things I said. 
I have concentrated on what I consider to be the main points that affect the outcome of this 
complaint. No discourtesy is intended if I do not address every point raised. I will deal with 
everything that affects the outcome.It seems to me that the crux of Mrs Hs complaint concerns Barclays failure to communicate 
information about the corporate action at a sufficiently early stage in the proceedings when 
Mrs H says she would have been able to choose whether to accept or decline the takeover 
offer or sell her existing shares in advance of the takeover. 
A corporate action describes the situation when a company puts out a notice that it may do 
something which could affect its shareholders. 
Barclays told us it was under no obligation to notify customers about corporate action events 
and referred us to its terms and conditions which say:
3.1 Unless we agree otherwise with you, where we hold Assets which give you rights in 
relation to a company.:
(i) we will not be responsible for taking any action in relation to these matters, 
except to give effect to Default Action if you do not give us an Instruction
(ii) to the extent permitted by Regulatory Requirements we will not be obliged to 
notify you or obtain your instructions in relation to these matters
Ive thought carefully about what Barclays terms and conditions say about what it will do 
when a corporate action is announced and also its wider responsibilities to act in its 
customers best interests. 
It will usually be in an investors interests to at least know about an action that could affect 
their holding  especially if it was an action that gave the investor options or a choice about 
what to do. 
Whilst its terms and conditions do not oblige Barclays to share information in the event it 
receives notice of a corporate action, I think it is a fair and reasonable expectation that it 
would seek instructions in those circumstances. As a broker with clients holding shares in a 
nominee name, it should generally let the beneficial owners of the shares know about a 
corporate action so they can give instructions accordingly to Barclays Smart Investor. 
If Barclays didnt plan to give notice of corporate action events to shareholders using its 
platform, Barclays had an obligation to ensure its terms and conditions are very clear on this 
point. I dont find that they are sufficiently explicit in saying that Barclays will not notify 
interested customers in the event of a corporate action. So it isnt reasonable to think that 
Mrs H would have known in advance that she couldnt depend on Barclays to notify her of 
the corporate action concerning company U. 
Im also aware that Mrs Hs representative was told during a web chat that you will always 
receive a notification if it is a voluntary corporate action which means the company as (sic) 
gave an option to shareholder to make a decision, However, if it is a mandatory corporate 
action you will not receive a notification alert but the notification will be available online for 
you to view
So it looks like Barclays did have in place arrangements to notify clients with an interest in a 
corporate action. 
For these reasons, I am planning to uphold this part of Mrs Hs complaint about Barclays 
failure to communicate to Mrs H information about the corporate action when it first became 
aware of it.So far as her other complaints are concerned, I find Barclays has largely addressed these 
fairly and reasonably. The corporate action event announced in 2020 took over one year to 
apply to the account and delays after that happened because Barclays didnt receive the 
original cheque and had to chase this up. Barclays agreed it could have communicated 
better about what was happening. I think its offer of redress is sufficient to reflect the 
frustration this caused Mrs H.
As a gesture of goodwill Barclays has said it will make up the perceived shortfall in the cash 
paid into Mrs Hs account following the sale of U shares. And it has explained how Mrs H 
can trade her new shares in the non-UK company T. So I dont find that Mrs H has been left 
with shares she is unable to sell.
I appreciate that Mrs H finds using the phone difficult and she might prefer to hand over all 
her dealings with Barclays to her representative. But I think its important to keep in mind that 
Barclays Smart Investor is an online platform that Barclays offers to customers with access 
to a smartphone and the service it offers is designed to be accessed online and via 
telephone instructions. Whilst I expect Barclays to accommodate Mrs  Hs communications 
preferences and have regard to her particular needs, Barclays must always ensure it 
protects Mrs  Hs interests and her account. I dont find it is unreasonable for Barclays to 
have suggested that Mrs H can make phone calls with her representative alongside who can 
take over the call once she has passed security. Alternatively, she can send signed letters 
with her specific instructions.  
In case its useful to think about, I would just mention that Mrs H might consider applying to 
appoint her representative (and/or someone else) formally as her attorney. Holding a Power 
of Attorney might make it easier generally for someone else to manage Mrs Hs financial 
affairs on her behalf. 
This leads me to conclude that whilst Barclays redress offer is fair as far as it goes, it still 
needs to do more to put things right for Mrs H. 
What the parties said in response to my provisional decision 
Mrs H mainly told me that she would have sold her U shares before the end of the offer 
period and that she would never have elected to own shares in a foreign company which she 
could not hold or trade. She also highlighted £150 in missing dividends.
Barclays said my reason for increasing the amount of redress was not correct, as this was a 
mandatory event and so the outcome would have been the same for Mrs H regardless of 
whether she had been notified or not.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.Mrs H said that during the initial offer period, had she known about the corporate action, she 
might have been able to choose whether to accept or decline the takeover offer or sell her 
existing shares. Her representative assures me that she would definitely have sold her 
shares ahead of the takeover. Barclays disputes that notifying Mrs H about a mandatory 
corporate action would have made any difference and said the outcome for Mrs H would 
have been the same.
On balance, I cant know whether, and/ or to what extent, the outcome would have been 
different had Barclays told Mrs H about the corporate action sooner. So I made some 
reasonable assumptions. 
I didnt think it likely that being able to express a preference either way would have affected 
the ultimate outcome of the corporate action given her relatively small shareholding. So 
I cant fairly say that missing out on any option there might have been to accept or decline 
the bid caused any detriment to Mrs H. 
I also havent seen enough to show that Mrs H has lost out in money terms as a result of 
having missed a trading opportunity. I appreciate that Mrs H is unhappy that she now finds 
herself holding shares in a non-UK company. But I explained in my provisional decision why 
I cant uphold her complaint that she has suffered investment loss and it is still the case that 
Mrs H could trade her new shares in the non-UK company T if she so wishes. 
Im mindful also that information about the corporate action would have been in the public 
domain and so Mrs H wasnt exclusively reliant on Barclays to find this out. 
But its completely understandable that Mrs H was upset at finding out about the corporate 
action only after the event. This could have been avoided had Barclays alerted her to what 
was happening sooner. 
Barclays agreed there were shortcomings in its communications about the corporate action. 
So I still think Barclays ought to compensate her fairly for the resulting anxiety and frustration 
this caused her. 
Barclays hasnt provided me with any new information that changes what I think about fair 
redress. It remains my view that its a fair and reasonable expectation that, as a broker with 
clients holding shares in a nominee name, Barclays should generally let beneficial owners of 
the shares know about a corporate action. It confirmed it notified clients about voluntary 
corporate action events. 
For the reasons I explained more fully in my provisional decision, I think its customers were 
reasonably entitled to expect to receive the same sort of notification in the event of 
mandatory corporate action. The essence of Mrs Hs complaint is that she wasnt given 
information that Barclays knew about when she reasonably expected it to have shared that 
information with her. This has caused her a great deal of distress. 
I havent made any findings about what she might have done, or been able to do, had 
Barclays communicated details of the corporate action to Mrs H when it first knew about this. 
The redress I proposed reflects the impact on Mrs H of Barclays failure to share information 
I have found it could and should have told her about on a more timely basis. This would have 
avoided some of the distress this matter has caused Mrs H and which has left her feeling so 
let down by Barclays. I have addressed in my provisional decision all the main issues which have a bearing on the 
outcome of this complaint. I still think its fair to uphold this complaint to the extent I have 
done and award the redress directed below for all the reasons I explained more fully in my 
provisional decision. 
Mrs Hs representative told us in September 2022 that There is one significant issue 
outstanding and explained this was the takeover of U by company T which Mrs H had 
known nothing about because Barclays didnt tell her. So thats what I concentrated on 
in my provisional decision. I cant see that missing dividends formed part of the original 
complaint to Barclays. If Mrs H feels she has further cause for complaint (that goes beyond 
the scope of the complaint she originally made to Barclays and subsequently brought to 
us), then she should first tell Barclays what her concerns are so it has an opportunity to 
respond. If she still feels unhappy after that, she may be able to bring a new complaint to 
this service. I cant award redress for any complaint where the financial business hasnt first 
been given a chance to put things right.   Putting things right
To put things right, Barclays should pay Mrs H total redress of £350 overall (so an additional 
£145 on top of the £205 it has already offered). 
My final decision
I uphold this complaint and Barclays Bank UK PLC should pay Mrs H total redress of £350. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs H to accept or 
reject my decision before 6 January 2023.
 
Susan Webb
Ombudsman