DRN-3792064
The complaint
 A and K complain about the price of their home insurance policy with Lloyds Bank General 
Insurance Limited.
Reference to Lloyds includes its agents.
What happened
A and K hold a home insurance policy underwritten by Lloyds and have held it for a number 
of years.
They complain about the price of the policy at the latest renewal. Theyve said previous price 
increases have been roughly in line with inflation, but the latest premium increase is roughly 
60% more than when they first took the policy out, which they feel is unfair. They think 
theyre being punished for being loyal customers. They said due to work being carried out in 
relation to their neighbours property, moving to a new insurer was difficult, but theyd seen 
other insurers were offering quotations cheaper than Lloyds.
Lloyds said it was pricing their policy in line with its underwriting criteria. It said when A and 
K first took the policy out, they were given a discount. But it says the current policy is priced 
the same as it would be if it were new business, so considers this fair. Its said the work 
relating to A and Ks property hasnt affected the premium.
A and K remained unhappy and brought their complaint to us. One of our investigators didnt 
recommend it be upheld. He thought Lloyds had priced the policy in line with its criteria, 
which it what it was required to do.
A and K didnt agree and asked for an ombudsmans decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im not upholding it. Ill explain why.
Insurance pricing is based on risk. Lloyds, like any insurer, is entitled to decide what 
factors it takes into consideration when pricing an insurance policy. And its entitled to 
decide what weight it places on those factors. Different insurers will choose different 
factors to rate on and different weights to place on those factors, leading to a number 
of prices from different insurers.
Another insurer offering a cheaper quote isnt evidence that Lloyds price is set 
unfairly high or incorrect.
Im satisfied Lloyds has priced A and Ks policy in line with its underwriting criteria. 
That criteria cant be shared as its commercially sensitive. But Ive seen the 
breakdown of each policy year. Im satisfied that anyone else in A and Ks position 
would be rated against the same criteria.
A and Ks policy was discounted when they first purchased it. This was something 
Lloyds was able to do at the time.
I understand moving to a different insurer is difficult for A and K. And can understand 
the benefits of them staying with Lloyds while the work is being carried out. But I 
cant fairly hold Lloyds responsible for this.
Lloyds has confirmed the work relating to the neighbours house has not factored into 
the price of A and Ks property. I think thats a reasonable decision.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask A and K to accept 
or reject my decision before 1 March 2023.
 
Joe Thornley
Ombudsman