DRN-2057448
The complaint
Ms C complains that MYJAR Limited lent to her in an irresponsible manner.
What happened
Ms C was given four loans by MYJAR between September 2017 and May 2018. Each of 
the loans was due to be repaid in monthly instalments as shown below. A summary of 
Ms C's borrowing from MYJAR is as follows;
Loan 
NumberBorrowing 
DateRepayment 
DateLoan 
AmountNumber of 
Instalments
1 01/09/2017 09/10/2017 £ 575 6
2 09/10/2017 30/11/2017 £ 650 12
3 24/12/2017 08/05/2018 £ 650 12
4 08/05/2018 09/08/2018 £ 575 12
I issued a provisional decision on this complaint in June 2020. In that decision I explained 
the basis on which I would decide the complaint, and in particular I said that the checks 
MYJAR needed to do would need to take into account things such as how much was being 
lent, the repayment amounts and the consumers income and expenditure. With this in mind, 
in the early stages of a lending relationship, I thought less thorough checks might be 
reasonable and proportionate.
I thought that the checks MYJAR did before agreeing the first loan were proportionate. So 
I didn't think it had been wrong for MYJAR to agree to give this loan to Ms C.
I thought that MYJAR should have done more checks before agreeing the remaining loans. 
But Ms C hadn't given us enough information for me to determine what better checks would 
have shown to the lender. So I wasn't able to say that MYJAR had been wrong to agree 
these loans. 
I didnt agree with our adjudicators conclusion that Ms Cs pattern of borrowing should 
have led MYJAR to conclude she was facing serious problems managing her money 
when she asked for the final loan. The amount Ms C asked to borrow on her final loan 
was the smallest loan shed taken from MYJAR. I thought the fact that Ms C had taken 
new loans on the same day shed repaid earlier borrowing should have caused some 
concerns to MYJAR. But I thought those concerns should have resulted in better checks 
being performed rather than a decision to reject her borrowing application outright.
MYJAR accepted my provisional conclusions. Ms C provided us with copies of her bank 
statements covering the period that she was borrowing from the lender.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I am grateful to Ms C for sending me copies of her bank statements covering the time that 
she was borrowing from MYJAR. But Im sorry to explain that I dont think the details shown 
on those bank statements would have led to MYJAR concluding it shouldnt give the loans to 
Ms C if it had done better checks. The bank statements do show that Ms Cs finances were 
under a degree of pressure. But I dont think they show a picture of someone that was 
having serious problems managing her money. She doesnt appear to be borrowing from a 
large number of other lenders at the same time as MYJAR, nor does she appear to be 
spending significantly outside her means.
So even though I can now see what better checks would have shown to MYJAR before the 
last three loans I cannot conclude those checks should have led to the lender declining 
Ms Cs borrowing applications.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I dont uphold the complaint or make any award against 
MYJAR Limited.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms C to accept or 
reject my decision before 3 September 2020.
 
Paul Reilly
Ombudsman