DRN-4515946
The complaint
Ms G has complained that Studio Retail Limited lent to her irresponsibly when it provided her 
with a shopping account.
What happened
Ms G opened a shopping account with Studio Retail in April 2018 with a credit limit of £250. 
Over the following two years Ms Gs credit was increased four times until it was £750.
Ms G suggests that Studio Retail shouldnt have provided her with the credit. She says if 
Studio Retail had done proper checks it would have known she couldnt afford it. 
 
Studio Retail says it didnt lend irresponsibly to Ms G and that it did all the necessary checks 
before it lent to Ms G  and when it increased her credit limit.
 
Our investigator thought that Ms Gs complaint shouldnt be upheld. On the basis of the 
information available to them, they didnt think Studio Retail ought reasonably to have 
thought there was an indication the credit was unaffordable for Ms G.
Ms G disagreed. She said her credit history at the time of the borrowing showed she wasnt 
able to afford the credit. 
As Ms G disagreed the case was passed to me to make a decision. When I reviewed the 
complaint I thought that part of Ms Gs complaint should be upheld. I wrote to both parties to 
explain my provisional decision. Ms G agreed with my decision; Studio Retail did not, and 
provided further information which I have now considered.
Studio Retail Limiteds name has changed to Frasers Group Financial Services Limited 
during the course of this complaint, but I refer to Studio Retail throughout this decision for 
clarity. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about unaffordable and irresponsible 
lending - including the key relevant rules, guidance and good industry practice - on our 
website and Ive taken that into account when I have considered Ms Gs complaint.
Having taken into account Studio Retails further information I am still satisfied that my 
provisional decision is fair. 
Studio Retail needed to take reasonable steps to ensure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In 
practice this means that it should have carried out proportionate checks to make sure Ms G 
could afford to repay what she was being lent in a sustainable manner. These checks could 
take into account a number of different things, such as how much was being lent, the
repayment amounts and Ms Gs income and expenditure. There may even come a point 
where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly demonstrates that the lending 
was unsustainable.
 
With this in mind, in the early stages of a lending relationship, I think less thorough checks 
might be reasonable and proportionate. 
Studio Retail provided a copy of the checks that it completed when Ms G opened the 
account in April 2018. The data shows that at the time of Ms Gs application she had three 
outstanding County Court Judgments, the most recent of which was 14 months earlier.
Our investigator said that this alone wasnt a reason not to lend to Ms G. Our investigator 
thought that as Ms G was a new customer and the most recent CCJ was 14 months earlier 
that this didnt necessarily mean Studio Retail shouldnt have lent to Ms G. 
I agree that in isolation it may not be a reason not to lend to Ms G. But I do think Studio 
Retail ought to have found our more about Ms Gs circumstances because of what it saw. I 
think it ought to have made more enquiries about Ms Gs income and expenditure. 
I dont know exactly what Studio Retail would have done to find out more about Ms Gs 
financial position. There is no prescriptive list of checks it should have done.
 
In the absence of any other information, I asked that Ms G provide her bank statements and 
credit file from around the time she opened the account and during the life of the account. 
Unfortunately, other than one screenshot of a short period of time in January 2020, Ms G 
wasnt able to provide this. So, if Studio Retail had done more checks, I dont know what it 
might have seen. So, I cant fairly say that Studio Retail lent to Ms G unaffordably when she 
opened the account.
I can see that from June 2018, Studio Retails checks showed Ms G as being at risk of 
financial difficulties. She remained in this position until April 2019. In May 2019, Studio Retail 
increased Ms Gs credit limit by £125 to £375.
Given the information Studio Retail had about Ms Gs risk of financial difficulties, I think that 
Studio retail ought to have made more checks. But again, as Ms G couldnt provide any 
information about her financial circumstances I dont know what Studio Retail might have 
seen if it had done the checks. So, I cant say it acted unfairly in lending to her.
 
Similarly, Studio Retail increased Ms Gs credit limit again in August 2019 and in November 
2019, first to £500 and then to £625. Ms Gs financial situation appeared better, and she was 
no longer at risk of financial difficulties. But Studio Retail still didnt have an understanding of 
Ms Gs ability to sustainably repay the borrowing, so I think it ought to have done further 
checks. Of course, the same situation applies: Ms G hasnt been able to provide evidence of 
her circumstances so I cant say Studio Retail acted unfairly. 
In January 2020, Ms Gs financial situation began to deteriorate. She was considered to be 
in persistent debt by Studio Retails measures. And in January 2020 and March 2020 she 
missed payments on her account.
However, despite this, in Ms Gs fifth month of persistent debt, and after she missed 
payments in two of the preceding three months, Studio Retail increased Ms Gs credit limit 
for the final time, to £750.While, again, I dont have any information about Ms Gs wider financial circumstances at the 
time, I dont think it was appropriate for Studio Retail to have increased Ms Gs credit limit on 
the basis of the information it had. I can see that following the increase, Ms G continued in 
arrears in eight out the next nine months and she remained in persistent debt for a full 28 
months.
 
I think that by the time Ms G had been in persistent debt for four months, rather than 
increasing her credit limit, Studio Retail ought to have been looking at showing forbearance. 
I think that the decision to increase Ms Gs credit limit in May 2020 caused Ms G further 
financial difficulties. 
Following my provisional decision Studio Retail provided more information about its own 
checks around this time. It is not clear why it chose to drip feed information pertinent to this 
case which it hoped to rely on rather than supply it all together at the beginning of the 
complaint. However, having reviewed the information it has now provided I am still satisfied 
that it should not have increased Ms Gs lending in May 2020. Studio Retail makes no 
submissions which support a finding that Ms G wasnt in persistent debt (as its own records 
from the time showed) at the time of that increase. 
On this basis I do not think it was fair to increase Ms Gs credit limit from £625 to £750 and I 
think Ms G lost out as a result. 
Putting things right
I think its fair and reasonable for Studio Retail to refund any interest and charges incurred 
by Ms G as a result of the credit unfairly extended to her. I dont think the limit should have 
been increased from May 2020 onwards, therefore Studio Retail should rework the account 
and:
remove any interest and charges incurred as a result of the increase in May 2020). 
That is, Studio Retail can only add interest accrued on the balance up to the credit 
limit of £625  this being the credit limit before May 2020.
Studio Retail should work out how much Ms G would have owed after the above 
adjustments. Any repayment Ms G made since May 2020 should be used to reduce 
the adjusted balance.
If this clears the adjusted balance any funds remaining should be refunded to Ms G 
along with 8% simple interest per year* - calculated from the date of overpayment to 
the date of settlement.
If after all adjustments have been made Ms G no longer owes any money then all 
adverse information regarding this account should be removed from the credit file
from May 2020. 
Or, if an outstanding balance remains, Studio Retail should look to arrange an 
affordable payment plan with Ms G for the outstanding amount. If any debt was sold 
to a third party, Studio Retail should either repurchase the debt or liaise with the 
third-party to ensure the above steps are undertaken. Once Ms G had cleared the 
balance, any adverse information as a result of the unfair lending should be removed 
from the credit file. 
*HM Revenue & Customs requires Studio Retail to deduct tax from any award of interest. It must give Ms G a 
certificate showing how much tax has been taken off if she asks for one. If it intends to apply the refund to reduce 
an outstanding balance, it must do so after deducting tax.My final decision
My decision is that Studio Retail Limited acted unfairly when it increased Ms Gs credit limit 
in May 2020. Studio Retail Limited must pay compensation as set out above. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms G to accept or 
reject my decision before 18 January 2024.
 
Sally Allbeury
Ombudsman