DRN-3731412
The complaint
F and F, a company, complain about Amtrust Europe Limiteds handling of their legal 
expenses insurance claim.
All references to Amtrust in this decision include their claims handlers.
What happened
F and F occupied business premises under a sublease with A. As landlord took back 
possession of its premises and in doing so F and F were denied access to the premises and 
couldnt take possession of their possessions or stock. As a result, they were prevented from 
operating any further. 
A few days after this occurred, they got in touch with Amtrust for help with the issues they 
were facing; the policy offered a commercial legal helpline service they could speak to in 
respect of legal problems. Amtrust told F and F they were having trouble locating details of 
their policy. F and F obtained the details requested and provided this to Amtrust, but they still 
couldnt locate F and Fs policy. As F and F was at risk of having their stock and possessions 
removed by As landlord and couldnt obtain urgent legal assistance from Amtrust, they 
instructed Solicitors instead to help them.
F and Fs Solicitors later corresponded with Amtrust with a view to obtaining funding for their 
costs incurred to date and going forward. Amtrust asked for further information from F and 
Fs Solicitors. After considering that it said it wasnt prepared to cover their costs incurred to 
date as these were incurred without their consent and the policy wasnt in any event capable 
of responding to those costs because it didnt provide cover where litigation hadnt started- 
as was the case here. They did however offer to explore the possibility of funding F and Fs 
costs in considering the outcome of a hearing between A and her landlord with a view to 
determining whether F and F might have a possible claim at that stage. Amtrust asked for F 
and F to confirm the level of costs that might be required for that process so that it may 
consider funding them. As yet, F and F havent provided this information to Amtrust.
Our investigator considered F and Fs complaint. He agreed that Amtrust were entitled to 
turn down F and Fs Solicitors costs because they werent covered under the policy for the 
reasons Amtrust set out. But he also thought Amtrust did something wrong by failing to 
locate F and Fs policy and provide them with legal advice from its legal advice line. He felt 
that its failure to do so led to some loss because F and F felt compelled to obtain legal 
advice from its own Solicitors in the absence of any help from the commercial legal helpline 
service. The investigator couldnt determine the value of F and Fs loss, but he pointed out 
that it wouldnt have amounted to the cost of representation or corresponding with As 
landlord. He initially said B should consider the loss and pay a proportion of F and Fs 
Solicitors costs, which would otherwise have been substituted by the commercial legal 
helpline service. Both parties objected to this approach. In response, the investigator 
accepted it would be difficult to unpick what work F and Fs own Solicitor conducted as 
against what help the legal advice line would have provided. Instead, he substituted his 
earlier recommendation with a monetary payment of £250 from Amtrust to F and F to 
compensate them for its failure to identify their policy and provide help in the form of the 
commercial legal helpline service.
Neither party agrees with the investigators view, so the matter has been passed to me to 
determine.     
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so Im upholding this complaint for the same reasons as the investigator. 
The starting point is the policy terms. They exclude:
 fees, costs and disbursements incurred prior to the written acceptance of a claim by the 
Insurer
I appreciate F and F were trying to make a claim on their policy by contacting Amtrust from 
the outset of the problems they faced, but their Solicitors costs incurred before Amtrusts 
written acceptance of the claim werent covered until Amtrust provided their written 
acceptance of them. But even if I decided this was unfair because of the problems F and F 
faced in having their claim considered and accepted at an early stage, I would need to look 
at whether Amtrust would have covered their costs if things had gone as they should have. 
As the investigator pointed out, the policy only provides cover:
 in the pursuit or defence of Civil Legal Proceedings between the Insured and his 
Landlord under the terms of a lease or tenancy agreement applying to the business 
premises of the Insured. 
In this case F and F werent involved in civil legal proceedings. Rather A was involved in 
proceedings with her landlord. So, F and Fs claim wouldnt have been covered in any event. 
Because of this I cant say that Amtrust needs to do anything more in relation to F and Fs 
Solicitors costs or funding the claim. Im pleased to see however that Amtrust are prepared 
to consider funding in relation to a potential claim by F and F once the outcome of a hearing 
between A and her landlord is known. Its reasonable for Amtrust to seek an estimate of 
costs in respect of F and Fs Solicitor advising on this issue before it can agree to fund them. 
So, if F and F want Amtrust to consider this, they will need to provide them with the estimate 
requested. 
I do however think Amtrust need to do something more in relation to their failure to recognise 
F and Fs policy from the outset and provide them with the benefit of the commercial legal 
helpline service. F and F have said that if theyd been provided with this service, its unlikely 
they would have needed to instruct Solicitors as they couldve taken the advice that helpline 
wouldve given and corresponded with the parties in the dispute themselves. They refer to 
the absence of any advice being the reason they felt the need to instruct Solicitors 
particularly because they had been separated from their possessions and stock and had to 
cease trading. Because of this they say Amtrust should cover their Solicitors costs that were 
incurred as a result. On the other hand, Amtrust says the helpline wouldnt have offered like 
for like assistance to that of F and Fs Solicitor and that its likely they would have signposted 
that advice be sought from a suitable expert to review the documents in the matter and help 
with that. Amtrust also says the helpline refers potential claims to the claims department and 
this wouldnt have been a claim that was covered by the policy in any event. So, F and F 
havent lost out.
Ive taken on board what both parties have said. I agree that F and Fs first port of call would not have been to instruct their own Solicitor if theyd received advice from the commercial 
legal helpline service. But I dont accept that the helpline would only have signposted the 
instruction of an expert and referred the claim to Amtrust to consider under the terms of the 
policy. Like the investigator, I think that a service purporting to be a commercial legal 
helpline that was limited to only doing those two things wouldnt be a legal helpline service at 
all. Given the nature of legal helpline services, I think it wouldve been likely that F and F 
wouldve been given some immediate advice about what they could do about their 
possessions and stock. Its also possible some suggestions would have been made about 
what F and F could write to the other parties in the dispute before signposting them to a 
Solicitor for specific help with the matter. This doesnt mean that F and F wouldnt have 
eventually instructed their own Solicitors. And it might be that they wouldve wanted some 
certainty about what to do about their position that was more than the legal helpline service 
could provide. What is certain however, is that its difficult to say wouldve happened at this 
stage, other than to say that F and F were denied the opportunity of that advice when they 
sought and needed it.
I dont think the correct remedy is for Amtrust to pay F and Fs Solicitors fees to put things 
right. Their instruction would naturally go significantly beyond the service F and F couldve 
expected from the commercial legal helpline service. Ive set out what I think is a fair award 
of compensation in the circumstances which broadly takes account of a couple of hours 
worth of costs that F and F might have incurred had they taken some comparable advice 
from a Solicitor likely to be charging similar rates to those working for comparable insurers 
on similar legal expenses insurance policies.  
Putting things right
Amtrust Europe Limited should pay F and F £250 to compensate them for their failure to 
provide them with the services of the commercial legal helpline from the outset of their legal 
problem. 
My final decision
I uphold F and Fs complaint against Amtrust Europe Limited and direct them to put things 
right in the way that Ive directed above. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask F and F to accept 
or reject my decision before 23 February 2023.
 
Lale Hussein-Venn
Ombudsman