DRN-3563949
The complaint
Ms P complains that when her car was stolen AA Underwriting Insurance Company Limited 
cancelled her insurance policy from inception and refused to deal with her claim.
What happened
Ms P bought car insurance with AA online through a price comparison website. As part of 
the application process she was asked a series of questions including  Have you or any 
person who will drive ever been convicted (or have any pending prosecutions) for motoring 
offences or received any endorsable fixed penalty notices  in the last 5 years? Ms P 
answered no to this question in respect of herself and her named driver. AA accepted Ms Ps 
application for insurance cover based on the answers shed provided.
In June 2021 Ms Ps car was stolen and she submitted a claim to AA. During the course of 
investigating her claim AA discovered that both Ms P and her named driver had convictions 
for speeding, which hadnt been declared when she took out her policy. Had these 
convictions been declared AA said that they wouldnt have offered her cover. AA accepted 
that Ms P hadnt deliberately misled them. So on 9 July 2021 they declined her claim, 
cancelled her policy from inception and refunded the premium shed paid.
Ms P doesnt think this is fair as she made a simple mistake in not disclosing the speeding 
convictions, as she thought these were no longer on the record when she applied for her 
insurance. Shes said the driving convictions have nothing to do with her claim for her stolen 
car. And AAs actions have put her in a difficult position as shes having to continue to make 
payments on a finance agreement for a car she no longer has.
Ms P complained to AA who didnt uphold her complaint. They said the questions she was 
asked when applying for the policy were clear, and had she answered them correctly they 
wouldnt have offered her cover. So their decision to cancel her policy and decline her claim 
was correct. And they werent prepared to change it.
Ms P then complained to our service. Our investigator considered the case and said that he 
was satisfied Ms P had been asked a clear question about driving convictions, which she 
hadnt answered correctly. He was satisfied that AA wouldnt have offered her cover if shed 
declared the convictions. And as AA had accepted that Ms P hadnt deliberately provided 
incorrect information, and had treated this as a careless misrepresentation, he felt theyd 
acted correctly, as when they cancelled her policy, theyd refunded her premium. Which is 
what the Consumer Insurance (Disclosure and Representations) Act 2012 (CIDRA) required 
them to do.
So while he was sympathetic to Ms P and understood that her claim for the theft of her car, 
had nothing to do with the undeclared driving convictions, he was satisfied that AA had acted 
correctly so he wasnt able to ask them to accept her claim.
Ms P didnt accept our investigators opinion so the case has come to me for a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
When offering insurance cover AA are entitled to decide the level of risk theyre prepared to 
accept. They make that decision based on the information provided by the customer when 
applying for cover. But they must ask the customer clear questions.
Im satisfied based on the information AA have provided that, when applying for cover online, 
Ms P was asked if she or any named driver, had any motoring convictions in the last five 
years. Ms P answered no to this question, but this wasnt correct, as both she and her 
named driver, had speeding offences during this period.  
Im also satisfied that had Ms P declared these AA wouldnt have been prepared to offer her 
cover under the policy they issued.  
When Ms P was sent her policy documents the letter enclosing these asked her to take the 
time to check that all the details were correct. And the declaration she made about herself, 
and her named driver, having no convictions for any motoring offences in the last five years 
is clearly set out on the statement of insurance.
Ms P has told us she made a mistake when applying for cover as she didnt realise the 
speeding offences were still relevant. But she had the opportunity to check her answers 
when she received her policy documents and contact AA about the incorrect information.
Section 17 of Ms Ps policy terms and conditions sets out the requirement to keep policy 
information up to date, and to notify AA of any driving convictions. And the policy document 
also states that the insurance may be cancelled if the consumer has failed to provide the 
correct information.
So I think Ms P had the opportunity to check the information shed provided and was made 
away of the potential consequences of failing to provide correct information.
AA havent said that Ms P deliberately provided wrong information. Theyve accepted that it 
was a mistake and treated it as a careless misrepresentation. CIDRA says that a consumer 
entering into a contract of insurance must take reasonable care to ensure that the 
information they provide to the insurer is correct. And where if the correct information had 
been provided the insurer wouldnt have entered into the contract, as is the case here, they 
may avoid the contract and refuse all claims, but must return the premiums paid.
I appreciate that AAs actions have had significant consequences for Ms P, as shes still 
paying for a car she no longer has. Shes said that the theft of her car had nothing to do with 
the information she provided. I understand that, but thats not what I have to consider.
I have to look at whether AA acting correctly when they cancelled her policy and refused her 
claim. And I think they acted in accordance with CIDRA. And as theyve confirmed that 
theyve returned Ms Ps premiums, I cant ask them to do anything else.  
My final decision
For the reasons set out above my final decision is that I dont uphold Ms Ps complaint about 
AA Underwriting Insurance Company Limited.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms P to accept or reject my decision before 26 July 2022.
 
Patricia O'Leary
Ombudsman