DRN-2063362
The complaint
Mr A and Mrs K are unhappy that their home insurance claim for storm damage was rejected 
by Fairmead Insurance Limited.
What happened
In February 2020 Mr A reported a claim to Fairmead following a storm at his property. He 
had suffered two leaks, one in the kitchen and one in the bedroom area. Fairmead sent out a 
surveyor (V) to assess the damage. Mr A and Mrs K were upset initially because the first 
contact from Fairmeads claims handler advised that they had an excess of £163,200. The 
firm acknowledged this was an administrative error and the excess was in fact £200. When 
V came to his home, Mr A says he asked him to remove his shoes, and says V refused. He 
says V brought mud into the house and trod it all over the carpets. He was upset as hed 
made the request for religious reasons, which he feels werent respected.
In respect of the damage, V said the external damage was to the flaunching (mortar base 
around the chimney pot). He said this was in poor condition and had only been highlighted 
by the storm. With regard to the internal damage to the bedroom he said this had been due 
to rainwater ingress over a period of time which had previously been painted over. The 
internal damage to the kitchen was accepted but was assessed to cost less than the excess 
on the policy.
Fairmead apologised for the error in the initial letter and initially apologised for V not 
removing his shoes, but when it later questioned V about this he said he had removed his 
shoes.
Mr A and Mrs K obtained a report from a roofing contractor (B) who confirmed the damage 
was caused by storm.
On review by our investigator she thought that the main cause of the damage wasnt likely to 
be storm, so she couldnt uphold Mr A and Mrs Ks complaint. In respect of their complaint 
about Vs conduct, as Mr As and Vs accounts of this were in direct contradiction of each 
other she didnt think there was enough evidence to uphold this. The matter has been 
passed to me for further consideration.
   
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
the claim
As our investigator advised, when assessing where there is storm damage under a home 
insurance policy, we ask three questions. It is only if the answer to each of those questions 
is "Yes that it is most likely that we would tell an insurer to deal with a claim as storm 
damage. The questions are:
1. Were there storm conditions on or around the date of the claim?
2.   Is the damage claimed for consistent with damage a storm typically causes?
3.   Were the storm conditions the main cause of the damage?
As regards questions 1 and 2, I dont think theres any real dispute over these, so I will just 
go onto question 3:
were the storm conditions the main cause of the damage?
Here there were two expert reports. Fairmeads report from V, a surveyor, is detailed and 
followed a close inspection of the areas damaged with close up photos. Mr As report is from 
a roofing contractor, B, with experience of insurance claims. V said that the water leak into 
the bedroom was caused by the flaunching to the top of the chimney which is in a poor state 
of repair and has been suffering from age related deterioration. This has cracked and 
become porous and is allowing water to ingress causing damage to the bedroom.
B didnt disagree with the source of the leak. He said, It is feasible the capping to the 
chimney stack may have become dislodged in high winds. I understand that capping and 
flaunching are essentially the same thing. In a later view in correspondence with our 
investigator B said: the capping to the chimney stack is quite old and ordinarily would have 
required some attention in the future medium term. But he did go onto say that in my 
opinion severe storm has caused the chimney stack to fail and water to ingress. Under 
normal weather conditions it is likely that the chimney stack would have remained water tight 
for another 2 to 3 years.
Ive reviewed both reports/opinions. Ive also considered the photos, and the mortar does 
appear to be in poor condition, around the base of the chimney pot. It is my view that the 
mortar bedding around a chimney would have remained in place had it been adequately 
maintained. I note also that V found the mortar to likely be porous and that it had been letting 
water in over a period of time. In the bedroom, it was noted that the staining had been 
painted over in the past. I think it reasonable to accept that the mortar had become cracked, 
thus allowing it to be dislodged in the high winds. Bearing in mind the more detailed nature 
of Vs report and the fact that it was carried out by a surveyor, I think it most likely that the 
storm was not the main cause of the damage. Certainly the high winds caused some of the 
mortar to become dislodged but I think the main cause of the damage was the poor condition 
of the mortar (flaunching).
The long-standing nature of the damage to the base of the chimney-pot seems to be 
reflected by what V found to have occurred internally. Regards the internal damage to the 
bedroom V said The damage is longstanding and not the result of a single event. The 
surveyor noted that there had been previous staining to this area which had been painted 
over in the past, the angle bead to the external corner of the wall has also started to rust 
indicating that this ingress has been ongoing for a period of time. This would appear to 
highlight that the chimney wasnt really water tight. For the policy to cover the damage, it has 
to have been caused by a one-off storm. And though I accept the immediate leak in 
February 2020 caused more damage to the bedroom, it clearly had been happening to a 
lesser degree for some time. As our investigator advised we can look to see if theres any 
other cover in the policy for the damage. The only cover that might apply is accidental 
damage but Mr A and Mrs K dont have that cover under their policy. 
As for the kitchen, V said initially this related to the pitch of the roof, but later said that wasnt 
the case. But there doesnt appear to be any damage to the roof above the kitchen, and B 
hasnt mentioned it at all. Fairmead assessed the internal damage would cost less than the 
excess to repair, and I think thats a reasonable assessment.surveyor not taking off shoes
Mr A says he asked V to take off his shoes before entering the house. He asked this for 
religious reasons. He says V refused to do this and trod mud round the house. He says it will 
cost £400 to do a deep clean, but didnt take any photos of it at the time. He feels this is 
direct discrimination against himself and his wife as V didnt respect his reasons for this. At 
first Fairmead apologised for this but didnt offer to take any other steps. But it later asked V 
who said in a statement that he did take off his shoes. Unfortunately with a direct 
contradiction between what Mr A says and what V said, and with no other evidence, I cant 
say one way or the other who is right. So I cant make any finding in this respect.
Ive note that Fairmead appeared to admit this at first and I do think it should have looked 
into the matter further before giving its answer. But, as our investigator advised, the handling 
of complaints isnt a regulated activity and I have no power to make any award in that 
respect.
quoting wrong excess
I can understand if Mr A and Mrs K were perturbed at being quoted the wrong excess. 
Fairmead admit this was an error on its claim handlers part. As the matter was quickly 
resolved and there was no suggestion that the claim wouldnt be considered because of this 
I dont intend to take any further action. 
My final decision
I dont uphold the complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A and Mrs K to 
accept or reject my decision before 4 December 2020.
 
Ray Lawley
Ombudsman