DRN-3693073
The complaint
Mr K and Mrs R complained that Aviva Life & Pensions UK Limited (Aviva) declined their 
critical illness claim. 
For ease, I will generally refer to actions and comments as those of Mr K. 
What happened
Mr K and Mrs R took out two single, decreasing term life and critical illness policies in 
October and September 2020 with Aviva. The policies also provided childrens life, critical 
illness and hospital benefit at an additional cost. 
Mr K contacted Aviva in January 2022 to make a claim under the childrens critical illness 
benefit, as his son had recently undergone surgery. Mr Ks son didnt have a confirmed 
diagnosis, but cerebral palsy was suspected. Mr K told Aviva that his son suffered from this 
condition prior to the start date of the policy. 
Aviva told Mr K on the same day that it would not pay the claim as a policy exclusion applied 
which said that a payment would not be made if symptoms had already started before the 
policy start date.
Mr K was unhappy with Avivas decision. He said he wasnt asked any questions about his 
sons health at the application stage and if this had happened then he would have pointed 
out his condition so that it could be assessed. Mr K was also unhappy about the decision to 
decline the claim being made so quickly. He said it didnt feel right to have a decision made 
without checking medical records. 
Aviva responded and said it didnt ask questions about Mr Ks sons health when he applied 
for the policy as the policy was a long term contract that provided cover for children who in 
many cases were not yet born. So as its not always feasible to ask questions at the 
application stage, it outlined in the policy conditions when it can and cant consider a claim. 
These say it cant consider a claim for conditions where symptoms predate the policy start 
date.  
Aviva said Mr Ks communication with it, where he indicated he would have disclosed his 
sons condition in 2020 if he had been asked, showed his son was experiencing related 
symptoms prior to the policy starting. So it thought the claim had been fairly declined. Aviva 
outlined information it would need from Mr K in order to reconsider the claim, namely that 
there had been a definite diagnosis of cerebral palsy  it said the recent surgery was not a 
covered condition  and confirmation that his son didnt experience any symptoms related to 
cerebral palsy prior to October 2020. 
Mr K complained to this Service. He said he was asked numerous questions at the 
application stage about his own health while no questions were asked about his son. Mr K 
said his wife would have made the same claim under her own policy and asked this Service 
to include her policy as part of the complaint against Aviva.  
Our Investigator contacted Aviva and it said it hadnt issued a final response letter to Mr K 
but it gave this Service permission to look into the complaint. Aviva also gave us permission 
to include Mrs Rs policy, as requested by Mr K, as part of the complaint. It said the same 
terms and conditions applied to both policies. 
Our Investigator thought Aviva acted fairly when it declined the claim. She said Mr K told 
both her and Aviva that his sons symptoms had been ongoing for many years and pre-dated 
the start of the policies. She said this is why Aviva didnt seek further medical evidence, as it 
was clear from the information provided that the claim wasnt covered.
Mr K didnt agree with what our Investigator said, so this came to me for a decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I was sorry to hear that Mr K and Mrs Rs son is unwell and I can see how this would cause 
them a great deal of worry and upset. 
The exclusion that Aviva has relied on to decline the claim, which is the same in both Mr K 
and Mrs Rs policies, says:
We will pay this if a child meets the definition for one of our childrens critical illnesses 
during the policy term, and survives for at least 10 days. 
The illness or condition must not have been present at birth, whether diagnosed or not. The 
symptoms must not have started before the policy start date or before the child was covered 
by the policy
Broadly speaking, when a consumer applies for a protection policy similar to Mr K and 
Mrs Rs, insurers will ask a number of medical and lifestyle questions at the application 
stage. The answers provided by consumers will allow the insurer to decide whether they are 
willing to offer a policy and on what terms. So, for instance, insurers might charge a higher 
premium, might attach exclusions to the policy for pre-existing conditions or might decline to 
offer cover at all. 
But insurers dont have to ask these questions. They can opt to offer cover without 
underwriting the policy in this way. When this happens, insurers will often include quite broad 
exclusions in the policy terms in lieu of underwriting. Exclusions, such as the one included in 
Mr K and Mrs Rs policies, are not unusual and this Service sees their inclusion in policies as 
fair, providing they are made clear at the outset. 
I note that Mr K and Mrs Rs policies dont require children to be named on the policy and 
cover can be provided later for children who are not yet born. So, for this particular type of 
cover, I think its reasonable for Aviva to include an exclusion in the policy that means pre-
existing conditions wont be covered. Im satisfied Aviva didnt need to underwrite the childs 
benefit cover. 
Im also satisfied that the exclusion term was clearly worded. I can see that Mr K and Mrs R 
had access to policy documents and so would have been able to check the cover being 
provided by the policy. 
Looking at how Aviva assessed the claim, I think it acted fairly when it relied solely on the 
information provided by Mr K about his sons health when he contacted it to make a claim.From what Ive seen, when Mr K spoke to Aviva he told it that although his sons condition 
was undiagnosed, he had been experiencing symptoms of the condition for some years 
before the policy started. So Im satisfied that Aviva had enough information at that point in 
time to make a decision about whether or not the exclusion applied. I cant see that 
requesting medical information would make a difference to the claim outcome here. But I can 
see that Aviva did let Mr K know what medical information it would need if he wanted it to 
reconsider the claim. So Im satisfied Aviva has acted fairly here. 
Ive also considered whether Aviva applied the exclusion fairly here, and Im satisfied it has. 
From what I can see, Mr K and Mrs Rs son had, unfortunately, been experiencing 
symptoms of cerebral palsy for some time prior to the start date of the policy. I appreciate 
what Mr K said about there being no way of knowing when he took out the policy that his son 
would need surgery and Ive no doubt Mr K and Mrs R took these policies out in good faith. 
But Im satisfied Aviva has fairly applied the exclusion here. 
It seems that Mr K thinks he might have had a valid claim if questions had been asked about 
his sons health at the application stage. I make no findings about this point, but it might help 
to say that if an insurer had asked medical questions at the application stage - and it seems 
unlikely any would, given that Mr Ks son is a child - then its possible cover wouldnt have 
been offered. Mr Ks son appears to have had symptoms of a condition that was 
undiagnosed in October 2020. Insurers often wont offer policies where symptoms are 
undiagnosed  they will often decline to offer cover until a firm diagnosis has been made. 
And once a diagnosis is made, then its unlikely cover would be offered for that particular 
condition. Insurance policies such as these are intended to provide cover for illnesses that 
havent already happened.
I have a great deal of sympathy for Mr K and Mrs R and I understand that my decision will 
disappoint them, but I could only ask Aviva to take a different course of action if I thought it 
had acted unfairly or outside the terms of the policy, and Im satisfied it hasnt. 
My final decision
Its my final decision that I do not uphold Mr K and Mrs Rs complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr K and Mrs R to 
accept or reject my decision before 21 October 2022.
 
Martina Ryan
Ombudsman