DRN-3022104
The complaint
Mr and Mrs A are unhappy that Sainsburys Bank plc (Sainsburys) cancelled their contents 
insurance renewal, which caused them problems making a claim with their insurer. The 
policy was in joint names but as Mrs A dealt with the claim, and for ease, Ill refer only to her 
throughout my decision.
What happened
Mrs A arranged her home contents insurance through the broker, Sainsburys. She made a 
claim for accidental damage to a laptop, but the insurer declined her claim because 
Sainsburys had cancelled the policy. She complained to Sainsburys. It said that Mrs A 
hadnt paid her policy premium, so it had cancelled the renewal in line with the terms and 
conditions.
Mrs A complained that Sainsburys actions had caused disruption to a valid claim through 
her insurer, which shed made during the renewal window.
Our investigator didnt think Sainsburys had done anything wrong. He said the terms and 
conditions allowed it to cancel the policy if it didnt receive payment after notifying Mrs A 
using the documented procedure. 
Mrs A didnt agree because she felt more weight had been placed on Sainsburys version of 
events than on hers, so the complaint was passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
While I realise Mrs A will be disappointed, Ive decided not to uphold her complaint. Ill 
explain.
Firstly, I must mention that Mrs A has a separate complaint about the claim she made under 
her policy with the insurer. I havent addressed that here and my decision is only about the 
actions of the broker, Sainsburys. My role is to decide whether Sainsburys cancelled the 
policy fairly for the reasons it gave and in line with the terms and conditions.
When Mrs A first took out the policy, she paid by monthly direct debit via a credit agreement 
with Sainsburys. At renewal, Sainsburys sent confirmation of the new credit agreement 
along with other policy documents. I see that Sainsburys told Mrs A it cancelled her policy 
because she didnt pay her first renewal premium. It confirmed that the policy said:
If you do not repay the credit we may take legal action to recover the outstanding amount 
due under the credit agreement, the interest payable, and out [sic] costs. We may also 
terminate this credit agreement and your cover under your insurance policy.
Turning to Mrs As evidence, I havent seen anything which suggests she did make payment 
or that she claimed to have done. 
Ive gone on to look at what the policy provides for if Sainsburys is unable to collect the 
premium. The policy confirms that Sainsburys can cancel the credit agreement, providing it 
has first let Mrs A know using the following steps:
contact you in writing requesting payment by a specific date
If payment is not received by that date well issue you with a 7 day notice of 
cancellation in writing
subsequently cancel your policy with immediate effect following these 7 days
notify you in writing that such cancellation has taken place;
The policy also says:
If we terminate this credit agreement, we may also terminate your cover under your 
insurance policy. We will let you know before we do this.
Looking at the evidence Sainsburys provided, its clear that it followed the steps set out in 
the policy and in line with the documented timeline. I understand Mrs A is aware of the dates 
and nature of the correctly addressed letters, emails and portal notifications Sainsburys 
sent. I cant see any evidence that Sainsburys received a response from Mrs A, and she 
hasnt said she did respond.
I realise that Sainsburys gave Mrs A an incorrect cancellation date. It said in one of its 
letters that the policy would be cancelled from 19 December, whereas the insurer confirmed 
the policy was cancelled from the start, which was 14 November. Mrs A made her claim on 
18 December. Ive thought about whether the incorrect cancellation date caused Mrs A any 
loss, but I cant fairly say it has. Thats because the insurer would always have cancelled 
from the date of inception in the absence of payment. And Sainsburys still hadnt received 
payment when the insurer refused to consider the claim, which was four days after the 
cancellation date Sainsburys provided. 
So, as Sainsburys didnt receive payment for the credit agreement, and Mrs A hasnt 
provided any evidence to show she tried to pay, Im satisfied it was entitled to cancel the 
policy in line with the terms and conditions. I dont think Sainsburys did anything wrong here.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, my final decision is that I dont uphold the complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A and Mrs A to 
accept or reject my decision before 14 February 2022. 
Debra Vaughan
Ombudsman