DRN-2561550
The complaint
Mr Os complaint is about internet banking system problems he encountered whilst trying to 
make a faster payment from a current account he held with TSB Bank plc.
What happened
In October 2020, Mr O tried to make a faster payment using TSBs internet banking facility. 
He tried to make the payment a number of times but couldnt due to problems with the 
system.
Around an hour later Mr O successfully made the faster payment but said the experience 
had caused him a great deal of stress. Mr O complained to TSB about the impact the system 
problems had on his mental health.
TSB responded to Mr O. It said it was aware there had been problems with accessing 
internet banking around the time Mr O tried. TSB paid Mr O £50 for the distress and 
inconvenience caused.  
Mr O didnt agree with the amount of compensation offered and brought his complaint to us.
Our investigator looked at everything and concluded the complaint shouldnt be upheld 
because the terms and conditions of Mr Os account explained that internet banking may not 
be available at all times. So she found TSBs offer of compensation was fair based on this 
single incident.
Mr O doesnt agree, he feels the level of compensation should be higher for TSBs error.
Mr O requested an ombudsmans decision, so the complaint has been passed to me to 
decide.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I have a great deal of sympathy after reading Mr Os testimony about how an issue such as 
this  which would seem relatively small to some people  can have a large impact on his 
mental health. And I want to reassure him that Ive carefully considered this point when 
making my decision. But having done so, I agree with the conclusions reached by the 
investigator for the reasons below.
TSB has agreed there were problems with internet banking around the time Mr O tried to 
make the faster payment, so Im satisfied the problem wasnt specific to Mr Os account.
Ive looked at the terms and conditions of Mr Os account, which state You may not be able 
to use all your services all the time. And access could be a bit slow for a while if were 
running repairs, updating, or doing routine maintenance. The terms also state were not 
responsible for any losses caused (a) during periods of maintenance or where theres a 
disruption to your services.
So based on the terms Im satisfied TSB have made it clear there can be some periods 
where internet banking isnt available. However, TSB has acknowledged the matter caused 
Mr O some upset and offered compensation for the time the system wasnt working. I find 
this reasonable. 
Looking at TSBs transaction logs, I can see Mr O was able to make the payment between 
his accounts successfully around an hour later, so it seems the issues were resolved fairly 
quickly.
Whilst I understand the impact this event had on Mr O personally, given the circumstances 
of the case I find TSBs payment of £50 compensation a fair reflection of the inconvenience it 
caused, based on the time its service was unavailable. So I wont be requiring it to pay Mr O 
any more compensation. 
For these reasons, I do not uphold this complaint.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint about TSB Bank plc.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr O to accept or 
reject my decision before 18 March 2021.
 
Dan Prevett
Ombudsman