DRN-3189829
The complaint
Mr Z complained that QIC Europe Ltd (QIC) refused his claim under his home emergency 
policy. 
Reference to QIC includes its agents.
What happened
Mr Z had insurance with QIC that covered him for blockages or damage to his drainage and 
waste pipe systems. In June 2021 he contacted QIC as he said there was an issue with his 
drains which was affecting his ground floor kitchen and his first-floor bathroom. QIC sent an 
engineer who used a high-pressure water jet to clear the blockage on the ground floor. But 
they found no blockage on the first floor and instead said the water appeared to be holding in 
the pipework under the floor, causing a vacuum in the basin and shower. They said this was 
causing the water to drain away slowly. The engineer indicated that they might need to 
remove the flooring or part of the ceiling to investigate further. But QIC refused to investigate 
further and Mr Z complained.
QIC said Mr Zs home emergency policy covered him for an emergency relating to blocked 
plumbing. But it said his plumbing wasnt blocked and it couldnt help him under that policy. It 
said Mr Z also had buildings insurance and that covered him for accidental damage. But QIC 
didnt think this would apply due to the location of the pipework which meant it was unlikely it 
could be damaged accidentally. Mr Z wasnt happy with this response so brought his 
complaint to this service. He said he had two small children and the blockage in the 
bathroom caused problems for his family for a few days. He said hed put some chemicals 
down the waste pipe and it was now draining well. But he thought the engineer should have 
done more to resolve the issue when they attended. 
Our investigator thought QIC had acted in line with the terms and conditions of Mr Zs policy. 
And so he didnt think QIC needed to take any further action. 
As Mr Z didnt agree with the investigators view, his complaint has been passed to me to 
make a final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr Z thinks QIC should have done more to investigate and resolve the issue with his 
bathroom drainage when its engineer attended in June 2021. While QIC thinks it did as 
much as it needed to in line with the terms and conditions of his policy. So, what do those 
terms say?
Mr Zs buildings insurance policy covers him for accidental damage to mains services. The 
policy defines accidental damage as sudden, unexpected and physical damage which 
happens at a specific time, was not deliberate and was caused by something external and 
identifiable. And as theres no evidence to suggest the issue with Mr Zs bathroom drainage 
was caused by a one-off event of accidental damage from an external force, Im satisfied 
that QIC acted fairly in saying that any claim he made under that policy would be unlikely to 
be successful.
Mr Zs home emergency policy covers him for an emergency relating to a blocked or 
damaged pipe leading to, or from, any fixed sink, shower, bath or toilet. QIC said Mr Zs 
claim isnt covered because there was no emergency. And, in the circumstances, I think 
thats reasonable. The policy defines an emergency as a sudden, unexpected incident in the 
home which means that immediate action is needed to make the home safe or secure, 
prevent damage or provide it with essential services such as heating, light or water. Or 
relieve any difficulty or risk to the homeowner or someone elses health. Mr Z has said the 
water had been draining slowly from the sink and shower for a while before he called QIC 
about the blockage on the ground floor. And while I can understand the inconvenience it 
caused, I dont think it was unreasonable for QIC to say it didnt consider the slow rate of 
drainage to be an emergency.
Mr Z was particularly concerned that QICs engineer didnt take further action to investigate 
the cause of the issue. But one of the exclusions in his policy is that it doesnt cover the cost 
of investigating and accessing the source of the issue. It goes on to say that if QIC cannot 
identify the source of the leak (or blockage), it will not accept the claim. The engineer 
indicated that any further investigation might mean taking up some flooring or removing part 
of the ceiling. As that type of investigation is specifically excluded under the policy, I dont 
think it was unreasonable for QIC not to take any further action.
Mr Z also thinks the engineer misdiagnosed the issue and should have done more to 
unblock the waste pipe on the day. The engineers report shows that they removed the 
waste trap, cleaned out the scale and pressurised the waste pipe. But they couldnt find a 
blockage. They said the water appeared to be holding in the pipework under the floor, thus 
creating a vacuum that was causing the water to drain slowly. Mr Z subsequently put 
chemicals down the waste pipe and the wastewater ran freely, so he thinks there must have 
been a blockage that was cleared by using the chemicals. But, on balance, I dont think 
theres enough evidence to say the engineer misdiagnosed the problem on the day they 
attended. They cleaned the area and attempted to clear the blockage but couldnt do so, 
which is why, in their professional opinion, they assumed the slow drainage was caused by a 
vacuum in the pipework. Mr Z thinks thats wrong based on what happened subsequently but 
without any further evidence I dont think theres enough to say the engineer made a 
mistake.    
Im sorry to hear about the problems Mr Z faced but I dont think QIC needs to do anything 
more. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr Z to accept or 
reject my decision before 2 February 2022.
 
Richard Walker
Ombudsman