DRN-1715396
 
The complaint
Mr Ms complaint about NewDay Ltd trading as Aqua (NewDay) relates to Irresponsible 
lending and increases in his credit limit.
What happened
Our investigators background summary covered all the relevant facts and issues, and is 
known to both Mr M and NewDay, so there is no need for me to repeat it here in any detail. 
Instead I will focus on giving the reasons for my decision. So, if Ive not mentioned 
something its not because Ive ignored it, rather its because I dont think its of direct 
relevance to the issues I need to deal with. 
In April 2018 Mr M applied for and obtained a credit card with NewDay. In the course of the 
next 12 months he received 4 increases to his credit limit which he regards as irresponsible 
lending on NewDays behalf given his financial situation during that time, which he maintains 
would have been obvious to NewDay.
Upon complaint to NewDay, they responded to confirm that they had reviewed Mr Ms 
account prior to each increase noting how he had managed his account thus far, taking into 
account other borrowing and the absence of any information from Mr M that he was 
experiencing any financial difficulty. As such they did not consider they had acted 
irresponsibly as they had concluded any borrowing Mr M had inside those limits was 
affordable and could be repaid in a sustainable manner.
Mr M was unhappy with NewDays final response and so approached this service to see if 
we could assist in resolving the dispute. An investigator looked into the complaint, and 
having done so, concluded that NewDay hadnt done anything wrong.
Mr M didnt agree with our investigators view and asked for the complaint to be passed to an 
Ombudsman for a final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The role of the Financial Ombudsman Service is to mediate individual disputes between 
consumers and businesses, and to award redress where it is appropriate.  
I have considered both sides views in considering whether NewDay acted fairly and 
reasonably. Ive looked at the issues raised and considered all the available evidence. I must 
make an independent decision about what I think is right for each case, and thats what Ive 
done here. In this case, I dont think that NewDay has done anything wrong and Ill explain 
why.
The Lending Code requires a business to assess whether a borrower will be able to repay 
their borrowing in a sustainable manner, by considering information from Credit Reference 
Agencies (CRAs), including existing financial commitments where provided, as well as the 
following where they may be appropriate:
The type and amount of credit being sought.
How the customer has handled their finances in the past;
Any internal credit scoring techniques;
The customers declared income;
Why the customer wants to borrow the money and for how long; and
Any security provided
The evidence here shows that on application Mr M declared an income of £42,500 and 
£9,400 in unsecured borrowing. Historically, Mr M had had 2 defaults recorded against him, 
the last one being over 5 years before. There were no Court Judgments recorded, and 
although Mr M owed money to a Payday loan company, no arrears were recorded within the 
previous year. Importantly there is no record of Mr M advising NewDay that he had any 
concerns about his own financial position. Objectively, an initial credit limit of £1,200, set 
against that background, was in my view reasonable and affordable at that time.
The first increase to Mr Ms limit was 4 months later, which doubled the credit limit to £2,400. 
NewDays review of Mr Ms account management showed he had not exceeded his credit 
limit, had no recorded late payments, and was on occasion paying more than the minimum. 
NewDay also conducted a credit check which revealed no concerns.   Again, Mr M did not 
bring to NewDays attention that he had any concerns about his financial position, and on 
this occasion, he also spoke to NewDay by telephone when he called to accept their offer to 
increase the limit. Based on this information, there was nothing to indicate that Mr M could 
not afford to repay the borrowing with NewDay.
The second increase in limit, of another £1,200 up to a credit limit of £3,600 occurred 4 
months after the first and being 8 months after obtaining the card. The third increase was 
another 4 months after that and up to £5,350. NewDay conducted reviews prior to both 
increases, and found a very similar picture, being the absence of anything which would 
indicate Mr M was unable to afford the increase. Ive noted that in the intervening period Mr 
M was managing his account well never exceeding his limit and frequently repaying more 
than the minim. So, I cant see that there is any indication from his account management that 
indicates he was unable to afford the borrowings on his card, in fact quite the opposite.
I have of course seen from the evidence that Mr M was using Payday loans, but the use of 
such finance does not automatically equate to financial difficulty for a customer, or that other 
borrowing is unaffordable. Looking at the overall picture that would have presented itself to 
NewDay, on the application and subsequent increases in credit limits, it does not indicate 
that the level of credit being advanced was unaffordable. The checks undertaken by 
NewDay revealed no repayment plans arranged, no arrears, no late payments, no exceeding 
his credit limit, and only one Payday loan being reported at any one time. The information 
from the CRA also shows there hadnt been any arrears on payday loans in the last 12 
months, and his last default was more than 5 years ago. I have also noted Mr M reports he 
had 4 credit cards, 1 unsecured loan and 2 secured loans, but the point remains that it is not 
simply the overall level of debt that is critical, it is the affordability of any further credit being 
advanced. 
So, overall, I do think that proportionate checks were carried out by NewDay and that 
revealed the borrowing on the credit card was sustainable as Mr M was repaying it without 
undue difficulty and without having to borrow from elsewhere to meet his repayments. I cant 
see any evidence that in making the increases to his credit limit it would have meant Mr M 
would incur financial difficulties or experience adverse consequences.So, although Mr M will probably be disappointed with my decision, I cant say NewDay has 
acted unfairly or unreasonably here and Im not upholding this complaint. 
My final decision
For the reasons set out above I do not uphold the complaint against NewDay Ltd trading as 
Aqua.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 18 August 2020.
 
Jonathan Willis
Ombudsman