DRN-3749160
The complaint
Mrs J and Mr J complain about Aviva Insurance Limiteds handling of a claim made under 
their property owners insurance policy.
What happened
Mrs J and Mr J have a property owners insurance policy underwritten by Aviva, which 
covers a flat they own and rent out.
The background to this case is well known to both parties, so Ill give a very brief overview of 
the circumstances here.
In short, Mrs J and Mr J made a claim in February 2020 after an escape of water in the 
bathroom at the property caused the kitchen ceiling to collapse.
After assessing the damage, Aviva agreed a cash settlement with Mrs J and Mr J. They say 
that despite Aviva promising to make the payment immediately, there was a delay in the 
payment being made.
Mrs J and Mr J gave their bank account details to Aviva on 22 March 2020, but the payment 
arrived in their account only on 15 April 2020.
Mrs J and Mr J say this meant they couldnt get the repair work carried out in time for a 
potential tenant, who had agreed to move in on 11 April 2020. And having missed out on that 
potential tenant, they couldnt get anyone else to move in until 19 June 2020.
Mrs J and Mr J made a complaint to Aviva. They also want Aviva to pay for lost rent between 
April and June 2020.
Aviva didnt uphold the complaint. They said theyve asked for information and evidence 
from Mrs J and Mr J to prove their loss of rent claim, but this hasnt been forthcoming.
Mrs J and Mr J werent happy with this and brought their complaint to us. Our investigator 
looked into it and didnt think Aviva had been clear about what additional information Mrs J 
and Mr J needed to provide.
She said Aviva should make it absolutely clear what further information was needed, then 
assess the claim as soon as it was provided. And she felt Aviva should pay Mrs J and Mr J 
£500 for their trouble and upset.
Aviva disagreed and asked for a final decision from an ombudsman.
Because I disagreed with our investigators view, I issued a provisional decision in this case. 
This gave both Mrs J and Mr J and Aviva the chance to comment on my thinking and/or 
provide further information or evidence before I make my final decision.
My provisional decision 
In my provisional decision, I said:
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ill look first at Mrs J and Mr Js policy, which says that if a policyholder has a valid 
claim, Aviva:
 will pay for loss of rent as a result of the insured Building. being unfit for 
(the policyholders) business due to damage insured by this (policy).
Understandably, the policy goes on to say that in those circumstances the 
policyholder must ensure the property is repaired as quickly as possible.
Theres no dispute here that Mrs J and Mr J had a valid claim for damage insured 
under the policy.
So, in brief, if the flat wasnt inhabitable as a result of the damage caused by the 
water leak and couldnt therefore be let out, Aviva are obliged to pay Mrs J and Mr J 
for any resulting loss of rent. At least up until the point that Mrs J and Mr J had the 
damage repaired or ought reasonably to have had it repaired.
It seems to me perfectly reasonable then that before they pay out for loss of rent, 
Aviva would want to know the date at the which the previous tenant ceased to pay 
rent, the date at which any new tenant began to pay rent and the date by which the 
repairs were completed. And it appears that is what they asked Mrs J and Mr J to 
provide.
That information would allow Aviva to work out the period during which no rent was 
paid. That period would start when the previous tenant stopped paying rent and end 
when the new tenant started paying rent.
It would also allow them to identify the period when the flat was uninhabitable due to 
the insured damage. That period would start on the day of the insured event and end 
when the repairs were completed.
And it would also allow them to make a judgement about whether Mrs J and Mr J 
acted as quickly as possible in all the circumstances to get the repairs completed.
Mrs J and Mr J appear to have provided Aviva with copies of the rental agreements 
for the potential tenant who was supposed to move in on 11 April 2020 and for the 
tenants who actually moved in on 19 June 2020.
Theyve also provided Aviva (and us) with copies of their bank statements, which 
show the cash settlement payment from Aviva arriving in their account on 15 April 
2020. And the last payment (as they describe it) to the contractor they engaged to 
carry out the repairs going out of their account on 22 April 2020.
Mrs J and Mr J have provided us with a handwritten copy of an agreement with the 
previous tenant, which states that they ceased their tenancy on 1 April 2020. I dont 
think we have any proof to show this was provided to Aviva. If Mrs J and Mr J have 
proof that they sent that document to Aviva previously, they should provide it in 
response to this provisional decision.Mrs J and Mr J havent provided either us or Aviva, as far as I can see, with any proof 
about when the repair works were actually carried out and completed.
This is important because it would allow Aviva to determine what proportion of any 
lost rent was due to the insured damage making the flat uninhabitable and what 
proportion of any lost rent was due to some other cause.
I know Mrs J and Mr J have provided proof of the final payment to their contractor, 
but that doesnt show when the works were actually completed. Nor does the quote 
for the work, which I know theyve provided  and which is dated 21 March 2020. An 
invoice  with the dates the work took place included  would provide that proof.
I can see Aviva have asked for that invoice from the outset. I cant see any evidence 
to suggest theyve ever been provided with it. If Mrs J and Mr J have any evidence 
that they have in fact provided such an invoice to Aviva, they should send it to us in 
response to this provisional decision.
What I can see, from the evidence we have on file, is that the contractors quote 
(dated 21 March 2020) says the works are to be completed as soon as possible.
I can also see that Mrs J and Mr J told Aviva at the time that theyd need the cash 
settlement to be paid quickly in order to pay the contractor, who was available in the 
week of 23 March, but not then for a few months thereafter.
Mrs J has very recently repeated that assertion in her correspondence with us, 
saying again that the contractor was available in late March, but not for a long time 
after that.
On the face of it, that suggests to me that the contractor carried out the work in late 
March 2020. That would mean the property was inhabitable by the end of March at 
the latest  and that the potential tenant from 11 April 2020 wasnt forced to pull out 
because the works werent complete.
If that were true - and for the purposes of this provisional decision I am assuming it is 
 then Mrs J and Mr J didnt miss out on any rent at all due to the damage caused by 
the insured event (the water leak).
The previous tenant paid rent up until the end of March. And if April and Mays rent 
was lost, this was due to the potential tenant dropping out for reasons other than the 
damage to the flat  which was repaired by the end of March too.
If Mrs J and Mr J have any evidence to make me re-think those assumptions, they ll 
need to provide it now in response to this provisional decision.
They will also need to bear in mind that if that evidence hasnt previously been 
provided to Aviva, Im unlucky to conclude that Aviva have done anything wrong in 
the way theyve handled the claim so far.
In short, it seems to me that Aviva have asked for further information and evidence to 
support the loss of rent claim. They havent yet been provided with it  or at least not 
enough of it to allow them to make a decision about the claim. And therefore, they 
havent acted in any way unreasonably or unfairly in not settling the loss of rent claim 
as yet.Finally, I can see from copies of email communications that we have on file that the 
loss adjustor working for Aviva told Mrs J that the cash settlement payment had been 
processed  as a CHAPS payment  on 23 March 2020.
If that were the case, but the payment didnt arrive with Mrs J and Mr J until around 
three weeks later, then the delay would appear to be in the transfer between the 
banks - and not Avivas fault.
If Aviva have evidence that the money was in effect sent out of their account on 23 
March 2020, they should provide that in response to this provisional decision.
And on that basis, I said I was minded not to uphold Mrs J and Mr Js complaint.
The responses to my provisional decision 
Aviva acknowledged receipt of my provisional decision but offered no further comment or 
information. They havent provided any evidence to support the assertion that the payment 
was made to Mrs J and Mr J by CHAPS payment on 23 March 2020.
Mrs J and Mr J responded to say they still felt Aviva had been obstructive in handling their 
claim and hadnt been clear about what information they required to progress it.
They also provided copies of the handwritten agreement with the previous tenant, which 
included the date they left the property  and evidence this had previously been provided to 
Aviva, albeit in connection with a different complaint.
Mrs J and Mr J also provided a copy of an invoice from the contractor who carried out the 
work on their property. This contains a line which says:
All work competed on 21 April 2020.
This document hadnt previously been provided to us or to Aviva. Mrs J tells us they finally 
found this key document after a long search, which was presumably prompted by my 
provisional decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In the absence of any evidence from Aviva about the supposed CHAPS payment of 23 
March 2020, I have to conclude that any delay in the payment to Mrs J and Mr J was Avivas 
responsibility.
Im afraid I cant agree with Mrs J and Mr J that Aviva have never been clear about what 
information they required in order to progress and/or later review the claim. 
In any case, even if Aviva werent as clear as they could have been, it wouldnt have 
required any great insight on Mrs J and Mr Js part to come to the conclusion Aviva would 
need to know when the work was actually carried out in order to decide whether the lost rent 
was due to the property being uninhabitable.
Mrs J and Mr J have now provided  to us at least  all the information Aviva said they 
needed to assess the claim. Weve seen: a copy of the handwritten exit agreement with the previous tenant (who left at 
the beginning of April 2020); a copy of the agreement with the prospective tenant who was 
due to move in on 11 April 2020, but didnt in fact do so; a copy of the agreement with the 
tenant who did move in, in June 2020; and a copy of an invoice from the contractor who 
carried out the repair work.
It seems to me then, that as soon as Mrs J and Mr J provide the remaining outstanding 
document (the invoice) to Aviva, they will be able to look again at the claim for lost rent. Id 
suggest that  in order to avoid any potential for further delay  Mrs and Mr J send all of the 
documents listed above to Aviva as part of one communication.
Aviva will then no doubt re-assess the claim in line with the terms and conditions of the 
policy and advise Mrs J and Mr J whether they intend to settle the claim (and if so for what 
period) or not. 
As is the case with any claim, Aviva will be entitled to seek further information and 
clarification from Mrs J and Mr J if they reasonably need to do that in order to re-assess their 
claim. And they will be entitled to seek to verify the information and documentation provided 
by Mrs J and Mr J either previously or in response to my provisional decision. 
I indicated in my provisional decision that I was unlikely to change my mind and uphold this 
complaint if Mrs J and Mr J now provided information or evidence to support their claim that 
Aviva hadnt previously seen.
That is exactly whats now happened. Mrs J and Mr J have now provided a copy of a 
document which appears to be the contractors invoice. Aviva were within their rights to say 
that they wouldnt re-assess or pay the claim until they had copy of that document.
So, Ive not changed my mind about the outcome set out in my provisional decision. Aviva 
havent acted in any way unreasonably or unfairly towards Mrs J and Mr J in the way theyve 
handled their claim. 
My final decision
For the reasons set out above and in my provisional decision, I dont uphold Mrs J and 
Mr Js complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs J and Mr J to 
accept or reject my decision before 10 November 2022.
 
Neil Marshall
Ombudsman