DRN-3234017
The complaint
Miss P is unhappy Aviva Life and Pensions UK Limited (Aviva) declined her claim.   
What happened
Miss P had a group income protection policy with her employer that was underwritten by 
Aviva.  The policy had a six month deferred period, after which it would pay a benefit in the 
event Miss P was unable to work due to an illness. 
In November 2017, Miss P began suffering from depression and was prescribed medication 
and attended therapy to help manage her symptoms. She was too unwell to work so she 
took a month off. 
Miss P returned to work on 3 January 2018 but became absent again a few weeks later 
following continued difficulties in the workplace. In April Miss P submitted a claim on her 
income protection policy and she returned to work from June 2018.  Aviva declined the claim 
because Miss P had returned to work before the end of the deferred period. Also, Aviva were 
of the opinion the medical evidence demonstrated Miss Ps absence from work was due to 
an employment matter and therefore not covered under the group income protection policy. 
Miss P became absent from work again on 6 December 2018 following more workplace 
issues. She remained off work and in January 2020, Miss P began legal proceedings against 
her employer for disability discrimination, harassment on the grounds of disability, failure to 
make reasonable adjustments and personal injury.
In June 2020, Miss P appointed solicitors to submit an appeal to Aviva against the decline of 
her income protection claim. She provided a report from a consultant psychiatrist and 
explained she was unable to appeal sooner because of her mental health and the 
associated symptoms. Aviva reviewed the new medical report but maintained its decision to 
decline the claim because they said the medical evidence still showed Miss Ps absence was 
primarily caused by the situation within her workplace. 
Unhappy with this Miss P complained to Aviva and the matter was then referred to our 
service. Our investigator looked at what had happened and said Aviva had been fair
to decline the claim because he was persuaded the evidence suggested Miss Ps absence 
was due to issues in the workplace which wasnt covered under her policy. 
Miss P didnt agree. So the case has now been passed to me for a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The relevant rules and industry guidelines say Aviva has a responsibility to handle claims 
promptly and fairly and shouldnt reject a claim unreasonably. 
The policy terms and conditions define incapacity as: 
Incapacity or Incapacitated shall mean that a member is incapacitated, by reason of
illness or injury, when the insurer is satisfied that the employee is incapable of
performing the material and substantial duties of his or her own occupation and is not
following any other occupation.
Material and substantial is defined as:
Material and substantial means duties that are normally required for and/or form a
significant and integral part of the performance of the member's own occupation
and which cannot be reasonably omitted or modified by the member or the employer.
Its clear that Miss P has been through a tough time. Her workplace issues and the pressure 
she was under in her area are well documented throughout all the evidence. I think its 
understandable that these issues have caused her health-related problems. 
Its reported that Miss Ps employment initially started well in early 2017. But during her first 
year her team became under-resourced which resulted in significant work pressure being 
placed on her. Miss P says that from Autumn 2017 her mental health began to deteriorate. 
Just before her first period of absence Miss P said her line manager told her things werent 
working and it may be time for Miss P to accept that and leave. Miss P says this triggered 
her mental health problems. Based on the above I think it was fair to Aviva to conclude Miss 
Ps initial absence was caused by circumstances at work.
After a months absence, Miss P tried to return to work for a few weeks. She says her 
employer didnt make any adjustments to assist her and she wasnt offered a phased
return or reduction in her workload. Following another difficult meeting with her seniors, Miss 
P sadly suffered a severe and dangerous decline in her mental health and she was signed 
off work for six months. She says during this time her doctors asked her employer to leave 
her alone so she could focus on her recovery. So, although its clear Miss P was suffering 
from depression, Im persuaded this episode was again triggered by a situation at work. As 
the medical advice had been to remove the trigger of any contact with her workplace in order 
to aid her recovery, I think its fair for Aviva to say Miss Ps second absence also wouldnt 
have occurred had it not been for the continued problems at her workplace.
After six months away from work Miss P reported feeling in a better physical and mental 
state. Her records show she felt positive and hopeful about the future, but she remained 
apprehensive about returning to work. 
In June 2018 Miss P returned to work, before the end of the deferred period. She said this 
was on the agreement her employer would make the reasonable adjustments recommended 
by her therapist. These included a phased return, monitoring of her workload, adequate 
support and flexibility to attend therapy and psychiatry appointments. Miss P says these 
adjustments werent made and she was expected to resume her former workload that she 
feels had made her unwell in the first place. She also said the situation was further 
exacerbated by the departure of four more members of her team during this period. 
I note Miss P said shes had her fair share of highly pressured and stressful working 
environments in the past and even thrived in them. And the consultant psychiatrist said if 
Miss Ps symptoms had been supported and well-managed by her employer, it is likely she 
wouldnt have developed this episode of depression. So, I dont think it was unfair for Aviva 
to conclude the main barrier to Miss P being able to work was still her issues with her 
employer. I wouldn't expect an insurer to pay a claim due to an employer not adhering to 
their duty of care of their employees. The policy terms enable Aviva to terminate any right to 
benefit when either the beneficiary or the policyholder fails to make relevant adjustments 
following medical advice.Miss Ps employer did agree to a change in who she was working with and she was able to 
remain working for a few months. But due to more staff shortages, in or around November 
2018 Miss P returned to working with the people shed previously felt uncomfortable around. 
She said she found working in this environment intolerable so unfortunately, she suffered a 
relapse and had to take time off again. 
During her time off Miss P said she felt overwhelmed with thoughts and nightmares about 
work. She remained absent and continued with legal proceedings against her employer until 
May 2021, when her tribunal claim was resolved, and her employment ended. 
The medical evidence shows Miss P found the grievance process and legal proceedings 
very stressful. She described how it affected every area of her life and that she was in a 
constant state of high anxiety when receiving an email regarding the legal proceedings or 
from her employer as she dreaded what it may contain. So, I dont think it was unfair for 
Aviva to still conclude the main barrier to Miss P being able to work was her issues with her 
employer. 
As part of her appeal, Miss P provided a detailed report from a consultant psychiatrist 
following an interview on 2 August 2020. He said on balance, he doesnt think Miss P is able 
to undertake any gainful employment of significance. But he also said to give an accurate 
prognosis he would need to review Miss P again at the end of the employment tribunal. This 
supports Avivas view that Miss Ps decline in mental health was directly related to her 
employment matter. So, Im less persuaded by his opinion on Miss Ps inability to perform 
the duties of her role. 
I dont dispute Miss P was suffering from depression, taking medication and receiving 
regular therapy. And I can understand why Miss P feels aggrieved as her condition clearly 
deteriorated. But that on its own wouldnt be enough to satisfy the terms of incapacity. I must 
be persuaded that it is the illness, and not another factor, preventing Miss P from performing 
her occupation with any employer and not just her former employer. 
The medical evidence in this case shows Miss P was unable to manage to return to work 
properly because of the ongoing issues within her workplace that werent resolved. This is 
supported by the fact Miss Ps health improves during her time away from work. Miss P said 
she feels that when work issues come up this leads to an acute deterioration in her mental 
health which can be very difficult to manage. But when there is a break in the grievance or 
legal proceedings around work, her mood settles. 
This suggests that a change in employer could have removed this barrier and enabled Miss 
P to return to her occupation in a different environment.  As Miss Ps depression was 
triggered by her issues within her specific workplace, it follows that its likely she wouldnt 
have felt the same if she changed employer. If Miss P would be able to carry out the material 
and substantial duties for another employer, then Im unable to say she meets the definition 
of incapacity. 
I note Miss Ps father was also unwell. In early 2019 he had an operation which was a 
difficult time and he came to live with her which she said caused exhaustion. But I note her 
father had been diagnosed with the condition since 2015 and she had continued to work 
despite there being worrying periods where she recalls his health was very bad and caused 
her distress. So Im still persuaded Miss Ps symptoms which led to her absence were most 
likely caused by the work place issues she endured. And this isnt covered by the policy. 
Based on the medical evidence I think it was reasonable for Aviva to conclude Miss Ps 
depressive symptoms wouldnt have occurred had it not been for her continued problems at her workplace.  Im persuaded its most likely Miss P wouldve been capable of fulfilling the 
material duties of her occupation if the resourcing problems within her old workplace had not 
existed. So Im satisfied Aviva declined this claim fairly because Miss P doesnt meet the 
policy definition of incapacity.
I know this will be disappointing to Miss P as shes clearly been very unwell. But as the 
medical evidence shows her depressive episodes are all triggered by work events, I agree 
that unfortunately her situation just isnt covered by the policy. So there arent any 
reasonable grounds upon which I could fairly ask Aviva to do anything further.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss P to accept 
or reject my decision before 10 June 2022.
 
Georgina Gill
Ombudsman