DRN-4087440
The complaint
Miss B is unhappy that a car supplied to her under a conditional sale agreement with 
Moneybarn No.1 Limited was of an unsatisfactory quality.
Miss B is being represented in this complaint by Mr W. However, for ease of reference, Ill 
refer to any actions or comments by either Miss B or Mr W as being by Miss B.
What happened
On 5 May 2022, Miss B was supplied with a used car through a conditional sale agreement 
with Moneybarn. The agreement was for £21,355 over 60 months; with monthly repayments 
of £544.41. At the time the car was just over six and a half years old and had done 91,060 
miles.
Miss B says that, within a week of collecting the car, the engine management light (EML) 
came on. She advised the broker whod arranged the finance, and they arranged for the 
supplying dealership to inspect the car. The dealership identified and fixed issues with the 
glow plugs and EGR valve, and the car was returned to Miss B. 
Miss B says that, two days after the car was returned to her, the EML illuminated again. And 
she says she asked to reject the car on 23 May 2022. However, the broker asked that the 
dealership be given the opportunity to fix the new issue, and Miss B agreed.
The car was returned to Miss B in late-June 2022 and she says the EML illuminated within 
20 miles. After asking the broker to reject the car, and the broker refusing this, Miss B 
complained to Moneybarn, raising the following issues:
the EML came on within the first six days, and diagnostics showed it was a NoX 
sensor issue;
the car was making a noise and using more fuel than it should;
there was an intermittent smart key warning on the dashboard;
the battery cover was missing screws;
there was a diesel exhaust fluid (AdBlue) warning on the dashboard;
there was white stuff all over the engine;
the car kept dropping into first gear;
a mudflap was held on by cable ties; and
there was an unsecured light that was wobbling.
The dealership repaired the car and then Moneybarn arranged for an independent engineer 
to inspect it. And the engineer said no faults were present, and the car was as expected for 
its age and mileage. As such, Moneybarn said Miss B couldnt reject the car.
Miss B wasnt happy with Moneybarns response, and she brought her complaint to us for 
investigation. During the investigation, Miss B also raised additional issues with the cars 
DPF, turbo, tyre pressure sensors, oil light, and with noise and smoke coming from the car.
Our investigator said there were initially some faults with the car, but these had been 
repaired. And, while Miss B mayve asked to reject the car within the first 30-days, she 
accepted a repair instead. Additionally, there was nothing to show that these faults had 
reoccurred. A second independent engineers report took place on 25 January 2023, and the 
engineer identified an issue with the DPF. However, the engineer thought this developed 
after the car had been supplied to Miss B.
Because of this, the investigator didnt think that Miss B should have the right of rejection.
Miss B didnt agree with the investigator. She said that she was coerced into taking a repair, 
instead of being allowed to reject the car, and that she can supply recordings of phone calls 
to show this was the case. However, despite being given the opportunity to provide these 
call recordings, neither Miss B nor Mr W has done so. As such, this matter has been passed 
to me to make a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive reached the same overall conclusions as the investigator, and for 
broadly the same reasons. If I havent commented on any specific point, its because I dont 
believe its affected what I think is the right outcome.
In considering this complaint Ive had regard to the relevant law and regulations; any 
regulators rules, guidance and standards, codes of practice, and (if appropriate) what I 
consider was good industry practice at the time. Miss B was supplied with a car under a 
conditional sale agreement. This is a regulated consumer credit agreement which means 
were able to investigate complaints about it. 
The Consumer Rights Act 2015 (CRA) says, amongst other things, that the car shouldve 
been of a satisfactory quality when supplied. And if it wasnt, as the supplier of goods, 
Moneybarn are responsible. Whats satisfactory is determined by things such as what a 
reasonable person would consider satisfactory given the price, description, and other 
relevant circumstances. In a case like this, this would include things like the age and mileage 
at the time of sale, and the vehicles history and its durability. Durability means that the 
components of the car must last a reasonable amount of time.
The CRA also implies that goods must confirm to contract within the first six months. So, 
where a fault is identified within the first six months, its assumed the fault was present when 
the car was supplied, unless Moneybarn can show otherwise. But, where a fault is identified 
after the first six months, the CRA implies that its for Miss B to show it was present when the 
car was supplied. 
So, if I thought the car was faulty when Miss B took possession of it, and this made the car 
not of a satisfactory quality, itd be fair and reasonable to ask Moneybarn to put this right.
Based on the evidence Ive seen; its not disputed that the car developed some faults shortly 
after it was supplied to Miss B. Miss B has provided a copy of a text message she sent on 23 
May 2022, which says I have taken the car in and they have found quite a lot of faults. I love 
the car but given all of the faults I think Im best to return it within the 14 days as they said 
when these things start to go wrong they are very expensive and I have only had it a week 
when the light came on.Given this, Im satisfied that, at the point this message was sent, Miss B was considering 
rejecting the car, although she didnt specifically say she wanted to do this, only that she was 
thinking about it. And this was within the 30-days the CRA allows for a short-term right to 
reject. But, for this right to reject to be valid, the faults need to mean that the car was of an 
unsatisfactory quality when supplied.
Regardless of this, its also not disputed that Miss B authorised repairs on the car instead of 
rejection. While shes now saying that she was coerced into accepting repairs, and that she 
has call recordings that show this to be the case, these have not been supplied. And Ive 
seen no other evidence of any coercement. As such, based on what Ive seen, Im not 
satisfied that Miss B was refused her short-term right to reject and she was in any way 
forced to accept repairs instead.
While the evidence isnt clear on this, it implies that the car went in for repair on two or three 
occasions between May and July 2022, during which time a number of issues were repaired. 
Its my understanding that, for the period of time Miss B was without use of the car or a 
courtesy car while these repairs were taking place, her alternative transport costs were 
covered and refunded to her. In addition to this, when Miss B was provided with a courtesy 
car, she travelled almost 3,000 miles. The usual excess mileage charge associated with this 
was also paid by the broker. Given the circumstances, Im satisfied this was reasonable.
As part of the evidence, Ive been provided with a diagnostic report for a 2016 model of the 
same make of car supplied to Miss B, with 154,268 miles on the clock, and dated 6 July 
2022. However, Miss Bs car was first registered in 2015, and (in early July 2022) had done 
less than 100,000 miles. As such, Im not satisfied that this diagnostic report related to the 
car supplied to Miss B.
Ive seen a copy of an independent engineers report dated 18 August 2022. At the time of 
this report the car had done 97,195 miles  6,135 miles more than when it was supplied to 
Miss B around three months earlier. 
The engineer said the supplying dealership had rectified all the issues Miss B had raised, 
detailing what had been done. The engineer also said that, during a road test, the vehicle 
handled and performed in a satisfactory manner, steering the chosen path of travel correctly 
and was free from any abnormal noise or vibration. During the road test there was no 
evidence of any excessive smoke from the exhaust, undue abnormal noises from the 
transmission and no evidence of overheating. With final checks revealing no evidence of 
coolant leaks in and around the engine bay, or evidence of major oil leakage around the 
engine bay or on the underside of the vehicle.
In conclusion, the engineer confirmed that none of the issues Miss B had raised were still 
present and that the car was commensurate for a vehicle of its age and mileage.
I havent seen any evidence that the issues Miss B had raised before this inspection took 
place have subsequently reoccurred. As such, Im also satisfied that the repairs were 
successful. And, where a successful repair has taken place, the CRA doesnt allow for a 
subsequent right of rejection for the same issue.
Ive been provided with a report from a manufacturers main dealer dated 6 January 2023. 
This says carried out investigation into eml light on dash, found the car in a dismantled 
state, found turbos not connected, dpf has a hole in, car has been worked by another garage 
and [manufacturer] will not work off the back of another garage.As the independent engineers report of 18 August 2022 makes no reference to the turbos 
being disconnected, or that the EML was still illuminated, its reasonable for me to conclude 
that the work referred to in the report of 6 January 2023 took place after the report of 18 
August 2022, and was therefore not present when the car was supplied to Miss B on 5 May 
2022.
Ive also seen a copy of the independent engineers report for the inspection that took place 
on 25 January 2023. At the time of this report the car had done 107,058 miles  15,998 
miles more than when it was supplied to Miss B around eight months earlier. 
The engineer said there were no issues relating to the EGR valve, glow plugs, AdBlue 
system, exhaust, turbochargers, or oil level sensors. However, there was an excessive 
amount of smoke emitting from the engine bay due to issues with the DPF. And there was 
an indication that the software mayve been changed to mask the issues with the DPF, and a 
possible abnormal repair taken place, which no reputable garage would do without the 
customer [sic] knowledge or payment.
The engineer said that a DPF has a life expectancy of between 80,000 and 120,000 miles 
before it would need replacing. Based on the engineering evidence, and the age and 
mileage of the car, the engineer concluded that the DPF issues werent present or 
developing at the point of supply and were an age-related in-service wear and tear issue.
With no evidence to the contrary, Im satisfied the current issues with the car are wear and 
tear related, and they mayve been exacerbated by an unorthodox repair undertaken to 
mask the issue at some point between August 2022 and January 2023. 
The independent engineers report of 18 August 2022 specifically says there was no 
evidence of any excessive smoke, and excessive smoke was present in the inspection on 
25 January 2023. Whats more, its unlikely that the car wouldve travelled almost 16,000 
miles before any issues present at the point of supply wouldve presented themselves. Given 
this, Im satisfied that the issues with the DPF werent present when the car was supplied to 
Miss B.
As such, and while I appreciate it will come as a disappointment to Miss B, I wont be asking 
Moneybarn to allow her to reject the car, nor will I be asking them to cover the costs of the 
repairs to the DPF.
My final decision
For the reasons explained, I dont uphold Miss Bs complaint about Moneybarn No.1 Limited.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss B to accept 
or reject my decision before 29 June 2023.
 
Andrew Burford
Ombudsman