DRN-3245111
The complaint
Mr T has complained that AXA Insurance UK Plc recorded a claim on a central database 
when he contacted it about a leak under his home and buildings insurance policy.
All reference to the insurer AXA includes its agents.
What happened
[In June 2020 a local water company contacted Mr T and advised him he was using more
water than usual. They told him he may have a leak. Mr T contacted his insurer AXA for
assistance.
AXA registered a claim and appointed a drainage repair company to identify the leak. There
is a disagreement between the parties as to what happened when the contractor attended.
Mr T says the contractor told him the water company were responsible and to contact them.
AXA says Mr T advised the contractor hed been in touch with the water company and theyd
agreed to take responsibility for the repairs.
The water company carried out repairs free of charge  and Mr T received a credit refund
from the water company for the extra hed paid due to the water leak. The damaged pipe
wasnt on Mr Ts property and there was no damage to his home.
AXA recorded claim costs of £450 on its record for instructing the drainage repair company
and their attendance. And it recorded the claim costs on a central database which many
insurers use to check a consumers claims history.
Mr T said his premium with AXA doubled at renewal because of the way AXA has recorded
the incident. He doesnt believe this is fair  as he made no claim against the policy. He
believes AXA should record his contact with it as an investigation or advice. He doesnt think
the costs were reasonable for the attendance of the contractor.
AXA said the costs were reasonable in relation to the call out. And it said that there was an
insured peril as there was damage to underground pipes. It said even though Mr T didnt go
ahead with a claim for damage under the policy, a claim was initiated and it was right for
AXA to record the costs of the claim in line with industry practice on the recording of claim
costs.
Mr T remained unhappy and asked us to look at his complaint. Our investigator thought AXA
should remove the claim record. AXA said there was damage to the pipes within the
boundary of the property, but the investigator said it had provided no evidence in support.
The investigator explained that the water company couldnt pinpoint the exact location of the
leak. They carried out repair works by laying a new pipe and installing a new stopcock on the
road outside Mr Ts home to feed his property. There was no risk to the address, no access
was required to the property and no damage caused. So she didnt agree that an insured
peril had occurred.
The investigator recommended AXA remove a record of the claim and the costs of £450.
Mr T accepted the investigators findings. AXA didnt agree. It says this was not an enquiry, a
claim was initiated and AXA incurred costs as a result. It said it recorded the claim as a fee
only on a central database. But it did take the claim into account when pricing Mr Ts
premium at renewal  and it said Mr T will need to declare the claim if future insurers ask
where no claim was made.
I issued a provisional decision on 27 November 2021. I explained that it wasnt for this 
service to ask an insurer to change what it recorded on a third party database where claim 
costs had been incurred.  So I didnt intend to uphold Mr Ts complaint. 
Mr T asked if he could see a detailed breakdown to support the costs of the contractor 
visiting his property. He says based on the amount of time spent there, the hourly rate would 
come to around £1,350.
AXA didnt reply. So the case has been passed back to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
AXA has recorded the information on a central claims database which most but not all
insurers use to record motor, home and travel insurance incidents. Its purpose is to identify
misrepresentation and prevent fraud.
If an insurer is signed up to the database, it will make a record of any incident its made
aware of and whether it leads to a claim or not. Insurers have a duty to make accurate
records. The database is a separate company and so we cannot interfere in the agreement
between it and insurers.
When an insurer signs up to share information on the database, they agree to record what
they actually pay out in relation to a claim on the database even if this includes costs to put
right things that have gone wrong and compensation for distress or inconvenience. This
service cannot tell an insurer to remove claim costs from the database.
In this case, AXA incurred claim costs when it instructed a drainage repair company to
attend Mr Ts home after he asked for assistance. So I dont think AXA has acted
unreasonably in recording those costs.
I note that AXA says it has recorded the incident as a fee only and says other insurers will
recognise it as such. 
I understand Mr Ts upset that the details of the withdrawn claim have been recorded. As Ive
said, we cannot interfere with how insurers record claim costs on the database where those
costs have been incurred. And what insurers decide to charge based on the history a
consumer has is a commercial decision they are entitled to make.
I think AXAs view that the costs for the drain repair company were reasonable  taking into 
account business overheads and administration outside of the time taken on site. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr T to accept or 
reject my decision before 8 February 2022.
 
Geraldine Newbold
Ombudsman