DRN-2303333
The complaint
Mr S complains about Sanderson Drake Limited (SDL) and the fees they are charging him 
for claims they submitted to short term lenders on his behalf.
What happened
In July 2020, Mr S instructed SDL to submit claims to several short-term lenders on his 
behalf. He signed several claim instructions and conditional fee agreements (CFA) to allow 
them to undertake this work.
SDL submitted claims on Mr Ss behalf, and several of these were successful. But the 
lenders used the refunds to reduce Mr Ss outstanding balances rather than pay these 
amounts to him directly. And when SDL invoiced Mr S for their fees, he couldnt afford them. 
SDL asked Mr S to contact them to arrange a suitable payment plan but Mr S instead 
attempted to cancel his agreement with SDL. As Mr S didnt agree a payment plan with SDL, 
SDL proceeded to issue court proceedings to recoup their fees. Mr S was unhappy with this, 
so he raised a complaint.
Mr S didnt think SDL were acting fairly by charging him fees for claims where the lender had 
reduced his outstanding balance. He said he was unable to read the conditional fee 
agreements when he signed them as they were unable to be opened from the e-mails he 
received. So, he didnt think it was fair for him to be bound by these. He also felt hed 
cancelled his agreement with SDL.
SDL didnt agree. They explained that by signing the CFAs, Mr S was agreeing to the terms 
and conditions of them. They explained the terms and conditions were sent to Mr S by both 
email and post, so thought theyd made him reasonably aware of how their fees would be 
charged. They also thought Mr S had cancelled outside of the 14-day cooling off period, by 
which time a number of the claims had been successful. So, they thought their fees were 
due as per the terms and conditions of the agreement. And because of this, they didnt think 
they needed to do anything more. Mr S remained unhappy with this response, so he referred 
his complaint to us.
Our investigator looked into the complaint and didnt uphold it. He acknowledged Mr S may 
have experienced problems when trying to view the terms and conditions of the agreement. 
But he explained Mr S signed these electronically to agree to them and didnt make SDL 
aware of any problems he faced at the time. He explained he wouldve expected Mr S to 
have done so before agreeing to a contract and as he didnt, he thought it was fair for SDL to 
rely on these.
And he thought SDL had acted fairly within them. He explained Mr S cancelled the 
agreement outside of the 14-day cooling off period, so SDL were entitled to charge their fee 
for any successful claim or cancellation charges for the work they completed. And having 
looked at the fees, he thought SDL had acted fairly. He also explained hed expect SDL to 
offer an affordable repayment plan and hed seen SDL had put this offer forward to Mr S. So, 
he didnt think SDL had acted unfairly or unreasonably and because of this, he didnt think 
they needed to do anything more.
Mr S didnt agree. He didnt think it was fair for SDL to charge him for fees on claims where 
he didnt receive a cash offer himself. And he was unhappy that SDL had issued legal 
proceedings against him. As Mr S didnt agree, the complaint has been passed to me for a 
decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im not upholding the complaint for broadly the same reasons as the 
investigator. Ive focused my comments on what I think is relevant. If I havent commented 
on any specific point, its because I dont believe its affected what I think is the right 
outcome.
First, I want to recognise the impact this complaint has caused Mr S. I can appreciate the 
offers made by his lenders have been used to reduce his outstanding balances, meaning he 
didnt receive a cash settlement to pay SDLs fees. And I can understand why Mr S may see 
this as unfair as he instructed SDL to submit these claims to help ease his financial situation. 
And I can also understand the stress he will have been caused by SDL issuing legal 
proceedings and its something Ive considered seriously. But for me to say SDL have done 
something wrong, Id need to see that by invoicing Mr S for their fees, theyve failed to act 
within the terms and conditions of the agreement. Or if they have operated within these, that 
they acted unfairly by doing so. And in this situation, I dont think thats the case.
Ive seen the CFAs Mr S signed on the 3rd and 5th July 2020. I think they clearly explain their 
fee of 36% inclusive of VAT. In particular, they provide specific fee examples. And I think 
they make it reasonably clear that if a lender provides a refund but uses it to reduce an 
outstanding balance, they will still charge a fee. They explain, using a different coloured font 
to outline its importance, that Where a Full Reduction of balance in made, our fee will 
require payment which may require you to find an alternative payment source.
Because of this, I cant say theyve acted unfairly by charging Mr S a fee where a lender has 
reduced his balance. 
The CFAs also explain Mr Ss cancellation rights. They explained that Mr S had a 14-day 
cooling off period to cancel his agreement free of charge. And from what Ive seen, Mr S first 
attempted to cancel his agreement on 28 July, which falls outside of this cancellation period. 
After that time, the CFA explains Mr S is able to cancel his agreement, but a cancellation fee 
will be applicable. And it explains this will either be their full fee if an offer has been made, or 
a fee for the work theyve completed, and it provides cost examples for how this would be 
calculated. As Mr S cancelled his agreement outside of the 14-day cooling off period, I cant 
say SDL have acted unfairly by then charging him for their fees. 
I understand Mr S says he was unable to read these terms and conditions due to a technical 
issue. But Ive seen evidence to show Mr S provided his electronic signature to allow SDL to 
proceed on his behalf. If Mr S was unable to read the terms and conditions of the CFA, I 
wouldve expected him to raise this with SDL before signing them. But I cant see that he did 
so. From what Ive seen, there is no dispute that SDL sent Mr S the terms and conditions. 
So, when they received a signed CFA, I think it was reasonable for them to assume Mr S 
was happy to be bound by the terms and conditions of the agreement. So, I think they acted 
fairly by proceeding with the claims and then charging Mr S for fees in line with them, which I 
think they have. But even so, Id expect SDL to act positively and sympathetically to Mr S when they were 
made aware that the offers, he received reduced a balance, rather than being paid to him in 
cash. In this situation, Id expect SDL to offer to arrange a suitable repayment plan before 
issuing proceedings. 
And Ive seen that they did. Ive listened to calls Mr S held with SDL, where he was told once 
hed accepted an offer from the lender to call SDL back to discuss a repayment plan. I cant 
see that he did so. Ive also seen emails from SDL which asked Mr S to call their collections 
team to discuss a repayment plan and again, I cant see that Mr S did. So, I cant say SDL 
have acted unreasonably by issuing proceedings to secure payment of their services. 
Mr S has received a financial benefit from the work SDL completed as his balances have 
been reduced by his lenders. So, SDL completed the work they agreed to do on Mr Ss 
behalf. And because of this, I think its fair that they should be paid for the work they did. And 
for the claims Mr S cancelled, it was made reasonably clear that SDL would charge for the 
work they completed before the cancellation as they then lost the opportunity to complete 
the claim and receive any settlement fee they may be due. As I cant see Mr S engaged with 
SDL to arrange a suitable repayment plan after being given an opportunity to do so, I think 
SDL were able to continue with their collection activity and in this situation, this has been 
through issuing legal proceedings.
Im also aware Mr S has referred to SDL submitting a claim with a lender that has already 
been looked into by a separate company. This wasnt a complaint made to SDL, so isnt 
something Im able to consider further. 
I understand this isnt the outcome Mr S was hoping for. I understand Mr S has explained 
hes unable to pay the fees SDL are charging him for. But its not my role to consider the 
fairness of the fees against Mr Ss financial situation. Its my role to consider whether SDL 
have acted fairly, in line with the terms and conditions of the agreement, when completing 
work for Mr S and charging him fees associated with this work. And I think they have. For 
this reason, I dont think they need to do anything more.
My final decision
For the reasons outlined above, I dont uphold Mr Ss complaint about Sanderson Drake 
Limited.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 12 April 2021.
 
Josh Haskey
Ombudsman