DRN-4305130
The complaint
Ms P has complained about the service Barclays Bank UK PLC has provided when she tried 
to remove a block on her account.
What happened
Ms P says on 30 December 2022 she attempted to send £1,000 to her sister to assist with 
her daughters university fees. However, this payment was stopped by Barclays Fraud 
Detection System and a block was placed on the account. 
Ms P was asked to contact Barclays to answer security questions in order to remove the 
block. When she did, she says the questions she was asked were inappropriate and 
personal. Ms P has said it made her feel like a criminal and she feels she has been 
discriminated against due to her Russian heritage.
Ms P says as the advisor didnt believe she was who she said she was, she was then 
referred to branch. She did as she was asked and attended branch with the relevant ID. 
However, she says despite doing so, she was still disbelieved while she was on the phone in 
branch with the fraud team. She has said this was humiliating and she had to spend a great 
deal of time trying to resolve the issue. Ms P has said if she had been born in the UK she 
wouldnt have been treated this way.
Barclays looked into her complaint and said its Fraud Detection System selects payments 
based on various criteria. The system is there for the security and protection of its 
customers accounts. So as the transaction was blocked Ms P was asked to call Barclays to 
go through further security questions. However, as there was a male voice in the 
background and not all questions were answered clearly Ms P was asked to go to branch 
with two forms of identification (one photographic) in order to remove the blocks from her 
account. Barclays says after Ms P visited the branch the block was removed, and the 
payment was authorised.
However, upon reviewing the service it provided Barclays felt due to Ms P having to wait a 
long time to speak to an advisor and how the call was handled, it had caused some degree 
of inconvenience to Ms P. As such it credited her account with £50 in recognition of this.
Ms P remained unhappy and referred the complaint to our service. Our investigator looked 
into the complaint but didnt recommend Barclays do anything further as she was satisfied it 
had acted in accordance with its obligations. Ms P didnt agree and asked for her complaint 
to be referred to me for a final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the investigators findings for broadly the same reasons, I will 
explain why.
Ms P says Barclays has discriminated and breached the Equality Act 2010 (EqA) because 
they asked her personal questions when attempting to remove a block on her account and 
she believes this is due to her heritage. Its not my role to decide if the EqA has been 
breached as thats for a court to decide. However, I have considered if Ms P was treated 
fairly when Barclays asked the questions it did to remove the block from Ms Ps account.
I understand that Ms P would have been frustrated to find out that Barclays Fraud Detection 
System stopped her transfer of £1,000 to her friend (who she refers to as her sister). But 
Barclays does have a responsibility to monitor accounts and payments, and one of the 
reasons for this is to prevent fraud and scams. Barclays needs to have systems in place to 
look out for unusual transactions or other signs that might indicate its consumers are at risk 
of fraud (amongst other things). Barclays has explained that this payment triggered its Fraud 
Detection Systems and as such it had to follow the process put in place to protect its 
customers. As such, I dont think Barclays acted unreasonably by intervening and following 
its process to talk to Ms P before sending the payment.
From the evidence provided, I can see that Barclays did try to contact Ms P shortly after she 
attempted to transfer the funds, but the calls were unsuccessful. As a result, a block was put 
on the account until Ms P could confirm that the payment was genuine. And considering that 
Barclays Fraud Detection Systems had been triggered and Barclays were unable to talk to 
Ms P, I think it acted in Ms Ps best interests to protect her account.
. 
Ms P contacted Barclays on 30 December 2022 to get the block on her account removed. 
Having listened to the call I am satisfied the questions Barclays asked were surrounding the 
payment and all relevant to the payment in question and ensuring the payment was genuine. 
Barclays has also said that Ms P wasnt able to answer all the security questions it asked. I 
dont think this is the case, I do recognise there was a language barrier, but I am satisfied 
that Ms P answered all the questions asked of her. So, I can appreciate why she felt it was 
unnecessary for her to go into branch and why she remained confused that the block hadnt 
been removed. 
Barclays has accepted it could have handled the call better and in recognition of that it paid 
Ms P £50 for upset it may have caused. Which I think is fair in the circumstances. I say this 
because, despite Ms P answering the questions, it is clear having listened to the call, that 
there is a third party in the background assisting Ms P with the answers to the questions the 
advisor was asking her. As such, this raised concerns for the advisor and the decision was 
made to ask Ms P to visit the branch with identification to get the block removed. Given the 
block was put on the account due to it being triggered by Barclays Fraud Detection Systems, 
I dont think it was unreasonable that the advisor had concerns when she heard a third-party 
assisting Ms P with her answers. As such, despite Ms P answering the questions correctly, 
she would have always been asked to visit branch due to the third party in the background, 
And the correct process was followed when it asked Ms P to attend branch.
Ms P says when she attended the branch she was still interrogated and disbelieved. When 
Ms P attended branch, the advisor called through to the fraud department so Ms P could get 
the block removed. So, I requested to listen to the call that took place in branch. While I 
didnt receive the call, I did receive a copy of the transcripts. On balance, I am not persuaded  
that Ms P was interrogated or disbelieved during this call. The fraud department asked the 
usual questions and followed the usual process in order to get a block removed and once Ms 
P had answered them the block was removed.
So, with that in mind, considering the available evidence and the events that followed, I cant 
fairly conclude that Barclays has treated Ms P unfairly or unreasonably. I think there was 
some confusion during the call that took place and Barclays has taken steps to put this right. 
And for the reasons I have outlined above I think this is fair. So, I wont be asking it to do anything more. I understand that Ms P will be unhappy with this decision, but I hope my 
explanation for how I arrived at this outcome gives her some assurance her complaint has 
been considered impartially.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms P to accept or 
reject my decision before 9 December 2023.
 
Jade Rowe
Ombudsman