DRN-3428418
The complaint
Miss E is unhappy that Bank of Scotland plc trading as Halifax (Halifax) wont refund a 
payment she made after falling victim to a scam.
What happened
In late 2018, Miss E was looking for a company to design a website for her. Miss E engaged 
the services of a company Ill refer to as P. 
In December 2018, Miss E signed a contract with P which set out the work they would 
complete and included milestones which required payment to be made at each stage of 
completion. In total Miss E was due to pay just over £10,000 for the creation of a website, 
and then a monthly service fee for the ongoing hosting of that website. Miss E says her 
mother made the initial payment in order for P to start work. 
Miss E then made a payment of £4,113.60 from her Halifax account on 27 February 2019 to 
P. 
Miss E says she experienced ongoing delays in P providing her website, and when they did 
provide it, the website wasnt functional. 
In July 2019, Miss E was still dissatisfied with the work done by P and engaged a solicitor to 
try and mediate a resolution with P  which was unsuccessful. Miss E also engaged a debt 
recovery company to try and recover the funds shed paid P, but they were unable to obtain 
a refund for her. Having been unsuccessful in getting a functional website or in recovering 
the money shed paid P, Miss E contacted Halifax in 2021 and raised a fraud claim.
Halifax investigated Miss Es claim but declined to her refund. Halifax felt that Miss E hadnt 
been the victim of a scam, rather that Miss E had engaged P for a service and been 
dissatisfied with the service provided. So, Halifax told Miss E she wasnt entitled to a refund. 
As Miss E wasnt happy with Halifaxs response, she brought a complaint to our service. 
An investigator looked into Miss Es complaint and didnt uphold it. They felt the payment 
Miss E had made was unusual and out of character, so Halifax shouldve been concerned 
and contacted Miss E before processing the payment. But they felt that if Halifax had called 
Miss E it was unlikely it wouldve prevented the payment being made, as all the information 
that was available at that time suggested P was a genuine company. The investigator 
accepted that Miss E hadnt got what she paid for with P, but didnt feel they could 
reasonably ask Halifax to refund her.
Miss E disagreed with the investigators opinion, saying Halifax shouldve warned her before 
she made the payment.
As Miss E disagreed, the case has been passed to me to review.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In broad terms, the starting position in law is that a bank is expected to process payments
and withdrawals that a customer authorises it to make, in accordance with the terms and
conditions of the customers account. And I have taken that into account when looking into
what is fair and reasonable in this case. But a bank also has to be on the lookout for, and
help to prevent payments, that could involve fraud or be the result of a scam.
In Miss Es case the investigator felt her payment of £4,113.60 shouldve caused Halifax 
concern and resulted in them contacting Miss E to discuss the payment before they 
processed it. Im not persuaded there was enough about this payment, that I wouldve 
expected Halifax to intervene. I say this because Miss E had made a faster payment earlier 
in the month for just over £2,000. And while £4,000 is a lot of money based on Miss Es 
previous account use, Im not convinced that as a one off payment, taking into account the 
payment made a couple of weeks before, that the payment was so significantly out of 
character as to warrant intervention.
However, even if I agreed that Halifax shouldve intervened, Im not persuaded that it 
wouldve made a difference in this case.
At the time that Miss E made the payment, P appeared to be a genuine company. It was 
registered on Companies House, had been incorporated since 2015, had an active website 
and there were no negative reviews or scam warnings when searching for it online. So, I 
think that any questions Halifax mayve asked Miss E wouldve suggested that she was 
entering into a business arrangement with a genuine company. Im not satisfied that 
anything she wouldve told Halifax wouldve suggested that she might be the victim of a 
scam. 
I accept that Miss E hasnt got the website that she paid for, and that it appears P have failed 
to meet their obligations under the contract they signed with Miss E. But this doesnt 
necessarily mean that they set out with the intention to scam Miss E. In the circumstances, 
Im satisfied that Halifax have acted reasonably in processing Miss Es payment without 
intervening or discussing it with her first. 
I realise that the money Miss E has lost is a large sum and has had a huge impact on her. 
But having considered everything very carefully, Im not satisfied that I can fairly ask Halifax 
to refund her.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss E to accept 
or reject my decision before 4 July 2022.
 
Lisa Lowe
Ombudsman