DRN-3173458
The complaint
Mr P complains that Tesco Personal Finance PLC lent irresponsibly when it approved his 
credit card application and then later increased his credit limit.
What happened
Mr P took out a credit card with Tesco in 2016. He had an income of around £20000 a year. 
Tesco carried out an affordability assessment and credit check before approving a credit 
card with a limit of £250. Mr P said Tesco kept increasing his credit limit. But the lending was 
unaffordable given his financial circumstances. So hed like a refund of the interest, fees and 
charges applied to his account.  
Tesco said when Mr P applied for his credit card itd reviewed his financial information and 
circumstances before coming to a decision. When Mr P was offered his credit card hed 
accepted the terms and conditions of the account. 
Tesco said itd looked at how Mr P had managed his account and checked his credit file 
before offering the credit limit increases in 2017 and 2018. And itd taken into account his 
financial position. Mr P hadnt notified Tesco of any difficulties. And he couldve declined the 
increases if he wished. 
Tesco said Mr P had exceeded his limit on four occasions in just over two years. But the 
credit card had never fallen into arrears and Mr P had never received a late payment fee. 
Mr P had repaid the account in full in September 2018 and the account was now closed. And 
it couldnt agree itd lent irresponsibly. 
Mr P wasnt satisfied with Tescos response. So he contacted our service and our 
investigator looked into the matter. She looked at whether Tesco had carried out reasonable 
and proportionate checks when deciding on the lending to Mr P. And she felt Tesco had 
acted appropriately when offering Mr P a credit card with a £250 limit in 2016.
She could see Mr Ps account was being managed well, with no late payment or arrears, 
when Tesco increased his credit limit to £600 and then £900. And itd carried out affordability 
assessments and checked for adverse credit issues such as CCJs and defaults.
But our investigator said Mr P was only making minimum repayments on other cards. And 
hed used over 95% of his available credit with other card issuers. Mr P had also only been 
making his minimum payment on the Tesco credit card since opening the account. And she 
felt it was evident Mr P was relying heavily on credit to manage his everyday circumstances. 
Further borrowing wasnt sustainable based on the level of income he was reporting. 
So our investigator felt Tesco hadnt acted fairly. It shouldve carried out further checks. And 
to put things right Tesco needed to refund Mr P any interest, charges or fees resulting from 
the credit increases in 2017 and 2018. And any adverse credit rating data after those 
increases would need removing from his credit file.
Tesco didnt agree with our investigator. 
It said itd carried out the same checks when increasing Mr Ps credit limit as it had when 
approving the initial application. Thered been nothing on his credit file to indicate any 
problems with defaults, overlimits or arrangements. 
And based on Mr Ps stated salary his net disposable income had been higher before each 
credit increase and his debt-to-income ratio had been reducing. Tesco said itd made the 
right decision to increase Mr Ps credit limit. So its asked for an ombudsmans final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im sorry to hear of the financial difficulties Mr P has experienced and the stress that will 
have put him under. 
The first thing I need to decide is whether I think Tesco has carried out reasonable and 
proportionate checks. Section 5 of the Consumer Credit (CONC) sourcebook shows that the 
assessment Tesco needed to complete shouldve been dependent on, and proportionate to, 
a number of factors  including the amount and cost of the credit and the consumers 
borrowing history. 
CONC also provides guidance on the sources of information that Tesco might have 
considered as part of making a proportionate lending assessment. It then gives examples of 
factors that a lender should consider and refers to whether the information it has is sufficient 
or whether it needs to obtain additional information from the customer and any other 
sources. 
Of course Tesco is free to decide what its lending criteria should be. But it has to complete 
proportionate checks to ensure borrowing is sustainable.
When Mr P took out his Tesco credit card in 2016 he was given a credit limit of £250. Mr P 
took advantage of a promotional rate which wouldve helped his financial circumstances if 
hed intended to transfer a balance from another card. And I think the checks carried out at 
the time by Tesco were appropriate for the relatively low level of credit offered.
Tesco increased Mr Ps credit limit to £600 in 2017 and £900 in 2018. But Mr P feels the 
additional lending was unaffordable because of his salary and other debt. Tesco says it 
carried out the same checks for each increase as it had when approving the card issue. And 
its calculations showed Mr Ps situation was improving at each increase. Tesco says it 
looked at Mr Ps account history, application data and credit file. And it was approved in line 
with its lending criteria.
But I dont think thats the whole picture. Mr Ps credit file didnt show any problems with 
CCJs, debt management plans or other issues when Mr P started using the card or when his 
limit was increased. So Mr P was clearly trying to meet his monthly payments for both the 
Tesco card and his other debts.
But when Tesco increased his credit limit from £250 to £600 in early 2017 Mr Ps debts 
totalled over £19000 on a salary of £20000. And even though Tesco says theyd reduced to 
around £15500 when the limit increased to £900 in 2018 that was still a debt-to-income ratio 
of around 75-80%. 
I think on both occasions Tesco shouldve considered further whether the ratio was too high 
to make additional lending. Ive looked at the affordability data Tesco provided. Based on what Ive seen I think Tesco 
should reasonably have realised it was increasing Mr Ps level of indebtedness in a way that 
might be unstainable. He appeared to be relying on his various sources of credit to get 
through each month. And he was only making minimum payments on his Tesco and other 
credit cards. 
If Tesco had carried out more comprehensive checks I think it wouldve found Mr P was 
reliant on credit at the time of each credit limit increase. He had a number of other lenders to 
repay and he immediately increased his credit card balance to the higher limit each time it 
increased - while still only making small or minimum repayments each month.
I cant say Tesco lent irresponsibly when it approved Mr Ps application. But I do think it lent 
irresponsibly when increasing the credit limits in 2017 and 2018. And when our service finds 
that credit has been given irresponsibly our general approach is to direct the lender to refund 
any interest or charges applied to the account in relation to that lending.
Putting things right
As I think Tesco lent irresponsibly, Im going to tell it to refund all interest, fees and charges 
applied to Mr Ps credit card as a result of the credit limit increases in March 2017 and 
August 2018. Tesco should also remove any adverse information about a debt that was lent 
irresponsibly from Mr Ps credit file.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint. Tesco Personal Finance PLC must take the 
steps Ive outlined in putting things right above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision before 13 April 2022.
 
Andrew Mason
Ombudsman