DRN-3653751
The complaint
Mr B complains that Mulsanne Insurance Company Limited increased the premium for his 
motor insurance policy after he reported an incident. Hes also unhappy that his premium 
was taken before the due date.
 
What happened
Mr B was involved in an incident and reported this to Mulsanne for notification only shortly 
before his policy was due for renewal. The other drivers insurer accepted liability. But Mr B 
was unhappy that at renewal his premium went up even though he wasnt at fault. He was 
also unhappy that his premium was taken before the policys start date. 
Our Investigator didnt recommend that the complaint should be upheld. Mulsanne showed 
that it had recorded the incident as for notification only with Mr B not at fault. Mulsanne 
provided evidence to show the difference in premiums for when the incident was added to 
Mr Bs policy. And she thought that all Mulsannes customers with a similar driving history to 
Mr Bs would have had an increase in premium. 
She also saw that Mulsanne had sent Mr B sufficient warning of when his payments would 
be taken, based on the dates of his previous policy. Mr B could have cancelled without any 
loss if he so wished. So she didnt think it had done anything wrong. 
Mr B replied that the incident had no cost for Mulsanne. He was unhappy that Mulsanne 
found him at higher risk because someone had hit his car. Mr B was unhappy that his first 
payment was taken before the policy renewed.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr B told us that another driver hit him in the rear and accepted liability in full. So the other 
insurer dealt with his repairs and Mulsanne had no involvement. Mr B notified the incident to 
Mulsanne. And it then increased his quote for renewal of his policy. 
We often find that that a claim or notification itself  regardless of whos at fault  will affect 
the premium. While some insurers will only rate on No Claims Discount (NCD) disallowed or 
fault claims, others will consider any claim  or even just a claim notification  as a risk 
factor. This is because insurers say that drivers who have been involved in accidents, 
regardless of fault, are more likely to be involved in future claims. 
I can understand that Mr B finds this to be illogical. But being involved in an incident could be 
linked to such things as his use of higher risk roads or junctions or driving at particular times. 
Its not our role to tell an insurer how to price their policies or what factors they should 
consider when calculating a risk. However we need to make sure the insurer is applying a 
fair and consistent approach to all consumers.
Insurers constantly update how they rate the risk of consumers. And their rates continually 
change. Mulsanne has provided us with confidential business sensitive information to 
explain how Mr Bs price increase was calculated. Im afraid I cant share that with him, but I 
can assure him that weve checked it carefully. Im satisfied the price Mr B was quoted has 
been calculated correctly and all of Mulsannes customers in his position will have been 
charged a similar premium.
I think Mr B reported the incident to Mulsanne as required by his policys terms and 
conditions. Mulsanne had firstly recorded the incident as an open claim. When Mr B 
questioned this, it closed the claim within one working day. I think this was a prompt 
response to Mr Bs concern and I think it didnt then cause him any loss that requires 
redress. I can also see that when the claim was closed as for notification only, this reduced 
the renewal premium. 
Mr B was also unhappy that his first premium payment at renewal was taken earlier than he 
expected. Our Investigator asked Mulsanne to explain why this had happened.
I can see that Mr B changed his payment date for his previous years policy to the 16th of 
each month. This was then carried over to his renewed policy, even though the start date 
was the 31st. I can see that Mulsanne sent Mr B a payment schedule before the first 
payment was taken. So I think it sufficiently informed him about the payment dates. Mr B 
agreed to this schedule when he accepted it online. I cant see that Mr B asked to change 
this. Mulsanne explained to Mr B that if he cancelled the renewal then he would get a full 
refund. So I cant see that this caused Mr B any loss. 
My final decision
For the reasons given above, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 1 November 2022.
 
Phillip Berechree
Ombudsman