DRN-2881393
The complaint
Mr A and Miss Z have complained about delays and poor customer service by Santander UK 
Plc in relation to the length of time taken for the bank to approve an Option Agreement for 
the sale of their property to a developer. The complaint has been brought on their behalf by 
solicitors, PSL.
What happened
The evidence in the case is detailed. Ive read everything, and its apparent that some parts 
of the evidence are less relevant to the underlying case than others. There are also a lot of 
duplicated documents and repetition of arguments. In what follows, I have, by necessity, 
summarised events in rather less detail than has been presented.
No discourtesys intended by that. Its a reflection of the informal service we provide, and if I 
dont mention something, it wont be because Ive ignored it. Itll be because I didnt think it 
was material to the outcome of the complaint. This approach is consistent with what our 
enabling legislation requires of me. It allows me to focus on the issues on which I consider a 
fair outcome will turn, and not be side-tracked by matters which, although presented as 
material, are, in my opinion peripheral or, in some instances, have little or no impact on the 
broader outcome.
I also note that the timeline of events has been set out in detail in the various letters between 
PSL and Santander,  and in the investigators letter dated 25 May 2021, so I dont need to 
repeat everything here. Our decisions are published so its important that I dont include in 
this decision anything that might lead to Mr A and Miss Z being identified.
So for these reasons, I will keep my summary of what happened fairly brief.
Mr A and Miss Z have a mortgage with Santander on a residential property. In April 2020 
PSL contacted Santander, explaining that they acted for Mr A and Miss Z, who wanted to 
enter into an Option Agreement with a developer. The contact notes record that Santander 
noted PSL were not on the banks panel. (Although PSL have placed great weight on their 
contention that it was they who drew this to Santanders attention, nothing turns on this.) 
PSL were asked to send in a letter of authority signed by their clients. 
On 29 April 2020 PSL asked Santander to consent to the Option Agreement and for 
Santander to give written approval to proceed on the basis that you as Lenders agree to be 
party to a relevant Planning Application agreement. We would therefore be most grateful if 
you would let us have a Consent to cover the required Purchasing Developers request in 
respect of the above stated Option Agreement  together with agreement to enter the 
relevant offered Planning Permission Agreement with the Leasehold Seller/Owners.
Santander sent a redemption statement on 4 May 2020, confirming that as PSL werent on 
its panel, the bank couldnt release the title deeds to them. On 19 May 2020, Santander 
wrote to Mr A and Miss Z confirming that it wasnt able to agree to any planning application, 
as this was outside its lending policy. The bank clarified that if Mr A and Miss Z wanted to 
develop the property, theyd need to redeem the mortgage.
On 3 June 2020 PSL clarified that what Mr A and Miss Z wanted to do was to sell the 
property to a developer, and that it was the developer who wanted to apply for planning 
permission. Santander was being asked to consent to the Option Agreement, between Mr A 
and Miss Z and the developer for the future sale of the property, subject to the developer 
obtaining planning permission. 
On 7 July 2020 Santander confirmed to PSL that, whilst it consented to the Option 
Agreement, it would not get involved in the planning permission. The bank confirmed that 
PSL could continue to act for Mr A and Miss Z, who would also be liable for Santanders 
solicitors costs. Santander provided information on how PSL could join its panel.
On the same day Santander also wrote to Mr A and Miss Z (and sent a copy of that letter to 
PSL). Santander confirmed Mr A and Miss Z would need to pay an administrative fee of 
£105, and that Mr A and Miss Z would also need to instruct panel solicitors to advise the 
bank on the Option Agreement. Santander also confirmed that when the Option is exercised, 
the mortgage would need to be repaid in full. 
PSL complained about the length of time Santander was taking to deal with the matter. They 
said that Santander had misinterpreted their initial letter asking for consent and that they had 
only asked for consent to the Option Agreement.
In its final response dated 8 July 2020, Santander acknowledged there had been some delay 
and that it hadnt answered PSLs queries about consent to the Option Agreement. 
Santander paid compensation of £150 to Mr A and Miss Z. 
Another final response letter was sent on 19 August 2020 in which Santander said that, if 
details of additional costs incurred by Mr A and Miss Z were provided, the bank would look at 
these. 
Santanders records show that nothing further happened until 26 January 2021, when 
Santander was contacted by panel solicitors chosen by Mr A and Miss Z to advise the bank 
on the Option Agreement. PSL were continuing to act for Mr A and Miss Z. The 
administrative fee was paid in early February 2021 so that the matter could proceed. On 
12 February 2021 the panel solicitors responded to queries Santander had raised on 
29January 2021. Santander gave its consent to the Option Agreement to the panel solicitors 
on 19 February 2021.
On behalf of Mr A and Miss Z, PSL complained to the Financial Ombudsman Service. The 
crux of the complaint was that, as a result of Santander misunderstanding the letter dated 
29 April 2020 about the Option Agreement and planning permission, there was unnecessary 
delay. PSL also said that Santander had taken three months to let Mr A and Miss Z know 
they needed to instruct panel solicitors. PSL said that Santander had been completely 
reckless and/or negligent in the way it had dealt with the matter.
An investigator looked at the complaint but didnt think Santander needed to do anything 
further. She thought the initial letter sent by PSL asking Santander to agree to the Option 
Agreement and be party to an application for planning permission wasnt clear enough. Once 
Santander was provided with clearer information about this, the bank was prepared to 
consent provided its panel solicitors approved the Option Agreement. The investigator 
thought the £150 paid by Santander was fair and didnt think the bank should cover any 
additional legal costs or the costs PSL had incurred in raising the complaint with Santander 
and the Financial Ombudsman Service.PSL didnt accept the investigators findings and have made some further points. PSL has 
said that they (PSL) had to go over and above in order to find panel solicitors who were 
willing to provide consent to the Option Agreement. They also say it was 7-9 months before 
the panel solicitors were aware they needed to provide further information to Santander, and 
that Santander refused to contact the panel solicitors when they were given their contact 
details. 
Because the matter is unresolved, it falls to me to issue a decision on the matter.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I will begin by explaining that, although Ive noted everything PSL has said about their own 
dissatisfaction with Santander and about how this complaint has affected them, PSL are not 
Santanders customers. I can only consider this complaint in the context of how it has 
affected Mr A and Miss Z.
First, I agree with the investigator that the letter from PSL to Santander dated 29 April 2020 
mis-stated what Santander was being asked to agree to. I dont think Santander 
misunderstood or misread this letter. It specifically stated that Santander was being asked to 
be a party to a planning application. Given this, I think Santanders response to Mr A and 
Miss Z wasnt incorrect or inappropriate; the bank explained that, if that was what Mr A and 
Miss Z wanted to do, Santander couldnt consent, as this was outside its lending policy. 
So whilst its correct that Santander didnt at that point respond to any queries about the 
Option Agreement, I dont think this was necessarily a mistake by the bank. Santander 
believed (reasonably, in my opinion, given the wording of the letter) that it was being asked 
to do something that was outside its lending policy (agree to a planning application) and so it 
was right for the bank to clarify this at the outset. 
Im also not persuaded that it was more than three months before Santander told Mr A and 
Miss Z that theyd need to instruct panel solicitors. The bank received PSLs letter dated 
29 April 2020 on 4 May 2020 and, after eventually receiving clarification of precisely what the 
request was on 3 June 2020 (consent to the Option Agreement only, rather than being party 
to a planning application), Santander wrote to Mr A and Miss Z on 7 July 2020. So it was 
actually only about four weeks from when the bank received clear information from PSL until 
it explained to Mr A and Miss Z how to progress the matter.
Theres also no evidence to persuade me that Santander failed for 7-9 months (as alleged 
by PSL) to take any action on the matter or that it refused to contact the panel solicitors 
chosen by Mr A and Miss Z. It was up to Mr A and Miss Z to instruct the panel solicitors and 
progress the transaction. Santanders records show that the panel solicitors first made 
contact with the bank on 26 January 2021. Thereafter the matter proceeded quickly, with 
Santander granting consent to the Option Agreement within three weeks.
In the circumstances, Im not persuaded, other than Santander writing directly to Mr A and 
Miss Z rather than PSL at the start of the matter (which caused a slight delay), that the bank 
has done anything wrong. I think that the £150 compensation paid for this is fair, reasonable 
and proportionate to the banks error.
This means that Im not persuaded Santander should be responsible for PSLs legal costs, 
or the costs of the panel solicitors. There is also no basis on which it would be fair or 
reasonable for Santander to pay any costs incurred by PSL in bringing this complaint. Our service is set up to allow consumers to bring their complaints without the need for them to 
instruct a professional representative; if a consumer chooses to instruct a solicitor to raise a 
complaint with us, then (unless there are exceptional circumstances, and there are none 
here) the consumer is responsible for their own legal costs.
In summary, taking into account everything thats happened, Im not persuaded that 
Santander is required to pay any further compensation.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
This final decision concludes the Financial Ombudsman Services review of this complaint. 
This means that we are unable to consider the complaint any further, nor enter into any 
correspondence about the merits of it.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A and Miss Z to 
accept or reject my decision before 8 September 2021.
 
Jan O'Leary
Ombudsman