DRN-3457931
The complaint
Ms B complains that British Gas Insurance Limited mishandled her HomeCare home 
emergency insurance policy.
Where I refer to British Gas, I refer to the insurance company of that name and I include 
engineers and others insofar as I hold that company responsible for their acts or omissions.
What happened
From at least 2013, Ms B had British Gas cover for her central heating boiler. The policy was 
for a period of one year. It renewed each year in November. The cover included an annual 
service.
British Gas did an annual service in October 2019.
Ms B made an appointment for an annual service on a date in late July 2021.  
By a letter dated early August 2021, Ms B complained to British Gas. She said that shed 
taken half a day off work for the appointment between 08:00 and 13:00 but the engineer 
hadnt arrived during that time and shed found British Gas hard to contact by telephone. So 
the annual service hadnt happened that day.
British Gas visited Ms B on Saturday 7 and Tuesday 10 August 2021. On the second visit, 
British Gas said she shouldnt use the boiler, leaving Ms B without hot water or central 
hearing. 
Ms B paid for the installation of a new boiler.
By a final response dated September 2021, British Gas said that it was sending Ms B a 
cheque for £95.00 - £65.00 for a missed annual service and £30.00 for inconvenience.
Unhappy with that, Ms B brought her complaint to us in mid-September 2021. She 
complained that British Gas hadnt contacted her about an annual service, and it should pay 
compensation for the boiler.
Our investigator didnt recommend that the complaint should be upheld. She thought that the 
British Gas offer of compensation was reasonable
Ms B disagreed with the investigators opinion. She asked for an ombudsman to review the 
complaint. She says, in summary, that:
British Gas used to get in touch when the service was due, yet she had to get in 
touch with them for an appointment. 
If she had not gotten in touch with British Gas, she would still be using a condemned 
boiler. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
British Gas has said that Ms Bs boiler was over 16 years old. She hasnt provided enough 
evidence to show that was incorrect.
From its records, I accept that British Gas did an annual service visit in August 2018 and 
in October 2019.
From  at least the renewal in November 2019, the British Gas policy terms included the 
following:
Annual service
Well send you or your authorised contact an email, letter, text message or well call 
you to arrange your annual service. Well try to contact you up to three times. If we 
dont hear back from you after the third time or you are not at the property when our 
engineer visits, we wont try again and wont refund the cost of the missed annual 
service. You can still contact us at any time to book it. Your annual service may be 
more, or less, than 12 months after your last service visit.
In periods of local or national high demand for our services (such as cold weather), 
we prioritise breakdowns and may need to rearrange your annual service
Reasonable timescales
Well carry out any repairs or visits youre entitled to within a reasonable time, unless 
something beyond our control makes that impossible  in which case well let you 
know as soon as possible and give you another time when we can visit.
So the British Gas terms said that British Gas would contact Ms B to arrange an annual 
service. 
Since at least the renewal in November 2019, the British Gas terms said that  in the event 
of cancellation of the policy after an annual service  the charge for an annual service would 
be £65.00. 
From at least the renewal in November 2020, the British Gas terms about reasonable 
timescales had additional wording as follows:
During epidemics or pandemics, we will adhere to Government guidelines 
concerning restriction of non-essential travel and may have to reschedule your repair 
or visit until such time as the restrictions have been eased. 
From what it has told us, British Gas didnt contact Ms B about an annual service when it 
was due in about October 2020. But Covid-19 had meant that it had prioritised repair visits 
over annual service visits.
British Gas didnt do an annual service in the year from the renewal in November 2019.
But I find it likely that Ms B couldve made an appointment before the one in late July 2021.
British Gas missed that appointment but made Ms B an appointment on a Saturday. In my 
view, that visit counted as an annual service visit. And British Gas didnt say that Ms B shouldnt use the boiler until its second visit a few days later. So I dont consider that theres 
enough evidence that British Gas caused any danger to Ms B. 
The boiler was an old one. I dont consider that theres enough evidence that British Gas 
caused the need for a replacement. So I dont find it fair and reasonable to direct British Gas 
to contribute to the cost of that.
I wouldnt find it fair for British Gas to charge for an annual service it didnt do. Keeping in 
mind the policy term about cancellation, I accept that £65.00 is a reasonable amount to 
refund for an annual service that British Gas didnt do in the policy year from November 
2019.
I accept that Ms B found shortcomings in the way British Gas communicated with her. I 
accept that this caused her frustration. But this was for a limited time. And British Gas 
apologised in its final response as well as paying  £30.00 compensation.
So overall Im satisfied with the final response from British Gas. I dont find it fair and 
reasonable to direct British Gas to pay any more compensation or to do any more in 
response to this complaint. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, my final decision is that I dont uphold his complaint. I dont 
direct British Gas Insurance Limited to do any more in response to this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms B to accept or 
reject my decision before 28 June 2022.  
Christopher Gilbert
Ombudsman