DRN-3040147
The complaint
Mr B complains that Volkswagen Financial Services (UK) Limited (VFS) misled him 
regarding the cost of early settlement of his PCP agreement.
What happened
On 28 October 2019 Mr B entered into a PCP agreement for £18000, with a rate of interest 
of 7.33%. He says he did so to take advantage of offers made by the dealer and it was 
intention to settle it early. He paid off the agreement on 29 November 2019 and he was 
charged £18304.76. He believed this sum to be some £200 more than he should have to pay 
and discovered that he had been charged interest for 58 days. 
He says that he asked the dealer if there were any other charges he would incur if he repaid 
the agreement early and he was told there were none. He said he had signed a checklist to 
say that he had been provided with "an explanation of how interest is charged should I wish 
to settle my finance agreement early".
VFS rejected his complaint and said that it wasnt obliged to notify him of the 58 day interest 
charge. It said it used a formula set out by the Governments Actuarys Department. It added 
that the Consumer Credit (Early Settlement) Regulations 2004 state that settlement is 
deferred by 28 days, and Section 6 states that the settlement may be deferred for a further 
30 days for agreements originally lasting more than one year.
Mr B brought his complaint to this service where it was considered by one of our 
investigators who didnt recommend it be upheld. 
He addressed the point made by VFS that the dealer was separate entity. He said section 56 
of the consumer credit act 1974 allows this service to consider a misrepresentation of the 
agreement during the brokering of the agreement against the finance provider.
He noted the agreement which contains the following:
Early Repayment
Any such repayment will be applied first to discharge sums which have already fallen due 
under this Agreement. The balance will then be applied to discharge your indebtedness 
under this Agreement by the amount paid and any applicable statutory rebate.
He noted this section refers to 28 days notice period and while he appreciated Mr Bs 
concerns the regulations allowed VFS to defer the settlement date by an additional 30 days 
if the term of the agreement was over one year.
He explained that in cases of early settlement, the word rebate is used because if a 
consumer decides to pay off all of the credit agreement before the end of term, they do not 
have to pay the full amount stipulated in the agreement. Instead the total amount of interest 
which would have been payable over the term is reduced by a statutory rebate. He was 
satisfied that VFS calculations were correct. 
As for Mr Bs claim that he had been misled by the dealer our investigator said that a 
misrepresentation is when a false statement of fact has been made and that false statement 
of fact induced a consumer to purchase the goods or service. In order to find a 
misrepresentation has occurred, it must be decided that a false statement of fact has been 
made and that its concluded that that false statement induced the consumer to enter into the 
agreement.
He obtained the paperwork held by the dealer and concluded there was no evidence of a 
false statement being made.
Mr B didnt agree and said the dealer had offered two free services as an inducement to take 
out the finance agreement. VFS hadnt disputed that it had not told him about the additional 
charges it would impose. He considered these to be an unfair contract term. He also felt 
there was a wider mis-selling scandal.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I have every sympathy with Mr B and I can understand his annoyance at the unexpected 
charge.  But I do not consider I can uphold his complaint.
To do so I need to be satisfied that VFS has done something wrong. However, it has 
complied with the relevant legislation and regulations. These have been set out in VFS final 
response letter and I wont repeat them here. 
The calculation has been done in accordance with the rules set down by the Government 
Actuarys Department and I am satisfied that they are correct.  A further 58 days interest is 
applied in clearing the outstanding debt. The agreement states:
Any such repayment will be applied first to discharge sums which have already fallen due 
under his Agreement. The balance will then be applied to discharge your indebtedness 
under this Agreement by the amount paid and any applicable statutory rebate.
Read in context with Consumer Credit (Early Settlement) Regulations 2014 VFS is entitled to 
defer the settlement date by 28 days and a further 30 days for agreements lasting longer 
than one year. I appreciate this is not immediately obvious to most consumers. 
In short I cannot say VFS has made an error.
On the matter of disclosure, the Consumer legislation does not require the details of the 
early termination calculations to be set out in the agreement or accompanying 
documentation. Quite simply VFS is not obliged to detail how early terminations sums are 
calculated. As such I cannot conclude they were wrong in this regard.
I do not know what was said by the dealer, but I note Mr B says he asked what charges 
beyond the interest at 7.33% he would incur if he ended the agreement early and was told 
there would be none. If that was what was said than the answer was correct. I appreciate 
this is a fine distinction but the deferment of the settlement date by 58 days leading to 
additional interest being charged does not lead to extra charges beyond interest.
I cannot safely conclude that this is a case of misrepresentation. I take Mr Bs point about 
the lack of transparency, but this is not sufficient to allow me to uphold his complaint. My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 28 October 2021.
 
Ivor Graham
Ombudsman