DRN-3158735
The complaint
Mrs S is unhappy that Union Reiseversicherung AG (URV) has declined a claim she made 
under the travel insurance policy.
What happened
Mrs S has explained that in August 2019 she booked to go on holiday abroad  paying a 
deposit of £590.95 for the accommodation she was due to stay in. The holiday was due to 
go ahead on 23 May 2020, until 30 May 2020. However, Mrs S has said her holiday was 
cancelled.
Shes explained this was because of the global coronavirus pandemic. She explained that 
her airline provider cancelled her flights, and because of government restrictions both in the 
UK and her intended destination, she wasnt able to travel as expected. 
Mrs S tried to move her holiday dates, but the accommodation provider couldnt change the 
trip to the dates Mrs S suggested. And there was a price increase on the dates that could be 
offered. Asking for a refund of the deposit was unsuccessful  with Mrs S was told this 
couldnt be provided. In addition to this, Mrs S said she tried to gain the money back through 
her bank, but because she had completed the transaction as a bank transfer this avenue 
wasnt successful either. So, she made a claim under her travel insurance policy.
URV looked at the claim and declined it. It said Mrs S claim wasnt covered under her policy, 
because for the cancellation to be covered, it needed to have been as a result of an insured 
event listed within the policy booklet. But Mrs S reason for cancellation wasnt due to any 
listed event. And so, the policy couldnt provide settlement here. Mrs S raised a complaint 
about this  and URV maintained its position. So, Mrs S referred her complaint to this 
service for an independent review.
On referring her case to this service Mrs S highlighted the avenues she had taken to try and 
recover her deposit funds. And she said that she felt it was unfair that her policy didnt cover 
the situation. Mrs S highlighted that her policy also said it didnt cover her for acting against 
Foreign, Commonwealth and Development Office (FCDO  formerly FC0 advice). So, if she 
had gone on holiday and something had happened the policy wouldnt have covered her 
either. So, she said there was no insured event to cancel under, and no way she would be 
covered if she went on holiday either in the situation. 
Our investigator considered this complaint and didnt think it should be upheld. They felt 
URV had acted reasonably in saying the claim wasnt covered by the policy. This was 
because the policy only provided for cancellation is certain situations  and the situation Mrs 
S found herself in wasnt one of them. 
Our investigator also recognised Mrs S concerns around the exclusion in her policy, which 
told her she wouldnt be covered if she travelled against FCDO advice. But they said this 
exclusion had been made clear to Mrs S both in the Insurance Product Information 
Document (IPID) she received on purchasing her policy, as well as within the section of the 
policy booklet covering cancellation. So, they didnt think URV had acted unfairly in this.
Mrs S didnt agree. She felt the outcome was unfair, with URV not needing to cover her loss 
whether she travelled or not. Mrs S questioned whether it was reasonable for a policyholder 
to be aware of the need to seek cover for the type of situation she found herself in. And she 
thought it might be reasonable for URV to provide her with some form of goodwill gesture in 
the circumstances.
Because Mrs S didnt agree, this complaint has been referred to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided not to uphold this complaint. 
When considering a complaint such as this, I need to consider the relevant law, rules and 
industry guidelines. In this case, the relevant rules, set up by the Financial Conduct 
Authority, say that an insurer mustnt unreasonably decline a claim. So, Ive thought about 
whether URV, in declining Mrs S claim, did so unreasonably. And I dont think it did. Ive 
explained why below.
Mrs S has explained she wasnt able to go on holiday, due to government restrictions 
surrounding the global coronavirus pandemic. Im aware that the World Health Organisation 
(WHO) declared Covid-19 to be a pandemic on 11 March 2020. And that when Mrs S was 
due to go on holiday on 23 May 2020, there were restrictions on her travelling abroad. The 
FCDO was advising against all but essential travel at this time. So, I understand that the 
reason Mrs S wasnt able to travel was the global pandemic and the restrictions in relation to 
this.
URV has said this situation isnt covered under Mrs S policy. So, Ive reviewed Mrs S policy 
documents, to see what Mrs S and URV agreed when the policy was taken out.
On doing this, I can see that Mrs S policy does have a section which provides cover where 
she isnt able to travel on her planned holiday. This section being called; if you are not able 
to go on your trip.
Under this section, it explains that URV will pay a proportion of things such as unused 
accommodation charges, up to £1,250, if Mrs S isnt able to go on her trip. But, as is 
common with insurance policies of these nature, this section doesnt cover every eventuality. 
Rather, it only covers Mrs S when she is unable to go on her trip, because of a listed set of 
reasons. For the claim to be covered, the reason for being unable to travel needs to be one 
of those listed. It is isnt listed, then the claim isnt covered.
Ive looked at the reasons listed in Mrs S policy booklet under this section. These include 
reasons such as the death or illness of the policyholder, a travelling companion or a close 
relative, attendance of jury service and redundancy. None of which apply in Mrs S case. 
And there is no listed reason which is relevant to cancellation as a result of a global 
pandemic and travel restrictions as a result of it. So, Im satisfied the situation Mrs S found 
herself in isnt something covered by the policy. And so, I dont think URV acted 
unreasonably in declining the claim here. It acted in line with what the parties agreed.
Mrs S has said she doesnt feel the decline of her claim is fair  because she isnt covered 
under the policy if she had gone on holiday against the government restrictions either. 
Because her policy also said it didnt provide cover when travelling against FCDO advice.I agree that Mrs S wasnt covered if she had gone on holiday, against FCDO advice. There 
are some limited situations where, if I considered that policy documentation wasnt clear in 
signposting a policyholder to certain policy exclusions, I might think its fair and reasonable 
for an insurer to accept a claim outside of the policy terms and conditions. However, I dont 
think thats the case here for the reasons Ill go on to explain.
I think a customer might reasonably expect a restriction such as the exclusion of cover for 
cancellation claims relating to a change in FCDO advice to be prominent in the IPID. 
However, Ive also considered the policy terms and conditions which form the contract of 
insurance between Mrs S and URV. As Ill go on to explain the exclusion in relation to the 
lack of cover for the advice or recommendation of the FCDO was referred to in the general 
summary of conditions and exclusions. It was also specifically highlighted in the cancellation 
section of the policy. 
Ive seen that the Insurance Product Information Document (IPID) Mrs S was provided with 
on purchasing her policy, explains on page 1 that unless agreed with us there will be no 
cover if the FCO advise against travel to your destination. I think this made it clear, when 
looking at the key terms of the policy, that this situation wouldnt be covered.
The above information is also contained again in other areas of the policy. Page 14 of the 
policy booklet discusses what is not covered under the policy. And it says: 
We cannot cover you if: 
()
You travel against the advice or recommendations published by the Foreign and 
Commonwealth Office applicable at the time of your departure. 
And, on page 16, under the if you are not able to go on your trip section the policy explains:
BE AWARE! No cover is provided under this section due to; 
the advice or recommendation of the Foreign and Commonwealth Office 
applicable at the time of your departure.
Although Mrs S may have been in the position of having no cover under this policy if she 
travelled and also having no cover if she cancelled, I think these exclusions are clearly and 
transparently set out in the terms and conditions of this policy. It was up to Mrs S to ensure 
she had the level of cover she required to meet her needs and if she wanted cover for 
cancellation due to changes in FCO advice, its likely she couldve found another policy on 
the market which wouldve covered the situation she found herself in.  
To be sure there werent other areas of the policy that may have covered Mrs S loss Ive 
checked to see whether any other areas of cover apply. And Im satisfied they dont. I do 
understand Mrs S disappointment with this particular claim not being covered. But insurance 
policies dont cover every eventuality  and Im satisfied Mrs S policy doesnt cover her for 
the circumstances claimed for. So, Im not requiring URV to do anything more. 
My final decision
Given the above, I dont uphold this complaint. And so I dont require Union 
Reiseversicherung AG (URV) to do anything more in relation to this complaint.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs S to accept or 
reject my decision before 12 April 2022.
 
Rachel Woods
Ombudsman