DRN-4034678
The complaint
Mr C complains that Shawbrook Bank Limited (Shawbrook), has rejected the claim he 
made under section 75 of the Consumer Credit Act 1974 (the Act) in relation to a solar 
panel system he says were misrepresented to him by the supplier.
Mr C is represented by a claims management company (the CMC).
What happened
In January 2017, Mr C was contacted by a representative of a company Ill call P to talk 
about purchasing a solar panel system (the system) to be installed at his home. After being 
visited by a representative of P, Mr C decided to purchase the system and finance it through 
a 15-year fixed sum loan agreement with Shawbrook. The system was subsequently 
installed.
In October 2020, the CMC made a claim on Mr Cs behalf under section 75 of the Act to 
Shawbrook. The CMC said that P had made a number of representations about the system 
that had turned out not to be true, and it was these misrepresentations that had induced 
Mr C to enter into the contract with P. The CMC said the following misrepresentations had 
been made:
The total annual benefits of the system would exceed the total annual loan 
repayments within ten years. 
Shawbrook explained that it didnt agree the system had been misrepresented to Mr C or 
that there were any other reasons for the claim to be upheld. 
One of our adjudicators looked into what had happened. Having considered all the 
information and evidence provided our adjudicator didnt think that P had misrepresented the 
system to Mr C and found no reason to uphold the complaint.
The CMC didnt agree with the adjudicators view for the following reasons:
The figures provided in the quote are incorrect and Ps assumptions are flawed.
Good practice would be to use inflation figures from ten years prior to installation 
when estimating benefits (the CMC says this should be from 2008 to 2017 in this 
case). It suggests P used 2006 to 2015 because this made the inflation figures 
higher, increasing the estimated benefit.
The estimated benefit of the voltage optimizer is inflated.
Electricity benefit is also inflated by a self-consumption rate of 75%, higher than the 
50% assumption generally used in the industry.
As an agreement couldnt be reached, the case has been passed to me for a decision. I 
issued a provisional decision saying that I was not planning to uphold the complaint. 
The CMC responded to say that the assumptions used by P in respect of electricity savings 
and the voltage optimiser were fundamentally flawed and it was impossible for the stated 
savings to be realised. It provided some comments from a property services company that 
provides energy assessment and property surveys. This suggested a self-consumption rate 
of 50% for electricity savings and savings of 5% for the voltage optimiser shouldve been 
used  resulting in lower estimated savings. 
Shawbrook provided no further information or comments. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Relevant considerations
When considering whats fair and reasonable, Im required to take into account; relevant law 
and regulations, relevant regulatory rules, guidance and standards and codes of practice; 
and, where appropriate, what I consider to have been good industry practice at the relevant 
time.
In this case the relevant law includes section 56 and section 75 of the Act. Section 75 
provides protection for consumers for goods or services bought using credit. 
As Mr C paid for the system with a fixed sum loan agreement, Shawbrook agrees that 
section 75 applies to this transaction. This means that Mr C could claim against Shawbrook, 
the creditor, for any misrepresentation or breach of contract by P in the same way he could 
have claimed against P, the supplier. So, Ive taken section 75 into account when deciding 
what is fair in the circumstances of this case.
Section 56 is also relevant. This is because it says that any negotiations between Mr C and 
P, as the supplier, are deemed to have been conducted by P as an agent of Shawbrook.
For the purpose of this decision, Ive used the definition of a misrepresentation as an untrue 
statement of fact or law made by one party (or his agent) to a second party which induces 
that second party to enter the contract, thereby causing them loss.
There are also high-level principles which apply to all firms authorised by the financial 
regulator (the FCA). Principle 6 of the FCA Principles states: 
A firm must pay due regard to the interests of its customers and treat them fairly. 
So Shawbrook should have treated Mr C fairly when responding to his claim. 
What happened?
If there is a dispute about what happened, I must decide what happened on the balance of 
probabilities  that is, what I consider to have been most likely to have happened, given the 
evidence that is available and the wider surrounding circumstances.
Mr C says that during a sales meeting they were told that the total annual benefits of the 
system would exceed the total annual loan repayments within ten years.
There are several documents that have been provided by both The CMC and Shawbrook. 
These include the credit agreement and solar quote, titled Your Personal Solar Quotation. 
Ive considered these, along with Mr Cs testimony and recollection of the sales meeting, to 
decide on balance what is most likely to have happened. The quote is a detailed document that sets out key information about the system, the 
expected performance, financial benefits, and technical information. P, via Shawbrook, has 
told this service that this formed a central part of the sales process, and the representative of 
P would have discussed this in detail with the consumer, explaining any benefits of the 
system, prior to the consumer agreeing to enter into the contract. 
Having thought carefully about the available evidence, Im satisfied that on balance the 
quote did form a central part of the sales process and therefore accept that the salesperson 
went through it during the meeting. So, Ive taken this into account, along with the Mr Cs 
version of events when considering if there have been any untrue statements of fact. 
The credit agreement sets out the amount being borrowed, the interest to be charged, total 
amount payable, the term of the loan and the contractual monthly repayments.
The loan agreement clearly sets out the cash price of the goods.
On balance Im satisfied that Mr C was told that the cost of the system was £10,679.00. The 
quote sets this out clearly. This is also supported by the credit agreement which sets out that 
the cash price of the system was £10,679.00. The monthly payment was £112.22. The total 
amount of credit is £10,579.00 and goes on to show that the total amount payable would be 
£20,299.60.
Having considered all the evidence, including Mr Cs recollections, Im satisfied that they 
were told that there would be a monthly loan repayment due. The quote makes this clear, as 
set out in the table below. Overall, Im satisfied that the two documents, the quote, and the 
credit agreement, made it clear that although the cost of the system was £10,679.00, it 
would cost Mr C more than this as he had decided to pay for it with an interest-bearing loan. 
Mr C has said that he was told the total annual benefits of the system would exceed the total 
annual loan repayments within ten years. Ive considered the quote that was provided by P 
as well as the Mr Cs recollections of their meeting with Ps representative to decide what is 
most likely to have been said. Theres a section headed Repayments with three tables showing repayments over 60 
months, 120 months, and 180 months. Ive focused on the table for 180 months this is the 
length of the loan that Mr C entered into with Shawbrook. This table shows the loan as 
repayable in 180 monthly payments of £113.04. For each year of the 15-year loan it shows 
the expected grand total return from the system. It then averages that figure over 12 months 
and subtracts the monthly loan repayment of £113.04, to give an average difference 
between the monthly return from the system and the monthly loan repayment in each year. 
This table suggests that by year five the annual benefits, which average out at £114.90 per 
month would be more than the indicative loan repayment of £113.04. And in each of the 
following years the table suggests the benefit would exceed the loan repayment. So, I accept 
that Mr C is likely to have been told the total annual benefits of the system would exceed the 
total annual loan repayments within ten years.
The system performance and returns page of the quote has a table detailing the 
performance over 20 years. This shows that by year 13 the overall benefits that Mr C could 
expect to receive would have exceeded the total amount payable under the loan agreement. 
As Ive set out above, Im satisfied that P told Mr C that the system would pay for itself by 
year 13, and this is supported by the table above included in the quote. If that were an 
untrue statement of fact, and Im satisfied that this was what induced him to enter into the 
contract, and he subsequently suffered a loss, that would amount to a misrepresentation.
I have also looked at the assumptions used by P, including the self-consumption rate, 
expected annual increase in utility prices (EPR) and expected annual RPI inflation increase. 
I am satisfied that Ps method for calculating these are fair and reasonable.
My understanding is that the self-consumption rate used to estimate the electricity savings 
was based Mr Cs pre-installation electricity usage and was tailored to his circumstances and 
the system he was buying. This assumed that 37.5% of the electricity purchased from the 
grid was used during the day, and that electricity generated by the solar panels (all of which 
is generated during daylight) could be used instead. Mr Cs daytime usage equated to 75% 
of the electricity expected to be generated from the solar panels. I do not think it was 
unreasonable for P to calculate the self-consumption rate in this way at that time. 
Likewise, the voltage optimiser was only recommended following a test of the supply voltage 
at Mr Cs property. And the estimated benefits of the voltage optimiser were then tailored 
based on this information and what P knew about the product it was selling. So, again, I 
dont think this was unreasonable. 
The CMC has provided the comments of a property services company that purports to have 
some expertise in the area of energy savings from solar panels and voltage optimisers. But 
Ps methods were checked by an industry body  at the time (EPVS  Energy Performance 
Validation Scheme). I think that carries more weight in terms of what was reasonable then, 
than what the property services company has said now.
So, I dont think I can reasonably conclude that, at the time of sale, P used unreasonable 
assumptions when calculating the potential savings. I do not think it is a misrepresentation if 
the savings achieved do not match the estimates given at the time of sale, where those 
estimates were reasonable. The quote confirmed these were estimates and that actual 
savings could be different. 
P used Office of National Statistics (ONS) data between 2006 and 2015 to calculate the 
utility price and RPI inflation. I have looked at the actual yearly increases between the sale 
and 2020 and the increases have been lower than predicted by P at the point of sale. This 
will to some extent explain why Mr C hasnt been receiving the financial returns he may have 
been expecting. Since actual energy prices have been lower than P assumed, the savings 
achieved through the energy generated by the system has been correspondingly lower.
The CMC says that P shouldve used ONS data between 2008 and 2017 to calculate the 
estimated benefits. But I dont think that wouldve been possible , since 2017 inflation figures 
would not be available until sometime in 2018  long after the sale took place. P could 
potentially have used inflation rates from 2007 to 2016. 
However, the sale took place in February 2017, so these rates may only have been released 
a few days before the sale. I dont think it would be unreasonable for P to take some time to 
incorporate updated inflation figures into its sales process. So, overall, I think it was 
reasonable for P to use the inflation data that it did. Especially given that it set out its 
assumptions in the quote, including where they had come from and what timeframe they 
covered. 
In summary, whilst I can appreciate that the benefits may not have been as high as 
estimated at the point of sale, Im not persuaded that this was due to unreasonable 
assumptions being used by P at the time Mr C entered into the contract.
Summary
Having carefully considered the evidence provided by all parties in this complaint, Im
satisfied that there were no untrue statements of fact made by P that induced Mr C to enter 
into the contract for the system, and I have found no other reason to uphold this complaint.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold Mr Cs complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 17 April 2023.
 
Phillip Lai-Fang
Ombudsman