DRN-4512997
The complaint
Mr C has complained about charges Startline Motor Finance Limited (SMF) applied when he 
voluntarily terminated a hire purchase agreement he had with it. Hes also unhappy with the 
way it administered the agreement. 
What happened
The circumstances of the complaint are well known to the parties, so I wont go over 
everything again in detail. But to summarise, Mr C acquired a used car under a hire 
purchase agreement with SMF in October 2020. The car was around seven years old and 
had covered around 90,000 miles. It cost around £10,000 and the total amount payable was 
around £14,500. It looks like Mr C contacted SMF in December 2022 because he wanted to 
voluntarily terminate the agreement. 
SMF arranged for the car to be collected and inspected in January 2023. The mileage was 
around 99,000. An inspection was carried out when the car was collected, and another one 
was carried out at the defleet centre. The collection agents noted damage of around £3,000. 
But after review this was reduced to £473.55. SMF said there was also a £5 shortfall in the 
voluntary termination figure, so it asked Mr C to pay £478.55. It wanted to charge Mr C for 
the following:
Locking wheel nut missing - £51.22
Sat nav media missing - £256.82
Full valet - £50
Front wiper blade broken - £20.75
Front seat back cover torn - £36.76
Rear bumper scuffed - £58.
Mr C says he contested the charge and this went in his favour so the account was closed 
with no outstanding balance. Mr C says a month later he received an email saying he still 
owed money. He said SMF had a second inspection carried out without notifying him. He 
said the car was in full working order and clean when it was handed back. Mr C complained 
and said the damage wasnt on the car when he handed it back. He said there was no 
problem with the rear bumper. The sat nav was working fine and so was the wiper blade. He 
also said the car was clean. He did acknowledge the car didnt have a locking wheel nut but 
said this wasnt a legal requirement. 
SMF offered to knock off the cost for the rear bumper (£58) leaving Mr C owing £420.55. 
Mr C wasnt happy with the resolution so referred his complaint to our service. He says he 
doesnt owe any money to SMF, and he said he now has a default recorded on his credit file. 
To resolve the complaint, he requested the debt was cleared and adverse information 
removed from his credit file. 
SMF said it thought the damage appraisal was fair and that Mr C remained liable. It said the 
car was sold at a lower price than it would have if it had been in full working order and in 
reasonable condition. 
Our investigator looked into things and thought SMF should remove the charge for the 
locking wheel nut and full valet. She also thought the default should be removed and Mr C 
given a reasonable amount of time to clear the debt. 
Mr C responded to say he could see the balance was nil on his credit report, and there was 
no default so he thought the complaint was resolved. SMF responded to say it accepted the 
ruling. 
Our investigator thought there was a discrepancy between what Mr C was telling us and 
what SMF was telling us. SMF said £420.55 was outstanding. Mr C was unhappy and said 
he felt like he was back at square one. 
As things werent resolved, the complaint was passed to me to make a decision.
I wrote to SMF and asked if thered been any other complaints raised by Mr C resulting in 
the charges being waived. I also noted SMF had told Mr C a default was recorded and that it 
had said the damage charges were separately accounted for. So I wanted to know if it had 
recorded a default for the £5 shortfall. I asked if it had a copy or more details from the 
inspection carried out when the car was collected from Mr C. I asked for more details about 
the sat nav media missing, and what the charge covered exactly. And I asked what the car 
subsequently sold for. 
SMF responded to say Mr C had £5 owing to reach the voluntary termination point. It said it 
normally defaults customers if they dont pay the shortfall within 30 days, but as the amount 
was less than £70 it didnt report it on Mr Cs credit file. It also explained an inspection was 
carried out when the car was collected but it wasnt as in depth as the check carried out at 
the defleet centre. 
I didnt think this answered everything, so I contacted SMF again to specifically request more 
details about the sat nav media missing. SMF resent a copy of the inspection carried out at 
the defleet centre. 
I issued a provisional decision that said:
I want to acknowledge that whilst Ive summarised the events of the complaint, Ive reviewed 
everything on file. If I dont comment on something, its not because I havent thought about 
it. Im focussing on what I consider are the key issues.
Mr C acquired the car using a regulated hire purchase agreement, and our service is able to 
consider complaints relating to these sorts of agreements.
I agree the information about the default being recorded was slightly confusing. But SMF has 
said theres not been a default recorded because the shortfall balance was only £5. I cant 
see that money isnt fairly owed, but theres not been a default recorded, so I dont need to 
direct it to remove one. Mr C has said the complaint may have been resolved, but Ive not 
seen evidence of that. SMF says the damage charges are fairly payable, so Ill go on to 
consider whether thats fair. 
The agreement sets out Mr C was required to return the car in good condition if he was 
handing it back. And that Mr C would be required to pay all reasonable costs and expenses 
if any of the terms of the agreement were broken. So I think SMF was able to charge Mr C if 
he didnt hand back the car in good condition. But Im mindful the car was 7 years old when it 
was supplied to him and had covered nearly 100,000 when it was handed back. It was 
nearly 10 years old, so it wouldnt be fair to treat the car the same as if itd be returned at the 
end of its first leasing cycle. After our investigator sent her view, SMF agreed to only charge Mr C for the following:
Sat nav media missing - £256.82
Front wiper blade broken - £20.75
Front seat back cover torn - £36.76
These are the items Ill focus on. From the picture Ive seen the wiper blade is clearly 
broken. On balance, Im not sure the most likely thing to have happened is that the blade 
broke in between the two inspections. It may not have been picked up on the first inspection 
if it wasnt raining. It was either broken or right at the cliff edge of breaking while it was in 
Mr Cs possession. Even though the car was 10 years old, its important to have working 
wipers. Its a safety issue. So I consider this charge to have been fairly applied. I dont find a 
charge of £20.75 to be unreasonable.
The front seat is noticeably torn. Mr C hasnt specifically said this didnt happen while it was 
in his possession. Its unlikely this damage happened between the two inspections. Even 
though the car was nearly 10 years old, it looks like this will need some sort of repair. I dont 
find the charge of £36.76 to be unreasonable. 
Finally, Ive thought about the charge for the sat nav media missing. This is a significant sum 
to ask Mr C to pay. Mr C has said the car was returned with a working sat nav. Im never 
going to know exactly whats happened. It would seem unusual Mr C wouldve decided to 
remove the sat nav media before handing the car back. I asked SMF for more details about 
this. An SD card for sat nav media can cost around £50 on the internet. I thought the charge 
it was applying was very specific, and for a significant sum. I wanted to know more about this 
charge to decide whether it was fair. SMF hasnt been able to show me any more details 
about the initial inspection. Its not explained more about how it reached this charge; exactly 
what its for; or what repairs/replacements had to be carried out. Its also not shown me its 
suffered a loss as a result of this. So in the circumstances, Im going to propose this charge 
is removed as well. In the round I think this seems like a fair outcome. 
Mr C responded to say he was happy with the decision. But he wanted to reiterate his credit 
report shows the agreement as settled and that he thought all the damage charges were 
unfair. 
SMF responded to say the tear for the front seat was £367.60 but its internal matrix 
attributed 10% of this which is why the charge was £36.76. It said the sat nav system didnt 
exist at the time of inspection but was supplied with the car. It said the charge of £258.56 
was applied in line with costings. It also said the suggestion a replacement being sourced for 
cheaper was fair, but that Mr C could have considered this before returning the car. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I would like to thank the parties for their responses. Ill focus on these responses in this part 
of the decision. Mr C says the agreement is showing as settled on his credit file. I dont need 
to make any further directions for that. Although I set out previously I thought £5 was still 
outstanding. I also set out why I thought the wiper and the seat cover damage charges were 
fair. I remain of that view. 
Ive thought about what SMF has said. As I explained in my provisional decision, and in my 
email to SMF before writing that decision, I wanted to know more about the sat nav media 
missing charge. Mr C said the sat nav was working when the car was returned. SMF wasnt able to supply evidence of a problem with it when the car was collected from Mr C and the 
initial inspection was carried out. The evidence we have the sat nav wasnt working is from 
the subsequent inspection. The evidence isnt definitive. 
I asked more about what the charge covered exactly and whether SMF could evidence it 
suffered any sort of loss through repairs or loss in resale. But SMF hasnt supplied that 
evidence. Its simply told me that this is the cost it charges. For the avoidance of doubt, Im 
not saying SMF should base its charges for sat nav media missing on the cheapest option 
that can be found on the market. I only wanted to highlight that if it was the SD card that 
needed replacing these can be found for a lot less than what SMF was charging Mr C. I 
wanted to know what specifically the charge was for to see if it was for an SD card or for 
something more substantial, but Ive not been given further details. 
In all the circumstances, in addition to the other findings in my provisional decision, Im still of 
the view the charge for the sat nav media should be removed. I appreciate SMF is charging 
Mr C a lot less than it says it could have for the seat. But Im mindful the car was nearly 10 
years old, and SMF used its own matrix to decide that charge. Im therefore not going to use 
that to give me the grounds to say the sat nav media missing charge should remain.   
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint and direct Startline Motor Finance Limited to 
remove the charges for the locking wheel nut, full valet and sat nav media missing. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 11 January 2024.
 
Simon Wingfield
Ombudsman