DRN-2151039
The complaint
Mr J is unhappy Monzo have not agreed to refund cash machine withdrawals he says he 
didnt make or otherwise authorise. Hes also unhappy with its decision to close his account.
What happened
In June 2020, four disputed cash machine withdrawals were made across two consecutive 
days  totalling £800. All were made using Mr Js genuine debit card and PIN. 
Mr J contacted Monzo via its online chat facility to report the disputed cash withdrawals. He 
told Monzo when he logged onto his mobile banking application, he saw transactions he 
didnt recognise. He searched for his wallet, and unable to locate it, he used his app to block 
his card. He was not sure when he lost his wallet. He confirmed to Monzo hed not shared 
his PIN or other security details with anyone, nor did he have these written down anywhere. 
He told Monzo he didnt make these withdrawals  that they were fraudulent and 
unauthorised. He asked for a refund.  
Monzo investigated Mr Js claim and declined a refund of the money. It didnt think the 
evidence supported that the withdrawals were made without Mr Js knowledge or consent. It 
said that it has reasons to believe these werent fraudulent as alleged by Mr J and informed 
him it had taken the decision to close his account. It stated as per its terms and conditions, 
under such circumstances, it reserved the right to close an account at any time, without 
providing notice. It asked Mr J to make alternative banking arrangements and to arrange 
transfer of his remaining account balance before his account was closed the following day.
Mr J didn't think that was fair. He thought Monzo hadnt properly investigated his claim and 
referred the matter to this service. One of our investigators considered what had happened 
and thought it was more likely than not that Mr J had authorised the transactions. So he 
didnt recommend that Monzo needed to take any further action to resolve the complaint. As 
he still disagrees, Mr J has asked for an ombudsman to review his complaint.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
But I am afraid I have to tell Mr J that I think both Monzo and our investigator have reached 
the right outcome here. And there is relatively little I can add to what the investigator has 
already said. 
I know Mr J will be disappointed, but I hope he can understand in situations like these, where 
I wasnt present at the time the events took place, I cant know for certain what happened. 
So where evidence is incomplete, inconclusive or contradictory, I need to decide a complaint 
on what I think is more likely than not to have happened in light of all the available evidence 
and the wider surrounding circumstances. Im afraid it would not be reasonable, nor fair of 
me to uphold this complaint based solely on his testimony if, on balance, the evidence 
suggests otherwise.
The investigator wrote a detailed view that set out in full the facts, the transactions, the 
relevant regulations and the evidence. Both Mr J and Monzo have read the investigators 
view, so I wont repeat every detail here, only those which form the basis of my decision.
Generally, the regulations say Monzo can hold Mr J liable for the disputed withdrawals if the 
evidence suggests that its more likely than not that he made or authorised them himself. My 
role, therefore, is to decide if I think Mr J authorised the payments. And here, Ive balanced 
Mr Js version of events against the evidence from Monzo in order to reach my decision.  
Monzos records indicate, and I accept, Mr Js genuine card and the correct corresponding 
PIN were used to make the disputed withdrawals  neither party has disputed this. 
But the regulations also say that genuine card and PIN is not enough, on their own, to hold 
him liable. So, I also need to think about whether the evidence suggests that its more likely 
than not that Mr J consented to the transactions. 
I have therefore considered carefully whether someone else could have used Mr Js card 
without his authority. I believe however thats most unlikely here. And I say this for the 
following reasons; 
- Mr J has confirmed he has not shared or written down his PIN.
- There were no incorrect PIN attempts and the last confirmed genuine PIN use was 
several weeks before the disputed withdrawals.
- Mr Js more recent transactions had been contactless  he has not disputed these 
which means his card was in his possession at that time, which makes it less 
plausible that someone was able to observe him enter his PIN and intercept his card.
- Whilst in isolation not conclusive, taking account of it alongside other matters Ive 
mentioned above, its also unusual that once Mr J had told Monzo that hed lost his 
card there were no further attempts to use it. If an unauthorised person was in 
possession of Mr Js card, then I think they wouldve continued to try to withdraw 
funds. Particularly as there was a balance remaining on the account when Mr J 
blocked his card and the existing pattern of withdrawals was to maximise the daily 
withdrawal limit. 
Account closure 
Monzo is entitled to end its banking relationship with Mr J by closing the account he holds 
with it; just the same as Mr J can choose to end his relationship with Monzo. But it must do 
so in a way, which complies with the terms and conditions of the account. I can see Monzos 
terms and conditions allow it to close an account immediately if it believes its customer has 
given it false information at any time. Following its investigation into Mr Js claim, Monzo could not find a conclusive way the 
disputed withdrawals were made without Mr Js authorisation and believe hes provided them 
with false information. Having looked at all the evidence I dont think Monzo reached an 
unreasonable conclusion. I appreciate Mr J is unhappy with this decision but theres little for 
me to comment on here. When I weigh everything up, Im satisfied that Monzo havent 
treated Mr J unfairly and theyve closed his account in line with his account terms and 
conditions. 
So looking at all the circumstances of this complaint, Im persuaded that its more likely than 
not, that either Mr J carried out the activity himself or shared his card and security 
information to allow someone to else to carry out the disputed cash machine withdrawals. So 
it follows that I dont think Monzo acted unreasonably or unfairly in holding Mr J liable for the 
disputed withdrawals nor taking the decision to close his account. 
My final decision
For the reasons outlined above, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr J to accept or 
reject my decision before 21 October 2020.
 
Sonal Matharu
Ombudsman