DRN-3250357
The complaint
Mr Bs court-appointed attorney considers the lifetime mortgage Age Partnership Limited 
recommended Mr and Mrs B take out in 2017 was mis-sold. This is because the attorney 
believes Age Partnership failed to properly assess Mr and Mrs Bs personal and financial 
circumstances and didnt adequately explain the mortgage to them. The attorney has said 
they didnt understand how much the debt could increase to and didnt need the amount the 
mortgage released. 
What happened
In early 2017 Mr and Mrs B approached Age Partnership to discuss releasing equity from 
their home. The adviser from Age Partnership discussed Mr and Mrs Bs circumstances with 
them and the reasons they wanted to release money from their home. 
It was recorded that Mr and Mrs B were in their seventies and both were retired. They owned 
their home, which they thought was worth around £140,000 and had £3,000 in savings. Their 
income came from pensions and state benefits. They confirmed they spent all of their 
income each month. Mr and Mrs B wanted to borrow as much as they could from their home, 
although they only had fixed plans for around £36,000. The plans were for home 
improvements, buying a car, arranging powers of attorney, an emergency fund, holidays and 
travel. Any further funds they could borrow would be held in reserve for anything they 
wanted to do in the future. 
It was recorded that Mr and Mrs B didnt have sufficient liquid assets to do the things they 
wanted. Alternatives were considered, including them downsizing, but they didnt want to 
take up any of the options presented. As such, the adviser explained equity release plans 
and established what, if Mr and Mrs B took one, they would want from it. This established 
that it wasnt important to them to leave any guaranteed portion of the property to their 
beneficiaries and as they werent planning to move home, they werent worried about an 
early repayment charge (ERC) being attached to the plan. In addition, they didnt want to 
make monthly payments to the arrangement and would prefer a fixed rate of interest to be 
attached to the plan. 
Age Partnership recommended a lifetime mortgage with a lender that would allow 
Mr and Mrs B to receive the largest amount of equity from their home. This was a little over 
£67,000 and the interest rate was 6.92% per annum. The recommendation report detailed 
that the adviser had suggested that Mr and Mrs B take an advance of the amount they 
needed at that time, along with arranging a drawdown facility giving them access to the 
remainder of the funds as and when they needed them. However, Mr and Mrs B hadnt 
accepted this suggestion and wanted all of the money immediately, so they had it to hand 
when they wanted it. It was highlighted that as the interest on the mortgage rolled up, it 
would erode the amount of equity in the property. 
The adviser also recommended that Mr and Mrs B discuss the mortgage with their family 
and main beneficiaries before they made the decision to proceed with it. They confirmed that 
they had done so and that their family was supportive of their decision. 
In order to assist in explaining the mortgage to Mr and Mrs B, a key facts document was 
produced and given to them. This confirmed the details of the mortgage and how it worked. 
It explained that the mortgage would run for the rest of their lives and was usually only paid 
back when the property was sold after death or a move into sheltered accommodation or 
long-term care. It was confirmed that the mortgage could be paid off if Mr and Mrs B simply 
didnt want it anymore, but that an ERC might be charged in that situation. 
The key facts confirmed that the annual interest rate was fixed at 6.92% and this would be 
added to the amount owed. How much would be owed on the mortgage at the end of each of 
the following 15 years was detailed  this showed that at the end of the fifth year Mr and Mrs 
B would owe slightly over £95,000. Later in the document how the ERC would be calculated 
and gave examples of how much it could be, depending on movements in the index it was 
reliant on. This showed that if the index fell by 1%, the ERC would be around £12,000 in the 
fifth year, although it could be more or less than this.
The application was accepted by the lender and a mortgage offer was issued in early 2017. 
As with the key facts document, the mortgage offer detailed how much the mortgage would 
have increased to at the end of each of year going forward for 15 years. This showed that by 
that point almost £190,000 would be owed. Again, the fact that there was potentially an ERC 
to be paid if Mr and Mrs B no longer wanted the mortgage was documented. It was 
explained in what circumstances the ERC would need to be paid and how it would be 
calculated. Examples, based on assumptions, were given which showed ERCs of up to 
nearly £17,000, although it confirmed that any actual charge might be more or less than the 
figures shown. 
Before Mr and Mrs B were allowed to proceed with the mortgage, they were required to 
consult a solicitor to ensure that they understood the mortgage they were proposing to take 
and its consequences. 
In 2020 Mr Bs attorney contacted the lender with a view to redeeming the mortgage. He was 
told that Mr B would need to pay just over £96,000, including an approximately £13,000 early 
repayment charge, to clear the mortgage. 
Mr Bs attorney complained about the advice given to take the mortgage. Age Partnership 
responded to the complaint, but it didnt uphold it. It set out the information Mr and Mrs B had 
given it in 2017, what had been explained to them and the processes that had been gone 
through. It highlighted that its adviser had recommended taking a mortgage for the amount 
Mr and Mrs B immediately needed and placing the remainder on a drawdown plan, but they 
had wanted to take all the money at the time of the advice. Age Partnership confirmed that it 
considered it did what it should have and the advice it gave was suitable.
As the attorney wasnt happy with the response from Age Partnership, he referred the 
complaint to this service. It was confirmed that in settlement of the complaint, the attorney 
wanted Age Partnership to pay the interest that had accrued on the mortgage and the ERC 
when the mortgage was paid off. He also wanted Age Partnership to reimburse the fees 
charged to set up the mortgage.
One of our investigators considered the complaint. He was satisfied that appropriate 
discussions had taken place before the mortgage was recommended to Mr and Mrs B, 
including the adviser suggesting they not take more money than their immediate plans 
required. The investigator wasnt persuaded the mortgage had been mis-sold. 
The attorney didnt accept the investigators conclusions. He provided a banking statement 
showing that Mr B had approximately £25,000 in savings, evidencing that not all of the 
money released had been spent. This, he put forward, evidenced that the amount of equity the adviser recommended Mr and Mrs B take from their home was artificially inflated to the 
maximum amount possible. It was also suggested that the easy access to money meant that 
Mr and Mrs B spent money in ways they otherwise wouldnt have, although no further 
information about this was given. He put forward that Mrs Bs health situation meant that she 
was unable to do things like go on holidays. The attorney reiterated that he considered the 
mortgage had been oversold and mis-sold. He also said that Mr and Mrs B lacked financial 
sophistication and experience and as such, were unlikely to have understood how quickly 
the debt would rise. It was also put forward that while the solicitor Mr and Mrs B spoke to 
before the mortgage was advanced may have been satisfied that they understood the 
mortgage, it was not responsible for ensuring the mortgage was suitable for them.
The investigator considered the further comments and additional information. He 
commented that as Mr and Mrs B had made it clear that some of the money was to be used 
in the future as and when needed, he would have expected there to still be some of the 
money on deposit. He didnt consider this made the mortgage unsuitable. He also reiterated 
that the adviser had recommended that the additional funds be made available through a 
drawdown facility, but Mr and Mrs B had rejected that piece of advice. Overall, he wasnt 
persuaded to change his opinion on the case. 
The attorney remained unhappy and asked that the complaint be referred to an ombudsman.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I would firstly comment that due to the eligibility criteria for lifetime mortgages, all customers 
will be older and, as a consequence, many will have ongoing medical conditions. It would not 
be appropriate for a lender or broker to make assumptions about a customers ability to 
make decisions or understand information they were provided with, or conclude they were 
vulnerable, simply because they were older. Nor would it be appropriate for an adviser to 
exclude a consumer and their spouse from taking financial products because of an ongoing 
physical medical condition. If such an approach were to be taken it could be considered 
discriminatory. 
On that note, I have seen nothing in the evidence that would lead me to believe that either 
Mr or Mrs B were unable to make their own decisions or understand information they were 
given in 2017. Indeed, the purpose of having an independent solicitor involved in the process 
of selling a lifetime mortgage is to ensure that consumers are not being taken advantage of 
and they understand what they are proposing to do. Had there been concerns, the solicitors 
wouldnt have signed the form confirming Mr and Mrs B understood the mortgage they were 
proposing to take out.
I note that the attorney has said that Mr and Mrs B didnt need the money that was released 
from the property. The attorney has also questioned the purpose of some of the needs 
actually identified, as hes said Mrs Bs medical situation meant travel and holidays werent 
possible. To respond to the second concern first; an adviser can only work with the 
information he or she is provided with by a consumer. If a consumer says they want funds 
for a holiday and travel, it wouldnt be appropriate for the adviser to question whether this 
was true. It is also clear that at the time of the sale Mr and Mrs B didnt immediately need all 
of the funds. Around £30,000 was to be reserved for future use. It appears that the adviser 
explained that taking the money before it was needed wasnt the best idea and that a 
drawdown arrangement could be made, but Mr and Mrs B rejected that suggested, which 
was their right. Essentially, the equity in their home was Mr and Mrs Bs to do with as they 
wished. If that meant converting some of it to deposit-based savings they could dip into as and when they wanted in order to improve their lifestyle, that was something they were 
entitled to do.
While not all of the money advanced from the mortgage was used, a significant portion was. 
Part of the advance was to be used to create an emergency fund, which would appear to be 
what Mr B has in one account. Taking account of the existing ISA savings, it would appear 
that around £17,000 of the equity release remains unspent. As our investigator pointed out, 
given Mr and Mrs B planned to keep that money for use in the future, it isnt surprising that 
some of it remains available for that purpose, although over a third of it has already been 
spent. 
While I know that the attorney wont agree with me, I consider the information Mr and Mrs B 
were given at the time of the sale would have made them aware of how the mortgage 
worked and that the interest rolled up over the years, significantly increasing the amount 
owed. I am satisfied that the mortgage recommended allowed Mr and Mrs B to achieve their 
goals and I dont consider the evidence shows that the mortgage was mis-sold or unsuitable 
for them.
My final decision
My decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. Under the rules of the Financial 
Ombudsman Service, I am required to ask Mr B to accept or reject my decision before 
7 March 2022.
 
Derry Baxter
Ombudsman