DRN-3981217
The complaint
Mr W has complained that Admiral Insurance (Gibraltar) Limited has declined his claim
under his single trip travel insurance policy for fishing equipment.
What happened
Mr Ws car was broken into whilst he was on holiday and fishing equipment was stolen from
it. He put in a claim under his policy. Admiral turned down his claim on the basis the policy
didnt cover personal belongings left in an unattended motor vehicle unless they were
covered in a locked and covered boot or locked luggage compartment. Mr Ws fishing rod
bag, with rods and reels in it, was partly in the boot and partly in the back passenger section
of his car, with the back seats down, and the bag wasnt covered.
Mr W complained to Admiral, but they didnt alter their position on his claim. Although, they
did offer him £50 in compensation for poor service. Mr W asked us to consider his complaint
about Admiral turning down his claim. One of our investigators did this. She said it should be
upheld and Admiral should pay Mr Ws claim, plus interest. This was because she thought
the policy exclusion relating to the theft of personal belongings not being covered if left in a
motor vehicle, unless in a locked and covered boot or locked luggage compartment was
significant, and Admiral should have done more to draw it to Mr Ws attention when he
purchased the policy.
Mr W agreed with the investigators view on his complaint. Admiral did not. They said that
they didnt think the exclusion clause was significant and they provided evidence to support 
this view. They also thought theyd done enough to draw it to Mr Ws attention when he 
bought the policy, as they made a copy of the full policy document available to him and he 
confirmed at the time hed read it.
I issued a provisional decision on 8 February 2023, in which I set out what Id provisionally 
decided as follows:
Section 4 of Mr Ws policy entitled Personal Belongings covers these if they are lost, stolen
or accidently damaged during his trip. Personal Belongings are defined under the policy as:
Luggage, its contents, valuables and anything you wear or carry with you when travelling,
which belongs to you. This does not include winter sports equipment or golf equipment.
Under this section there is the following exclusion:
2. What is not covered
We will not pay any claim for:
 Unattended personal belongings.
 Valuables left in a motor vehicle.
Unattended is defined as follows:
Not in your full view, where you are not in a position to prevent your property being taken
without your consent - unless it is locked safely in your personal accommodation, or in the
secure area of a motor vehicle (locked and covered boot or locked luggage compartment).
Valuables are defined as follows:
Personal items of value which belong to you such as (my emphasis) cameras, camcorders,
binoculars, telescopes, and accessories, audio visual and television equipment, spectacles
and glasses, computers, tablets, gaming consoles, electronic book readers, satellite
navigation equipment, mobile phones and accessories. Jewellery, watches, furs, and items
made of or containing gold, silver, precious metals, precious or semi-precious stones.
The rules under which Admiral operate required them to provide enough information to Mr W
when he bought the policy to enable him to make an informed decision about it. I think this
included highlighting unusual or significant limitations or exclusions in the policy. And they
needed to include significant exclusions in the Insurance Product Information Document
(IPID) they provided to Mr W when he bought the policy.
I appreciate our investigator said the exclusion relating to unattended personal belongings is
significant and needed to be specifically drawn to Mr Ws attention. But I dont think it is
significant in a travel policy like this one. This is because it only relates to everyday items
which are normally of fairly limited value on their own. And these items are covered if they
are left concealed in the locked and covered boot or luggage compartment of a motor
vehicle.
However, I do consider the exclusion relating to valuables not being covered under any
circumstances if left in a motor vehicle is significant in a travel insurance policy. This is
because if such items are not covered at all if theyre left in a car, policyholders have limited
options in certain circumstances. And they may consider these options riskier than leaving
valuables in a locked motor vehicle. For example, if they are going to the beach, they may
think it is better to leave them in the car than take them onto the beach. But the reality is
theyd not be covered for theft if they were left in the car, but they would be on the beach
provided they were not left unattended and they took reasonable care of them. Also,
generally speaking, valuables are more attractive to thieves and worth more than normal
personal belongings.
So, I think Admiral needed to highlight the exclusion relating to valuables in the IPID or in
some other way as part of the sales process. They didnt do this, as far as I can tell; instead
relying on the fact Mr W had ticked to say hed read the policy document. It is  in my
opinion - unrealistic to expect a customer to read a policy document of over 80 pages. I say
this because  as I have said  the rules under which Admiral operate require them to
provide sufficient information for the customer to be able to make an informed decision about
the policy proposed. I dont think simply sending a policy document running to over 80 pages
and expecting the customer to read it in full meets this obligation.
Ive spoken to Mr W and he has told me that he viewed his fishing rods and reels as
valuables. And that if hed realised valuables werent covered if he left them in his car, he
would have taken his rod bag, with his rods and reels in it, out of his car and left it in his hotel
room overnight. Hes explained there were four rods and four reels in a bag and he could
have removed this, along with the luggage he did take into the hotel, by making two trips
from his car to the hotel and back. And Im persuaded by Mr Ws testimony on this.
I appreciate Admiral may not consider fishing rods and reels are valuables as defined by the
policy. But I think this is arguable, bearing in mind the policy definition is wide and only lists
examples, which include binoculars and spectacles, which I dont think most people wouldnecessarily see as valuable items or as particularly attractive to thieves. But, even if I were
to accept the stolen items werent valuables as defined by the policy, it wouldnt alter my
view that if the abovementioned exclusion had been highlighted in the IPID or sales process
Mr W is likely to have removed his fishing rod bag from the car. This is because he couldnt
be expected to read right through the policy document to get the definition of valuables. And
 even if he did  he may well have concluded his fishing rods were valuables.
This means I think Admiral failed to meet its obligations when selling and providing the policy
to Mr W by failing to highlight the exclusion relating to valuables left in a motor vehicle. And I
consider that this has prejudiced Mr Ws position; in that it is most likely he wouldnt have
lost his fishing rods and reels and rod bag, if Admiral had highlighted the exclusion. This is
because I think, if they had, hed most likely have removed his fishing rod bag from his car
and it wouldnt have been stolen.
In view of this, I consider the fair and reasonable outcome to Mr Ws complaint is for Admiral
to settle his claim in accordance with the claim settlement terms in his policy. This outcome
reflects the fact Mr W only expected to be covered for his fishing equipment in accordance
with the policy terms.
I also intend to require Admiral to add interest to the amount due to Mr W at 8% per year
simple from the date he paid out to replace his fishing gear to the date of actual payment.
This is to compensate him for being without funds he should have had.
I gave both parties until 22 February 2023 to provide further comments or evidence. 
Mr W has replied to say he accepts my provisional decision. Admiral have replied and said 
they have no further comments or evidence to provide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As Mr W has accepted my provisional decision and Admiral have no further comments or 
evidence, I see no reason to depart from what I provisionally decided was the fair and 
reasonable outcome to Mr Ws complaint. 
Putting things right
For the reasons set out in my provisional decision, Ive decided to uphold Mr Ws complaint 
and order Admiral to do the following:
Settle Mr Ws claim in accordance with the claim settlement terms in his policy. 
Pay interest on the amount due to Mr W at 8% per year simple from the date he paid out 
to replace his fishing equipment to the date of actual payment.
Admiral must tell Mr W if they have made a deduction for income tax from any interest they 
pay. And, if they have, how much theyve taken off. They must also provide a tax deduction 
certificate for Mr W if asked to do so. This will allow Mr W to reclaim the tax from His 
Majestys Revenue & Customs (HMRC) if appropriate.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold Mr Ws complaint and order Admiral Insurance (Gibraltar) Limited to do what Ive set out above in the Putting things right section.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision before 23 March 2023.
 
Robert Short
Ombudsman