DRN-1286180
 
Complaint
Mr W complains that Capital One (Europe) plc (Capital One) mis-sold him a payment 
protection insurance (PPI) policy.
Background
Mr W was sold PPI alongside a credit card in 2000.
The policy cost 69p per £100 of the monthly outstanding balance. It wouldve paid 10% of 
the monthly outstanding balance for up to 12 months if Mr W was off work sick or lost his job. 
Our adjudicator didnt think Mr Ws complaint should be upheld.
Mr W didnt agree with our adjudicator and so the complaint has been passed to me to 
decide.
My findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding Mr Ws case.
Having done that, Ive decided not to uphold Mr Ws complaint.
Based on Mr Ws age and circumstances at the time of the sale, Im satisfied he was eligible 
under the policy.
Capital One had to make it clear to Mr W that the PPI was optional and needed his consent 
before it could be applied to the account. Mr W says that he was unaware PPI had been 
added to his account. 
Ive thought carefully about what Mr W has told us and looked to the documents from the 
time of the sale to help me decide what is more likely to have happened during the sale. 
Although Mr W thinks that PPI was sold during a meeting, based on the evidence provided 
by Capital One, I think its more likely that the PPI was sold during a postal sale with no 
involvement from a representative. 
Ive seen a copy of the credit application Mr W completed at the time of the sale. I can see 
that Mr W would have been presented with two equally clear options to take or refuse PPI  
the option to take PPI was selected and Mr W signed this form. 
So, while I appreciate what Mr W has told us, based on the evidence available to me, I think 
its more likely that Mr W would have been aware he had been sold PPI. I think PPI was presented as optional and that it was only applied to his account because he chose to take it 
out. Of course I understand Mr W may now no longer recall this given the length of time 
since the sale.
I dont think Capital One advised Mr W to take the policy out. This means they didnt have to 
take steps to ensure the policy was suitable for Mr W. So for example, they didnt need to 
take into account Mr Ws existing repayment provisions.
But they still had to give Mr W information in a clear, fair and non-misleading way   in 
particular about the costs/benefits and main exclusions/restrictions in the policy - so that he 
could make an informed decision about whether or not to take the policy out.
I dont think Capital One gave Mr W all of the information as they shouldve about the 
costs/benefits and main exclusions/restrictions in the policy. This in itself doesnt mean the 
PPI was mis-sold as I have to go on and consider whether better information wouldve put 
Mr W off taking the policy. I dont think it wouldve. I say this because:
 
It doesnt look like Mr W was entitled to any sick pay from his employer other than 
statutory sick pay. The PPI would have paid out in addition to this and for a longer 
period of time. It would also have paid out for up to 12 months if Mr W lost his job.
 
Mr W didnt appear to have been affected by the main exclusions or restrictive terms 
in the policy which wouldve made it more difficult for him to make a successful claim. 
For example, terms relating to preexisting medical conditions and unusual working 
arrangements.
 
Mr W couldve cancelled the PPI policy at any time without losing out financially if he 
no longer needed or wanted it.
 
I havent seen any evidence which suggests the PPI wasnt affordable for Mr W.
 
So taking everything into consideration, I dont think Capital One mis-sold Mr W this PPI 
policy.
My final decision
I dont uphold Mr Ws complaint against Capital One (Europe) plc.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision before 14 April 2020.
Navneet Sher
Ombudsman