DRN-3842785
The complaint
Mr C has complained about the time it has taken, and the treatment he has received from   
ITI Capital Limited (ITI) when his accounts were migrated over from a previous firm. Mr Cs 
accounts werent reconciled with the shareholdings and cash that had been transferred to ITI 
and he didnt know what had happened to any dividend payments.
What happened
Mr C held three accounts  numbers ending 6218, 3848 and 6883. The accounts were held 
with a previous firm that had gone into administration and were transferred over to ITI in  
July 2020.
Mr C had problems with the reconciliation of the shareholdings  he wanted to transfer all 
three accounts to a new broker but was nervous of doing so until everything was in order 
with ITI.
Mr C brought his complaint to the Financial Ombudsman in January 2021 and later made the 
request to ITI to transfer his accounts to a new broker  who I shall refer to as Company B 
 in June 2021 and which ITI confirmed receipt of in July 2021.
Mr C had wanted to transfer his accounts free of charge but that free transfer period that was 
offered by ITI ended on 23 March 2021. Mr C experienced problems and delays with the 
transfer of his accounts to his chosen provider. Mr C told us he did recover all of his 
shareholdings and received cash of around £1,200 but no breakdown of what it represented. 
Hes unsure of what happened to any dividend payments that had been paid. He was also 
annoyed at missing the free transfer window and being charged £25 per line of stock to be 
transferred.
In the meantime, ITI offered £250 to Mr C to settle his complaint which our investigator 
passed onto him. Mr C wasnt willing to accept it particularly as he was charged £500 for the 
transfer of his shareholdings.
Our investigator who considered the complaint thought it should be upheld in part;
The free transfer window closed on 23 March 2021 but a Lloyds Banking Group 
shareholding on one of Mr Cs accounts hadnt been reconciled so Mr C had waited 
for that to be resolved before arranging for the transfer to his new broker in  June 
2021.
He was waiting for confirmation of the dividend payments that had been received on 
his accounts.
The investigator thought the offer of £250 was fair and that Mr C should be repaid the 
transfer fees for the account number 6883, which contained the incorrectly recorded 
Lloyds Banking Group shareholding, but couldnt see any reason for Mr C to have 
delayed the transfer request for the other two accounts.
She also said that ITI should provide an update in relation to the dividends Mr C 
should have been paid.
Mr C said that he had been under the impression that a transfer was as a customer rather 
than individual accounts. And the unreconciled shareholding, Lloyds Banking Group, was 
held in two accounts  6883 and 3848  and it was unreconciled on both of the accounts.
After reconsideration, our investigator wrote again to ITI. She thought that Mr C should be 
provided with a breakdown of any dividends on all of his accounts, ITI should pay £250 for 
the distress and inconvenience Mr C had been caused and refund the transfer fees in 
respect of the two accounts  6883 and 3848  which both held shareholdings of          
Lloyds Banking Group that hadnt been visible on either account.
ITI offered to increase the distress and inconvenience payment from £250 to £400 to cover 
the distress caused to Mr C and the transfer fees he paid. It said some dividends had been 
received after the cash transfer to the new provider had been completed. There was then 
currently cash of £253.66 on account number 6883 being dividends for three of his 
shareholdings. It provided a statement for that account and account number 3848 which 
showed available cash of £110.65.
The investigator revised her findings. She said that Mr C should receive a breakdown of any 
dividends on all of his accounts, that ITI should pay him £250 for the distress and 
inconvenience that had been caused and also refund the transfer fees in respect of two of 
his accounts  6883 and 3848.
ITI didnt respond to the investigator. As the complaint remained unresolved, it was passed 
to me for a decision. I issued my provisional decision explaining that I intended on upholding 
the complaint but with potentially some alternations to the redress, but I asked both parties 
to give me anything that they wanted me to consider before I issued my final decision. 
Heres what I said;
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
After doing so, my provisional decision is that Mr Cs complaint should be upheld.
The transfer of Mr Cs accounts
I can see that Mr C made contact with ITI as early as August 2020 as he was having 
problems assessing the value of his three accounts. They did not show all of the 
stocks, cash or the dividends that were transferred over to ITI or that had accrued 
since the transfer.
In July 2021 Mr C was told by ITI that it would not waive the transfer fees as the free 
transfer period had expired on 23 March 2021. Mr C explained the visibility of his 
assets had been in dispute for nearly a year at that point and he expected ITI to 
honour the free transfer as he would have transferred his assets sooner if it werent 
for ITIs failings.
The investigator concluded that there was no reason for the accounts not to have 
been transferred separately and that Mr C could have asked for the transfer of 
account number 6218 to go ahead earlier. It didnt contain any Lloyds Banking Group 
shares like the other two accounts where the shareholdings were unreconciled.However, I note there is an email on file from Mr C to ITI dated 20 March 2021 which 
refers to two stocks that were missing on account number ending 6218. And 
according to Mr Cs later email of 30 March 2021 the situation hadnt changed.
So, bearing in mind the window for the free transfer period ended on 23 March 2021 I 
dont think Mr C would have been in the position to arrange for the transfer of that 
account when two of his holdings were still not showing. Mr C wasnt able to go 
ahead with the transfer of that account prior to 23 March 2021 as that account was 
unreconciled. So, I think Mr C should be refunded the transfer fees he was charged 
for that account as well as the other two as recommended by the investigator.
I dont know the size of the client base that ITI took over from the previous provider 
that went into administration. But from what I know from similar complaints, I think its 
likely that the new additional accounts and investments will inevitably have had an 
impact on ITIs capacity and ability to deal with new customers and increased 
requests. And it seems evident there were some IT issues.
That being said, I think Mr C should receive a payment for the considerable 
frustration he has been caused during the transfer process. Ive carefully considered 
Mr Cs points and I have also borne in mind our long-standing approach to awards for 
distress caused. I think the £250 as offered by ITI is a fair reflection of the distress 
and inconvenience caused to Mr C.
Dividends and cash on account
As mentioned above, dividends have accrued on Mr Cs account number 6883 to the 
value of £253.66 and there is available cash showing on account number 3848 of 
£110.65. If it hasnt done already, ITI should transfer those amounts to Mr Cs new 
broker.
Mr C has been out of pocket for those dividends and other cash received by ITI after 
his initial transfer request so I think he should be paid interest during that time. ITIs 
own guidelines are that cash transfer requests should be processed in two working 
days. So, I think 8% simple interest should be added to those cash and dividend 
sums from two days after receipt by ITI to the date they were/are transferred to 
Company B.
In conclusion I said that ITI should refund the transfer fees incurred on all three of Mr Cs 
accounts, pay £250 for all of the delays, frustration and inconvenience he had been caused 
and pay 8% simple interest per year on any delays in cash being transferred. I also said ITI 
should provide Mr C with statements for all three of his accounts so that he can identify any 
cash received and the source of that cash. 
I made further contact with Mr C as I wanted to reconsider how I could more accurately put 
things right with regard to the 8% simple interest I provisionally thought he should be paid on 
any delayed cash transfer. So, I asked if he had taken any action with that money or had 
intended to. 
Mr C told us that he had bought some shares with the cash transferred but they had gone 
down in value quite a lot. With reference to interest he was happy with whatever I considered 
fair. 
ITI didnt respond to my provisional decision. What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
ITI hasnt given me anything further for me to consider.
As mentioned, I sought clarification from Mr C about his intentions for the cash. I wanted to 
know if he had been waiting for those funds for a specific purpose such as reinvesting it or 
needing it for another purposes as examples and whether he had lost out because of the 
delays. 
In response Mr C said that he had bought shares, but they had gone down in value quite a 
lot. While I cant know for sure if Mr C would have done the same thing if he had received his 
cash any earlier, Ive nothing to make me think that he wouldnt have taken the same action 
or similar in investing his money and the value of those investments has gone down. So, I 
havent seen anything to suggest that Mr C is out of pocket because of any delays in the 
cash being sent to him and which would cause me to award 8% simple interest. 
Overall, I still uphold Mr Cs complaint, albeit without paying additional interest on delays in 
cash sum(s) being transferred to him. 
Putting things right
Overall, ITI should pay to Mr C;
Refund the transfer fees incurred for all three of Mr Cs accounts.
£250 for all the delays as well as the frustration and inconvenience Mr C was caused.
If it hasnt already done so, ITI should pay any cash on Mr Cs accounts to Mr Cs 
new broker.
ITI should provide Mr C with statements for all three of his accounts so that he can 
identify any cash received and the source of that cash.
If ITI Capital Limited doesnt pay Mr C the sums above within one month of receiving from us 
notification of Mr Cs acceptance of my decision, ITI Capital Limited should also pay Mr C 
simple interest on the sum at the rate of 8% per year from the date of my decision until the 
date ITI Capital Limited pays my award. 
My final decision
I uphold Mr Cs complaint and ITI Capital Limited should put the matter right as outlined 
above. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 3 January 2023.
 
Catherine Langley
Ombudsman