DRN-3288791
The complaint
Mr D complains that Barclays Bank UK PLC wont refund payments he made as the result of 
a scam.
What happened
The background to this complaint is well known to both parties. So, Ill only provide an 
overview of some of the key events. 
Mr D was approached on social media by someone purporting to be a representative of an 
investment firm. For ease Ill refer to the firm as P. He was told he would receive a good 
return if he chose to invest. The representative told Mr D he would need to make payments 
in cryptocurrency, specifically bitcoin. So in October 2019, Mr D purchased bitcoins through 
a legitimate cryptocurrency exchange, who Ill refer to as C. He made three payments to C 
totalling over £2,500 (inclusive of transaction fees and charges) using his Barclays debit 
card. He then sent the bitcoins to the bitcoin address provided by the scammer. 
Mr D was then asked to make further payments through a money transfer firm before his 
returns could be paid to him. This is when Mr D realised hed likely fallen victim to a scam. 
He contacted Barclays asking for a full refund of the payments hed made to C as he no 
longer wanted to invest with P. Barclays raised a chargeback claim for one of the three 
disputed payments and applied a temporary credit to his account. The other two disputes 
were not progressed due to a system error. The claim which had been raised was defended 
by C. After reviewing the evidence Barclays decided not to take the claim further and 
removed the temporary credit it had applied to Mr Ds account. Mr D complained.
Barclays accepted due to a system error two of the dispute claims had not been progressed. 
It also acknowledged that all the claims had been logged under the wrong chargeback code. 
But it said, even if the claims were raised under the correct code due to the nature of the 
claim the chargeback was unlikely to succeed. Barclays noted that Mr D had further 
evidence. It asked him to provide this and re-raise his disputes as soon as possible as under 
the scheme rules it only has 120 days from the date the payments debited his account in 
which to dispute the transactions. It also recognised that it could have provided him with 
better customer service and paid him £200 in recognition of this.
Unhappy with Barclays response, Mr D contacted our service. After which, Barclays 
reconsidered the further evidence provided by Mr D. Ultimately, it concluded that any 
chargeback claim against C wouldve been unsuccessful as C had provided the service it 
received the payments for, that being bitcoins to Mr Ds personal account. And the onward 
transfer of bitcoins by Mr D from his personal account to the details hed been given by the 
scammer cant be considered under the chargeback process. Barclays maintained its 
position that the claims would not have resulted in successful refunds under VISAs 
chargeback scheme. 
One of our Investigators looked into things. He didnt uphold Mr Ds complaint. He agreed 
with Barclays that the payments were made to a legitimate cryptocurrency exchange who 
provided Mr D with bitcoins, which he then transferred to the bitcoin addresses given to him 
by the scammer. This is where the alleged scam took place  not when Mr D purchased 
bitcoins from C. So he couldnt see that Barclays had made a mistake in not progressing the 
chargeback claims. He concluded that he didnt think Barclays needed to provide Mr D with 
a refund for the disputed payments and taking all the circumstances into consideration the 
compensatory offer made for the poor customer service and delays was fair and reasonable. 
Mr D didnt accept the investigators outcome. He asked for the matter to be reviewed again, 
so the complaint has been passed to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Chargeback is a voluntary scheme. Barclays are bound by the card scheme providers rules 
which in this case is Visa. It is Visa  not Barclays, who will ultimately arbitrate on a dispute 
between the merchant and customer if it cannot be resolved between them after two 
presentments. Such arbitration is subject to the rules of the scheme  so there are limited 
grounds on which a chargeback can succeed. Our role in such cases is not to second-guess 
Visas arbitration decision or scheme rules, but to determine whether the regulated card 
issuer (i.e. Barclays) acted fairly and reasonably when presenting (or choosing not to 
present) a chargeback on behalf of its cardholder.  
It's accepted that Barclays initially agreed to process chargeback claims but made errors in 
the processing of those claims. One claim was processed, albeit under the wrong 
chargeback code  that being goods and services not received and the other two claims 
were not processed due to system errors. The claim which Barclays had processed was 
defended, and C provided the relevant information, which included evidence that Mr D had 
agreed to its terms and conditions; created a personal account and purchased bitcoins which 
were credited to his personal account. The bitcoins were then transferred by Mr D to an 
external bitcoin address. 
At this stage I would expect Barclays to decide fairly based on the information available if it 
thought the claim would succeed and progress this if appropriate.  Barclays decided not to 
take the matter further and the temporary credit applied to Mr Ds account was removed. Ive 
carefully considered whether I think Barclays actions were fair and reasonable and I think 
they were. I say this because as I mentioned previously the chargeback process is voluntary. 
It is down to the card issuer to decide whether to proceed with a claim on a card holders 
behalf  so its not something Mr D had a right to or couldve made Barclays do at this stage, 
if Barclays didnt think it was appropriate. Given the claim was processed under the wrong 
code and C had provided the relevant information to satisfy Visas scheme rule criteria I think 
Barclays decision to not pursue this further was an appropriate response. 
I think Barclays acted reasonably in recognising it had processed the claims under the wrong 
code, and asking Mr D to provide further evidence to support his claim and help it decide if 
there were grounds for successful claims under the correct chargeback code. The evidence 
Mr D shared supported Cs evidence, which means, in these specific circumstances at the 
point at which C credited Mr Ds personal account with the bitcoins it had fulfilled the service 
it was expected to provide. Therefore, there are no grounds for a successful claim under the 
scheme rules. If Mr D was then tricked into sending the bitcoins from his personal account 
with C to the alleged scammer (as was evidently the case here) - this would be a separate 
matter  and not one that is covered under the Visa chargeback scheme.        So while I know my decision will come as a disappointment to Mr D, in summary, I dont 
think the error by Barclays in processing the claim under the wrong code caused him not to 
receive a refund that he otherwise wouldve received. I also dont think its error in not 
processing chargeback claims for each of the disputed payments to C wouldve led to a 
different outcome. C defended the claim and would likely have defended all the claims on 
the same basis had they all been processed by Barclays. 
Overall, for the reasons I have explained above I dont think that Barclays acted unfairly or 
unreasonably in reaching the conclusion that Mr Ds claims didnt have a reasonable 
prospect of succeeding. So it follows that I dont think Barclays treated Mr D unfairly when it 
concluded that it was not responsible for refunding the money hed lost.  
And finally, the errors made by Barclays and delays in resolving his claim have 
understandably caused Mr D some upset  I agree it isnt particularly good customer service. 
But I think the £200 already paid by Barclays is a fair way to address this. So, I wont be 
asking it to do any more.   
My final decision
For the reasons I have explained, my final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision before 8 March 2022.
 
Sonal Matharu
Ombudsman