DRN-4270986
The complaint
Mr F complains that TSB Bank plc wont allow him to partially settle a loan with funds he 
mistakenly sent to a friend.
What happened
Mr F took out a loan for £25,000 with TSB. He meant to send £1,500 to a friend but he 
accidently sent them £15,000. Shortly after his friends account was blocked. He says TSB 
have refused to get the money back for him which could be used to partially settle his loan or 
to reduce his loan balance. Mr F says TSB wont allow him to partially settle the loan with 
this money. Mr F made a complaint to TSB.
TSB did not uphold Mr Fs complaint. They said that he had an ongoing complaint at our 
service in relation to his personal loans and the issues he had accessing the funds, so they 
were unable to comment on this. TSB said he currently had an interest freeze repayment 
plan set up for both loans, and they couldnt find any evidence of a request for a partial 
settlement or a discussion about this. Mr F brought his complaint to our service. 
Our investigator did not uphold Mr Fs complaint. She said that she couldnt see that Mr F 
had asked TSB to partially settle his loan. She said Mr F had another complaint with our 
service about TSB returning the funds but as this issue was dealt with under a separate 
complaint she was unable to comment on it. Mr F asked for an ombudsman to review his 
complaint. He said he told TSB on several occasions that they could settle the loan with the 
£15,000 that they were holding.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I must make it clear to Mr F at the outset that Im unable to look at TSB transferring the 
£15,000 payment back to him as this was part of a separate complaint that he brought to our 
service. 
I have looked through the collection notes which Mr F has had with TSB. I can see that on 
one of these call notes he asked TSB on 30 December 2022 to reverse the payment from 
his friends account so that he would pay the loan. While I cant comment on TSB not 
reversing the payment, Mr F didnt have those funds in his possession for TSB to either use 
this money to reduce the loan balance or to partially settle the loan, so TSB were not 
required to take this action, even if Mr F feels they should use this money to reduce the loan 
balance/partially settle his loan
Mr F may be able to make TSB an offer to partially settle the loan with any funds he has in 
accounts in his name, but this would be a decision for TSB to consider whether they accept 
any offer. As the loan agreement between Mr F and TSB would set out his contractual 
payments and they paid him the loan funds originally, then Mr F would be required to repay 
the funds back to TSB. So I am unable to instruct them to use funds which arent currently in 
Mr Fs name to reduce the outstanding balance or partially settle his loan. So it follows I 
dont require TSB to do anything further.
My final decision
I do not uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr F to accept or 
reject my decision before 19 October 2023.
 
Gregory Sloanes
Ombudsman