DRN-2624950
The complaint
Mr A complains that Lloyds Bank PLC closed his bank account earlier than agreed.
 
What happened
Mr A had a Lloyds current account with a £3,000 overdraft. From the beginning of 2020 Mr 
As account was either over of very close to his overdraft limit. There were no regular 
transactions on the account, only daily overdraft charges. On 14 July 2020 Mr A spoke with 
Lloyds and advised he wasnt working and was in receipt of benefits payments. Mr A offered 
£10 a month, but the call handler said a minimum of around £250 would be required to reach 
a payment arrangement. Mr A confirmed he wasnt in a position to agree the arrangement 
and Lloyds placed the account on hold for 30 days. During the call, Lloyds said Mr A needed 
to call back before 14 August 2020 to see if there were other options for agreeing an 
affordable payment plan. 
Lloyds sent Mr A a letter on 14 August 2020 that said he had until 28 August 2020 to make a 
payment and bring his balance within the overdraft limit. But Lloyds closed Mr As account a 
few days after it wrote to Mr A. Mr A called Lloyds on 24 August 2020 but by that point, his 
account was closed. 
Mr A complained and Lloyds sent him a final response. Lloyds agreed it had closed his 
account earlier than the date given in its letter and paid Mr A £200 to apologise. But, Lloyds 
said that its decision to close Mr As account was correct as he wasnt able to agree an 
affordable payment plan or manage the ongoing overdraft charges. 
Mr A referred his complaint to this service and it was passed to an investigator. They thought 
Lloyds had dealt with Mr As complaint fairly and didnt ask it to do anything else. Mr A asked 
to appeal, so his case has been passed to me to make a decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I can see Mr A has been through a difficult period and I understand his health has been 
poor. I can appreciate that Mr A was shocked to find out Lloyds had taken the decision to 
close his account on 18 August 2020, despite what its letter dated 14 August 2020 said. I 
need to decide whether Lloyds decision to close Mr As account and report a default on his 
credit file was the right thing to do. 
Ive looked at Mr As account statements and can see it hadnt been used as his main 
account for some time. The only transactions showing were the daily overdraft charges 
followed by manual payments Mr A made to bring the outstanding balance back within the 
limit. But the last payment Mr A made was in April 2020 when he brought the balance within 
£10 of the overdraft limit. Within four days, the account balance again exceeded the 
overdraft limit and no further payments were made. 
Businesses need to consider whether leaving an account open, and subject to overdraft 
charges, is the right approach for their customers. In this case, Lloyds wrote to Mr A in 
March 2020 to say it would close and default his account if it wasnt brought back within its 
limits and maintained. Whilst I understand Mr A did bring the account back within its limits at 
times, the balance was generally above the agreed maximum. 
Ive looked at Lloyds contact nots and can see Mr A discussed his circumstances. Lloyds 
agreed periods of breathing space that stopped interest and charges being applied. But, 
Lloyds consistently said Mr A would have to reach an affordable payment arrangement to 
avoid closure of his account and the associated default on his credit file. 
Ive listened to Mr As call with Lloyds on 14 July 2020. Mr A explained he wasnt working, 
was in poor health and had limited income. Mr A also said he was in arrears with rent. Mr A 
said he could afford to pay £10 a month towards the debt, but Lloyds said he would need to 
pay around £250 a month to stop his account closing. Mr A confirmed he wasnt in a position 
to do that so a 30 day hold was placed on his account. At the end of the call, Mr A agreed to 
call back before 14 August 2020 to discuss his account further and whether there was an 
option for a repayment plan. The call handler said that the 30 day hold was the final 
breathing space Lloyds could offer and that if an affordable payment arrangement couldnt 
be agreed before 14 August 2020 his account would be closed and a default registered. 
Mr A didnt call Lloyds back before 14 August 2020. I agree that Lloyds sent a misleading 
letter that said he could make a payment by 28 August 2020 to avoid his account closing. 
But, Im satisfied the information Ive seen shows Lloyds had discussed Mr As account with 
him and explained that without an affordable payment plan it would be closed. As Mr A didnt 
contact Lloyds within the period agreed during his call on 14 July 2020 and no payment plan 
was arranged, I think Lloyds decision to close and default his account was fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances. 
As Ive said above, I agree Lloyds sent a misleading letter to Mr A and made a mistake. But, 
I think the error Lloyds made was sending its letter dated 14 August 2020, not its decision to 
close the account. I understand how upset Mr A is at Lloyds actions. But Im satisfied that 
the £200 Lloyds paid fairly reflects the impact of its error on Mr A, so Im not telling it to 
increase its offer. Im sorry to disappoint Mr A, but as Im satisfied Lloyds dealt with his 
complaint fairly, Im not telling it to take any further action. 
My final decision
My decision is that I dont uphold this complaint because Lloyds has already paid a 
settlement that is fair and reasonable in all the circumstances. Under the rules of the 
Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A to accept or reject my decision 
before 14 April 2021.
 
Marco Manente
Ombudsman