DRN-3887960
The complaint
Z, a limited company, complains Amazon Payments UK Limited closed its account and wont 
release the money in it. 
Mrs S, a director and represented by Mr S, has brought the complaint on Zs behalf. For 
ease Ive only mentioned Mrs S in my decision, regardless of whether Mr S made the 
submission.
What happened
Z opened a payment account with Amazon so it could sell on Amazons retail platform. 
Amazon carried out a review and asked Z to provide documents.
Mrs S sent in proof of identification and address. Amazon wasnt satisfied with the proof of 
address, so it asked for an alternate proof. Amazon wasnt happy with the second proof of 
address either so it blocked Zs account.
Mrs S complained to Amazon, and it responded to say it had reviewed Zs account and could 
no longer continue to offer it an account.
Unhappy with this response, Mrs S brought Zs complaint to this service. An investigator 
looked into things and thought Zs complaint should be upheld. 
The investigator accepted Amazon was allowed to review and close accounts. But the 
investigator said the money in the account wasnt Amazons to keep and thought any review 
should have been finished by the point they assessed the complaint.
The investigator thought Amazon should release the money and pay 8% simple interest on 
the balance.
Amazon responded to say it couldnt release the money if its review wasnt completed 
correctly. Amazon was still unhappy with the proof of address supplied. 
Amazon asked for an ombudsman to decide things.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Amazon has said its holding onto the money in Zs account in line with its terms and 
conditions. Section 5.3 of its terms say:
we may suspend the Service and block access to your Account (including without limitation 
the funds in your Account) if (c) you provide or have provided false, incomplete, inaccurate, 
or misleading information (including without limitation any registration information) or 
otherwise engage in fraudulent or illegal conduct.
Amazons explained its looking to rely on the provision of false, incomplete, inaccurate or 
misleading information part of this term.
Like the investigator, I accept Amazon has legal and regulatory obligations to comply with. 
One of these is ensuring it knows whos opened an account with Amazon. I think Amazon 
was entitled to review Zs account and ask Mrs S to provide identity documents.
Amazon contacted Mrs S several times to request the information, and warned Z it might 
close the account if it didnt receive satisfactory proof. I dont think Amazon was wrong in 
closing Zs account, its acted in line with its terms and conditions.
But I dont think its fair for Amazon to continue to hold the money that was in Zs account, 
apparently indefinitely. Amazons terms say it can hold Zs money for as long as it takes for a 
review to be completed.
The terms also say it can hold Zs money as required by law or court order, law enforcement 
or other governmental entity. Amazon hasnt said there are any legal reasons it should be 
holding onto Zs money. And like the investigator, I think Amazons completed its review.
Ive seen the proof of identity Mrs S provided, and Amazons satisfied this is correct. 
Amazons concerns relate to Zs proof of address. Mrs S provided Amazon with a stamped 
statement from a bank.
Amazon hasnt explicitly stated what concerns it had with this statement, just that it had 
concerns. As part of the investigators work on Zs complaint, they contacted the bank that 
issued the statement.
This bank confirmed the statement was genuine, the account was in Zs name and the 
address details on the statement matched what it had on record for Z.
Amazons been told the bank issuing the statement has verified it, but Amazon still has 
concerns. Im satisfied the statement Mrs S sent Amazon is legitimate, and I dont think it 
should have further concerns around its validity.
Since I think Z, and Mrs S, has provided enough evidence to satisfy Amazons review, I think 
its unfair for Amazon to hold onto Zs money. This money doesnt belong to Amazon, it 
either belongs to the buyers that paid Z, or Z itself.
Amazon hasnt said it has any concerns with the sales on Zs account. 
Since I dont think its fair or reasonable for Amazon to keep Zs money in the circumstances 
here, and it doesnt appear to need to return it to any of the buyers of Z, I think the fair 
outcome here is Amazon releases the money to Z.
My final decision
My final decision is I uphold this complaint and Amazon should:
release the money it holds in Zs accountpay 8% per year simple interest on this money, from the date it blocked Zs account 
to the date of settlement
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Z to accept or 
reject my decision before 10 April 2023.
 
Chris Russ
Ombudsman