DRN-3435883
The complaint
Mrs and Mrs W complain about advice they were given by Newcastle Building Society 
(NBS) when they were seeking a survey for a property they then bought. And they 
complain about the survey which was done by surveyors chosen by NBS.
What happened
Mrs and Mrs W said they had an offer accepted on a house they wanted to buy. They had a 
decision in principle about a mortgage from NBS, and needed to get a valuation to proceed. 
They wanted a full structural survey, but NBS repeatedly tried to steer them towards a 
cheaper option. They insisted on the full structural survey, because they were aware the 
property needed work, and they had limited funds to pay for this, so wanted to be sure they 
could afford the work needed. 
Mrs and Mrs W said they never signed documents from the survey company, or paid them 
any money. They felt theyd been led to believe that this was NBS surveyor and had to be 
used. They said if they had known they could commission their own surveyor, they would 
have chosen a local firm who had the requisite knowledge and understanding, not only of the 
property but also the surrounding area.
Mrs and Mrs W said when they started work on the property, it soon became apparent that 
the survey had failed to pick up many significant and costly issues, which they listed. They 
said the cost of repairs was very significantly more than they had expected. 
Mrs and Mrs W said they didnt know who was responsible for the survey, as the money was 
paid to NBS and they had no part in appointing the surveyor or deciding who it would be. 
And there was no signed agreement between the surveyor and them, or even with the 
service that NBS used to find that surveyor. Mrs and Mrs W wanted to know who was 
responsible, and thought whoever it was should put things right. 
Mrs and Mrs W said NBS had frozen the interest on their mortgage payments to help them, 
but they hadnt asked for that, and it may have a detrimental impact on their credit rating. 
NBS initially referred this complaint through to the organisation it uses to find and contract 
with surveyors. That company has referred the complaint on to the survey firm itself, and 
when this case came to us, that complaint was still being pursued.
NBS then rejected a complaint against it. It said that suitably qualified surveyors carry out all 
of its valuations independently. It said it couldnt comment on the conduct of the surveyor 
because it didnt have the qualifications necessary to do so. And it said it couldnt be held 
responsible for the conduct of a third party surveyor.
NBS noted that Mrs and Mrs W had told them about mental health issues, which were being 
made worse by the problems they were having with their new home. It said it wanted to help, 
so it would freeze the interest on their mortgage account for six months starting September 
2021. That would reduce their mortgage payments from about £460 to about £375 for six 
months.
NBS said it would also consider making a further advance to Mrs and Mrs W, to help with the 
cost of work to the house, but they would need to pass its standard affordability checks and 
lending criteria.
Our investigator didnt think this complaint should be upheld. He said he could understand 
how upsetting all of this had been, and he sympathised with their situation. He said we could 
look at a complaint against NBS, but that would be limited to what it did or didnt do. We 
couldnt look at something a separate business did. 
So our investigator could look at whether NBS discharged its duty in instructing a suitable 
firm of surveyors. And he thought it did. He said NBS acted fairly and reasonably in relying 
on the opinion of an independent expert surveyor who was suitably qualified. It isnt 
responsible if the surveyors advice was incorrect. And he noted that NBS didnt see the full 
survey, it only ever saw a mortgage valuation report for this property.
Our investigator said the building survey was an additional arrangement between Mrs and 
Mrs W and the surveyor. He said our service cant look at whether or not this survey was 
carried out properly, and he understood that Mrs and Mrs W are pursuing a complaint about 
that elsewhere. 
Our investigator said that although NBS didnt think it was responsible for what had gone 
wrong, it had waived the interest on the couples mortgage to try to help. He thought that, 
although Mrs and Mrs W said they didnt need this, it could still help in the context of a tight 
budget overall. 
Our investigator said any compensation our service could award here would be exceeded by 
the money saved from not paying any interest on the mortgage for six months. So he 
thought that would provide compensation for the distress and inconvenience. 
Mrs W replied. She didnt accept our decision on how NBS informed them that the survey 
was not its responsibility. She said she didnt understand how one sentence on page 25 of a 
document would be seen as adequate information to absolve NBS of all responsibility. And 
she said that if NBS was clear that their contract with a surveyor was independent of it, why 
werent they given the option of choosing their own? Mrs W said that NBS took their money 
for the survey, and made the decision who to use, so they subcontracted the task, and must 
therefore bear some responsibility.
Mrs W wanted to stress the horrific impact this situation has had on the family, and she said 
that six months of interest payments (which worked out as less than £500 in total) wasnt 
appropriate compensation for the stress and poor service they had received.
Our investigator didnt change his mind. Mrs and Mrs W wanted their complaint to be 
considered by an ombudsman, so this case was passed to me for a final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive reached the same overall conclusion on this complaint as our investigator.
Id like to start by saying how sorry I am to hear about the situation that Mrs W and Mrs W 
find themselves in, and the effect this has had on them and their family. But unfortunately, as our investigator set out, our service can only look at what NBS has done here. And I just 
dont think that whats gone wrong here is NBSs fault. I do understand just how 
disappointing Mrs W and Mrs W will find this, and Im sorry that our service isnt able to 
provide the outcome they would like
Ill explain why Ive reached that conclusion.
Mrs W and Mrs W said that theyd understood that this was NBS surveyor, and they had to 
use this firm. They felt that NBS should have told them specifically that they didnt have to do 
so, and that otherwise, making the payment to NBS would imply that their contract for the 
survey was with NBS, not the survey firm.
NBS did instruct surveyors to carry out a valuation of their property. NBS shared this 
valuation with Mrs W and Mrs W, although when it did so, it stressed that this valuation was 
done for its purposes, and Mrs W and Mrs W shouldnt base purchasing decisions on that. 
By contrast, Mrs W and Mrs W were sent a building survey from the survey company. And 
the first page of this said that the survey was done for Mrs W and Mrs W. 
Its not unusual for a mortgage company to ask a surveyor to carry out an on-site valuation 
for it, so it can be sure that the money its lending is secured on a property which is worth at 
least that much. Thats what NBS did here. 
And its also not unusual for a mortgage company to offer its potential borrowers the option 
of instructing the same surveyor, to provide a more detailed report, so they can assess the 
condition of the property and any repairs required. There can be a cost saving for borrowers 
in doing that, because that surveyor is already planning to attend the property. 
But when a mortgage company does that, its only offering borrowers the option to instruct 
the same surveyor. The mortgage company will often do some of the administration in this 
process for borrowers. But it doesnt mean that the mortgage company itself is providing a 
full survey for borrowers, and it isnt responsible for the content of that survey. 
Mrs W and Mrs W say this wasnt made clear to them. But I havent seen anything to make 
me think that NBS has told Mrs W and Mrs W that NBS was providing this survey, or that 
they had no choice about their survey firm. Ive also not seen anything to make me think that 
NBS should have been alerted to the mistaken impression that Mrs W and Mrs W were 
under about this, so that it knew to put them right. 
I can also see that the mortgage terms Mrs W and Mrs W signed state clearly that a 
valuation is done for NBS, and they set out that if a more detailed report is requested, then 
Mrs W and Mrs W ..accept the Conditions of Engagement of the valuer under which the 
report will be issued. (This section refers to a RICS House Flat Buyers Report being 
arranged by NBS, but I think it is reasonably clear, in the context of this section as a whole, 
that this covers any report which is more detailed than the bare valuation provided for NBS.)
Mrs W and Mrs W say that one section on page 21 of a 25 page document isnt enough to 
make this clear. But in circumstances where NBS wasnt aware of the misunderstanding, 
and couldnt reasonably have been expected to be aware of the misunderstanding, I think 
that it is reasonable to consider what Mrs W and Mrs W signed. And I think that does make 
clear that NBS isnt responsible for the content of the report. 
Mrs W and Mrs W wanted someone to take responsibility for the content of the survey, to 
pay for work theyd already taken which wasnt identified as necessary in the survey, and to pay for the work that still needed to be done which also wasnt identified as necessary in the 
survey. But even if Id been able to see that NBS had misadvised Mrs W and Mrs W about 
the survey, or that it should have realised that they were under a mistaken impression 
around who was responsible for the survey and what choices they had, that would still leave 
what I consider to be a clear disclaimer in the document they signed. So Im sorry to have to 
tell Mrs W and Mrs W that I dont think the outcome they want is something it would be fair 
and reasonable for me to ask NBS to provide.
Mrs W and Mrs W were unhappy with how NBS dealt with their complaint, and they said that 
it was unsympathetic. They were also concerned that a waiver of mortgage interest that NBS 
provided for six months would affect their credit files. But NBS has reassured our service 
that this wont affect their credit files. And I dont think that NBS fundamentally let Mrs W and 
Mrs W down when they asked it to resolve this issue. Rather, I think the key point here is 
that what Mrs W and Mrs W were complaining about is something NBS isnt responsible for. 
I do think that NBS has provided some poor advice, because it does appear to have told Mrs 
W and Mrs W that they probably didnt need a full building survey. It seems unwise for NBS 
to offer advice on the appropriate survey, and particularly for it to suggest that someone 
needs a less thorough investigation of a property that has been uninhabited for some time. 
But I cant see that this advice had a material impact in this case, because Mrs W and Mrs W 
went ahead with their building survey anyway. 
I think that NBS waiver of interest on their mortgage for six months, which saved them just 
under £500, does provide a fair and reasonable outcome to this complaint. I know that Mrs 
W and Mrs W will be terribly disappointed by my decision, but I dont think NBS has to do 
more than this. And that means their complaint wont be upheld.
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs W and Mrs W 
to accept or reject my decision before 5 September 2022. 
Esther Absalom-Gough
Ombudsman