DRN-3350314
The complaint
Mrs B and Ms M have complained about esure Insurance Limited. They are not happy that 
it turned down a claim under their motor insurance policy and subsequently cancelled the 
policy. 
What happened
Ms M made a claim under the motor insurance policy as she had been involved in an 
accident. But when esure looked into the claim it had concerns about the circumstances 
surrounding the accident and declined the claim. It also had concerns about some of the 
documentation provided to validate the claim and so it cancelled the policy as well. As Ms M 
wasnt happy about this she complained to esure and then this service. 
Our investigator looked into things but didnt uphold the complaint. She didnt think that 
esure had acted unreasonably when it turned down the claim and cancelled the policy.
As Mrs B and Ms M didnt agree the matter has been passed to me for review. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so I dont think the complaint should be upheld. I know this will come as a 
disappointment to Mrs B and Ms M, but Ill explain why.
I also think its important to explain Ive read and taken into account all of the information 
provided by both parties, in reaching my decision. If Ive not reflected something thats been 
said in this decision its not because I didnt see it, its because I didnt deem it relevant to the 
crux of the complaint. This isnt intended as a discourtesy to either party, but merely to 
reflect my informal role in deciding what a fair and reasonable outcome is. This also means I 
dont think its necessary to get an answer, or provide my own answer, to every question 
raised unless its relevant to the crux of the complaint.
I know Ms M feels that esure have acted unfairly here in cancelling the policy and turning 
down the claim. But esure has asked Ms M and a number of other witnesses to cooperate 
and be interviewed in relation to the accident she says she was involved in and they havent 
cooperated. And esure has been provided with some evidence that Ms M wasnt driving at 
the time of the accident, so I feel these enquiries are more than reasonable. As esure and 
our investigator has highlighted, Ms M has a duty under the policy to cooperate, and I would 
expect anyone making a claim under their policy to cooperate with their insurer while making 
a claim. Indeed, I wouldve expected Ms M to want to do this in this instance if there had 
simply been a mistake and she was driving at the time of the accident in order to clear things 
up.
Furthermore, esure has raised concerns around some validation documentation that was 
provided while making the claim. I know Ms M questions why this was necessary, but 
insurers usually undertake such checks when looking into insurance claims so I cant say 
esure has acted unreasonably here. And it has outlined that it will revisit this position if Mrs B 
and Ms M can get the bill providers fraud department to make direct contact with esure 
about this. I dont think this is unreasonable and Im sure if there has been a genuine 
mistake, as Ms M has suggested, then this can easily be advanced.
Given all of this, and the discrepancies and lack of cooperation identified, I dont think esure 
have done anything wrong.
My final decision
It follows, for the reasons given above, that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs B and Ms M to 
accept or reject my decision before 27 April 2022.
 
Colin Keegan
Ombudsman