DRN-3528361
The complaint
Mr and Mrs G complain that Shawbrook Bank Limited (Shawbrook) has rejected the claim 
they made under sections 56 and 75 of the Consumer Credit Act 1974 (the Act) in relation 
to a solar panel system they say was misrepresented to them by the supplier.
Background
In or around May 2019, Mr and Mrs G were contacted by a representative of a company Ill 
call P to talk about purchasing a solar panel system (the system) to be installed at their 
home. After being visited by a representative of P, Mr and Mrs G decided to purchase the 
system and finance it through a ten year fixed sum loan agreement with Shawbrook. They 
also chose to buy an optional extra, a battery, which was financed with another Shawbrook 
loan. The system and battery were subsequently installed.
In December 2020 Mr and Mrs G made a claim to Shawbrook under section 75 of the Act. 
They said that P had made a number of representations about the system that had turned 
out not to be true, and it was these misrepresentations that had induced Mr and Mrs G to 
enter into the contract with P. These were:
the feed in tariff (FIT) and savings on their electricity bills would offset some (though 
not necessarily all) of the monthly loan payments, but they had received considerably 
less than they had been led to expect; and
the battery would continue to provide power in the event of a power cut, but it wont.
Shawbrook didnt agree that the system had been misrepresented to Mr and Mrs G or that 
there were any other reasons for the claim to be upheld. So Mr and Mrs G complained about 
the outcome of their claim. (Shawbrook later offered to pay them £200 for a delay in 
responding to their complaint, whether or not this complaint is upheld. Mr and Mrs G have 
said that they wish to accept that offer.)
Mr and Mrs G also complained separately to P. P also didnt uphold their complaint, and 
denied that its salesman had told them that the battery would still work in a power cut.
One of our adjudicators looked into what had happened. Having considered all the 
information and evidence provided, our adjudicator didnt think that P had misrepresented 
the system to Mr and Mrs G, and so Shawbrook had not been wrong to deny their claim. The 
adjudicator found no other reason to uphold the complaint.
Mr and Mrs G didnt accept the adjudicators view, in particular because it did not address 
their complaint about the mis-selling of the battery.
As an agreement couldnt be reached, the case has been passed to me for review. I wrote a 
provisional decision which read as follows.
My provisional findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I am minded to uphold the complaint about the battery.
Relevant considerations
When considering whats fair and reasonable, Im required to take into account relevant law 
and regulations, relevant regulatory rules, guidance and standards and codes of practice, 
and, where appropriate, what I consider to have been good industry practice at the relevant 
time. In this case the relevant law includes sections 56 and 75 of the Act.
Section 75 provides protection for consumers for goods or services bought using credit. As 
Mr and Mrs G paid for the system with a fixed sum loan agreement, Shawbrook agrees that 
section 75 applies to this transaction. This means that Mr and Mrs G could claim against 
Shawbrook (the creditor) for any misrepresentation or breach of contract by P in the same 
way they could have claimed against P (the supplier). So Ive taken section 75 into account 
when deciding what is fair in the circumstances of this case.
Section 56 is also relevant. This is because it says that any negotiations between Mr and 
Mrs G and P, as the supplier, are deemed to have been conducted by P as an agent of 
Shawbrook, making Shawbrook liable for whatever P said, whether amounting to a 
misrepresentation or not.
(Mrs G isnt named on the quote as Ps customer, so it is possible that section 75 does not 
apply to her. But I think that point is academic, because section 56 would still apply.)
For the purpose of this decision Ive used the definition of a misrepresentation as an untrue 
statement of fact or law made by one party (or his agent) to a second party which induces 
that second party to enter the contract, thereby causing them loss.
Key documents
If there is a dispute about what happened, I must decide on the balance of probabilities  
that is, what I consider to have been most likely to have happened, given the evidence that 
is available and the wider surrounding circumstances.
There are several documents that have been provided by the parties. These include the two 
credit agreements, the quote for the solar panels, titled Just for You: Your Personal Solar 
Quotation, a separate quote for the battery (actually this seems to be just a template since it 
does not say how much Mr and Mrs G were expected to save), and Ps final response letter. 
Ive considered these, along with Mr and Mrs Gs testimony and recollection of the sales 
meeting, to decide on balance what is most likely to have happened.
The credit agreements set out the amount being borrowed (i.e. the cash price of the system 
and of the battery), the interest to be charged, the total amount payable, the term of the 
loans and the contractual monthly repayments.
The main quote is a detailed document that sets out key information about the system, the 
expected performance, financial benefits and technical information. P, via Shawbrook, has 
told this service that this formed a central part of the sales process and the representative of 
P would have discussed this in detail with Mr and Mrs G, explaining any benefits of the 
system, prior to them agreeing to enter into the contract. Mr G has signed it. Having thought 
carefully about the available evidence, Im satisfied that on balance the quote did form a 
central part of the sales process and therefore accept that the salesperson went through it during the meeting. So, Ive taken this into account, along with Mr and Mrs Gs account of 
events, when considering if there have been any untrue statements of fact.
I think the same thing about the second quote for the battery. Since this was an optional 
extra which had to be chosen, and a second loan was taken out to buy it, its likely that this 
was referred to in the sales meeting too. It gives information about what the battery does and 
how it saves money.
Ps final response letter says (among other things) that the battery would lose power during 
a power cut. It adds that their salesman says he knew that at the time of the sales meeting, 
and so he would not have told Mr and Mrs G otherwise.
The battery
Since the salesman denies saying that the battery would provide power during a power cut, 
and Mr and Mrs G insist that he did say that, I have referred to the relevant sales documents 
to see if it a salesman could have said that without fear of contradiction.
The battery quote does not say that the battery will work in a power cut, nor does it say that 
it will not. It does not mention power cuts at all. But on page 9, which is titled Where Do My 
Earnings and Savings Come From? it says:
That paragraph does not go as far as saying that the battery will continue to provide power in 
the event of a power cut. But it would not be inconsistent with a verbal statement to that 
effect either. It says that the battery stores energy to be consumed later. So I think that if a 
salesman did tell a customer that it would provide power during a power cut, the customer 
would not be able to point to this document and say explain this then. On the contrary, the 
salesman could point to this paragraph and say that it actually supports his claim. So Mr and 
Mrs Gs recollection of what they say the salesman said is not implausible.
I have considered whether so much time has passed since the sale that Mr and Mrs Gs 
memories might be mistaken. I cant rule that out, but they brought their claim only a year 
and a half after the sale, so on balance I think that their recollections are probably still 
reliable.
For these reasons, I accept that Mr and Mrs G have told the truth about what was said in the 
meeting, and that they were misled about the battery.
However, it does not follow that they would not have bought the battery if they had been told 
that the battery would not work in a power cut. Power cuts are infrequent and usually dont 
last for long. This point does not appear to have been of some special importance to Mr and 
Mrs G. So on balance, I also think that they would still have bought the battery for the 
additional savings they could achieve with it.
That means that although they were misled, there was not a misrepresentation (because an 
untrue statement is only a misrepresentation if it induces someone to enter into a contract 
which they would not have entered otherwise). For that reason, I am not minded to require 
Shawbrook to unwind the contract and refund the entire cost of the battery. However, I do 
think, having regard to section 56, that Shawbrook ought to pay some compensation to Mr 
and Mrs G for their disappointment on learning that the battery would not function in the way 
that they were told it would (in addition to the offer Shawbrook has already made). I invite all 
parties to make further representations about how much that should be, but it is likely to be a 
modest sum.
Performance of the system
It is not in dispute that P told Mr and Mrs G that the FIT income and savings they would 
make from having the system would offset some of their loan payments. But if these benefits 
were exaggerated, and if they induced Mr and Mrs G to buy the system or the battery or 
both, and if as a result they suffered a financial loss, then this could potentially amount to a 
misrepresentation.
The quote sets out that the system is expected to produce 3,536 kWh a year. I have looked 
at Mr and Mrs Gs FIT statements and can see that their system, on average, has generated 
5,183 kWh a year. This is significantly more than estimated by P at the point of sale (146%), 
so Im satisfied that the system is performing better than expected, in terms of energy 
generation, if not financially. So the reason Mr and Mrs G have not seen the expected 
financial returns is not because the system is defective, but for some other cause.
I have also looked at the assumptions used by P, including the self-consumption rate, 
expected annual increase in utility prices (EPR) and expected annual RPI inflation increase. 
I am satisfied that Ps method for calculating these is fair and reasonable.
According to the quote, P used Office of National Statistics (ONS) data between 2005 and 
2017 to calculate the utility price and RPI inflation. I have looked at the actual yearly 
increases between 2016 and 2020, and the increases have been lower than predicted by P 
at the point of sale, and I think this explains why Mr and Mrs G havent been receiving the 
financial returns they may have been expecting from the solar panels. Since actual energy 
prices have been lower than the modelling predicted, the savings achieved through the 
energy generated by the system have been correspondingly lower.
As I have explained, the assumptions used by P were based on the information available 
from the ONS at the time. And based on this, I dont consider it unreasonable for P to have 
used them as the basis for calculating the potential financial income Mr and Mrs G could 
have expected to receive from the system. So, whilst I can appreciate that the returns may 
not have been as high as estimated at the point of sale, Im not persuaded that this was due 
to unreasonable assumptions being used by P at the time Mr and Mrs G entered into the 
contract.
(As energy prices are expected to dramatically increase from now on, Mr and Mrs G may 
see that their system begins to save them more money than it has so far.)
Summary
Having carefully considered the evidence provided by all parties in this complaint, Im
satisfied that there were no untrue statements of fact made by P that induced Mr and Mrs G 
to enter into the contract for the system or the battery. But I am satisfied that they were 
misled about the batterys capabilities, and that a modest amount of compensation should be 
awarded for their loss of expectation.Responses to my provisional decision
Mr and Mrs G explained that as they live in a rural area, power cuts occur more frequently 
than in a built-up area, so being told that the battery would work in a power cut was at least 
a 50% factor in their decision to buy it. They argued that this meant that their compensation 
should be at least 50% of the cost of the battery. (The battery cost £3,675.)
I dont doubt that power cuts were a factor in their decision, since its likely that the reason 
the salesman mentioned this issue is because he was asked about it. But Im not convinced 
it was the main reason. There were also other reasons to buy the battery as well  
efficiencies and savings which could be made every day, not just occasionally. On balance, 
I think they would still have bought it.
For that reason, I think that refunding half the price of the battery would be too much. I think 
that another £300 is in line with what our service would typically award for the 
disappointment of learning that the battery would not operate in a power cut.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint in part. I order Shawbrook Bank Limited to 
pay Mr and Mrs G £300.
This is in addition to Shawbrooks earlier offer of £200 compensation for its delay in 
responding to their complaint (which Mr and Mrs G have accepted independently of the 
outcome of this decision).
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs G and Mr G to 
accept or reject my decision before 11 November 2022.
 
Richard Wood
Ombudsman