DRN-1880745
The complaint
Mr O complains that Erudio Student Loans Limited (Erudio) failed to make adequate 
attempts to contact him regarding the deferment of his student loans, defaulted them and 
sought repayment. He would like the loans to be deferred. 
What happened
Mr O had student loans with Erudio. Hed deferred these for around 20 years as his income 
hadnt passed the threshold for repayment. To defer the loans an application needed to be 
made by 19 September each year. Mr O says he thought hed submitted the application for 
2018. Erudio says nothing was received. This meant loan repayments became due. Erudio 
says it tried to contact Mr O about this without response. This led to the loan being defaulted 
in December 2018 and passed to a debt collector in February 2019. In March 2019 Erudio 
says it did receive a deferment application, but this was too late, with the account already 
defaulted. 
Mr O says hed been living with and caring for his elderly parents for many years and 
received mail from Erudio at that address. Mr O says he moved out in August 2018 and was 
sleeping rough or in temporary accommodation until April 2019. He says he didnt receive 
mail from Erudio and wasnt able to give it an alternative correspondence address due to his 
circumstances.
Mr O contacted Erudio in May 2019 and was advised to contact the debt collector. He 
complained to Erudio about the loan not being deferred and then defaulted. He said it should 
have contacted him if the deferral form hadnt been received. He asked for copy 
correspondence. Erudio transferred recovery of the account from the debt collector to a 
solicitor. Mr O said this showed it wasnt serious about resolving the issue. 
Erudio rejected Mr Os complaint. It said it issued reminders and then a deferment form by 
letter in July 2018. It said it had confirmed deferment had ended by letter on 21 September 
2018. It said it had sent several letters and called Mr O between October and December 
2018 about arrears and then the default of the account. It said the letters and calls had been 
made to the details it held on file and it couldnt agree the account should be in deferment. 
Erudio said the decision to transfer the account to the solicitor was made a few days before 
Mr O had raised his complaint. It apologised for a delay in providing the solicitor with a 
correct address for Mr O and in providing him with copy correspondence. It offered him £100 
compensation for the inconvenience this had caused.
Mr O referred his complaint to our service. Our investigator didnt uphold it. She said there 
was no evidence Mr O had submitted the deferral form in time. She said Erudio had provided 
evidence showing attempts to contact Mr O by email, text and phone as well as by letter. 
She said the letter enclosing the deferral form was sent before Mr O moved. So, she was 
satisfied he ought to have been reasonably aware that the deferral was due. She said she 
understood that Mr O had faced difficulties, but it was his responsibility to update Erudio 
about his change in circumstances. So, it wasnt fair to ask Erudio to now defer the loan as it 
had acted fairly and reasonably.
Our investigator said it was reasonable for Erudio to outsource the account to a third party 
for recovery and the £100 compensation offered for service failings was fair and reasonable.
Mr O said Erudio had sent texts and emails before the deferment date, but he hadnt 
received any emails, texts or voicemails after it and he should have if Erudio was serious 
about resolving the issue. He said his income was below the threshold for repayment so 
deferment would have been granted. He said the loans would be written off in a few years, 
so Erudio was putting its own interests ahead of his. As Mr O doesnt agree it has come to 
me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so I am upholding the complaint in part but wont be asking Erudio to do any 
more than it has already offered. Ill explain why.
I dont think Erudio have done anything wrong in respect of the loan and it hasnt acted 
unfairly or unreasonably. It appears to have followed the procedure set out in the pre deferral 
communications it sent Mr O to the email and postal address it held in its records. 
I can see that Mr O is concerned by what has happened. But as hed successfully deferred 
his loans for 20 years, I think he was familiar with the procedure and deadlines involved. 
Erudio issued four reminders asking Mr O to make the deferral application online. Mr O 
accepts he received these communications. It then sent a letter and deferral form in July 
2018. This asked for the form to be returned as soon as possible. It also contains details of 
the online portal and how to access it. So, I think Mr O had reasonable notice of and 
opportunity to comply with the deadline.
Mr O says Erudio should have left voicemails, sent texts or emails and so on if it didnt 
receive the form from him. But its letter clearly states that it will reply in writing about the 
application to defer, which might take 28 days. The form contains a declaration which 
includes confirmation that address details are correct. It also clearly says that if the form isnt 
returned by the deadline the debt will become repayable. 
Erudio wrote on 21 September 2018 confirming the loan hadnt been deferred and payments 
were now due. Had Mr O seen and responded to this letter perhaps the situation would have 
been different. I understand his circumstances were difficult from August 2018. But Mr O 
knew he wasnt receiving post once he left his mothers house. In these circumstances I 
think its reasonable to think that Mr O should have contacted Erudio or checked the 
situation with his loan online rather than relying on it contacting him. Ultimately, Erudio didnt 
know about his situation and couldnt have been expected to do contacted him differently, 
where it had no reason to do so.
Erudio has shown evidence that it also called Mr Os mobile phone six times between 
October and December 2018. This included leaving an automated message on the 14 
November 2018. It was writing to him in the same period. Had Mr O responded to these calls 
he would have been aware of the situation before the account was defaulted. Again, this 
might have changed the outcome. 
I think Erudios attempts to contact Mr O about his loan accounts were reasonable. I dont 
think it has done anything wrong in not deferring the loans. Or defaulting them when it heard 
nothing from him. So, I cant ask it to now defer the loans if it doesnt want to do so. And it isnt unreasonable for Erudio to use third parties to seek recovery of the debt owed to it and 
is standard industry practice 
Erudio accepted its service wasnt acceptable in providing copy correspondence and contact 
details to the solicitor to get in touch with Mr O. It apologised and offered £100 compensation 
for this. I think this is reasonable for the inconvenience suffered here, so I wont be asking it 
to do any more than this.
My final decision
My final decision is that I that I uphold the complaint against Erudio Student Loans Limited in 
part.
I direct Erudio Student Loans Limited to pay the £100 compensation it has offered to Mr O 
unless it has already done so.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr O to accept or 
reject my decision before 16 November 2020.
 
Nigel Bracken
Ombudsman