DRN-3211779
The complaint
Mrs F complains that Accredited Insurance (Europe) Ltd (AIEL) declined her claim on her 
motor insurance policy following the theft of her car. 
What happened
Mrs Fs car was stolen by a thief posing as a potential buyer when Mr F, a named driver on 
the policy, was showing it. AIEL investigated the claim and declined it due to the keys in 
car exclusion in the policy. Mrs F agreed that the keys had been in the ignition and the 
engine running at the time of the theft. But she thought AIELs decision was unfair.
Our investigator recommended that the complaint should be upheld. She thought the keys 
had been in the car, but it hadnt been left unattended as Mr F had been by the car the whole 
time. She also thought Mr F hadnt voluntarily handed over control of the car. And so she 
thought AIEL had unfairly declined the claim. She thought AIEL should now settle the claim, 
with interest, subject to the remaining terms of the policy. 
AIEL said it was minded to accept the investigators view. But it hadnt done this for some 
months. And so, to prevent further delay, the complaint was passed to me for a final 
decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I was sorry to hear about the impact the loss of her car has had on Mrs F and her husband. I 
can understand that they were stressed, frustrated and disappointed by AIELs decision to 
decline the claim. 
AIEL has had five months in which to decide whether or not to accept or reject our 
investigators view. Its now a year since the theft of Mrs Fs car, and I think it would be unfair 
to keep her waiting longer for a decision. AIEL has told us that its looking to see what the 
impact was of having a car model on the policy different to that which was reported stolen. 
AIEL said it would still have offered cover, but the terms may have been different. But I dont 
think this hinders me from making a decision about Mrs Fs complaint that her claim was 
declined.  
AIEL relied on the keys in car exclusion to decline the claim. I think this is a common 
exclusion in motor insurance policies, and I dont find it unusual or unreasonable. But it is 
significant, and I would expect it to be set out in the policy wording and in the Insurance 
Product Information Document (IPID). summary or Key Facts document. 
Mrs F provided us with a copy of the IPID. In this I can see that it is stated:
What is not insured? Loss or damage if your car has been left with the ignition keys in or on 
it, or left unattended with the engine running. 
The relevant wording in the policy booklet varies somewhat:
we will not pay for any of the following: theft, or attempted theft, if Your Car keys (which 
include ignition cards, lock transmitters or any other form of vehicle entry device) are left on 
Your Car or in Your Car
Our approach is that its fair for an insurer to rely on the exclusion if the car was unattended 
and so the insured wasnt in a position to deter or stop the theft. So Im satisfied that it would 
be fair for AIEL to rely on the IPID wording to decline the claim. And so Ive reviewed the 
particular circumstances of Mrs Fs case to decide if this was fair and reasonable. 
Mrs F has stated that the keys were in the car and the engine running when the car was 
stolen. But she also said the car was parked in her driveway. The hood was up, so the 
engine could be inspected. The front doors were open. Mr F had brought an extension lead 
from the house to charge a diagnostic device for the potential buyer, but hed taken the 
keys with him. The thief later asked Mr F to put the device in the hallway as it was starting to 
rain. Mr F turned his back and bent down to do this. The thief then closed the hood, jumped 
into the car and accelerated off with the doors open. 
Mr F was besides the car at all times and in a position to deter a theft or make it unlikely to 
happen. I think he had no reason to be suspicious of a theft as the thief would have to leave 
behind his device, which was later found to be a phone. And so Im satisfied that the car 
wasnt left or left unattended. And so I think it was unfair for AIEL to rely on the keys in car 
exclusion as set out in the IPID to decline the claim. 
Ive also thought about whether Mr F took enough steps to safeguard the car. I can see that 
he took the keys with him whenever he went into his house. He hadnt asked the buyer for 
any identification, but they were still at the viewing stage. The car wasnt taken for a test 
drive. This is when Id expect a check to be made of identification and insurance cover. So I 
think Mr F took reasonable steps to safeguard the car. 
AIEL may also look to rely on the theft by deception clause in the policy to decline the claim:
theft, or attempted theft, that involves somebody using trickery or deception to acquire Your 
Car;
Our approach is that itss fair for an insurer to rely on this term when the consumer 
voluntarily hands over control of their car to the thief but not when the consumer intends to 
retain control. 
Looking further at the circumstances, I think Mr F hadnt voluntarily handed over control of 
the car to the thief. Hed kept the keys in his possession prior to the theft. Hed stayed by the 
car when the keys were in the ignition. A test drive hadnt been taken. So Im also satisfied 
that it would be unfair and unreasonable for AIEL to rely on this policy exclusion to decline 
the claim. 
In summary, I think it was unfair for AIEL to decline Mrs Fs claim for the loss of her car 
because of the keys in car or theft by deception exclusions in the policy. And so I think AIEL 
should now settle Mrs Fs claim. Mrs F has been without her money for some time. So I think 
AIEL should reasonably add interest to any settlement. I think this also compensates Mrs F 
for her stress and frustration.
Putting things right
I require Accredited Insurance (Europe) Ltd to settle Mrs Fs claim in keeping with the 
remaining terms and condition of her policy. It should add interest to any payment at the rate 
of 8% simple per annum from the date of the claim to the date of settlement.
HM Revenue & Customs requires AIEL to take off tax from this interest. So AIEL must give 
Mrs F a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if she asks for one.
My final decisionMy final decision is that I uphold this complaint. I require Accredited Insurance (Europe) Ltd 
to carry out the redress set out above.
 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs F to accept or 
reject my decision before 8 February 2022.
 
Phillip Berechree
Ombudsman