DRN-2705415
The complaint
Mrs Ms complaint relates to a mortgage in her name with The Mortgage Works (UK) Plc 
(TMW). She says she believed she was a guarantor for a mortgage in her daughters name, 
whereas the mortgage that was actually arranged was in her name without her knowledge.
Mrs M is represented by a family member who I will refer to as Ms W.
What happened
In 2012 Mrs M owned an unencumbered property, which she rented out for an income. 
Mrs M said that her daughter proposed that a mortgage be arranged on the property in the 
daughters name, for which Mrs M would be the guarantor. The money released would be 
paid to Mrs Ms daughter, which was to be used to buy a property in the daughters name. 
Mrs M has told us she agreed to this arrangement. 
Advice was sought from a mortgage broker. A buy-to-let mortgage of slightly less than 
£260,000 was arranged with TMW in Mrs Ms name. The mortgage was arranged on an 
interest-only basis over eight years. The mortgage offer was issued in April 2012  it was 
sent to the mortgage broker and direct to Mrs M at her home address.
As part of the application process a certified copy of Mrs Ms passport had to be provided to 
prove her identity. The solicitors that provided the certification was not the same as the one 
recorded as acting in the re-mortgage.
At the beginning of August 2012 Mrs M, aided by her son-in-law, called TMW to find out 
what needed to be done to allow Mrs Ms daughter to make the payments to the mortgage. A 
letter of authority from Mrs M was needed for this to happen and one was provided.  TMW 
has confirmed the letter was taken into a building society branch, where a certified copy was 
made. It said this process would have required Mrs M to be there. Mrs Ms daughter made 
the mortgage payments by direct debit until July 2018. 
TMW confirmed that all correspondence about the mortgage, including annual mortgage 
statements, was sent to Mrs Ms address and addressed to her. The first of the letters sent 
was on 1 March 2012 confirming details of the mortgage, including that it was in her name 
and that it was on an interest-only basis over 8 years. The letter explained that she would 
need to make provision to repay the loan at the end of the term. 
In 2014 and 2016 new interest rate products were added to the mortgage. The 
documentation relating to these changes was again sent to Mrs M at her address. 
In April 2017 Mrs M and Ms W telephoned TMW to discuss the mortgage. The call resulted 
from Mrs M receiving a letter from TMW highlighting the changes to the tax treatment of 
buy-to-let mortgages. During this conversation Ms W describes the mortgage as a collateral 
mortgage and explained that whilst the mortgage was in Mrs Ms name, someone else paid 
the monthly payments. 
Ms W went on to explain that they would like to speak to someone about the mortgage deal. 
They were asked some security questions, which included TMW wanting to know details 
about the most recent mortgage payment. Whilst the paperwork Mrs M had for the mortgage 
gave her the information she needed about the amount of the monthly payment, she wasnt 
able to confirm the day of the month it was payable, so they didnt pass security. Ms W was 
somewhat unhappy about them not being able to pass security and explained they just 
wanted to book a sit down meeting in a branch to discuss the mortgage, as had happened in 
the past with Mrs M and her son in attendance. 
In April 2018 Ms W called TMW, presenting herself as Mrs M, and asked questions about 
the mortgage. She explained the mortgage had been taken out on one of her properties to 
enable her daughter to buy a property for herself. It was confirmed the daughter was the one 
responsible for paying the mortgage. She wanted more information about the mortgage and 
wanted to know whether it could be changed - whether she could pass on the mortgage to 
my daughter. Ms W requested copies of documentation from the time the mortgage was 
arranged. 
In July 2018 TMW wrote to Mrs M and informed her that going forward the mortgage 
payment would need to be made from a bank account in her name. It asked that she arrange 
a new direct debit mandate to make the payment due in August 2018 and all payments 
thereafter. 
No mortgage payments were made for some time, but when TMW decided to appoint 
receivers Mrs M paid the arrears. The mortgage payments were made thereafter, albeit 
Mrs M has said this was with assistance from her other children.
Mrs M complained to TMW. It responded to the complaint, but didnt uphold it. It explained 
that it acted on the application it received from the broker in good faith. It didnt consider it 
had done anything wrong.
Mrs M didnt accept TMWs position and asked us to consider the complaint. She said to us 
she doesnt remember signing the mortgage application or the mortgage deed. She has also 
said that her daughter told her to pass on any letters about the mortgage, which is what she 
did, and so she didnt realise how the mortgage had been set up in her name. Mrs M 
maintained she had not been involved in the arrangement of the mortgage at all, including 
providing the letter of authority provided in 2012 allowing her daughter to make the monthly 
payments. 
One of our investigators considered the complaint, but she didnt recommend it be upheld. 
Mrs M didnt accept the investigators view of the complaint and so it was referred to me for 
consideration. I had some further investigations undertaken and TMW provided additional 
evidence, including recordings of telephone calls, some of which I have detailed above. 
Ms W told us the mortgage was paid off when the property was sold in September 2020. 
She mentioned that as there were time pressures on the sale, Mrs M had to accept an offer 
of less than the propertys market value. She said that she didnt think TMW should have 
pressed the mortgage being paid off when there was an ongoing complaint with this service. 
TMW confirmed the mortgage had been redeemed, although the title to the property was still 
in Mrs Ms name.
I issued a provisional decision on 23 February 2021, in which I set out my conclusions and 
reasons for reaching them. Below is an excerpt.Before explaining my conclusions and reasons for reaching them, I would confirm that this 
mortgage was arranged by an independent mortgage broker. TMW isnt responsible for the 
actions of that broker and so I wont be commenting on its actions in this decision. 
This is a complicated case and although I have read and considered the whole file, I will 
keep my comments to what I think is relevant. If I dont comment on any specific point, its 
not because I have not considered it but because I dont think I need to comment on it in 
order to reach the right outcome. This service is impartial between, and independent from, 
consumers and businesses.
Mrs M has presented in her complaint that she was unaware of the mortgage in her name 
and effectively believes she is a victim of mortgage fraud. It has been suggested she didnt 
know about the situation until after TMW stopped accepting monthly payments. However, 
the evidence doesnt support that being the case. 
I think it is clear from the information provided in the various telephone calls I have listened 
to, including some from before TMW stopped taking payments from Mrs Ms daughter, that 
Mrs M knew the mortgage existed and that it was in her name. Indeed, in the telephone call 
in April 2017 it was confirmed that she previously attended a face-to-face meeting with the 
lender, without the involvement of her daughter, to arrange a new interest rate product for 
the mortgage.
I have noted Ms Ws concerns about the verification processes TMW undertook at the time 
the mortgage was arranged, but those concerns are negated by the fact that Mrs M was 
clearly aware that a mortgage was being arranged in her name. I am satisfied that TMW 
undertook a reasonable verification process in the circumstances, but even if it had done 
further checks, they would have been passed given Mrs Ms awareness and involvement 
with the mortgage. 
There are problems with some of the paperwork in this case. However, had they been 
picked up at the time of the application and advance, I dont think it would have changed the 
position Mrs M is in. I say this as, if an error has occurred, we will try to assess what position 
the consumer would have been in, but for that error. As I have said above, I am satisfied that 
Mrs M was aware, involved and consented to the mortgage being arranged in her name. In 
light of this, had TMW raised questions or made further enquiries, I dont think it would have 
resulted in the mortgage application or advance being stopped. 
Whilst I have sympathy with Mrs M and the situation she has found herself in following what 
appears to be breakdown in familial agreements made about the mortgage, I dont think 
TMW did anything wrong in the circumstances. 
TMW clarified, in relation to the comments about Mrs M having requested a face-to-face 
meeting in branch, that it didnt have any branches. It had nothing further to add.
Mrs M didnt accept my conclusions. Ms W stated that the complaint had nothing to do with 
whether Mrs M was happy or not. She said it related to TMW not following its own protocol 
and rules to assess the legality and truthfulness of the mortgage application made on 
Mrs Ms property. Ms W went on to reiterate her previous comments about what she 
considered TMW did wrong and the motivation behind its actions. 
Ms W said I was asked to investigate TMW, not Mrs M and I had chosen an extremely over-
simplified view of the complaint. She reiterated that Mrs M had only agreed to be a 
guarantor on a mortgage in her daughters name, and that this had been misconstrued as 
Mrs M knowing about the mortgage all along. Ms W said this conclusion was utterly 
ridiculous and unfounded. She said just because they had shared the truth with this service and didnt lie about the context of the case, it did not give me the right to allow TMW to fail 
to comply with their own rules and protocols.
In relation to the broker being responsible for the advice that was given, Ms W questioned 
whether this was a corrupt way of making sure that TMW is never held responsible for their 
mistakes and lack of integrity in upholding the rules? She commented that the whole system 
is so complicated that Mrs M didnt stand a chance. She believes this is wicked, corrupt and 
evil. She asked that we provide details for the broker. 
Ms W questioned my integrity, understanding and ability. She said that our role was to 
respond to the case that had been put before us, and hold TMW accountable for its lies, 
deception and corruption. 
In addition, some new complaint points were raised. The first of these was that Mrs M didnt 
think TMW should have administered the mortgage in the way it did after the complaint had 
been referred to this service. In addition, that TMW had undermined its reason for stopping 
Mrs Ws daughter from paying the mortgage in 2018, by allowing a different family member 
to pay the arrears and monthly payments on the mortgage when Mrs M was in financial 
difficulties.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Before considering the merits of the complaint that was referred to us, I believe it would be 
appropriate to confirm that financial business is entitled to the opportunity to respond to any 
complaint about its actions before this service becomes involved. As such, I wont be 
commenting on the matters I have detailed above as new complaint points in this decision. 
Concerns have been raised in relation to how the mortgage was sold  that there was a 
broker involved. The regulator allows mortgages to be arranged with and without advice, 
and, if advice is given, for a business other than the lender to give that advice. Although 
Mrs M might find these types of arrangement inappropriate, that is a concern that would be 
more appropriately raised with the regulator  the Financial Conduct Authority. Our 
investigator will contact Ms W with what details we have about the mortgage broker involved 
in the application process.
Ms W questioned the opening paragraphs of the provisional decision; asking what I 
considered to be the relevant information. I would direct Ms W to the information contained 
in the section of the report titled what happened?, which documents all the information I 
relied on. 
In fulfilling our role, we have an inquisitorial jurisdiction, so we will consider issues and 
events linked and surrounding the specific complaint points that have been made. When 
doing so we are impartial, and we dont act on behalf of either party to the complaint or take 
either sides instructions on how we investigate a complaint, or the information we should 
consider when doing so. Although Ms W doesnt consider I should have looked beyond the 
specific complaint points raised on Mrs Ms behalf, it wouldnt be appropriate for me to ignore 
information or evidence that could have a direct effect on the outcome. 
When considering a complaint, we may not address each and every point made by a 
consumer or their representative. If I havent mentioned something, it wont be because I 
failed to consider it, but because I dont think I need to comment on it in order to reach what I 
think is the right outcome. We focus on the key issues at the heart of a complaint and on which its outcome turns.  In this case, the outcome of the complaint revolves around what 
Mrs M knew, and consented to, in 2012. 
Ms W has reiterated the circumstances surrounding the events leading to the complaint. She 
confirmed that Mrs M hadnt known the mortgage was in her name until 2018, after the 
mortgage stopped being paid by her daughter, although she had known a mortgage existed. 
However, the evidence doesnt support that being the situation. I have listened to recordings 
of telephone calls with TMW from before 2018, in which it is confirm that Mrs M knew the 
mortgage was in her name, not her daughters. It is also evident from the documents being 
referred to during a conversation before 2018, that Ms W had on Mrs Ws behalf, that Mrs M 
had access to paperwork relating to the mortgage, as it was used during the conversation to 
answer security questions. Indeed, it was confirmed Mrs M, with her son assisting, had 
attended a branch (of a member of the same financial group) some years earlier to make 
changes to the mortgage. 
I know that Ms W and Mrs M wont agree with this, but this says that Mrs M knew the 
mortgage had been taken out in her name throughout and that she consented to that 
happening. So, had TMW done the additional check Ms W believes it should have done, by 
speaking to Mrs W to ensure her identity and that she knew about the application in her 
name, I am satisfied Mrs M would have given TMW affirmative answers. The same applies 
to the signing of the mortgage application and deed. Had the errors been noted, TMW would 
have questioned it, but Mrs M could simply have signed replacement documents to resolve 
these issues. Given she appears to have known the mortgage was in her name throughout 
and was actively involved with its administration years before it has been claimed she knew 
it was in her name, I cant see any reason she wouldnt have signed replacement 
documents. I remain satisfied that had the administrative errors on the part of TMW not have 
occurred, the mortgage would still have been advanced. 
My final decision
My decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.  Under the rules of the Financial 
Ombudsman Service, I am required to ask Mrs M to accept or reject my decision before 
22 July 2021.
 
Derry Baxter
Ombudsman