DRN-3377640
The complaint
Mr T complains that a vehicle he acquired on a Hire Purchase Agreement with BMW 
Financial Services (GB) Limited (BMWFS)was  mis sold him. He would like compensation of 
approximately £2500
.
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties so I wont repeat them again here 
instead I will focus on giving the reasons for my decision .
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so I have reached the following conclusions:-
There is no dispute that the car Mr T took out a Hire Purchase Agreement in March 
2018  for was new when he got it, in the sense that it had just been registered and 
had zero mileage.
Mr T has provided evidence from a dealership that states the car was built around 
2016 , had been specification enhanced and offered at a low finance package to 
clear. So, I dont think there is any doubt that whilst the car Mr T got wasnt first 
registered until March 2018 it was built around two years earlier.
Mr T has told us that although he knew the car  was a stock vehicle that he didnt 
know it was an aged stock vehicle, had he  known this he wouldnt have gone ahead 
with the agreement. I cant be sure what Mr T was told at the point of sale, but as he 
knew the car was a stock vehicle he could have chosen not to go ahead with the 
agreement.
To be persuaded the car had been mis sold I would need some evidence that Mr T 
was misled about  the age of the car at the point of sale, unfortunately I dont feel I 
have any such evidence. Mr T signed an agreement for a new car  and given the 
car had zero mileage and had just been registered I agree with BMWFS point that 
the car would still have been classed as a new one.
As I havent found any evidence of a mis sale, I cant reasonably ask BMWFS to 
compensate Mr T as he would like.
My final decision
My final decision  is that I dont uphold this complaint
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr T to accept or 
reject my decision before 17 May 2022.
 
Bridget Makins
Ombudsman