DRN-2483076
The complaint
Mr M complains about The Prudential Assurance Company Limiteds decision to reject a 
claim he made under his critical illness policy. Hes also unhappy about how the claim was 
handled. 
What happened
Mr M took out a life and critical illness policy with Prudential in 2000. In March 2020 he made 
a critical illness claim having undergone an angioplasty. Prudential declined the claim 
because Mr M didnt meet the policy definition which required him to have needed treatment 
to two or more of his coronary arteries. 
Mr M appealed Prudentials decision. He said he fully met the policy definition albeit for the 
need to have treatment to two or more coronary arteries  but that his case should be looked 
at holistically because hed needed treatment to the most important artery  and because 
he believed Prudentials terms and conditions were outdated given the advances in 
angioplasty procedures. Mr M referred to a similar case published by our service. He also 
told Prudential he was unhappy with how his claim had been handled and the way hed been 
communicated with. 
Prudential accepted there had been delay and poor communication during the handling of 
Mr Ms claim and paid him £400 in recognition of that. But it didnt change its decision on his 
claim. It maintained Mr Ms treatment didnt meet the policy terms and conditions which 
required treatment to two or more coronary arteries. And Prudential said the published case 
hed cited from our service concerned the percentage of the narrowing of the arteries  not 
the number of arteries treated. 
Mr M didnt agree and referred his complaint to our service. He said Prudential had wrongly 
declined his claim and had misinterpreted the published case. He also said the terms and 
conditions were out of date with medical advances, which showed the severity of treatment 
was more significant than the number of arteries affected. Mr M wanted us to look at his 
case in a rational and holistic way, based on the severity of his condition, and to compare it 
to the published case hed cited to apply a consistent and fair approach.  
Our investigator reviewed the complaint but didnt uphold it. He said it wasnt disputed that 
Mr M had treatment to one artery. And so, he didnt meet the terms and conditions of his 
policy. Looking at the published case Mr M had cited, our investigator said there was nothing 
to indicate wed made a finding that the policy requirement that two or more arteries needed 
treatment was unfair. 
Our investigator said we look at each case on its own merits, but that weve previously taken 
the view that the number of arteries affected is a separate requirement that must be met, 
alongside factors such as the percentage of the blockage. And so, he thought we had 
applied a consistent approach in Mr Ms case. 
In addressing whether the policy terms were outdated, our investigator said our focus is on 
the terms and conditions Mr M had agreed to when taking the policy out. And we wouldnt 
expect an insurer to deviate from those terms based on later developments or advances. 
Finally, our investigator said Prudential had accepted it couldve handled Mr Ms claim better, 
but he didnt think it needed to take any more action to address this. 
Mr M disagreed and has asked for an Ombudsman to review his complaint.  He said the 
investigator had taken a light touch approach to his case and hadnt fully addressed his 
points of complaint. He also said the published case he referred to related to the treatment of 
one artery  as in his case  and so was relevant to his situation. Mr M said we should take 
a broader, objective view of his case, taking account of different scenarios where the exact 
policy wording might not be met, but the required treatment demonstrated a level of severity 
the policy was designed to cover. Mr M maintained we had upheld cases like his in the past 
 and that we should therefore apply a consistent approach. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive reached the same conclusion as our investigator. And for largely the 
same reasons. I know Mr M feels strongly about this complaint and so this will come as a 
disappointment to him. Hes been through a difficult and worrying time, and I can understand 
why hes pursued matters. But as Ill go on to explain, I dont think Prudentials decision to 
decline his claim was unreasonable. 
Ive read and considered the whole file. But Ill concentrate my comments on what I think is 
relevant. If I dont mention any specific point, its not because Ive failed to take it on board 
and think about it, but because I dont think I need to comment on it to reach what I think is 
the right outcome. Ive not commented on Prudentials handling of Mr Ms claim, as hes not 
disputed the investigators findings on this point. 
In reaching my outcome Ive only looked at whether Prudentials decision to decline Mr Ms 
claim was fair, and in line with the policy terms and conditions he agreed to when he took the 
policy out. Ive not commented on the hypothetical scenarios Mr M has outlined in support of 
his complaint  as I dont consider that to be relevant here. 
Im not medically trained, and so cant pass comment on the severity of Mr Ms condition or 
the treatment he underwent. But I can see its not in dispute that Mr M had treatment to one 
of his coronary arteries  and whilst I appreciate the points hes made around the severity of 
his condition and the medical advances in treatment since he took the policy out  I must 
consider the specific treatment Mr M underwent and whether that met the terms and 
conditions of his policy  the basis of which forms the contract Mr M and Prudential are 
bound by.  
The applicable policy wording is as follows:
Angioplasty
The undergoing of a balloon angioplasty, atherectomy, laser treatment or stent insertion on 
the advice of a Consultant Cardiologist to correct at least 70% narrowing or blockage, of two 
or more coronary arteries. Angiographic evidence to support the necessity for the above 
operations will be required.  Mr M didnt meet the policy requirement that two or more coronary arteries required 
treatment. Im satisfied this part of the policy term is clear and unambiguous, and that Mr M 
agreed to the terms and conditions when the policy started.  
Mr M says his claim should be looked at in terms of the severity of his condition and the 
treatment he had  rather than focusing alone on the requirement that two or more arteries 
were treated. As our investigator has explained, no critical illness policy can cover every 
possible illness  and the severity of such an illness alone doesnt mean its more likely to be 
covered. If it did, then critical illness policies would simply be unfordable. 
I dont see anything unusual in the policy term applicable to this case. In the past we may 
have considered requirements around the percentage of the narrowing or blockage of 
arteries to be vague  given the disparity that can occur in such measurements  but having 
a requirement that treatment to a specific number of arteries must be met is, I believe, clear 
and unambiguous, and isnt open to interpretation. 
In support of his complaint Mr M mentioned a previous case considered by our service. 
Whilst we look to take a consistent approach to cases  Im mindful that each case should 
be looked at on its own merits. The case Mr M has cited might raise similar issues to his, 
and I can see it talks about when the overall severity of a condition might be a factor when a 
policy term is onerous to prove or ambiguous. But I dont think this is relevant to the merits of 
Mr Ms case  or to the specific reason why his treatment didnt meet the policy definition. 
Taking everything into account, I dont think Prudentials decision to decline Mr Ms claim on 
the basis he didnt meet the policy terms and conditions for angioplasty was unfair or 
unreasonable. So, I wont be asking it to take any action. 
I appreciate this isnt the outcome Mr M was hoping for. If he has more evidence to support 
his claim, then he should provide that to Prudential. Hes also able to make a new claim, any 
time before the policy ends, if his situation changes.  
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 11 March 2021.
 
Anna Jackson
Ombudsman