DRN-3977119
The complaint
Mr W complains that Cheetwood Financial Limited (Cheetwood) irresponsibly granted him 
a credit card he couldnt afford to repay. 
What happened
In May 2022 Mr W entered into an agreement with Cheetwood to have access to credit by 
way of a credit card account. He was given an opening credit limit of £1,250. 
Mr W says that Cheetwood didnt complete adequate affordability checks when it opened his 
credit card account. He says he was already struggling financially at the time.
Cheetwood didnt agree. It said that it carried out a reasonable and proportionate 
assessment to check Mr Ws financial circumstances before granting him the credit. 
Our adjudicator recommended the complaint be upheld. She thought Cheetwood acted 
unfairly in approving the opening of the account.
As Cheetwood didnt agree the complaint has been passed to me for a final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Cheetwood will be familiar with all the rules, regulations and good industry practice we 
consider when looking at a complaint concerning unaffordable and irresponsible lending. So, 
I dont consider it necessary to set all of this out in this decision. Information about our 
approach to these complaints is set out on our website. 
Before granting the account, Cheetwood looked into Mr Ws financial situation. This included 
looking at the information about his income and using credit bureau data. 
Cheetwood recorded Mr Ws annual income as £50,000 with a net monthly income of around 
£3,100. Mr W had also told Cheetwood he had monthly housing costs of around £350 per 
month, but didnt give a figure for essential living costs. The checks found that Mr W had 
existing unsecured credit commitments of £993 per month. Cheetwood noted that Mr W had 
used around 56% of his available credit, although the figure was 84% if only looking at credit 
accounts that had been opened in the previous 12 months. The 56% figure meant that Mr W 
owed around £33,200.
Other than a default about five years earlier, Cheetwood didnt find any adverse records on 
Mr Ws credit file and no other credit taken out in the previous three months. Cheetwood also 
assessed Mr Ws regular outgoings using average costs data, assessing his monthly 
essential living costs as £762. It then set an opening credit limit based on these factors. 
So whilst I think Cheetwood gathered a reasonable evidence about Mr Ws income and 
credit history, and took steps to assess his monthly expenditure, it doesnt automatically 
mean it made a lending decision that was fair overall. So, Ive thought about what the 
evidence and information showed. 
As Ive mentioned above, at the point of opening the account, Cheetwoods checks showed 
that Mr W already owed around £33,200, which worked out at monthly payments of £993 per 
month. If Mr W used more of his available credit he would have to find more money to make 
his monthly payments. So, by increasing his use of his available credit upward from the 56% 
he was using at the time, there was a very real risk that the additional pressure on his 
monthly costs could lead to a deterioration in his financial circumstances. 
I also think it would have been proportionate for Cheetwood to have found out more about 
Mr Ws committed expenditure, such as his living costs. I cant be sure exactly what it would 
have found out if it had asked. In the absence of anything else, I think it would be reasonable 
to place significant weight on the information contained in Mr Ws bank statements from the 
time to gain an indication as to what would most likely have been disclosed. Ive also seen 
that Cheetwood reviewed bank statements Mr W had provided when looking into his 
complaint, covering around three months prior to the credit being granted. These were from 
the period immediately before he was granted the card. 
Having also reviewed these, I agree with our adjudicator that whilst Mr Ws income was 
consistent with what he told Cheetwood at the time, his living expenses, regular outgoings 
and credit commitments also needed to be taken into full consideration. Mr Ws usual living 
expenses were around £700 per month and his regular financial commitments other than 
credit were around £1,050 per month. When added to his existing credit commitments, 
totalling around £1,500 per month, Mr Ws outgoing expenditure each month was typically 
around £3,200-£3,300. That means, based on his average monthly income, Mr W would be 
left with less than £100, or even a negative figure, by way of disposable income each month. 
So I dont agree with Cheetwoods finding that Mr W would have had around £630 in 
disposable income available each month. 
I do agree with our adjudicator that there was some fluctuation in the payments Mr W was 
making from his bank account, and Ive seen that money was being transferred in an out 
from other accounts, but from what Ive seen I dont think that materially changes the overall 
picture. As things stand, Mr Ws monthly net income was barely enough to fund his existing 
level of regular and committed expenditure. So I think its very likely that Mr W didnt have 
enough disposable income to be able to sustainably manage the new card alongside his 
existing financial commitments. I dont agree that Mr W having since been able meet his 
minimum payments for the account is enough in itself to show that the level of credit he was 
granted was affordable. 
To summarise, I think it would have been proportionate for Cheetwood to have gained a 
more thorough understanding of Mr Ws financial circumstances before giving him the credit. 
So I agree that the checks that Cheetwood carried out at the time werent enough to show 
that the credit was likely to have been affordable. 
It follows that I dont think Cheetwood should have granted Mr W this account. 
Putting things right  what Cheetwood needs to do
As I dont think Cheetwood ought to have opened the account, I dont think its fair for it to be 
able to charge any interest or charges under the credit agreement. But I think Mr W should 
pay back the amounts they have borrowed. Therefore, Cheetwood should:Rework the account removing all interest and charges that have been applied. 
If the rework results in a credit balance, this should be refunded to Mr W along with 
8% simple interest per year* calculated from the date of each overpayment to the 
date of settlement. Cheetwood should also remove all adverse information regarding 
this account from Mr Ws credit file. 
Or, if after the rework there is still an outstanding balance, Cheetwood should 
arrange an affordable repayment plan with Mr W for the remaining amount. Once Mr 
W has cleared the balance, any adverse information in relation to the account should 
be removed from his credit file. 
*HM Revenue & Customs requires Cheetwood to deduct tax from any award of interest. 
It must give Mr W a certificate showing how much tax has been taken off if he asks for one. 
If it intends to apply the refund to reduce an outstanding balance, it must do so after 
deducting the tax.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive set out, Im upholding Mr Ws complaint. Cheetwood Financial Limited 
should put things right in the way Ive set out above. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision before 14 April 2023. 
Michael Goldberg
Ombudsman