DRN-4298599
The complaint
Mr A complains about the advice given by Sovereign Private Clients Limited, trading as 
Sovereign Private Clients (SPC) to transfer the benefits from his defined-benefit (DB) 
occupational pension scheme to a personal pension. He says the advice was unsuitable for 
him and believes this has caused a financial loss.
Mr A is being represented by a third party but for ease of reading this decision Ill largely 
refer to representations as being made by Mr A.
What happened
Mr A had deferred benefits in a DB scheme pension from a period of previous employment. 
He says he was cold called in 2016 and offered a review of his pensions. Mr A says, as he 
was going through a separation, he thought advice about his pensions and retirement could 
be useful, so agreed. The review was carried out by SPC. 
On 28 September 2016, SPC completed a fact-find to gather information about Mr As 
circumstances and objectives. Mr A was 47, in good health, married but separated which he 
felt was likely to end in divorce and had four children, two of whom were financially 
dependent. Mr A lived in rented accommodation and said any savings hed had were used 
when securing this. He worked full time, earning £24,000 per year. Mr A was recorded as 
having credit card and personal loan debt  which he said hed taken on as part of the 
separation  totalling £37,000, which he was paying under a debt recovery plan. His income 
covered his outgoings but provided a surplus of less than £20 per month.
In addition to his DB scheme pension, Mr A had a personal pension, valued at £31,687.66. 
He also had a workplace pension through his current employer, which hed recently started, 
but indicated he didnt want to review this as part of the discussion with SPC.
Mr A had no specific plans for retirement. He expected to work to age 65 at least and didnt 
know how much income hed need  saying hed have more of an understanding of this 
when he got closer to retiring. He said hed like to be able to cover his outgoings in 
retirement and would also like to be debt free. SPC recorded that Mr A was interested in the 
option of being able to leave his pension to his children, split equally, in the event of his 
death.
SPC discussed Mr As attitude to risk with him and also completed a risk profiling report. Its 
notes in the fact find recorded that, at that time, Mr A didnt feel confident taking risk. The 
pensions mentioned made up all of his retirement provisions and he said hed like to 
preserve what he had and had previously had both good and bad experiences with 
investment, so wasnt happy with the uncertainty of financial markets. But SPC also said, as 
Mr A had a number of years to retirement, he was willing to take some risk, was happy with 
a medium investment approach and liked the idea of spreading his investment to avoid 
volatility. SPC deemed that Mr A had a low medium attitude to risk or 5 on a scale of 1-10.
In December 2016, SPC advised Mr A to transfer his DB scheme benefits, which had a cash 
equivalent transfer value (CETV) at that time of £24,890.53, into a personal pension and 
invest the proceeds in a specific fund with the new provider. The suitability report said the 
primary reason was to allow Mr A to benefit from higher death benefits. It also said this 
would enable Mr A to potentially improve his retirement benefits; specifically higher available 
tax-free cash (TFC) and income at retirement. It would also give him flexibility in accessing 
his benefits, more control and would enable SPC to provide ongoing advice and reviews.
The transfer of his DB scheme benefits completed in May 2017. 
Mr A complained to SPC in 2022 about the suitability of the recommendation to transfer his 
DB scheme pension. He didnt think the recommendation was in his best interests. And he 
said SPC had failed to explain the risks involved and hadnt made clear the value of the 
guarantees he was giving up. 
SPC did not respond to the complaint, so it was referred to our service.
I understand Mr As existing personal pension was also transferred to the new personal 
pension SPC recommended. And this was following advice by SPC. But I havent been 
asked to consider that advice as part of this complaint and this wasnt raised with SPC as 
part of the complaint Mr As representative made on his behalf. So, Im only looking at the 
advice SPC gave him to transfer his DB scheme benefits under this complaint.
One of our Investigators considered the complaint. She thought it should be upheld and 
SPC should compensate Mr A for any loss the DB transfer had led to. She didnt think Mr As 
attitude to risk was as high as SPC had suggested, but in any event, she didnt think he was 
likely to improve his pension benefits by transferring. She didnt think he had any genuine 
need for flexibility or control. And she didnt think the alternative death benefits available 
justified surrendering the guarantees the DB scheme provided. So, she didnt consider a 
transfer was in Mr As best interests.
SPC did not respond to our Investigators opinion. As a result, the complaint was referred to 
me to make a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive taken into account relevant law and regulations, regulators rules, guidance and 
standards and codes of practice, and what I consider to have been good industry practice at 
the time. This includes the Principles for Businesses (PRIN) and the Conduct of Business 
Sourcebook (COBS). And where the evidence is incomplete, inconclusive or contradictory, 
I reach my conclusions on the balance of probabilities  that is, what I think is more likely 
than not to have happened based on the available evidence and the wider surrounding 
circumstances.
The applicable rules, regulations and requirements
The below is not a comprehensive list of the rules and regulations which applied at the time 
of the advice, but provides useful context for my assessment of SPC's actions here.
PRIN 6: A firm must pay due regard to the interests of its customers and treat them fairly.
PRIN 7: A firm must pay due regard to the information needs of its clients, and communicate 
information to them in a way which is clear, fair and not misleading.COBS 2.1.1R: A firm must act honestly, fairly and professionally in accordance with the best 
interests of its client (the client's best interests rule).
The provisions in COBS 9 which deal with the obligations when giving a personal 
recommendation and assessing suitability. And the provisions in COBS 19 which specifically 
relate to a DB pension transfer.
Having considered all of this and the evidence in this case, Ive decided to uphold the 
complaint for largely the same reasons given by the investigator.
The regulator, the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA), states in COBS 19.1.6G that the 
starting assumption for a transfer from a DB scheme is that it is unsuitable. So, SPC should 
have only considered a transfer if it could clearly demonstrate that the transfer was in Mr As 
best interests. And having looked at all the evidence available, Im not satisfied it was in his 
best interests.
Financial viability 
When referring to financial viability, I mean how likely it is that Mr A would be better off in 
terms of the retirement benefits, by transferring. 
SPC said it was recommending a transfer because it gave Mr A the potential for better 
income and TFC at retirement.
SPC was required by the regulator to carry out a transfer value analysis (TVAS) report 
when it gave advice and calculate how much Mr As pension fund would need to grow by 
each year in order to provide the same benefits as his DB scheme at retirement (the critical 
yield). I havent seen a copy of the TVAS that SPC carried out. But the recommendation 
letter included extracts from it.
The suitability report said that the critical yield to match the benefits the DB scheme would 
provide to Mr A from age 65 was 6.5% if he was to take a full pension or 5.36% if he took the 
maximum TFC available and a reduced starting pension. 
SPC indicated that Mr A expected to retire around age 65. So, I think using this age when 
running the TVAS calculations was appropriate. It is worth noting though that the normal 
retirement age for Mr As DB scheme was 60. Ive seen information that indicates a late 
retirement enhancement may be applied if the benefits were deferred to age 65. Because I 
havent seen a full copy of the TVAS, it isnt clear if that enhancement for late retirement was 
factored into the calculation. If not, as it would result in higher guaranteed benefits, the 
actual critical yield wouldve in fact been higher. But even based on the critical yields that 
were calculated, I dont think Mr A was likely to be better off by transferring.
The advice was given during the period when the Financial Ombudsman Service was 
publishing 'discount rates' on our website for use in loss assessments where a complaint 
about a past pension transfer was being upheld. Whilst businesses weren't required to refer 
to these rates when giving advice on pension transfers, I consider they provide a useful 
indication of what growth rates would have been considered reasonably achievable when 
the advice was given in this case. 
The discount rate at the time SPC advised Mr A to transfer his benefits was 4.4% per year 
for 17 years to retirement, which was the case if Mr A retired at age 65. For further 
comparison, the regulator's upper projection rate at the time was 8%, the middle projection 
rate 5%, and the lower projection rate 2%.I've taken this into account, along with the composition of assets in the discount rate, the 
term to retirement and Mr As attitude to risk. Like our Investigator, Im not sure Mr As 
attitude to risk was necessarily at the level SPC said. I say this because of the notes in the 
fact find of the discussion around this which said Mr A wasnt comfortable taking risks at that 
time and was unhappy with market volatility. So, even though I agree he had time until he 
retired which wouldve given his investments the opportunity to recover from any losses, this 
doesnt indicate to me that he was necessarily comfortable taking risk. But regardless, even 
if his attitude to risk was as SPC said, I dont think hed have been better off by transferring.
There would be little point in Mr A giving up the guarantees available to him through his DB 
scheme only to achieve, at best, the same level of benefits outside the scheme. But here, 
given the lowest critical yield was 5.36%, I think Mr A was always likely to receive benefits of 
a lower overall value than the DB scheme at retirement, as a result of investing in line with 
that attitude to risk. 
So, from a financial viability perspective, I dont think a transfer out of the DB scheme was in 
Mr As best interests. Of course, financial viability isnt the only consideration when giving 
transfer advice. There might be other considerations which mean a transfer is suitable, 
despite providing overall lower benefits. Ive considered this below.
Flexibility and control
SPC said Mr A wanted flexibility in terms of how he could access and use his pension, to 
maximise the TFC he could take and control over his investments.
But the fact-find was, in my view, clear that Mr A didnt have any confirmed plans for 
retirement. SPC said Mr A envisaged working until age 65. But it also indicated Mr A 
understood he might have to work beyond that. A lot of his uncertainty seemed to be based 
on his financial position at the time which, as he acknowledged, wasnt that good because of 
the strains the separation had placed on his finances. But this meant he didnt realistically 
know what his retirement needs would be  something he seems to have acknowledged in 
discussion with SPC when saying he didnt know what his income requirements were likely 
to be and wouldnt know until much closer to retirement. So, I dont think he needed flexibility 
with this pension arrangement, because he didnt know what his needs were in general. And 
he already had a separate personal pension which provided him with flexibility.
I also cant see that he had any confirmed need for TFC, as his retirement plans were 
unknown. I dont doubt that the prospect of a lump sum being available appealed to Mr A. 
But he couldve taken TFC anyway under the DB scheme. And I dont think it was worth 
giving up the guaranteed benefits that the DB scheme entitled him to just for the speculative 
purpose of potentially increasing that lump sum, when he didnt have a specific plan for it. 
Particularly given, as Ive already said, he was unlikely to improve on the benefits he was 
already entitled to.
Given how long it was until Mr A expected to retire (over 17 years), I think it was too soon to 
make any kind of decision about transferring out of the DB scheme. Transferring out of a DB 
scheme is a one-off event. Once transferred there's no going back, the benefits of the DB 
scheme are usually lost forever. So, I dont think it was a suitable recommendation for Mr A 
to give up his guaranteed benefits when he did given he had been clear he didnt know what 
his needs in retirement would be. 
I also think Mr As desire for control over his pension and how it was invested was 
overstated. SPC noted that Mr A was not a sophisticated investor. I cannot see that he had 
an interest in or the knowledge to be able to manage his pension funds on his own. And 
indeed, the recommendation was based on the understanding SPC would continue to provide ongoing advice and servicing, at a cost to Mr A. So, I dont think having control over 
his pension was a genuine objective for Mr A  it was simply a consequence of transferring 
away from his DB scheme.
Death benefits
SPC said the ability to leave his pension fund to his children in the event of his death 
appealed to Mr A.
Death benefits are an emotive subject and of course when asked, most people would like 
their loved ones to be taken care of when they die. The lump sum death benefits on offer 
through a personal pension mightve been an attractive feature to Mr A. But whilst 
I appreciate death benefits are important to consumers, the priority here was to advise Mr A 
about what was best for his retirement provisions. A pension is primarily designed to provide 
income in retirement. And I dont think SPC explored to what extent Mr A was prepared to 
accept a lower retirement income in exchange for higher death benefits.
Whilst the CETV figure would no doubt have appeared attractive as a potential lump sum, 
the sum remaining on death following a transfer was always likely to be different to that 
figure  unless Mr A had passed away immediately, which was unlikely. As well as being 
dependent on investment performance, it wouldve also been reduced by any income Mr A 
drew in his lifetime. Mr A was in good health and there was nothing to suggest that he was 
less likely to live until at least his average life expectancy. And so, particularly given the 
relatively modest size of the pension fund, it appears entirely possible the fund wouldve 
been significantly depleted by the time it was passed on to any dependents. So, the pension 
may not have provided the legacy that Mr A may have thought it would. 
Mr As existing personal pension also already provided a facility to potentially provide lump 
sum death benefits. And, if Mr A genuinely wanted to leave a further legacy to his children, I 
think SPC shouldve explored life insurance  which couldve been considered on a whole of 
life or term assurance basis, which was likely to be a lot cheaper to provide.  But I cant see 
that it considered this alternative.
Ultimately, SPC should not have encouraged Mr A to prioritise the potential for alternative 
death benefits through a personal pension over his security in retirement. And I dont think 
different death benefits available through a transfer justified the likely decrease of retirement 
benefits for Mr A. 
Suitability of investments
SPC recommended that Mr A invest in a specific fund with the new pension provider. As Im 
upholding the complaint on the grounds that a transfer out of the DB scheme wasnt suitable 
for Mr A, it follows that I dont need to consider the suitability of the investment 
recommendation. This is because Mr A should have been advised to remain in the DB 
scheme and so the investments wouldnt have arisen if suitable advice had been given.
Summary
I dont doubt that the flexibility, control and potential for alternative death benefits on offer 
through a personal pension would have sounded like attractive features to Mr A. But SPC 
wasnt there to just transact what Mr A might have thought or been led to believe that he 
wanted. The advisers role was to really understand what Mr A needed and recommend 
what was in his best interests.
Ultimately, I dont think the advice given to Mr A was suitable. He was giving up a guaranteed, risk-free and increasing income. By transferring, Mr A was very likely to obtain 
lower retirement benefits and, in my view, there were no other particular reasons which 
would justify a transfer and outweigh this. He had no confirmed retirement plans, so didnt 
have a genuine need for benefits in a different format  particularly as he already had access 
to such benefits through his other personal pension. And the potential for higher death 
benefits wasnt worth giving up the guarantees associated with his DB scheme  particularly 
as the legacy that mayve been provided was unlikely to be in line with what Mr A mightve 
thought at the time of the advice.
So, I think SPC shouldve advised Mr A to remain in his DB scheme.
Of course, I have to consider whether Mr A would've gone ahead anyway, against SPC's 
advice. Ive considered this carefully, but Im not persuaded that he wouldve insisted on 
transferring out of the DB scheme, if SPC had advised him not to. From what Ive seen Mr A 
didnt seek out advice, this was offered to him. In addition, Mr A was an inexperienced 
investor and this pension accounted for a significant part of his retirement provisions. So, if 
SPC had provided him with clear advice against transferring out of the DB scheme, 
explaining why it wasnt in his best interests, I think he wouldve accepted that advice.
In light of the above, I think SPC should compensate Mr A for the unsuitable advice, using 
the regulator's defined benefits pension transfer redress methodology. 
Putting things right
A fair and reasonable outcome would be for the business to put Mr A, as far as possible, into 
the position he would now be in but for the unsuitable advice. I consider Mr A would have 
most likely remained in the occupational pension scheme if suitable advice had been given. 
SPC must therefore undertake a redress calculation in line with the rules for calculating 
redress for non-compliant pension transfer advice, as detailed in policy statement PS22/13 
and set out in the regulators handbook in DISP App 4: 
https://www.handbook.fca.org.uk/handbook/DISP/App/4/?view=chapter. 
For clarity, Mr A has not yet retired, and he has no plans to do so at present. So, 
compensation should be based on the schemes normal retirement age, as per the usual 
assumptions in the FCA's guidance.
This calculation should be carried out using the most recent financial assumptions in line 
with PS22/13 and DISP App 4. In accordance with the regulators expectations, this should 
be undertaken or submitted to an appropriate provider promptly following receipt of 
notification of Mr As acceptance of the decision.
If the redress calculation demonstrates a loss, as explained in policy statement PS22/13 and 
set out in DISP App 4, SPC should:
calculate and offer Mr A redress as a cash lump sum payment,
explain to Mr A before starting the redress calculation that:
- his redress will be calculated on the basis that it will be invested prudently (in 
line with the cautious investment return assumption used in the calculation), 
and
- a straightforward way to invest his redress prudently is to use it to augment 
his DC pension
offer to calculate how much of any redress Mr A receives could be augmented rather 
than receiving it all as a cash lump sum,
if Mr A accepts SPCs offer to calculate how much of his redress could be augmented, request the necessary information and not charge Mr A for the 
calculation, even if he ultimately decides not to have any of his redress augmented, 
and
take a prudent approach when calculating how much redress could be augmented, 
given the inherent uncertainty around Mr As end of year tax position.
Redress paid to Mr A as a cash lump sum includes compensation in respect of benefits that 
would otherwise have provided a taxable income. So, in line with DISP App 4, SPC may 
make a notional deduction to cash lump sum payments to take account of tax that 
consumers would otherwise pay on income from their pension. Typically, 25% of the loss 
could have been taken as tax-free cash and 75% would have been taxed according to 
Mr As likely income tax rate in retirement  presumed to be 20%. So, making a notional 
deduction of 15% overall from the loss adequately reflects this. 
Where I uphold a complaint, I can award fair compensation of up to £170,000, plus any 
interest and/or costs that I consider are appropriate. Where I consider that fair compensation 
requires payment of an amount that might exceed £170,000, I may recommend that the 
business pays the balance.
My final decision
Determination and money award: I uphold this complaint and require Sovereign Private 
Clients Limited to pay Mr A the compensation amount as set out in the steps above, up to a 
maximum of £170,000.
Recommendation: If the compensation amount exceeds £170,000, I also recommend that 
Sovereign Private Clients Limited pays Mr A the balance.
If Mr A accepts this decision, the money award becomes binding on Sovereign Private 
Clients Limited.
My recommendation would not be binding. Further, its unlikely that Mr A can accept my 
decision and go to court to ask for the balance. Mr A may want to consider getting 
independent legal advice before deciding whether to accept any final decision.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision before 12 October 2023.
 
Ben Stoker
Ombudsman