DRN-2240293
The complaint
Mr D complains that Volkswagen Financial Services (UK) Limited (VFS) repossessed a car 
without due process. 
What happened
In September 2018 Mr D acquired a car funded by a hire purchase agreement. This was 
repayable in monthly instalments of £285.78 over a period of some 60 months. Only two 
payments were made.  Mr D says the car was acquired for his business partner who agreed 
to take over responsibility for the payments. Mr D says he phoned VFS and provided her 
bank details.
As the payments had stopped VFS wrote to Mr D on four occasions beginning on 12 
December 2018 and it then issued a default notice on 8 March 2019. It then contacted Mr D 
by phone, but he was unable to pass the security questions. There followed a series of email 
exchanges between Mr D and VFS with Mr D trying to find out what the issue was and VFS 
being unable to disclose personal information without him clearing security. 
Mr D made a subject access request (SAR) on 14 May, but VFS needed him to clear 
security before it could issue the information. However, it suspected further action on the 
account while the SAR was completed. It asked Mr D for a signed letter so it could match his 
signature. On 21 May D agreed to this, but VFS says it hadnt received one by 13 June and 
it terminated the agreement the following day.
On 17 June Mr D called VFS and passed the security questions. He explained the car was 
for his business partner and he didnt use the bank account from which the payments were 
taken and he believed his business partner had taken over responsibility for them. 
VFS rejected Mr Ds complaint and so he brought the matter to this service. It was 
considered by one of our investigators who didnt recommend it be upheld. Mr D said the 
agreement had been mis-sold. He thought he had been misadvised by the sales rep and he 
should have been given a finance agreement suitable for business use. 
He thought VFS should have done more to ensure he was aware of the problem. He said he 
had tried to find out what the issue was, but the bank had put obstacles in his way with 
unnecessary security questions. He thought he had provided enough information for his 
identity to be established. He had two other agreements with VFS and he had three bank 
accounts and this contributed to him not being aware of the problem.
He has also expressed his concerns about the handling of the matter by VFS and its 
complaints handling process. 
Our investigator concluded that VFS hadnt done anything wrong and it had taken 
reasonable steps to contact Mr D. He didnt agree and asked that his complaint be referred 
to an ombudsman.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Firstly, I should make it clear that the role of the Financial Ombudsman Service is to resolve 
individual complaints and to award redress where appropriate. I do not perform the role of 
the industry regulator and I do not have the power to make rules for financial businesses or 
to punish them.
Ive read and considered the whole file, but Ill concentrate my comments on what I think is 
relevant. If I dont comment on any specific point raised by Mr D or VFS, its not because Ive 
failed to take it on board, but because I dont think I need to comment on it in order to reach 
what I think is the right outcome. While I have some sympathy with Mr D I do not consider I 
can uphold his complaint. I will explain why.
On the matter of mis-selling I have seen nothing to show that this occurred. The agreement 
is in Mr Ds name and the associated paperwork show that he took the agreement out in his 
personal capacity. If he thought it was unsuitable for him I think he could have raised that 
concern at the time. I have some concern that he signed an agreement which required him 
to keep the car in his possession, but he says it was for his partners use. Even so I dont 
think that affects my decision.
Mr D says he told VFS that it should change the bank account from which it collected the 
payment to that of his partner. It is normal for banks and finance houses to require that 
payment is made is made by the party named on the agreement and so I find it unusual that 
it would accept a change in account by a phone call. 
I am satisfied that the letters and notifications issued to Mr D were sent to the correct 
address. I cannot say why Mr D didnt receive these, but VFS discharged its responsibilities 
in endeavouring to make contact with him.
It followed these up with a phone calls and it is unfortunate that Mr D was unable to pass 
security. I appreciate he found this frustrating, but the bank has a duty of care to its 
customers and it cannot release information without being satisfied it is dealing with the 
account holder. I note it asked for a signed letter and only instigated termination proceedings 
some two weeks later after that wasnt received.
I understand that Mr D wasnt aware that payments were not being made from his bank 
account, but it reasonable to expect him to have had some knowledge of what payments 
were going out over a period of some six months. I also think it is not unreasonable to expect 
him to have been able to identify the agreement and the car registration for a recent 
purchase when it came to satisfying VFSs security questions.
I also note that the letters and notifications issued by the bank were sent to the correct 
address and it is not clear why Mr D didnt receive these. One going astray or unnoticed 
might be understandable, but not multiple letters. As such, I cannot hold the bank 
responsible for non-receipt.
Overall, I consider VFS to fair and reasonable steps to notify Mr D that he had missed 
payments and then to terminate the agreement and I do not consider it did anything wrong in 
its handling of this matter.
My final decisionMy final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision before 15 February 2021.
 
Ivor Graham
Ombudsman