DRN-3444786
The complaint
Ms M is unhappy that Royal & Sun Alliance Insurance Limited (RSA) declined a claim on her 
pet insurance policy.
What happened
Ms Ms pet was lightly struck by a neighbours car. There didnt seem to be any injury or 
need for concern. But a number of months later the pet stopped eating and cleaning herself 
properly. So Ms M took her pet to a vet who said a tooth had been broken and had become 
infected. 
When Ms M submitted a claim for dental treatment it was declined by RSA. But her pet 
insurance policy provided cover for dental damage caused by an accident. Ms M said RSA 
had unfairly relied on comments from her vet who hadnt been there when the accident 
happened. So Ms M would like RSA to accept her claim.
RSA said the dental treatment wasnt covered by the pet insurance policy. Ms Ms vet had 
confirmed it hadnt been required as a result of the road traffic accident. There was no 
evidence of any trauma being noted. So RSA felt itd declined the claim correctly and in line 
with the policy terms and conditions. 
Ms M wasnt satisfied with RSAs response. So she contacted our service and our 
investigator looked into the matter. Our investigator looked at the pet insurance policy. She 
could see in order for a claim for dental treatment to be successful it mustve been caused 
by accidental external damage. 
But the medical notes showed the vet had provided treatment for gum disease. Thered been 
previous treatment for problems with bad teeth and gum recession. And she felt it was 
reasonable to say that the pets treatment had taken place because of those issues rather 
than any trauma caused when the pet was struck by the car.
Our investigator felt RSA had applied the exclusions to the claim correctly based on the 
information available. And she wouldnt be able to ask it to settle Ms Ms claim.
Ms M didnt agree with our investigator. So shes asked for an ombudsmans final decision. 
She said the vet hadnt known about the previous accident as her pet seemed okay 
afterwards - so she hadnt reported it to them. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im sorry to hear about the accident Ms Ms pet suffered. Even though the cat seemed okay 
afterwards it mustve been quite upsetting for her. And I can appreciate it wouldve been very 
concerning to be told her subsequent claim for dental treatment wasnt covered  even 
though Ms M is sure it was connected to the accident. 
When deciding whether I think RSA has acted fairly in declining Ms Ms claim I need to 
decide if the treatment claimed for is covered by the pet insurance policy. But if the cause of 
the treatment is noted as an exception then Im sorry to say a claim cant be made.
Ms Ms pet insurance policy provides help with vet bills for accidents and short-term 
illnesses. The insurance product information document confirms cover is provided for dental 
care for teeth or gums if they are damaged in an accident. And an accident is defined as a 
sudden, unexpected, specific event that results in an injury to the pet. But the policy says it 
will not cover any condition or treatment arising as a result of tooth or gum disease.
Ms M submitted a claim for dental treatment. She said the pets broken tooth was due to the 
road traffic accident. But RSA looked at the pets medical history and spoke to the vet. And it 
said there was no evidence that the treatment had been needed because of any trauma. 
The vet noted that the weight loss was due to gingivitis/periodontitis  in other words gum 
disease. And there were other mentions of previous treatment for gum problems that 
suggested that was the most likely cause of the dental treatment Ms M has claimed for. 
I realise the vet wasnt there when the accident took place. And they hadnt been informed 
before the dental treatment that the pet had been struck by a car a few months earlier. But 
the medical records dont show any notes of injuries from trauma or the road traffic accident 
when the pet was examined. And the first vet whod treated Ms Ms pet for weight loss hadnt 
mentioned any signs of trauma either.
I know Ms M is sure the accident was the cause of the tooth damage and the treatment 
claimed for. And she has concerns about the vets competence and opinion as they werent 
present when the accident happened.
But I think RSA is still entitled to rely on the medical history and the vets expert opinion with 
regards to the cause of the treatment claimed for. There isnt any other firm evidence for 
RSA to consider that would indicate a more likely reason.
I realise Ms M will be disappointed with this outcome. But Ive not seen anything to suggest 
RSA has treated her unfairly when it declined her claim. Its applied the exclusion in line with 
the terms and conditions of the pet insurance policy. And I wont be asking it to do anything 
more.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained above, my final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms M to accept or 
reject my decision before 1 June 2022.
 
Andrew Mason
Ombudsman