DRN-4162461
The complaint
This complaint is about an equity release lifetime mortgage held by Mrs N with Aviva Equity 
Release UK Limited. Mrs N is represented in the complaint by her son, Mr N, who is acting 
under a Lasting Power of Attorney granted by Mrs N.
Mr Ns complaint is that, despite numerous requests, Aviva failed to provide him with a copy 
of its terms and conditions on headed paper so that he could ascertain the criteria for Long 
Term Care (as defined by Aviva). Mr N also says that, despite asking Aviva multiple times 
since June 2021 whether a family member would be allowed to provide Long Term Care to 
Mrs N, Aviva failed to reply to his queries about this.
Mr N says that the delay by Aviva in providing this information has caused financial loss, due 
to the interest that has accrued on the lifetime mortgage while he was waiting for an answer 
from Aviva.
What happened
I will summarise the complaint in less detail than its been presented. There are several 
reasons for this. First of all, the history of the matter is set out in detail in correspondence, so 
there is no need for me to repeat the details here. I will instead concentrate on giving the 
reasons for my decision. In addition, our decisions are published, so its important I dont 
include any information that might lead to Mrs N or Mr N being identified. So for these 
reasons, I will keep my summary of what happened quite short.
In 2002 Mrs N took out an equity release mortgage with Aviva, originally in joint names with 
her husband, who I am sorry to note passed away in 2020. The mortgage loan agreement 
provides a definition of Long Term Care, which is the permanent care you would need from 
another person or other persons, either to help you to perform two or more ADLs (Activities 
of Daily Living), or because you are cognitively impaired.
There follows a list of ADLs, which is based on definitions recommended by the Association 
of British Insurers, relating to mobility, washing, dressing, feeding, toileting, etc.
On 23 February 2022 Mr N wrote to Aviva saying: 
Recently I have been attempting to obtain a copy of your Terms & Conditions (a 
document referred to on your own web site) relevant to this Lifetime Mortgage 
Agreement and have made numerous phone calls the most recent of which being 
3 February 2022
On each occasion I have clearly explained that we need to see Avivas definitive 
definition of Long Term Care. Our mothers health is at best uncertain and the time 
may come soon when she needs care beyond the ability of any family member. 
When this time comes, what we do not want to face are any early repayment 
penalties  because Aviva considers the situation does not meet their definition of 
Long Term Care
Although Mr N was promised by Aviva that it would send the information, it wasnt sent until 
May 2022. Aviva said that if Mr N considered Mrs N met the definition of needing Long Term 
Care, he should speak to Aviva. 
However, it wasnt until 19 April 2023 that Mr N spoke with a member of staff, when Aviva 
confirmed that Mrs N met its definition of a customer needing Long Term Care and that this 
care could be provided by a family member. As a result, no ERC would be payable if the 
mortgage was redeemed.
Mr N complained about the delay. He said that hed been asking Aviva to provide a copy of 
its terms and conditions with a definition of long term care since June 2021  and had 
specifically been asking whether that care could be provided by a family member. As a 
result, Mr N thought Aviva was at fault and should not charge interest on the mortgage loan 
due to its delay.
Aviva paid £200 compensation to Mrs N for delay in responding after Mr N had requested 
information in February 2022, but said it had no record of any earlier requests.
Dissatisfied with Avivas response, Mr N complained to our service on behalf of Mrs N. An 
investigator looked at what had happened but didnt think the complaint should be upheld. 
He wasnt able to find any evidence that Mr N had asked about whether the care provider 
could be a family member until his conversation with Aviva on 19 April 2023. The 
investigator thought the £200 paid by Aviva for the delay between February 2022 and 
May 2022 was fair and reasonable.
Mr N disagreed and asked for an ombudsman to review the complaint. He said that hed 
provided evidence that hed been in contact with Aviva in June 2021, when hed set up an 
on-line account on behalf of Mrs N. In addition, Mr N said that he had repeatedly asked 
Aviva for its definition of Long Term Care and  specifically  who was entitled to provide 
that care.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ill begin by explaining that Im not required to address each and every point raised in the 
complaint. If I dont mention something, it wont be because Ive ignored it; itll be because I 
didnt think it was material to the outcome of the complaint. In addition, where the evidence 
is incomplete and/or contradictory, Im required to reach my decision on the basis of what I 
consider is most likely to have happened, on the balance of probabilities. Thats broadly the 
same test used by the courts in civil cases.
There is a clear contradiction here in what the parties are saying; Mr N insists he had been 
asking Aviva since June 2021 to provide its terms and conditions, including its definition of 
Long Term Care, and specifically to confirm whether a family member would be allowed to 
provide Mrs N with that care. 
Aviva, on the other hand, says that it wasnt until February 2022 that Mr N first asked for a 
copy of the terms and conditions with the definition of Long Term Care, and that it wasnt 
until the conversation on 19 April 2023 that hed asked if a family member could provide that 
care.
The available evidence shows that the first time Mr N asked Aviva for a copy of its terms and 
conditions was in his letter dated 23 February 2022. Mr N followed that up with further correspondence, stating that he would only accept a copy of Avivas terms and conditions on 
company headed documentation. 
Whilst there was a delay in Aviva providing a copy of the terms and conditions after receiving 
the letter dated 23 February 2022, I note that these have always been available online, and 
include a definition of Long Term Care.  Im therefore not persuaded that this was 
information that Mr N could only have obtained directly from Aviva, as it is in the public 
domain and he could, if he had wanted to, accessed it immediately.
Im also not persuaded from the letter dated 23 February 2022 that Mr N had been asking 
since June 2021 whether Long Term Care could be provided for Mrs N by a family member. 
Thats because, in his letter of 23 February 2022, Mr N says that the time may come soon 
when [Mrs N] needs care beyond the ability of any family member.  He was not asking 
whether a family member could provide Long Term Care. Nor is there anything in Avivas 
contemporaneous account records to show Mr N asked at any other time if a family member 
would be able to provide Long Term Care to Mrs N.
So whilst I acknowledge Mr Ns strength of feeling, the available evidence doesnt persuade 
me that he was asking this specific query since June 2021 without reply. And, as explained 
above, Mr N could have found the terms and conditions online on Avivas own website. In 
the circumstances, whilst there was some delay between February 2022 and May 2022, I 
think there were steps Mr N could have taken to mitigate his own position, rather than 
insisting on receiving a paper copy of the terms and conditions on Avivas headed 
notepaper.
Im satisfied that the £200 Aviva paid to Mrs N for the delay between February 2022 and 
May 2022 is fair and reasonable, and Im not asking Aviva to do anything more.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
This final decision concludes the Financial Ombudsman Services review of this complaint. 
This means that we are unable to consider the complaint any further, nor enter into any 
correspondence about the merits of it.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs N to accept or 
reject my decision before 16 August 2023. 
Jan O'Leary
Ombudsman