DRN-2644271
The complaint
Ms F complains that a car she obtained through a hire purchase agreement with Specialist 
Motor Finance Limited (SMF) was not of satisfactory quality. She wants SMF to accept her 
rejection of the car, refund her for the cost of repairs and other costs shes incurred including 
gap insurance, car insurance and the cost of taking her partner to work in his car.
What happened
The background to this complaint is familiar to both parties and was set out in my provisional 
decision, so I wont repeat it again here.
In my provisional decision dated 1 February 2021, I explained why I wasnt minded to uphold 
Ms Fs complaint. I said:
In considering whats fair and reasonable, I need to have regard to the relevant law 
and regulations, regulators rules, guidance and standards, codes of practice and 
(where appropriate) what I consider to have been good industry practice at the time.
The hire purchase agreement is a regulated consumer credit agreement. As such, 
this service can consider complaints relating to it. SMF is the supplier of goods under 
this agreement and is responsible for a complaint about their quality.
The relevant law says that, under a contract to supply goods, theres an implied term 
that the quality of goods is satisfactory. As such, in order to uphold this complaint, 
I would have to be persuaded that the car wasnt of satisfactory quality and so a 
breach of contract has taken place.
In deciding whether a car is of satisfactory quality, some of the factors to consider are 
its age and mileage when it was supplied, and how long after supply the fault(s) 
materialised. The car in this case was around six years old and had a mileage of 
around 53,000 miles when the car was supplied.
Ms F reported a problem with one of the tyres within 30 days of obtaining the car. A 
tyre had been put on the wrong way around which had caused problems with 
steering and caused the car to skid in wet conditions. But the garage rectified this 
when she took the car back, at no cost to her. In doing so, I find it acted fairly and 
reasonably.
But this experience clearly worried Ms F and she lost faith in the supplying garage, 
particularly as she says it initially denied it would have fitted such a tyre. This 
explains why, when she experienced problems later, she was reluctant to return to 
the supplying garage.
Ive seen enough evidence to show that the car had faults. But for SMF to be held 
responsible for these faults, I need to conclude that the faults were present or 
developing when the car was supplied. In coming to my conclusion, I have 
considered the reports that were completed by an independent engineer and by 
garage E.
I find there are several problems with the report provided by garage E.
Firstly, it was completed more than a year after it identified the coolant leak and 
around 10 months after it carried out the repairs.
And the report contains some inconsistencies:
It says that when the car was first brought to it, it identified that the thermostat 
housing was leaking coolant and the fuel injector was leaking fuel. But Ms F has 
provided garage Es invoice from the time the car was first taken to it and it only 
identified a coolant leak; there is no mention of a fuel leak.
The report says, we advised the customer to return the car to where it was 
purchased as it was unsafe. But Ms F says garage E advised her she could continue 
to drive the car, but that she should keep the coolant topped up. I think garage E, in 
all likelihood, has confused the two occasions it saw the car  in April 2019 it 
identified a coolant leak and didnt advise against continuing to drive. In May 2019, 
its not clear what it found as theres no written evidence from that time. So I cant say 
for certain whether it found a fuel leak. Garage E says it told Ms F the car was 
unsafe, but I dont think Ms F would have driven the car away with her young child in 
the car if shed just been told it would be unsafe to do so.
Whilst garage Es report is clear that the car was definitely sold with the above 
faults, I need to consider that the independent report concluded otherwise. I think its 
fair that I place reliance on a report that was completed at the time the car was 
inspected, rather than several months later; and a report that does not contain 
inconsistencies.
As noted above, the independent report did not conclude that the faults would have 
been present or developing when the car was sold, particularly because Ms F was 
able to drive more than 4,000 miles before the problems were identified. I also think 
its likely that Ms F made the problem worse by continuing to drive the car after the 
coolant leak had been identified  although I appreciate she did this on the advice of 
garage E.
For these reasons, I dont find theres enough evidence for me to conclude that the 
car was not of satisfactory quality when it was supplied. So I dont find theres any 
obligation on SMF to accept Ms Fs rejection of the car, or to pay for the repairs. 
Likewise, I dont find SMF needs to compensate Ms F for the consequential losses 
that shes told us about.
I am not unsympathetic to the position in which Ms F found herself  I can see why 
not being able to drive her car when she had a young family and a partner who 
needed his car for work, would have been greatly inconvenient for her. And it would 
have been upsetting to find the car had a petrol leak which could have been 
dangerous. But I need to be fair to both parties and I cant conclude that SMF should 
be responsible for faults which an expert has concluded are due to wear and tear and 
which werent present when the car was supplied.
Following our investigators conclusions, SMF offered to refund the payments Ms F 
made from May to August 2019, plus interest. Ms F may wish to reconsider if she 
would like to now accept that offer.Ms F did not agree with my conclusions. She replied in detail to say, in summary, that:
The independent inspector said the car needed further investigation. SMF did not 
arrange this so Ms F had to get the car repaired herself.
The garage that carried out the work didnt complete its report until 10 months after it had 
carried out the repairs because this was when this service was carrying out its 
investigation of the complaint. 
The car broke down and she reported it within the first six months.
The car had been badly repaired before it was supplied to Ms F and this was what 
caused the fault, not wear and tear. The independent report does not mention that the 
wrong clamp had been used and it was this that caused the fault. The independent 
inspection was carried out extremely quickly so the inspector wouldnt have noticed that 
the wrong clamp was fitted. 
The supplying garage did not sort out the tyre because it did not accept responsibility  it 
was rectified by another garage. And, after the car broke down, the supplying garage 
only offered to look at the car after shed made many phone calls about it. When she 
spoke to the supplying garage, it laughed about the condition of the car.
Garage E told her to continue driving the car after it had identified a coolant leak; it 
advised her the car was unsafe on 24 May when it identified the fuel leak. 
There was no change in the condition of the car from when the independent inspection 
was carried out to when Garage E completed its report  she hadnt been able to drive it. 
Garage E carried out the further inspection recommended in the independent report and 
this was when the true cause of the fault was identified. Garage E spent many hours 
looking at the car and it produced a detailed and through report, which is being ignored.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ms F has pointed out some inaccuracies in my provisional decision  in particular that the 
supplying garage refused to accept there was a problem with the tyre and that it only agreed 
to look at the car after shed contacted it many times. Id earlier concluded that it wasnt 
surprising that Ms F lost faith in the supplying garage and I acknowledge that what Ms F 
says shows the supplying garage acted unprofessionally towards her. 
Ms F responded at length to my provisional decision and she obviously feels very strongly 
that the car was not of satisfactory quality when it was supplied to her. She is clear that the 
fault was not due to wear and tear but was caused by the incorrect clamp having been fitted 
- which caused the fuel leak - and the poor application of sealant around the thermostat  
which caused the coolant to leak. She is also upset that I appear to have ignored the 
findings of Garage Es investigation and report and that Ive agreed with the conclusions of a 
five minute inspection.
Firstly, I want to reassure Ms F that I have considered all the evidence shes provided, 
including Garage Es report. The evidence Ive seen is contradictory, so I have to reach my 
decision on the balance of probabilities  in other words, what I consider is most likely to have happened in light of the available evidence and the wider circumstances. I have not 
ignored the findings Garage Es report, but Ive already explained why Ive placed more 
reliance on the independent report.
Having re-considered all of the evidence in the light of Ms Fs recent comments, I dont find a 
reason to depart from my earlier conclusions. I say this for the reasons previously set out in 
my provisional decision and because:
Ms F was able to drive the car around 4,000 miles before it broke down.
She continued to drive the car, albeit on the advice of Garage E, rather than arranging 
for the coolant leak to be fixed. Its possible this made the problem worse.
Garage E did not identify a fuel leak when it first inspected the car  which leads me to 
conclude that it wasnt present when the car was supplied. 
Garage Es report contains inaccuracies and inconsistencies which calls into question 
the conclusion it reached. I cant fairly uphold this complaint solely based on what it says, 
without considering the other evidence
During our investigation, SMF offered to refund the monthly payments from May to August 
2019, plus interest, as a gesture of goodwill. Whilst I cant conclude the car was of 
unsatisfactory when it was supplied, this payment will cover the cost of the repairs that had 
to be carried out. Ms F told us she has found dealing with this complaint very draining, does 
not want to keep going over what happened, and wants to be able to focus on other things. 
Whilst I appreciate she will not agree with my conclusion, I hope this payment will allow her 
to do so.
My final decision
My decision is that Specialist Motor Finance Limited should refund Ms Fs monthly payments 
from May to August 2019 inclusive, plus interest at 8% from the date of the payment to the 
date of settlement. *
* HM Revenue & Customs requires Specialist Motor Finance Limited to take off tax from this 
interest. Specialist Motor Finance Limited must give Ms F a certificate showing how much 
tax its taken off if she asks for one.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms F to accept or 
reject my decision before 31 March 2021.
 
Elizabeth Dawes
Ombudsman