DRN-3745395
The complaint
Miss A says that TSB Bank plc (TSB) were irresponsible in providing her with an overdraft 
facility on her graduate account given her poor money management and mental health.
What happened
Miss A successfully applied for an overdraft of £2,000 along with a graduate account in 
February 2018. The overdraft was interest free for the first three years after graduation. 
Miss A complained to TSB that it never should have given her the overdraft. TSB says when 
Miss A applied for the overdraft it took into consideration her income and expenditure as well 
as internal and external credit data held on her and an affordability assessment was made. 
And based on the assessment it was satisfied Miss A would be able to repay the overdraft 
over a 12 month term. Furthermore, TSB thought there were opportunities Miss A had of 
paying back her overdraft but chose to spend the money on other non essential items. 
Miss A was dis-satisfied with this and brought her complaint to this service. 
One of our adjudicators looked into Miss As concerns and didnt think there was any 
information Miss A provided to TSB or in her account history which suggested she wouldnt 
be able to repay the overdraft within a reasonable period of time and didnt think it was unfair 
of TSB to approve the overdraft. 
Miss A disagreed and has asked for an ombudsmans decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having considered everything provided, Ive decided not to uphold Miss As complaint. Ill 
explain why in a little more detail. 
TSB needed to make sure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In practice, what this means is 
TSB needed to carry out proportionate checks to be able to understand whether Miss A 
would be able to repay what she was being lent before providing any credit to her. Our 
website sets out what we typically think about when deciding whether a lenders checks 
were proportionate. 
Generally, we think its reasonable for a lenders checks to be less thorough  in terms of 
how much information it gathers and what it does to verify it  in the early stages of a lending 
relationship. But we might think it needed to do more if, for example, a borrowers income 
was low or the amount lent was high. And the longer the lending relationship goes on, the 
greater the risk of it becoming unsustainable and the borrower experiencing financial 
difficulty. 
Ive kept all of this in mind when thinking about whether TSB did what it needed to before 
agreeing to Miss As overdraft. Miss A was given what was an open-ended credit facility. So 
overall this means the checks TSB carried out had to provide enough for it to be able to 
understand whether Miss A would be able to repay her overdraft within a reasonable period 
of time. 
TSB says Miss A opened a graduate account and applied for a £2,000 interest free overdraft 
in branch in February 2018. The application was fully credit scored taking into account 
information Miss A provided about her income and expenditure as well as information held 
by other lenders provided through credit reference checks. And based on this information 
TSB was satisfied her score was high enough to provide her with the overdraft facility she 
requested and that if needed shed be able to pay back over a 12 months period.
I can see TSBs internal notes record that her income and expenditure was reasonable and 
that she didnt pay rent or bills as she lived on campus. I accept that Miss As financial 
position may well have been worse than the credit check carried out showed or in any 
information she disclosed to TSB at the time. And it is possible that further checks might 
have told TSB this. But TSB was reasonably entitled to rely on the credit check it carried out. 
Given there is no evidence of any adverse information shown on the credit check at the time 
and the overdraft was interest free for a period based on income and expenditure declared, I 
think TSBs checks went far enough. 
Id also expect a lender to be able to show that it didnt continue to lend to a customer 
irresponsibly. So Ive considered whether there were instances where TSB didnt treat Miss 
A fairly and reasonably. And overall I dont think that TSB did treat Miss A unfairly or 
unreasonably. I say this because having looked at Miss As statements although I can see 
that although there was a short period of time when she did exceed her interest free 
overdraft limit and she was charged £29 (of which £18 was refunded), most the time Miss 
As overdraft was being managed and she wasnt incurring any charges for the use of the 
facility. 
Miss A may argue her regular use of her overdraft was in itself an indication that she was 
struggling. But while Im not seeking to make retrospective value judgements over her 
expenditure, nonetheless there are significant and at times large amounts of non-committed, 
non-contractual and discretionary transactions. 
Although I can see that Miss As income fluctuated - as did her spending - I can also see 
there were still regular cash transfers into the account and out of the account in to a savings 
account and large amounts of spending on retail and discretionary items. While these 
transactions in themselves werent enough to pay off her overdraft in full, it was certainly 
enough to bring it down and pay it off within a reasonable time should Miss A have chosen to 
do so. 
I accept this doesnt necessarily mean that Miss A wasnt experiencing financial difficulty. 
But there isnt anything in on the statements in themselves which ought to have alerted TSB 
to any potential financial difficulty. And the amount being credited to the account for the 
majority of the time didnt indicate that there was no reasonable prospect of her seeing a 
credit balance at any stage either. 
So, in these circumstances I dont think that it was unreasonable for TSB to approve and 
continue to allow Miss A to use the overdraft lending in light of how Miss As account was 
being used. 
So overall and having considered everything, I dont think that TSB treated Miss A unfairly or 
unreasonably and this means that I do not uphold this complaint. I appreciate that this will be very disappointing for Miss A. But I hope she understands the reasons for my decision and 
that shell at least feel her concerns have been listened to.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, I do not uphold Miss As complaint against TSB Bank plc. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss A to accept 
or reject my decision before 23 November 2022.
 
Caroline Davies
Ombudsman