DRN-4428705
The complaint
Mr A complains about how Admiral Insurance Company Limited (Admiral) declined a claim 
for the theft of his car under his motor insurance policy. When I mention Admiral I also mean 
its suppliers and investigators.
What happened
Mr A had a motor insurance policy with Admiral covering his car.
In February 2022 Mr A realised his car had been stolen from outside his home. He reported 
the theft to the police and made a claim.
Admiral looked into his claim and Mr A told it that hed only ever had one key for the car, 
which he gave to Admiral. The key is a card-like device, but for ease Ill refer to it as a key.
The car was found by the police and it had a key inside it.
Mr As partner said shed also had a key but she thought shed lost it.
Admiral declined the claim. It said Mr A hadnt key his keys securely or away from the car.
Mr A brought his complaint to this service. He asks that Admiral settle his claim and that it 
answers his queries about the loss. He talks about his distress during the claim and 
subsequent investigation. 
Our investigator looked into it and thought it wouldnt be upheld. He said he thought Admiral 
acted fairly in its investigation of the events and had reached a fair outcome. 
Mr A didnt agree with the view and asked that his complaint was reviewed by an 
ombudsman. So it has been passed to me to make a final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Id like to begin by noting Ive set out the background above in less detail than the evidence 
in the file. I want to assure Mr A that Ive read and considered all the available information, 
including his responses and further questions to the investigator. 
Im not going to comment on every point made and raised. No discourtesy is intended by my 
approach which reflects the informal nature of this service as an alternative to the courts.
Having considered the information in the file, Im not upholding Mr As complaint. I realise 
this will be a considerable disappointment to him and Ill explain why.
Our approach in cases like this is to consider whether the insurer has acted in line with the 
terms and conditions of the policy, and fairly and reasonably. 
I can see from the file that the car was taken from outside Mr As home. He says he locked 
the car when he entered his home as he was moving DIY materials from the car into his 
house, which needed a few trips. He says he locked the car and its lights flashed.
When he found that the car was missing, he said there wasnt any glass on the floor  which 
is the typical result when a car has been taken by force used to smash a window.
Mr As car used the key to unlock, start and relock it. The manufacturer said the car cant be 
locked with the key inside.
Admiral used an expert to write a report about the two keys. The expert reported that both 
keys had been used recently with the car. One showed it was probably a main key and the 
other more as a spare. The spare was sent by Mr A to Admiral. The main key was found 
in the car. 
When the car was recovered, one of the windows had been damaged by apparently being 
forced down in some way. Admiral said the window could not have been forced down 
against the motor.
Mr A discussed various theories with Admiral about how the theft could have happened.  
These include the existence of a third key, or that the key was taken from inside his home 
while his back was turned. Mr A has also repeatedly questioned Admirals responses. He 
says it has changed its version of events as the claim and complaint has evolved. 
The relevant part of the policy wording is this:
3. Care of your vehicle
You and any other insured person must;
 remove and secure any keys or device that allows access to your vehicle, if it is left 
unoccupied.
Failure to comply with the above could affect the amount you are able to claim, result 
in the claim being refused and/or your policy being cancelled.
As I say above, its not my role to establish how the car was taken. Its my role to examine 
Admirals actions and decide whether it has acted fairly and reasonably. 
In a situation like this, its for Mr A to prove hes suffered an insured loss. And its for Admiral 
to prove why it wont pay a claim. 
In this instance, because the car was found with the main key inside it, it seems reasonable 
to say it was likely that it was taken using this main key. 
In turn, it would seem reasonable to say that someone either stole or found the key, 
identified Mr As car and then took it.
If the key was stolen from Mr A, then its for him to prove it was stolen.
Having read the file of evidence, Im not going to speculate about how this may have 
happened as there are many possibilities about what might have taken place.
In his later correspondence to this service Mr A talks about what may have happened and 
inconsistencies in Admirals responses to him. I appreciate his comments but I dont think 
hes likely to get the certainty about what happened in February 2022, as neither party has absolute proof. 
It seems to me that the facts are that the car was taken and found with the key inside it. The 
lack of appropriate damage strongly indicates it was taken using the key. Admiral has 
investigated and found inconsistencies in Mr As version of events both before and during 
the theft event, which havent been explained by him to its satisfaction. 
I dont think Mr A has reasonably proved that the key was stolen from him, so it follows that 
Admiral has acted fairly and reasonably in rejecting Mr As claim on the basis it has. 
So I dont uphold this complaint.
My final decision
Its my final decision that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision before 7 December 2023.
 
Richard Sowden
Ombudsman