DRN-3595648
The complaint
A limited company, that Ill refer to as C, has complained about Hiscox Insurance Company 
Limiteds refusal of a claim for business interruption cover under its business insurance 
policy. 
Mr S, as a director of C, has brought the complaint on its behalf. Mr S is also represented in 
this complaint but for ease, I will refer to Mr S or C throughout. 
What happened
C is engaged in sports media activities.  In April 2020, C contacted Hiscox to make a claim 
for business interruption, as a result of the Covid-19 pandemic. 
C said that as a result of the Government restrictions imposed in March 2020, it had to close 
its business, which resulted in a loss of revenue.  
Hiscox refused the claim. C did not agree the claim was not covered. In the meantime, the 
Financial Conduct Authority (FCA) issued a business interruption insurance test case in 
which it asked the courts to consider a sample of policy wordings and how they should 
respond to the pandemic. One of the policies considered in the test case had the same 
wording as Cs policy with Hiscox. The Supreme Court handed down its judgment in January 
2021. 
Hiscox reconsidered Cs claim, following that judgment, but it maintained its refusal of the 
claim, as it did not think the outcome of Cs claim was impacted by the case. Hiscox said the 
policy provides cover for losses arising as a result of C not being able to use its premises 
following closure by a public authority. However, Hiscox said that C was not one of the types 
of business that was required to close as part of the Governments March 2020 restrictions 
and had been permitted to continue to operate. 
Hiscox also said Cs website makes clear that it is involved in various activities, including 
editorial and written content; player ratings systems; club features and so on, as well as 
video production. Hiscox said that most video production was away from the studio, so the 
studio video work was a small part of the business but in any event could continue. Hiscox 
said that any hindrance to the studio work continuing was due to measures on the 
movement of people, rather than any restriction imposed on the premises; and in any case 
the inability to use means C cannot use the studio at all and it is not established that it could 
not use the studio at all. 
Ultimately Hiscox said Cs losses were caused by the fact there was no live sport during the 
lockdown period, rather than any inability to use its premises.
One of our Investigators looked into the matter. She did not recommend the complaint be 
upheld, as she was satisfied Hiscox was entitled to refuse the claim. The Investigator said 
that whilst C may have suffered business interruption, and a loss of income, it was not a type 
of business that had been required to close by the Government in March 2020. So, it had not 
been caused an inability to use its premises, as required by the policy. The Investigator 
didnt think the claims were covered under any other part of the policy either. 
Mr S does not accept the Investigators assessment. He has made a number of submissions 
in the initial complaint and in response to the Investigator. Ive considered everything Mr S 
has said but have summarised the main points below: 
It is incorrect to only consider whether it was mandated under the Government 
restrictions to close. The Supreme Court concluded there were some instances 
where measures such as social distancing could lead to an inability to use the 
premises. 
It was able to continue office based work and those employees could work from 
home but its studio was very small, 2.5m by 3m, and each video requires three or 
four people in the studio at the same time (interviewer, interviewee, presenter, sound 
engineer and cameraman). It would have been impossible to use the studio without 
breaching social distancing regulations and the risk of prosecution from the Health 
and Safety Executive. 
There was therefore an inability to use a discrete part of the insured premises, for 
photographic and film production, which was the main part of its business.
Hiscox has misunderstood the business. Before the pandemic it was a video led 
media company. Since then it has had to change the work it does. 
Hiscox says there was no sport being played, so it couldnt have produced any 
content anyway but in fact, as there was no live sport, there was an increased 
demand for content such as interviews, discussion and analysis
It lost around £90,000 and spent around £20,000 in website development to mitigate 
losses looking for alternative ways to generate revenue. These increased costs of 
working should also be covered. 
As the Investigator was unable to resolve the complaint, it has been passed to me. 
C also later made claims in respect of the two other lockdown periods, from November 2020 
and January 2021. Hiscox turned down the second and third claims on the same basis as 
the first claim. However, as they are separate claims and relate to different periods of time, I 
am only going to address the first claim for the period from March 2020 in this decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Its evident from Cs submissions that the Covid-19 pandemic has had a significant financial 
impact. However, I wont be upholding its complaint. Ill explain why. 
Business insurance policies provide protection for some of the common things which might 
happen to a business. No policy will cover every eventuality however and each policy may 
provide different cover. 
I have considered Cs entire policy carefully. The business interruption section of the policy 
provides cover for a number of events, most of which clearly do not apply to the 
circumstances of this claim. I have considered the section of cover that both parties consider 
is relevant to this claim below: 
Public Authority 
This provides cover for losses, including increased cost of working, caused by: your inability to use the office due to restrictions imposed by a public authority during 
the period of insurance following 
b. an occurrence of a notifiable human disease  
The policy defines office as being the office space you occupy at the premises shown in 
the schedule.  
I think it is reasonable to consider this includes the studio within the offices. 
The term inability to use in relation to policies with the same wording as Bs was 
considered as part of the FCAs test case. Paragraph 129 of the Supreme Courts judgment 
said: 
The public authority clauses in Hiscox 1-4 (set out at para 111 above) do not cover 
all business interruption due to restrictions imposed by a public authority following 
an occurrence of a notifiable disease. They apply only where the interruption is 
caused by the policyholders inability to use the business premises due to such 
restrictions. 
The court went on to say, at paragraph 136: 
 an inability of use has to be established; not an impairment or hindrance in 
use. 
There were restrictions imposed by a public authority following an occurrence of Covid-19 
and Covid-19 is a notifiable human disease. I dont consider that this occurrence needed to 
have been either at or in the vicinity of the premises. And I dont consider that the restrictions 
needed to have specifically targeted Cs business alone. 
The court also made it clear that it may be possible for a business to claim for losses that 
arose out an inability to use its premises for a discrete part of its business activities. As such, 
this extension would provide cover to a business that had been caused an inability to use 
their insured premises, for all or for a discrete part of its business. So the question is whether 
or not C suffered an inability to use its premises, or a discrete part of them.
Cs premises consisted of a video production studio and offices. It accepts that office based 
staff were able to work from home but says the studio was not able to be used. 
An email from Mr S to Hiscox dated 14 May 2020 in support of the claim says C is a global 
sports entertainment website that delivers [sports] news, live scores and gaming 
information and betting tips on  matches around the world. We derive a substantial part of 
our revenues from betting company advertising and promotion, which is directly linked to live 
 match coverage of matches and match previews with betting tips. He went to say that as 
live sport shutdown, it substantially reduced its user base and revenues. It tried to continue 
and staff worked from home but our revenues from gaming for this period have been 
substantially affected by no live  [sports] and also certain other advertising promotions with 
 equipment manufacturers and sponsors.  
Mr S does not mention the studio or video led only work at this stage. I am not therefore 
persuaded that the majority of the business was video and film production. However, it 
doesnt really matter how much was to do with the studio, as if C was unable to use the 
studio, it would only be the loss of revenue directly from the studio work that would be 
covered.The Health Protection (Coronavirus, Restrictions) (England) Regulations 2020 (the March 
Regulations) were important in setting out which businesses were required to close. 
Cs business doesnt seem to fall clearly into any of the types of business specifically 
mentioned in the March Regulations, either as being a business that was required to close or 
that was permitted to stay open. Ive therefore considered all the evidence to determine 
whether it is reasonable to conclude that C was required to close. 
Non-essential shops and some other retail service industries (such as hair salons and 
leisure centres) were listed specifically as being required to close, as were theatres, 
cinemas, museums. These categories of business would all seem to be places that 
members of the public could gather or attend for recreational, non-essential retail purposes 
and sometimes for services that could not be undertaken at a distance (such as hair 
dressing services).
The regulations also stated that certain professional services firms were not required to 
close.
I also note that Section 4 (5) (a) of the 26 March 2020 Regulations stated that while theatres 
and cinemas (and other such venues) were required to close to public visitors, those 
premises could be used to broadcast a performance to people outside the premises, 
whether over the internet or as part of a radio or television broadcast. This suggests people 
could work together at venues such as Cs on content to be broadcast. 
The March Regulations also allowed people to leave home to attend work, if they were 
unable to work from home. I consider that both Cs own employees and any interviewees 
that might need to attend its premises would be seen to be travelling for the purposes of 
work when attending the premises. 
Having considered the types of businesses required to close and those that were permitted 
to stay open, as well as the comments about the use of theatres and cinemas etc for 
broadcasting, I think it is reasonable to conclude that C was not required to close the studio 
as a result of the March Regulations.  
C says that it is not just the March regulations that are relevant and that, regardless of the 
March regulations, the studio was too small to be safely used.
I agree that for there to be cover under the policy, the restrictions imposed do not 
necessarily always have to have the force of law behind them and the March regulations are 
not the only consideration. But I do consider that there must be a mandatory instruction that 
is given by a public authority which causes an inability to use the premises. And as stated 
above, the Supreme Court stated that the inability to use the premises must be absolute and 
not a mere hindrance or impairment.
There might have had to be some adjustment about how the premises were used, to comply 
with social distancing regulations and other guidance, but I dont think C was unable to use 
the studio entirely. It might not have been possible to use the studio in the way C would 
normally have done so but it seems to me this would amount to a hindrance, rather than an 
inability to use it at all. 
Whilst I do not doubt C suffered a disruption to the normal operation of its business, the 
policy requires that there be an inability to use its premises. And I do not consider C suffered 
such an inability to use its premises. As such, I do not consider Hiscox acted inappropriately 
in declining Cs claim under this section. And whilst social distancing guidelines may have made certain parts of its operation more 
difficult, the policy requires there to be an inability to use the premises. This can be 
contrasted with other policies that provide cover where there is a hindrance of use. I dont 
think making the changes to its normal operation that would have been required by these 
guidelines would have led to an inability to use the premises. So, I am satisfied Hiscoxs 
decision to decline the claim was in line with the policy, and in all the circumstances of this 
case fair and reasonable. 
Having considered the rest of the policy carefully, I do not consider there to be any area of 
cover that means Hiscox should have met Cs claim. 
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask C to accept or 
reject my decision before 17 March 2023.
 
Harriet McCarthy
Ombudsman