DRN-1715148
 
The complaint
Mr A says that Elevate Credit International Limited, trading as Sunny, lent to him 
irresponsibly.
What happened
Sunny approved 5 instalment loans for Mr A between 13 September and 23 October 2017. 
Mr A said that he was in financial difficulty and the lending made his difficulties worse. Mr A 
was unable to repay what he had borrowed and the outstanding balance across 4 of his 
loans was written off in July 2019.
Our adjudicator considered the complaint and thought that Sunny shouldn't have given Mr 
A loan 5 as his borrowing pattern showed that he was reliant on this type of credit and not 
responsibly managing his money. The adjudicator thought that by this point Sunny should 
have realised that further borrowing wasn't sustainable. Our adjudicator recommended that 
Sunny put things right for Mr A by refunding all interest and charges incurred on loan 5 and 
removing all adverse information from Mr A's credit file in relation to this loan.  
Sunny didn't agree with the adjudicators opinion and in particular said that Mr A was 
required to repay only a small amount of his declared income towards his repayments. It 
said that there was no evidence that Mr A was struggling to manage his money. Sunny 
asked for the complaint to be passed to an ombudsman for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about short-term lending - including all of 
the relevant rules, guidance and good industry practice - on our website.
Sunny needed to take reasonable steps to ensure that it didn't lend irresponsibly. In practice 
this means that it should have carried out proportionate checks to make sure Mr A could 
repay the loans in a sustainable manner. These checks could take into account a number of 
different things, such as how much was being lent, the repayment amounts and the 
consumers income and expenditure.
With this in mind, in the early stages of a lending relationship, I think less thorough checks 
might be reasonable and proportionate. But certain factors might point to the fact that Sunny 
should fairly and reasonably have done more to establish that any lending was sustainable 
for the consumer. These factors include:
the lower a customers income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make any 
loan repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income);the higher the amount due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income);
the greater the number and frequency of loans, and the longer the period of time 
during which a customer has been given loans (reflecting the risk that repeated 
refinancing may signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, 
unsustainable).
 
There may even come a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly 
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable.
I think its important for me to start by saying that Sunny was required to establish whether 
Mr A could sustainably repay his loans  not just whether the loan payments were affordable 
on a strict pounds and pence calculation.
Of course the loan payments being affordable on this basis might be an indication a 
consumer could sustainably make their repayments. But it doesn't automatically follow this is 
the case. This is because the Consumer Credit Sourcebook defines sustainable as being 
without undue difficulties and in particular the customer should be able to make repayments 
on time, while meeting other reasonable commitments; as well as without having to 
borrow to meet the repayments.
So it follows that a lender should realise, or it ought fairly and reasonably to realise, that a 
consumer wont be able to make their repayments sustainably if theyre unlikely to be able to 
make their repayments without borrowing further.
Ive carefully considered all of the arguments, evidence and information provided in this 
context and what this all means for Mr As complaint. 
Sunny has told us about the checks it did before lending to Mr A. It asked Mr A for details of 
his income and normal expenditure. And Sunny carried out checks on Mr As credit file.
I agree with the adjudicator that it wasnt wrong for Sunny to give Mr A loans 1 to 4 on the 
basis of the information he gave about his income and outgoings. It was early in the lending 
relationship and so I think the checks were enough for Sunny to agree to lend. As Mr A 
hasnt raised any objection to the adjudicators recommendation in relation to loans one to 
four, I dont think that I need to say more about them.
At the point of loan 5 I agree with the adjudicator that Mr As borrowing pattern was a cause 
for concern. Mr A had taken out four loans in September. He had only repaid loan 1 at the 
point of taking out loan 5. Taking out this many loans within such a short time frame should 
have prompted Sunny to consider whether this lending was sustainable for Mr A. His pattern 
of borrowing suggested that he was reliant on short term credit and not managing his money 
responsibly. I think that Sunny shouldnt have given Mr A loan 5.
I've taken account of what Sunny says about the flexibility of this product and the ability of 
consumers to take multiple loans. But it doesn't change my view that Sunny should have 
done more to check whether this loan was affordable and sustainable for Mr A given his 
borrowing pattern for the earlier loans.
 
 
 Putting things right - what Sunny needs to do
A) Add together the total of the repayments made by Mr A towards interest, fees and 
charges on loan 5, including any payments made to a third party if applicable, but not 
including anything it has already refunded.
B) Calculate 8% simple interest* on the individual payments made by Mr A which were 
considered as part of A, calculated from the date Mr A originally made the payments to the 
date the complaint is settled.
C) Sunny may choose to add the total of A plus B to repay any principal it has written off.
D) Sunny should pay any remaining refund to Mr A. If there is no refund left and still a 
balance outstanding made up of written off principal, Sunny should not pursue this further.
E) Remove any adverse information about loan 5 from Mr A's credit file.
*HM Revenue & Customs requires Sunny to take off tax from this interest. Sunny must 
give Mr A a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if he asks for one. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold Mr As complaint in part and direct Elevate 
Credit International Limited (trading as Sunny) to put things right as detailed above. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision before 28 May 2020.
Emma Boothroyd
Ombudsman