DRN-3025976
The complaint
Mrs H complains that Nationwide Building Society (NBS for short) wont refund a payment 
made on her credit card to a secondary ticket selling website (the Website) for two tickets 
to an event.
 
What happened
In February 2017 two tickets were purchased through the Website to attend an event in 
November 2017 using Mrs Hs NBS credit card. The total cost charged to her card was just 
over £800.
Mrs H became concerned about the accessibility of the seats for those with mobility issues 
such as herself and points to the venue noting on its own website that these seats might not 
be suitable for people with mobility issues. So Mrs H went to the venue to see for herself and 
has provided photographs of the seats in context of accessing them for someone with 
mobility issues. She says this transaction for these tickets was flawed because the Website 
didnt advertise the difficulty of accessing these seats before completing the transaction. Mrs 
H received the tickets in time but decided not to go to the event.
Mrs H also points the costs of the transaction being unclear, that the website contravenes 
certain legislation as to what should be advertised and that the access of the seating is a 
restriction on the tickets usage amongst other issues she raises. So she approached the 
Website with her complaint but was unsuccessful with it.
So Mrs H complained to NBS who looked into the matter, but it didnt think it could help. This 
was because it didnt think it could pursue a chargeback because it didnt have a reasonable 
prospect of success in its view because the tickets were provided. It also thought a Section 
75 claim under the Consumer Credit Act 1974 should be unsuccessful. So it didnt think it 
could do any more for Mrs H.
Mrs H didnt think this was fair, so she brought her complaint to our service. Our investigator 
looked into the matter. Overall, he didnt think NBS had acted unfairly by declining Mrs Hs 
request for a refund. Mrs H didnt agree. So the complaint has been passed to me to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I should make very clear that this decision is not about the secondary ticket selling Website, 
which isnt a financial service provider and so doesnt fall within my remit. Nor is it about the 
original purchaser of the tickets who then decided to sell the tickets through the secondary 
ticket selling Website (which Mrs H then bought). I can see from Mrs Hs representations to 
the Investigator after his assessment that Mrs H is (understandably) focusing on the 
behaviours of the Website. However whatever issues there maybe with the Websites 
behaviours over time it doesnt necessarily follow that NBS has treated Mrs H unfairly. And 
the question of whether or not NBS has treated Mrs H fairly is the only question I can decide 
upon in this decision. This is an important distinction which I hope Ive made sufficiently 
clear.
Mrs H accepts she made this transaction for these tickets on the day in question and that 
she did this transaction with the Website in question. She says she wasnt properly told 
about the costs involved and didnt know the total cost to be charged compared to the face 
value of the tickets.
This service has seen a number of complaints about this Website and has built up through 
these cases (and its enquiries) a detailed appreciation of the process that consumers went 
through when purchasing tickets. This understanding includes understanding changes to the 
selling process over several years and what purchasers would have seen at each stage of 
the process. 
Ive considered what this service knows about the process Mrs H would have gone through 
at the time she bought the tickets and what she would have seen on the Website at each 
stage. Having considered when these tickets were sold and what this service knows I 
appreciate that the full cost wasnt shown at the very beginning of the sales process. 
However Im satisfied on balance that when Mrs H went through the several stages/pages of 
the sales process and got towards the end of the sales process and had to enter her card 
details, the total cost to be charged to her was shown at that point which is importantly 
before she completed the transaction.
Accordingly Im satisfied the transaction was properly authorised by Mrs H and correctly 
applied to her credit card account with NBS. 
could NBS challenge the transaction through a chargeback? 
In certain circumstances, when a cardholder has a dispute about a transaction, as Mrs H 
does here, NBS (as the card issuer) can attempt to go through a chargeback process.
Indeed, were aware of cases, with some similar features to this one, where a chargeback 
has been successful. But I should add that card providers and indeed merchants may decide 
to refund the cardholder for a variety of reasons including goodwill, commercial pragmatism 
and other reasons along with outcome of the chargeback being successful through the 
actual chargeback process. So the cardholder receiving a refund doesnt necessarily mean 
that card issuers should refund every transaction similar to this one.
I dont think NBS couldve challenged the payment on the basis Mrs H didnt properly 
authorise the transaction, given the conclusions on this issue that Ive already set out.
NBS is required to consider whether there is a reasonable prospect of success when it is 
considering whether to go through the chargeback process or not. If it does go through the 
process, then it must do so properly. The supplier (the Website) would then receive that 
chargeback request and may agree to refund the payment or may contest the chargeback. If 
it contests, then NBS should consider this and then if it still feels the chargeback is 
warranted then it can take the chargeback further and ultimately to the scheme provider (not 
NBS) who will then make an independent determination on the matter. So NBS isnt solely 
responsible for the decision whether to refund or not when going through the chargeback 
process. And it can fairly decide to not proceed at any stage if it doesnt think there is a 
reasonable prospect of success.
NBS has said it couldnt raise a chargeback when Mrs H started to raise concerns about the 
seats as there was nothing persuasive to suggest that the tickets wouldnt be supplied. 
Through what Mrs H has said we know the tickets were provided. And having considered the chargeback reasons available (which are defined and limited) Im not persuaded Mrs H has 
lost out because NBS didnt raise a chargeback. I say this because I dont think there was a 
reasonable prospect of success considering the situation and the chargeback rules. I also 
think had it raised a chargeback the Website would have defended it on the basis it provided 
what it said it would and hadnt done anything wrong. So whether or not NBS should have 
raised a chargeback I dont think makes a difference because I dont think Mrs H has lost out 
here because of what NBS did.
how about the Consumer Credit Act 1974?
The transaction was made using Mrs Hs NBS credit card. Under section 75 of this Act, in 
certain circumstances, she has an equal right to claim against NBS as she does against the 
supplier (the Website) if theres been a breach of contract or misrepresentation by the 
supplier. I should make very clear here that this test is a very different test to whether Mrs H 
thinks the Website could have done things better overall. Ultimately NBS is only responsible 
in this case due to this legislation and is only responsible for those issues which are ascribed 
to it under this legislation which has significant limits to what NBS is liable for in this 
situation. This distinction between NBS and the Website is crucial in properly appreciating 
this complaint. They are not one and the same.
S56 of this Act is also important here. In summary section 56 has the effect of making NBS 
responsible during the antecedent negotiations leading up to Mrs H entering into the 
agreement. In essence this means NBS can be held responsible for the things that were 
done or said during the sales process before agreement was reached.
As Ive described the liability here under the Act has significant limitations. For instance the 
Act includes certain financial limits under S75 with regard to the amount of the transaction in 
question. Ive considered these limits and Im satisfied that Mrs Hs transaction can be 
considered under this legislation. 
Another limitation is around the nature of the relationship between parties. For a valid claim 
under Section 75 there must be a debtor-creditor-supplier arrangement in place. The 
Websites terms and conditions say:
1.2 Ticketing Exchange. [Websites name] provides a service that allows members who 
want to buy tickets ("Buyers") to find members who want to sell tickets ("Sellers"). [Websites 
name] does not take title to the underlying ticket and the actual transactions are between the 
Buyers and Sellers.
This satisfies me that the tickets arent supplied by the Website. But that the Website does 
provide a service and for this it charges buyers a fee. In regard to the fee, the Website says 
it:
charges a service fee on top of the ticket price. This fee is displayed in the check-out 
process and covers the cost of maintaining the [Websites name] platform, guaranteeing 
tickets and providing customer service.
So in effect, there is a debtor-creditor-supplier arrangement between Mrs H, NBS and the 
Website, albeit not for the direct provision of the tickets themselves. Instead, the Website 
provides a service. The service consists of two main things - the platform and the guarantee. 
So I think the Website is responsible for how ticket information (such as venue, date, time, 
and price) is displayed to buyers. Under the guarantee its responsible for providing 
replacement tickets or a refund if the seller (the original purchaser of the tickets who is now 
selling them through the Website) doesnt fulfil their obligations around supplying the tickets.For a successful claim Mrs H would need to show a breach of contract or misrepresentation 
by the Website, not as Ive said before that the Website could have done better or more. As 
Ive mentioned this service has built up a thorough understanding of the websites processes 
and what consumers saw as they navigated through the sales process. 
Clearly in any sales process things can be done better. But NBS can only be responsible 
here if there is either a breach of contract or misrepresentation which materially impacted 
Mrs Hs decision to purchase. Which is a different test than to that of whether or not Mrs H 
feels the websites sales process was fair or whether she was told every possible piece of 
information. Clearly there was no breach in delivering the tickets because the tickets Mrs H 
bought were supplied to her. It was her decision not to use the tickets and NBS wasnt 
responsible for that. And having considered the website sales process throughout from the 
time Mrs H used it, Im not persuaded she was told anything that was untrue which led her to 
buy tickets she would not have bought otherwise. Lastly it doesnt make a difference whether 
I consider this under S75 or indeed S56 because a claim under the act can only be 
successful if there is shown to be a breach of contract or a material misrepresentation. And 
Im not satisfied there is either here.
Mrs H disagrees with this. And I can see she points to a number of reasons for why she 
disagrees. Ill deal with these in turn.
Seat location
One of Mrs Hs key arguments is if shed known the seat location she would not have bought 
the tickets. But the Websites order confirmation and following order confirmation email both 
show the section number and the row number (letters) of the seats at the venue. There are 
well over fifty sections in the venue and the row number provided is one of thirteen in that 
section. So there is a high degree of detail here as to the seat locations. All of the seats in 
this row would have posed accessibility/mobility issues to her in accessing the seats. I think 
its clear Mrs H did know what section and row the seats were in. What is evident from her 
arguments is that she hadnt appreciated when she purchased the tickets that these seats 
were in the upper most tier of the venue and towards the highest area of that section. Clearly 
from the pictures shes provided this meant to access the row the seats were in required 
climbing a large number of stairs even considering the option of the lift up to that tier. Mrs H 
also points to the steepness of the stairs and there not being a handrail and these issues are 
supported by the photographs shes provided. 
This is the information that Mrs H feels wasnt made clear. To back this up she points to the 
venues own website which notes that this area of seating may not be suitable for those with 
mobility/accessibility issues. But the key issue here is NBS doesnt have the same 
responsibilities here as the Website she bought the tickets through. NBS is only liable for 
any breach of contract or misrepresentation under S75. NBS doesnt have a responsibility 
for omission of information under section 75 of the Consumer Credit Act. So although Mrs H 
clearly feels the Website is at fault here in not disclosing this information about accessibility 
of these seats any such failing on that issue doesnt apply to NBS under the Act. And 
bearing in mind NBS is only liable here due to this Act then it cannot be held liable for any 
omission here. And it should be remembered that at the point of sale neither the Website nor 
the seller of the tickets have been shown to be on notice that Mrs H had such issues.
The Competition and Markets Authority (CMA)
Mrs H points to actions taken by the CMA regarding this Website. Firstly I should point out 
this action was taken after Mrs H bought these tickets. Again I must emphasise that NBS 
and the Website are separate parties and that this decision can only consider what NBS did 
or didnt do in the context of its obligations. So although Mrs H points to these actions taken with regard to the Website that isnt persuasive to me that NBS has treated her unfairly in 
relation to its obligations under the Act or more broadly in this specific case of hers.
Consumer Rights Act (CRA)
Mrs H says that the website has broken part of the CRA specifically stating the CRA says 
The particular seat or standing area your ticket is for, including the block of seats and row 
number. Although this isnt a precise quote from the CRA the crux of this issue is that the 
CRA in this context is applying rules to secondary ticket selling sites such as the one here. 
But it doesnt follow that just because Mrs H says the Website is in contravention of the CRA 
that that makes NBS liable here. As Ive explained NBS only has liability here for breach or 
misrepresentation. And in describing the position of the seats the Website has not stated 
anything untrue. It has provided the section and row. And as Mrs H chose not to attend the 
event its no breach of contract is evident. Accordingly NBS isnt responsible for any loss for 
this reason.
Restrictions
Mrs H says the accessibility of the seats is a restriction on the ticket.  And similarly to her 
argument about the CRA more broadly that this is another example of the Websites failing 
and hence why she thinks NBS should be held accountable. Firstly and crucially the same 
argument Ive already made is in play here-just because Mrs H argues that the website 
contravenes the CRA it doesnt follow that NBS are automatically liable. Theyre only liable 
under s75 for breach and misrepresentation-neither of which Im satisfied are made out here. 
Additionally an ordinary reading of that part of the CRA is that the restriction is within the 
tickets terms about its usage (an example would be in relation to age restriction for 
attendees which you see at some events). But here there is no restriction within the tickets 
terms limiting Mrs H from using the ticket (an example would be in relation to age restriction 
for attendees which you see at some events). So it follows that there is no need to provide 
information about the restriction that isnt within its terms. Mrs H didnt use the tickets 
because of her mobility issues and her belief that there would be likely practical difficulties in 
accessing and using these seats not because there is a restrictive term within the tickets 
terms which limited the use of the ticket. Mrs H hasnt shown that the Website or the seller of 
the tickets were on notice that she had mobility issues. And notwithstanding that Im not 
persuaded there is a breach or a misrepresentation here anyway.
Website not the same as was in February 2017
In response to the assessment of the Investigator Mrs H makes the argument that the 
website looks differently now than it did when she used it in February 2017 and that the 
costs and or face value shown now on the website isnt how it looked then. This service has 
built up a wealth of information regarding the website in question through a variety of 
sources. So Im satisfied the total cost charged to Mrs Hs card was shown when she made 
the transaction here albeit that not all the costs were shown at the beginning of the sales 
process. And similar to what Ive said before just because Mrs H argues that the website 
contravenes the CRA it doesnt follow that NBS are automatically liable. NBS are only liable 
under S75 for breach and misrepresentation by the website not for any failings outside of 
breach or misrepresentation.
Media comment
Mrs H points to online comment about the website, legal processes and a vast array of other 
relevant argument about the website. Clearly much has changed since those times about 
ticket selling websites such as this. But all of that doesnt change the fact that I can only consider whether NBS has treated Mrs H fairly in its decision not to refund the cost of the 
tickets. NBS is only liable if there is breach or misrepresentation by the website and Im not 
persuaded there was. And I can only consider what NBS did here as the website isnt within 
my powers directly to decide upon.
DCS is in place for the tickets themselves
Mrs H argues that DCS is made out here for the actual ticket sales rather than as Ive 
described only for the platform and the guarantee. This is a moot argument because without 
making out breach or misrepresentation are in place here NBS cant be held liable anyway. 
But for claritys sake I shall make clear that the terms of use for this website make clear that 
it isnt selling the tickets but rather acting as an introducer or a marketplace as per the terms 
Ive quoted earlier and here, namely:
1.2 Ticketing Exchange. [Websites name] provides a service that allows members 
who want to buy tickets ("Buyers") to find members who want to sell tickets ("Sellers"). 
[Websites name] does not take title to the underlying ticket and the actual transactions are 
between the Buyers and Sellers.
So clearly the original purchaser of the tickets is who Mrs H was buying the ticket from is the 
supplier but not the party she paid-who were the Website. So Im satisfied DCS isnt in place 
for the tickets themselves and notwithstanding that issue it doesnt make a difference 
anyway as breach and misrepresentation havent been made out.
Touts and transferability
It is clear that although events and concert tickets often state that tickets are not transferable 
it is undoubtedly common practice for event venues to accept tickets which have been 
transferred or sold on. Ticket touting and services such as the Website in this case (and 
others like it) demonstrate this. So although Mrs H doesnt think such selling of secondary 
tickets is appropriate it is clear it is widespread. Furthermore Im satisfied that when she 
bought the tickets the Website made clear it was a ticket reselling website. And 
notwithstanding this Im not persuaded the tickets wouldnt have been accepted had Mrs H 
attended. So Im not persuaded NBS has done anything wrong here. 
Other cases/legal cases
Mrs H points to other cases and proceedings in other dispute avenues. There is no debate 
that pertinent questions and issues are raised about the secondary ticketing market. But 
those are not for this service or this decision of mine. I can only decide on whether NBS 
acted fairly in relation to what its obligations and what is fair and reasonable in relation to this 
transaction in that context. I should add that although I have to consider the law in my 
decision making, the rules that set out my powers make clear that Im not bound by it. I am 
obligated to make fair and reasonable decisions and give reasons for those decision which 
Im satisfied Ive done that here.
denied access to the event
Mrs H has said in response to the assessment of our Investigator that she was denied 
access to the event. Im not persuaded by this. Firstly shes not provided evidence of or even 
described being turned away from the venue on the date of the event for which the tickets 
were purchased. In response to an email from one of our Investigators Mrs H has said she 
was unable to attend the event because she visited the venue in advance to consider the 
seating and felt that due to her mobility issues she couldnt attend on the event date due to 
the lack of suitability of those seats for her mobility needs. She accepts she received the tickets. So Im not persuaded she was denied access to the event as it seems clear she 
didnt attend the venue on the day of the event nor tried to get in that day.
NBS handling of Mrs Hs claim
Mrs H has said that NBS took too long to deal with her claim and that this led to, or gave 
opportunity to, the website refusing her complaint to it. I think both this services experience 
and the significant array of media reporting that Mrs H points to, shows the Website 
concerned often takes dont agree with the complaints made to it. I think the Website would 
have responded like that whenever either Mrs H or indeed NBS contacted it.
As for how NBS dealt with her claim Im not persuaded any delays in doing so had any 
significant material impact on events. Mrs Hs decisions regarding attending the event or not 
were based on her own investigations and judgement and not predicated on NBS 
conclusions.
I can see NBS paid Mrs H £75 with regard to what had happened. I dont consider that unfair 
or unreasonable in the circumstances, so I see no reason to amend that.
Conclusions
In summary this is a decision about what NBS is responsible for. I think that Mrs H hasnt 
lost out here as I think NBS made a fair decision in not pursuing the chargeback. Im not 
persuaded that there has been a breach or misrepresentation here by the website which 
NBS is responsible for. And I think NBS correctly applied the cost of the tickets to Mrs Hs 
credit card account. So I dont think I can fairly require NBS to refund Mrs H for the tickets. 
However I must add I have a significant amount of sympathy with Mrs Hs position on this 
matter. I can appreciate that this event was to be a particularly special occasion and also an 
opportunity to witness first-hand a very enjoyable exhibition. The realisation of the difficulties 
that would have been faced had Mrs H attended (when already having purchased the tickets 
to such a wonderful opportunity) must have been a hammer blow to her. Nevertheless NBS 
is a third party here and were it not for this legislation (S75) it wouldnt have any liability here 
whatsoever. I dont think Mrs H has lost out because of how NBS has treated her overall, as 
I think it has treated her fairly. Ultimately this decision can only fairly decide on NBS based 
on how it acted and the way it treated the matter in light of its obligations and what is fair. 
Accordingly Mrs Hs complaint is unsuccessful.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I do not uphold the complaint against Nationwide Building 
Society.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs H to accept or 
reject my decision before 30 November 2021.
 
Rod Glyn-Thomas
Ombudsman