DRN-3393603
The complaint
Mr M has complained that Lloyds Bank PLC mis-sold him mortgage payment protection 
insurance.
What happened
Mr M took out his original mortgage in 1995 but did not buy PPI at that time. It was in 2000, 
whilst arranging a further advance, that Mr M was sold PPI. The policy covered the original 
mortgage and the further advance.
Our adjudicator didnt uphold the complaint. Mr M disagree with the adjudicators opinion and 
so the complaint has been passed to me for a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding this case. 
Ive decided not to uphold Mr Ms complaint and Ill explain why.
Where the evidence is incomplete (as it is here), inconclusive or contradictory, I reach my 
decision on the balance of probabilities  that is, what is considered most likely to have 
happened given the evidence that is available to me and the wider surrounding 
circumstances.
Mr M originally said that he didnt know PPI had been added to the mortgage account  
meaning it was added without his knowledge or consent. Our adjudicator then sent him a 
copy of the PPI proposal form that Mr M had signed in 2000, after which Mr M said he 
believed that he was pressured into buying the policy.
I have no doubt that Mr M has provided his genuine recollection of events. However, he has 
no clear memory of the sale and has said he couldnt remember how the policy was sold to 
him. This is not surprising given how long ago it took place.
Mr M didnt buy PPI in 1995 when first arranging the mortgage. So, when he took out PPI in 
2000, he would have known that the policy was not a condition of the lending on his existing 
mortgage. 
The address on the 2000 proposal form is slightly wrong, but that doesnt mean that the PPI 
was mis-sold.
From what we know of Lloydss branch sales process at the time, the PPI was usually 
presented as optional. I havent seen any evidence to persuade me that something different 
happened in this case. Ive thought very carefully about what Mr M have said but, overall, Im 
unable to conclude that he wasnt given a choice about taking out PPI. It seems to me that 
he probably decided to buy it, knowing that he didnt have to, even if he no longer remember 
doing so.
This was an advised sale, meaning that Lloyds recommended that Mr M buy the policy. In 
doing so, Lloyds had to ensure that the PPI met his needs. And from what I know of Mr Ms 
circumstances at the time, the policy was suitable for him.
Mr K cant recall if he would have received any sick pay from his employer. However, the 
PPI would have paid out in addition to any sick pay and potentially for longer than Mr K 
would have received full pay for. And Mr K didnt have any other means, such as savings, to 
fall back on. So it seems to me that he had a need for the cover and could have benefitted 
from it at what would have been a difficult time. 
Lloyds had to provide Mr M with sufficient information for him to be able to make an informed 
choice about whether or not the policy was right for him. I think that Mr M must have known 
something about the PPI  that it would cover his mortgage repayments if he was unable to 
work due to accident, sickness or unemployment  because I dont think hed have decided 
to buy it without knowing anything at all about it. 
I can see that Mr M was sent the policy schedule shortly after buying the PPI. This provided 
some information about the policy benefits and set out the cost. So Mr M would have known 
the cost in advance of the first premium being taken. Mr M says that Lloyds was 
overcharging him for policy, although he hasnt explained exactly what he means by that and 
I havent seen any evidence that that was the case.
Its possible that Lloyds could have provided more information about the PPI, particularly 
about the things that it didnt cover. But Mr K wasnt affected by any of those things. For 
example, he didnt have a pre-existing medical condition that might have limited his ability to 
claim under the policy. As I consider that Mr M had an interest in the PPI and decided to buy 
it, I dont think that more information would have caused him to change his mind about 
buying it. So Mr M is no worse off as a result of anything Lloyds may have done wrong, so 
there is nothing that Lloyds needs to do to put things right.
My final decision
My decision is that I do not uphold Mr Ms complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 26 April 2022. 
Carole Clark
Ombudsman