DRN-3780157
The complaint
Mr N complains that Portal Financial Services LLP (Portal) provided unsuitable advice to 
transfer his personal pension to a SIPP, causing him a loss in pension benefits.
What happened
Mr N received advice from Portal in November 2013 regarding a personal pension with a 
fund value around £31,000.
Portal documented Mr Ns objectives as being:
Potentially higher investment performance
Access to greater investment fund choice
Cheaper pension product
Ability to pass benefits to his family
Portal considered Mr N to have a balanced attitude to risk (ATR) for this pension product. 
Portal recommended that Mr N switch his existing pension to a self-invested personal 
pension (SIPP) and make monthly contributions to the new plan.
Portal recommended the following investment strategy for Mr Ns SIPP:
6.5% - Lakeview UK Investments PLC 
12% - Marbella Resort and Spa PLC 
13% - Real Estate Investments USA PLC
6% - Motion Picture Global Investments PLC
12.5% - Strategic Residential Developments PLC
40% - Split evenly across four regulated investment funds
10% - cash
Mr N followed Portals recommendation. Mr N subsequently became concerned that the 
advice hed received from Portal wasnt suitable for him. His complaint was made to Portal 
via a representative. But for simplicity, I will simply refer to Mr N through this decision. 
Portal explained to Mr N that it didnt think that Mr N had made his complaint within the time 
limits set out in the dispute handling rules in the regulators handbook (DISP). So didnt 
consider the merits of the complaint.
Mr N brought his complaint to our service. And the question of jurisdiction was considered by 
an ombudsman who explained why Mr Ns complaint had been made in time. He decided 
that the case was something we could investigate.
Our investigator then issued her opinion on the merits of Mr Ns complaint. She explained 
why she didnt think Portals advice had been suitable for Mr N. And proposed a way to put 
things right.
Portal didnt agree and asked for an ombudsman to consider the matter. I looked into what 
happened and issued a provisional decision explaining that I also thought that Mr Ns 
complaint should be upheld. But I suggested a slightly different way for Portal to put things 
right. I allowed both parties time to consider my provisional finding and submit further 
evidence or comment that may change my mind.
Mr N has responded to say that he agreed with my provisional finding. Portal offered no 
additional comment and have introduced no additional evidence for me to consider.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having considered everything again, Im still satisfied that the view I reached previously was 
fair and reasonable. Ive seen no arguments to change my mind. Ive decided to uphold 
Mr Ns complaint for the following reasons, that were previously explained to both parties in 
my provisional decision.
Portal conducted a fact-find that established that Mr N didnt intend to access benefits in his 
pension until age 65. Which was still around fourteen years off. So he had a long term for 
investing his pension. And he wasnt in a position to have any firm ideas about how he might 
want to take those benefits in the future.
Portal assessed Mr Ns ATR as being balanced. It based this assessment on a questionnaire 
it completed with Mr N. Ive looked at the responses on that questionnaire and note that 
there were a number of answers that ought to have indicated that Mr N may not have had 
much appetite for risk. For example, the questionnaire indicated that Mr N:
Was comfortable investing in the stock market;
Generally looked for safer investments even if that meant lower returns;
Preferred bank deposits to riskier deposits;
Tended to be anxious about investment decisions;
Would prefer to increase the amount being saved rather than take chances with high 
risk investments;
Wasnt concerned about the volatility of stock market.
These things would indicate Mr N had little investment experience and preferred safer 
investments. Although it did indicate he was actually comfortable with his pension being 
invested in the stock market. As is sometimes the case, the responses on the questionnaire 
provided conflicting information. In this instance, Mr N also indicated that he:
Was willing to take substantial investment risks to earn substantial returns;
Preferred alternative investments that are less volatile even if it reduced liquidity.
The use of tools like this questionnaire arent uncommon. It wasnt wrong to use a 
questionnaire. It could be useful to assist in determining ATR. But Portal should have been 
considering this in the overall context of Mr Ns circumstances and knowledge. Mr N had no 
evidence of investment experience. And where conflicts arise in questionnaire responses, as 
was the case here, advisers should probe this with the customer in order to come to an 
agreed understanding of the customers ATR. I cant see that Portal did this. As a consequence, Im not certain that Portal were correct in assuming that Mr N had a 
balanced ATR. As Ive indicated, I think his lack of financial awareness, coupled with the 
responses he gave, most likely placed his ATR lower than that.
I also disagree with Portals assessment that Mr N had a sufficient capacity for loss on this 
pension. Portal offered little commentary in its suitability report. It simply provided generic 
comments regarding factors that influence capacity for loss. Then concluded I believe you 
have a suitable level of capacity for loss for the recommendation we have made for you. I 
accept that Mr N intended to continue making contributions to his pension. So had time to 
make up some losses. And he had equity in his property. So he did have some capacity for 
loss. But he had no other investments, so the security of this pension fund was very 
important to his retirement. So, whilst he had some capacity for loss, I think it was low. He 
couldnt really afford, for example, to be exposed to high risk or unproven investments, with 
the chance that they could default.
Portal recommended that Mr N transfer his pension to a SIPP. It did this because it said that 
delivered Mr Ns objectives  outlined above in the background. So Ill give my thoughts on 
those objectives in turn.
I will consider the objective of improved investment performance first. Most investors are 
likely to want the best performance from their pension. Within the limits of the risk that 
theyre prepared to accept. Portal identified that Mr Ns previous pension averaged 8.31% 
growth a year over the previous 5 years. At that time industry projections for low / medium / 
high investment growth were 5% / 7% / 9% respectively. So it isnt clear that his pension was 
performing poorly given Mr Ns ATR. Or that Mr N was unhappy with those returns. 
However, Mr N may well have been interested in moving his pension if the likelihood of 
better returns was high enough. But Portal werent able to offer guarantees of that. 
Portals recommendation concluded with the statement by investing in the personal pension 
you will benefit from a wide selection of funds to ensure that your pension will achieve the 
best possible growth in the most effective funds. Which was likely to be persuasive for Mr N, 
coming from a trusted financial adviser. But I dont think that the suitability report gave 
sufficient explanation to support that finding. It provided no comparative performance 
projections to indicate to what extent Mr Ns pension performance might have been 
improved. Overall Im not convinced that a switch was really justified on the basis of 
improving performance.
The suitability report recommended investments  listed above in the background. Some of 
these recommendations related to investments that Portal were describing as secured 
bonds. It explained that they were fixed term investments and that they were illiquid  not 
easily bought or sold. Portal explained that the investments were secured against assets 
such as land or property. Which I think gave the impression that they were quite safe. It 
explained the target returns on each of the secured bonds. These varied from 7% to 11%. 
But Portals recommendation failed to adequately explain the unregulated nature of these 
investments. And the potential for the loss of the entire investment in the event that the fund 
defaulted.
The following investment recommendations that Portal made were unregulated collective 
investment schemes (UCIS):
Lakeview UK Investments plc
Marbella Resort and Spa plc
Real Estate Investments USA plc
Motion Picture Global Investments plc
Strategic Residential Developments plcThese investments were not regulated by the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA). They were 
collective investments  structures where many investors pool their money to be invested in 
the specified way.
At the time that Portal made its recommendation to Mr N, the FCA had already published a 
report in 2010 about good and poor practice regarding UCIS. It highlighted its concern that 
UCIS were being recommended to customers for whom they werent suitable. These types 
of funds can have a high degree of volatility. They didnt provide a great deal of past 
performance on which Portal could base its recommendation. They ought to have been 
treated as speculative investments, and even where suitable for the right type of customer, 
only considered for a small part of an investment portfolio. Instead, Portal recommended that 
Mr N invest 50% of his entire savings into these unsuitable product types.
I think that Portals description of these funds misrepresented them as potentially being quite 
safe. It should have made it clearer that these funds were unregulated and offered no 
protection through the Financial Services Compensation Scheme (FSCS) in the event that 
the schemes defaulted. Having looked at these investments, for the reasons Ive explained, I 
dont think they were suitable for Mr Ns ATR or his capacity for loss. 
Ill now consider the objective of access to greater fund choice. A SIPP most likely offered 
that. It certainly meant that these UCIS only became available to Mr N because of the 
recommendation to transfer to the SIPP. Having a greater range of options might have been 
a reason to recommend a transfer, if the existing pension didnt already have suitable 
options. But Portal havent shown that it considered the existing fund choices in his previous 
personal pension. And I consider it highly likely that there was little wrong with either his 
existing investment or an alternative with the same provider. 
Theres little compelling evidence to suggest that Mr N expressed an interest in 
unconventional or unregulated investments. He had no investment experience and showed 
no indication that he wanted to have any control or regular input over the way his pension 
fund was invested. The sums available to invest were quite modest. So I dont think he 
needed the range of fund options that warranted a SIPP. 
And I cant see that there were any other convincing reasons to justify the transfer either. 
The SIPP had an annual platform charge of 0.5% which was lower than the 0.9% charge on 
his existing personal pension. But the more complex nature of the investment choices meant 
it was more likely that Mr N would need ongoing reviews. Which he agreed to with Portal 
costing another 1% a year. This introduced a further cost that might not have been 
necessary if hed remained in his existing scheme. 
It was also likely that the funds that would be held in the SIPP wrapper would also have 
charges that Portal didnt adequately explain or take into consideration. The suitability report 
merely said a fee may also be charged by the investments that your pension funds invest in. 
Such fees will be made clear to you in your provider quotations but may for example 
represent 0.5% of the value of the amount invested in the investment. Having 
recommended specific funds, Portal ought also to have established the costs of those funds 
and the impact of all of the charges on Mr Ns pension. Overall, I think that Portal 
recommended a more expensive option for Mr N than his existing pension.
It follows that, for the reasons Ive given, Portals recommendation, that Mr N transfer from 
his existing scheme to a SIPP, was unsuitable. The scheme that he had, appeared to meet 
his objectives. Portal made no reference to the type of investments he held in that scheme, 
or whether they matched his ATR or not. I dont think it gave much consideration to the idea 
that it may have been in Mr Ns interests to leave his pension where it was. But for Portals unsuitable recommendation, I think its more likely than not that Mr N would have remained 
in his previous personal pension.
Putting things right
Fair compensation
My aim is that Mr N should be put as closely as possible into the position he would 
probably now be in if he had been given suitable advice.
I think Mr N would have remained with his previous provider, however I cannot be certain 
that a value will be obtainable for what the previous policy would have been worth. Im 
satisfied that what Ive set out below is fair and reasonable, taking this into account and 
given Mr N's circumstances and objectives when he invested.
What must Portal do?
To compensate Mr N fairly, Portal must:
Compare the performance of Mr N's investment with the notional value if it had 
remained with the previous provider. If the actual value is greater than the notional 
value, no compensation is payable. If the notional value is greater than the actual 
value, there is a loss and compensation is payable.
Portal should add interest as set out below.
If there is a loss, Portal should pay into Mr N's pension plan to increase its value by 
the amount of the compensation and any interest. The amount paid should allow for 
the effect of charges and any available tax relief. Compensation should not be paid 
into the pension plan if it would conflict with any existing protection or allowance.
If Portal is unable to pay the compensation into Mr N's pension plan, it should pay 
that amount direct to him. But had it been possible to pay into the plan, it would 
have provided a taxable income. Therefore the compensation should be reduced to 
notionally allow for any income tax that would otherwise have been paid. This is an 
adjustment to ensure the compensation is a fair amount  it isnt a payment of tax to 
HMRC, so Mr N wont be able to reclaim any of the reduction after compensation is 
paid.
The notional allowance should be calculated using Mr N's actual or expected 
marginal rate of tax at his selected retirement age.
Its reasonable to assume that Mr N is likely to be a basic rate taxpayer at the 
selected retirement age, so the reduction would equal 20%. However, if Mr N would 
have been able to take a tax free lump sum, the reduction should be applied to 75% 
of the compensation, resulting in an overall reduction of 15%.
Income tax may be payable on any interest paid. If Portal deducts income tax from the 
interest, it should tell Mr N how much has been taken off. Portal should give Mr N a tax 
deduction certificate in respect of interest if Mr N asks for one, so he can reclaim the tax on 
interest from HM Revenue & Customs if appropriate.
Portfolio 
nameStatus Benchmark From ("start 
date")To ("end 
date")Additional 
interest
Novia SIPP Still exists 
but illiquidNotional value 
from previous 
providerDate of 
investmentDate of my 
final 
decision8% simple per 
year from final 
decision to 
settlement (if 
not settled within 28 days 
of the 
business 
receiving the 
complainant's 
acceptance)
Actual value
This means the actual amount payable from the investment at the end date.
It may be difficult to find the actual value of the portfolio. This is complicated where an 
asset is illiquid (meaning it could not be readily sold on the open market) as is likely to be 
the case here.
Portal should take ownership of the illiquid assets by paying a commercial value acceptable 
to the pension provider. The amount Portal pays should be included in the actual value 
before compensation is calculated.
If Portal is unable to purchase the illiquid assets the actual value should be assumed to be 
nil for the purpose of calculation. Portal may require that Mr N provides an undertaking to 
pay Portal any amount he may receive from the investment in the future. That undertaking 
must allow for any tax and charges that would be incurred on drawing the receipt from the 
pension plan.
Portal will need to meet any costs in drawing up the undertaking.
Notional Value
This is the value of Mr N's investment had it remained with the previous provider until the 
end date. Portal should request that the previous provider calculate this value.
Any additional sum paid into the Novia SIPP should be added to the notional value 
calculation from the point in time when it was actually paid in.
Any withdrawal from the Novia SIPP should be deducted from the notional value calculation 
at the point it was actually paid so it ceases to accrue any return in the calculation from that 
point on. If there is a large number of regular payments, to keep calculations simpler, Ill 
accept if Portal totals all those payments and deducts that figure at the end to determine 
the notional value instead of deducting periodically.
If the previous provider is unable to calculate a notional value, Portal will need to determine 
a fair value for Mr N's investment instead, using this benchmark: For half the investment: 
FTSE UK Private Investors Income Total Return Index; for the other half: average rate from 
fixed rate bonds. The adjustments above also apply to the calculation of a fair value using 
the benchmark, which is then used instead of the notional value in the calculation of 
compensation.
The Novia SIPP only exists because of illiquid assets. In order for the Novia SIPP to be 
closed and further fees that are charged to be prevented, those investments need to be 
removed. Ive set out above how this might be achieved by Portal taking over the 
investment, or this is something that Mr N can discuss with the provider directly. But I dont 
know how long that will take.Third parties are involved and we dont have the power to tell them what to do. If Portal is 
unable to purchase the investment, to provide certainty to all parties I think its fair that it 
pays Mr N an upfront lump sum equivalent to five years worth of wrapper fees (calculated 
using the fee in the previous year to date). This should provide a reasonable period for the 
parties to arrange for the Novia SIPP to be closed.
Why is the above benchmark suitable?
Ive chosen this method of compensation because:
Mr N wanted Capital growth with a small risk to his capital.
If the previous provider is unable to calculate a notional value, then I consider the 
measure below is appropriate.
The average rate for the fixed rate bonds would be a fair measure for someone 
who wanted to achieve a reasonable return without risk to his capital.
The FTSE UK Private Investors Income total return index (prior to 1 March 2017, 
the FTSE WMA Stock Market Income total return index) is made up of a range of 
indices with different asset classes, mainly UK equities and government bonds. Its 
a fair measure for someone who was prepared to take some risk to get a higher 
return.
I consider that Mr N's risk profile was in between, in the sense that he was prepared 
to take a small level of risk to attain his investment objectives. So, the 50/50 
combination would reasonably put Mr N into that position. It does not mean that 
Mr N would have invested 50% of his money in a fixed rate bond and 50% in some 
kind of index tracker investment. Rather, I consider this a reasonable compromise 
that broadly reflects the sort of return Mr N could have obtained from investments 
suited to his objective and risk attitude.
My final decision
I uphold the complaint. My final decision is that Portal Financial Services LLP should pay 
the amount calculated as set out in putting things right above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr N to accept or 
reject my decision before 30 November 2022.
 
Gary Lane
Ombudsman