DRN-3653641
The complaint
Mr P is unhappy that CB Payments Ltd wont refund money he lost as a result of a scam.
What happened
In July 2020, Mr P fell victim to an investment scam. As part of the scam he opened a CB 
Payments account and deposited funds into it from his bank account. He used those funds 
to purchase cryptocurrency from a separate business, Coinbase UK. That cryptocurrency 
was deposited into a cryptocurrency account provided by the same firm before being sent off 
the Coinbase platform to the fraudsters. Mr P says that the fraudsters used software to 
control his computer and carried out some of the transactions themselves. He lost around 
£15,000 between July and September 2020.
Mr P complained to Coinbase (responding on behalf of both CB Payments and Coinbase 
UK) that it hadnt done enough to prevent him falling victim to the scam. Coinbase said that it 
had no relationship with the recipient of his cryptocurrency, it couldnt recover his money and 
as hed carried out all of the activity himself, it wasnt responsible for his loss. 
Mr P referred the matter to our service. CB Payments argued that we had no power to 
consider the complaint as it didnt relate to the electronic money activities provided by CB 
Payments, but rather the unregulated cryptocurrency activities provided by Coinbase UK. 
One of our investigators looked into the complaint. They thought there were aspects of it that 
we could consider  specifically those which related to whether CB Payments had carried 
out adequate checks when he opened his account and whether it had properly monitored his 
account for unusual or out of character activity. But, having reviewed those aspects of Mr Ps 
complaint, the investigator concluded that CB Payments hadnt made a mistake. 
Mr P didnt agree. He said that it hadnt questioned the significant sums that had passed 
through his account, despite anti-money laundering regulations suggesting it should have 
done. He also pointed to guidance issued by the regulator which provides examples of good 
practice in relation to protecting customers from financial harm from fraud. He argued that 
the nature and frequency of the transactions which took place ought to have given CB 
Payments significant concern.
As no agreement could be reached, the case was passed to me for a final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
There doesnt appear to be any dispute that our service cannot consider the actions of 
Coinbase UK, so I dont need to comment on this further. And, though Mr P has said that the 
fraudsters took control of his computer, I havent seen any evidence to suggest that he didnt 
consent to the purchases of cryptocurrency. So, the starting point is that he, rather than CB 
Payments, is responsible for the loss.
However, in line with good industry practice, I agree that CB Payments should monitor its 
customers accounts for activity that might suggest a customer was at risk of financial harm. 
This should include monitoring account activity for transactions that are unusual or out of 
character. In some circumstances, it should take additional steps, or carry out additional 
checks, before processing a payment, or in some cases decline to make a payment 
altogether, to help protect customers from the possibility of financial harm from fraud.
In this case I can see that Mr P was instructed to open his CB Payments account by the 
fraudster for the purpose of investing in the fraudulent scheme. That meant there wasnt any 
genuine account activity to compare the activity against and CB Payments wouldnt be able 
to understand what typical account activity for Mr P was.
I also have to take into account that the activity of depositing funds into a CB Payments 
account and purchasing cryptocurrency is (along with withdrawing funds back to a bank 
account) essentially the only activity which a CB Payments account can be used for. So that 
activity carried out by Mr P isnt likely to have stood out as being unusual. Its also the case 
that the purchase of cryptocurrency using a CB Payments account is, in effect, a transfer of 
funds between two accounts under the customers control. 
So, taking all of that into account, I cant agree that the frequency and amounts of the 
transactions meant that CB Payments ought to have been concerned that Mr P was at risk of 
financial harm from fraud. 
Turning to the other points made by Mr P, Im afraid that some of what hes pointed to only 
applies to banks and not to CB Payments, as an electronic money institution. While anti-
money laundering regulations do apply to CB Payments, their aims (that is primarily to 
prevent the laundering of criminal funds) arent always consistent with preventing financial 
harm from fraud. 
Theres no dispute here that Mr P invested his own, legitimate funds and it was him that 
opened his account (albeit under the instruction of the fraudsters). Its also clear that CB 
Payments did not know that the eventual destination of the funds was a criminal enterprise 
and, as already mentioned, the pattern of transaction was in line with what might be 
expected for an account of this type. It did not indicate that there was any attempt by Mr P to 
disguise the source or destination of the funds and neither would there have been any 
concerns that the activity did not serve a lawful purpose. 
Mr P suggests that CB Payments had greater obligations to him because he was vulnerable 
to scams of this type. Though I accept that he appears to have little experience of investing 
in cryptocurrency, I havent seen anything to suggest that he was particularly susceptible to 
financial harm from fraud or that CB Payments ought to have been aware of a heightened 
risk before he carried out the transactions.
Unless CB Payments had contacted Mr P and made some fairly detailed enquiries about his 
intentions and the circumstances surrounding the payments, I dont think the scam could 
have come to light. Contrary to Mr Ps submissions, I think it would only have that obligation 
where it had cause to be concerned about the activity. And, for the reasons Ive explained, I 
dont think it ought to have been.
Finally, Im satisfied that there would have been no prospect of recovering Mr Ps funds in 
these circumstances  given that they were sent off the Coinbase platform, in 
cryptocurrency, to the fraudsters. 
Im sorry to disappoint Mr P and I know hes been the victim of a cruel scam, but I dont find 
that CB Payments are responsible for his loss.My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, I do not uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision before 25 November 2022.
 
Rich Drury
Ombudsman