DRN-1676996
The complaint
Mr A is unhappy that National Westminster Bank Plc suspended the use of his debit card 
while he was abroad, despite him having informed it in advance of his travel plans.
What happened
Mr A has a current account with NatWest. He was travelling abroad for a holiday with his 
partner. He says when he was in branch, on two separate occasions in the week leading up 
to departure, he told counter staff where he was travelling to and that he intended to use his 
card.
Mr A tried on three occasions while abroad to make cash withdrawals using his debit card. 
But these were unsuccessful. He contacted NatWest and it informed him the transactions 
had been declined for fraud prevention. Mr A says he attempted to verify the transactions 
and reinstate the use of the card, but he was unable to do so during his call with NatWest. 
As a result, he could not use the card for the remainder of his trip. 
Mr A complained to NatWest. He was unhappy that the card had been stopped despite him 
notifying it in advance of where he was travelling to and he was also unhappy that NatWest 
had not allowed the card to be reinstated  leaving him with no access to money while out of 
the country. He said that the holiday had been spoiled by this.
NatWest didnt think it had done anything wrong by blocking the transactions as its actions 
were intended to protect it and Mr A against potential fraud. And notifying it in advance of 
travel plans would not mean that transactions would not be subject to review. It explained 
that the card had not been reinstated during the call Mr A made as he hadnt passed security 
verification to allow it to do so. NatWest did agree to cover the call costs Mr A incurred when 
trying to resolve this while overseas (approximately £140) and sent him a gift, in recognition 
of the disappointment of not being able to use the card and the impact on his holiday. During 
Mr As call with NatWest about his complaint, which NatWest has provided a recording of, 
Mr A initially indicated he was happy with this resolution. But on reflection he asked our 
service to look into the complaint.
An investigator considered the complaint but felt that NatWest hadnt acted unfairly, and its 
actions were ultimately to protect Mr As account from potential fraud. As a result, he felt the 
gesture made by NatWest to address the complaint was fair.
Mr A disagreed. As a result, the complaint has been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The terms and conditions of Mr As account explain that NatWest can suspend or stop 
access to the account or particular services, such as the associated debit card, if it 
reasonably suspects it might be being used without the account holders permission. Indeed, it is common industry practice for businesses to have measures like this in place. NatWest 
has said that it blocked the card because it had concerns that the transactions attempted 
overseas may not have been genuine. And I dont think NatWest acted unreasonably in 
doing so.
Mr A has said that he informed NatWest in branch about his travel plans to avoid this 
happening. And I can understand why the card subsequently being blocked was frustrating. 
But NatWest has explained that, even with a travel marker in place, this does not mean that 
transactions would not be subject to its usual security checks. And it was these security 
checks that raised concerns and prompted the account to be blocked. Businesses have the 
right to determine their own internal processes using their commercial discretion. Our service 
is not a regulator, so it is not our role to interfere with or tell a business that it must alter its 
processes. And NatWest has explained that it has followed its usual processes here, which 
apply even when a travel marker is in place. So, I dont think it has acted unfairly.
In terms of Mr A not being able to verify and reinstate his card whilst overseas, NatWest has 
explained, and Mr A has acknowledged, this was because he didnt successfully complete 
security checks when he spoke to NatWest. I know Mr A has queried the questions he was 
asked. But again, I havent seen anything to suggest NatWest has acted unfairly or outside 
of its usual process. And if it isnt sure it is speaking to the account holder, then I think it is 
entitled to exercise caution. So again, I dont think I can reasonably say it did anything wrong 
here.
I dont doubt that this was upsetting and frustrating for Mr A. And Ive taken on board what 
hes said about the purpose of the holiday and that it was spoiled somewhat by what 
happened. But as I dont think NatWest has done anything wrong in blocking the card, I think 
what it has already done to address matters  refunded the call charges incurred while Mr A 
was abroad and provided a gift for the disappointment caused  is a fair way to resolve 
Mr As complaint. So, I dont intend to require it to do any more.
My final decision
For the reasons given above my decision is that I dont uphold Mr As complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision before 6 July 2020.
Ben Stoker
Ombudsman