DRN-3649404
The complaint
Mr B has complained that HDI Global SE unfairly turned down his business interruption 
insurance claim after he was forced to close his business premises due to the Covid-19 
pandemic.
Mr B is represented in this complaint but, for ease of reading, Ill refer to all actions and 
comments as being those of Mr B.
What happened
Mr B held a business interruption insurance policy with HDI. He operates a restaurant.
As a result of the restrictions imposed by the Government in response to Covid-19 Mr B 
closed his restaurant closed his restaurant following the Prime Ministers announcement on 
20 March 2020. 
Mr B claimed on the policy. HDI declined the claim. It said Mr B hadnt shown thered been 
accidental damage to property as a result of Covid-19. It also said he hadnt shown thered 
been an occurrence of a notifiable human disease at the premises.
Mr B complained to HDI. He thought his claim should be covered under various sections of 
the policy. Unhappy with HDIs response, Mr B brought a complaint to us. He thought his 
claim should be covered under the following different sections of the policy and made the 
following points:
 
Accidental damage
Mr B said accidental damage is covered by the policy. It referred to the case of MDS Inc. 
v Factory Mutual Insurance Company (2020) in support of his view that the policy should 
cover a loss of use of his premises even where there wasnt physical damage. Mr B said 
there were no exclusions in the policy which applied to the claim. He added that where a 
policy wording is ambiguous, it should be read in favour of the policyholder.
Closure of Premises due to Covid-19
Mr B said he couldnt prove there were Covid-19 cases on his premises at the time of 
closure because there wasnt widespread testing at that time. But there had been a large 
number of confirmed cases in the local area. He thought the spread of Covid-19 across 
the UK and the Governments response to the pandemic had caused his loss. He pointed 
out there was no exclusion in the policy for business interruption due to forced 
government shutdown. Mr B also said the closure of the premises was due to sanitation 
issues as it wasnt safe for people to be in close proximity to each other.
Denial of access
Mr B said due to the outbreak of Covid-19 within the local area he had been denied access 
to the premises and suffered a loss as a result.
Other factors
Mr B pointed out that Covid-19 wasnt excluded by the policy.
Our Investigator looked into Mr Bs complaint but didnt recommend it be upheld as he 
didnt think the policy provided cover for the circumstances of his claim.
Mr B told us he recalled having Covid-19 symptoms on 18 March 2020. He was in the 
restaurant from 19 to 23 March. He suffered the same symptoms earlier this year and has 
produced evidence of a positive lateral flow test in March 2022. He thought it was highly 
likely hed also had Covid-19 in March 2020. 
He asked for an Ombudsmans decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr B has made a number of detailed points. I wont address them all but will instead focus 
on what I see as the central issues to this complaint.
Im sorry to hear that the pandemic and the Governments related actions had an impact on 
Mr Bs business. But I dont intend to uphold his complaint. Ill explain why.
Business interruption insurance offers protection from risks common to a business, but 
different policies can provide different types of cover. What is and isnt covered is set out in 
the policy terms and conditions. Ive therefore looked carefully at this particular policy to see 
whether HDI has acted fairly, reasonably and in line with the terms and conditions of the 
policy when declining Mr Bs claim.
Accidental damage
One of the grounds of Mr Bs claim is for accidental damage. The policy covers:
Damage to the Property used by the Insured for the purposes of the Business carried on 
by the Insured at the Premises during the Period of Insurance from the Insured Perils under 
Section 1
a) resulting in interruption or interference with the Business.
Accidental damage is listed as one of the Insured Perils in Section 1 of the policy. 
Property is defined as:
a) Buildings Tenants Improvements Contents Computers Computer Records Stock 
Domestic Contents and in respect of Section 1 of the Policy such other items to which 
cover is expressly extended in Section 1 of the Policy or Schedule or 
b)  in respect of Section 3 of the Policy Covered Equipment Computer Equipment and 
such other items to which cover is expressly extended in Section 3 of the Policy 
Therefore, for cover to apply, Mr Bs Property (as defined above) would need to have been 
accidentally damaged by Covid-19. I havent seen anything to persuade me that Covid-19 
caused accidental damage to Mr Bs property.
Mr B has referred to the Canadian case of MDS Inc. v Factory Mutual Insurance Company 
(2020) which I understand has since been overturned. In any event Ive considered other 
cases which I think are relevant to the circumstances of this complaint, including TKC 
London Ltd v Allianz Insurance PLC [2020] EWHC 2710 (Comm), Merlin v British Nuclear Fuels Plc [1990] 2 QB 557 and Hunter v London Docklands Development Corporation [1996] 
2 WLR 348.
I think for damage to have occurred, there would need to have been a physical change or 
altered state to Mr Bs property which made it less valuable. There is no evidence that this 
happened. In theory its possible damage could be said to have occurred if specialist 
cleaning were required to remove a cause of potential damage. However, theres also no 
evidence that Mr Bs premises needed specialist cleaning. So, I am not persuaded that there 
was accidental damage to his property. And it follows that HDI was correct to say his claim is 
not covered under this part of his policy.
'
Closure of Premises due to Covid-19
The policy extends cover to include loss: 
resulting from interruption  or interference  with the Business  in consequence  of
1. Premises  Closure  or Restrictions
a) closure  or restrictions  placed  on the Premises  on the advice  of or with the 
approval  of the Medical  Officer  of Health  for the Public  Authority  as a result  of a 
Notifiable  Human  Disease  occurring  at the Premises  ...
The effect of this is that the policy requires the closure of the premises to have been the 
result of a case of a notifiable human disease occurring at the premises. HDI accepts that 
Covid-19 is a Notifiable Human Disease for the purposes of the policy.
So, in order to uphold this complaint, Id need to decide that Mr B has shown there was most 
likely a case of Covid-19 at his business premises. I dont think he has shown this is most 
likely and Ill explain why.
Widespread testing wasnt available towards the start of the pandemic, and the Government 
advised people to avoid using health services if they were displaying symptoms of Covid-19, 
save for emergencies. Its therefore rare that a business will be able to produce a positive 
test result from that period. And to treat that as a requirement to demonstrate a case on the 
premises would, in my view, be unfair. Its therefore necessary to take a more pragmatic 
approach, and to consider whether other evidence can be provided that supports, on the 
balance of probabilities, that Covid-19 occurred at the insured premises prior to closure. As 
with any insurance claim, the burden of proof initially rests with the policyholder to 
demonstrate that theyve suffered a loss their policy covers. 
Mr B says he had symptoms of Covid-19 from 18 March 2020 and that he was on the 
premises for the next four days. I have to bear in mind that many people who were unwell at 
that time didnt have Covid-19 and that the symptoms of Covid-19 are similar to those of a 
number of other infections or illnesses. I cant assume that Mr B would have had Covid-19 in 
March 2020 just because he had similar symptoms and tested positive in 2022. And given 
that I only have his testimony to support this part of the claim, I dont have enough evidence 
to conclude that there was most likely a case of Covid-19 at Mr Bs premises. 
While there is nothing in the policy that specifically excludes business interruption due to 
forced government shutdown, there is also nothing in the policy which implies it provides 
cover for this if Covid-19 didnt occur at the premises prior to closure. I dont think the policy 
can fairly be read to cover a lockdown. So even though there were a large number of 
confirmed cases in the local area, the policy doesnt cover this part of Mr Bs claim.
The same extension also covers business interruption or interference as a result of:closure of the whole or part of the Premises by order of the Public Authority consequent 
upon closure of the whole or part of the Premises by order of the Public Authority 
consequent upon defects in the drains and other sanitation at the Premises.
Mr B said that his restaurant closed because safe social distancing couldnt be maintained 
and that resulted in a closure due to health and sanitation issues. But I dont think the need 
for social distancing can reasonably be considered to be a defect in the sanitation at the 
premises.
Denial of access
The relevant part of this extension covers loss arising from:
"Damage from the Insured Perils to property within a one mile radius of the Premises 
which shall prevent or hinder the access to the lnsured's Premises whether or not there 
has been Damage to the Premises  or Property  of the Insured  ... subject  to a maximum  
of £100,000  for any one loss."
The policy again requires there to have been damage to property. I havent seen anything to 
indicate that Covid-19 caused damage to property within a one-mile radius of Mr Bs 
premises preventing or hindering access to his premises. Therefore, I dont think this 
extension covers the claim.
Other factors
I havent seen anything to persuade me that the policy could properly be considered as 
ambiguous 
I appreciate my decision will be disappointing to Mr B. But, having considered the matter 
carefully, I dont think I can fairly require HDI to pay his claim.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 28 October 2022.
 
Elizabeth Grant
Ombudsman