DRN-3780815
The complaint
Mr H complains that Lloyds Bank Plc didnt do enough to protect him from falling victim to an 
investment scam.
Mr H has brought his complaint with the assistance of a representative. But for ease of 
reading, Ill ascribe the representatives comments to Mr H himself. 
What happened
The detailed background to this complaint is well known to both parties. So, Ill only provide 
a brief overview of some of the key events here. 
Mr H was looking to make an investment and in 2021 he made payments using his Lloyds 
debit card which totalled around £3,500. The payments were made to legitimate 
cryptocurrency exchanges who then passed the funds on as requested to the broker R that 
Mr H had been dealing with. 
Mr H says when he was pressured to pay more money and had difficulties making a 
withdrawal, he realised hed been the victim of a scam. He complained to Lloyds who 
ultimately declined to offer any refund. The matter was referred to our service and one of our 
Investigators didnt recommend the complaint should be upheld. In summary he didnt think 
Lloyds ought to have intervened at the time of any of the payments, nor that they should 
have pursued a refund through the chargeback scheme. 
Mr H accepted what our Investigator said about chargeback, but he disagreed that Lloyds 
dont have any liability. He maintains that the payments were unusual for him and his 
account and that if Lloyds had warned him at the time, his loss could have been prevented. 
Hes asked for an Ombudsman to make a decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As our Investigators findings with regard to chargeback were accepted, I wont comment on 
that point. All that remains to be decided is whether Lloyds ought to have done more prior to 
processing the debit card payments that Mr H authorised. 
The payments in question were for around £260 (including a non-Sterling fee) in February 
2021; £3,000 on 12 April 2021, and around £260 on 28 April 2021. I accept that these 
payments, particularly the £3,000 was for more than Mr H typically spent from his account 
month on month. I also acknowledge Mr Hs point that this was the first time hed invested in 
cryptocurrency. Ive carefully considered this in light of the industry guidance that Mr H has 
correctly highlighted. Ive also taken into account all Mr H has said including that Lloyds 
should consider not just the value of the payments, but the nature of the merchants being 
paid and the frequency of the payments. 
However, Im not persuaded that the payments (either individually or collectively) are so 
unusual that its reasonable to have expected Lloyds to have intervened at the time each 
payment was made. It isnt uncommon for people to make larger, less frequent payments 
from time to time for one off expenses or investments. And I dont agree that Lloyds 
reasonably should have inferred that Mr H was at risk of financial harm because of the 
pattern of spending that took place in relation to the scam or that they should have done 
more prior to following the instructions Mr H provided by authorising the card payments.
Im of course sorry to hear that Mr H lost this money to cruel scammers. But as I dont think 
Lloyds failed here, I cant fairly tell them they need to do more to resolve this complaint. 
My final decision
For the reasons outlined above, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 13 December 2022.
 
Richard Annandale
Ombudsman