DRN-2682041
The complaint
Miss D complains that Bank of Scotland plc (BOS) made an entry on her credit file.
What happened
Miss D had an account with BOS. She had an overdraft facility of £600. In September 2015, 
BOS notified credit reference agencies (CRAs) that she had an arrangement to pay in place 
with them. 
Miss D complained that this wasnt fair. She was only slightly over her limit for a few days. 
She wasnt advised by BOS that CRAs would be notified. If shed known, she wouldve found 
a way to repay the overdraft. She was now hindered in getting a mortgage.
BOS responded. They said that in September 2015, Miss Ds account went into unarranged 
overdraft and she asked for support. A repayment plan was agreed  and she was made 
aware at the time that CRAs would be advised and her credit file impacted. They had a 
responsibility to report information to CRAs.
Miss D brought her complaint to this service. Our investigator looked at what had happened. 
She said BOS hadnt acted unfairly. They had a duty to report accurate information to CRAs. 
Shes seen the contact notes from 2015 and these said Miss D spoke to BOS at the time 
and agreed a repayment plan. And BOS were correct in advising this to the CRAs. 
Miss D asked that an ombudsman looks at her complaint.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I can see where Miss D is coming from. In September 2015, she had finished university and 
was going to start work in November 2015 but was short of money until then. She had an 
overdraft facility of £600 with BOS but went over it  she said for a few days. She contacted 
BOS who agreed a payment plan, and this was then notified to CRAs  and this will be on 
her credit file for six years. She is trying to get a mortgage and the entry has been mentioned 
to her by mortgage lenders.
Ive looked at Miss Ds account statements. In September 2015, her balance went up to a 
maximum overdraft of £710 debit  and it was over her overdraft limit of £600 for most of the 
month. There were two returned direct debits also. Ive seen the notes that BOS recorded at 
the time. They say she called them and discussed her income and expenditure. At that time, 
the balance was £660 debit and she agreed to pay in two amounts of £30. BOS agreed and 
didnt charge interest or fees for two months. The notes say that notification to CRAs was 
advised to her  and bens and cons  which I interpret as they also talked through the 
advantages and disadvantages of notifying CRAs.
So  BOS did agree a repayment plan  as they agreed that her borrowing over and above 
her limit could be repaid over time, and they also waived her interest and fees. I accept that 
Miss D may not recall what was discussed at the time, or properly understood what was said 
 but I cant say that BOS did anything wrong. All lenders, including BOS, must advise credit 
reference agencies about the status of their accounts. Thats what theyve done here. I can 
see that they notified an arrangement to pay in September 2015. All data at CRAs stays on 
file for six years, i.e. until September 2021 in Miss Ds case.
Its for prospective lenders to interpret this information as they wish  but I think that an 
arrangement to pay  for one month  would be seen as much less important than, for 
example, a fully defaulted account. So  I hope Miss D can take a little comfort from that. 
I can see that Miss D feels strongly about what happened and she says that this is a matter 
of principle. But  looking at what happened here, I cant say that BOS did anything wrong, 
so I wont be asking them to do anymore.
  
My final decision
I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss D to accept 
or reject my decision before 11 May 2021.
 
Martin Lord
Ombudsman