DRN-3147052
The complaint
Miss A complains that Barclays Bank UK PLC failed to refund several transactions she didnt 
recognise and delayed her access to mobile banking.
What happened
Miss A said that she received a text from Barclays about a new payee being set up on her 
account, and because she didnt recognise it, she checked her online banking. Miss A also 
noticed several other payments leaving her account that she hadnt made. Miss A contacted 
Barclays about them and they investigated the transactions. 
Barclays asked Miss A whether shed had any suspicious texts or emails and she told them 
she hadnt. When Barclays examined the details of how the payments were made, their 
records showed all the transactions were set up and authorised using Miss As registered 
device (mobile phone) through her Barclays Mobile Banking (BMB) app from a recognised 
Internet Protocol (IP) location. Barclays noted that Miss As debit card details including the 
security code were also needed to authorise the setting up of new payees. They also 
recorded that the disputed transactions were made between 16:40 and 21:36 and Miss As 
BMB was used throughout the day from 12:19 until 22:10 that evening. Miss A had used her 
debit card earlier that day to make two cash withdrawals at 12:26, shortly after using her 
BMB.
Miss As online access was blocked to secure it, although it then took some time to be 
renewed. After their investigation, Barclays declined to refund the payments, as they thought 
that Miss A had authorised them because it was her device that had made them, and her 
debit card details entered to confirm the new payees.
Miss A complained to Barclays about this and that her BMB access was still blocked. 
Barclays continued to believe that Miss A had made the payments herself but did 
acknowledge that there were delays in setting up her BMB access and awarded £150 to 
compensate for the delay.
Miss A was unhappy with how Barclays had handled her complaint and brought it to our 
service for an independent review. It was looked into by one of our investigators who asked 
Miss A about the use of her phone and how she used her BMB. Miss A said that apart from 
herself, only her very young relatives used it to play games. Miss A also confirmed shed not 
shared her mobile banking passwords with anyone else. Our investigator thought it was 
more than likely that Miss A had made the transactions herself and that the compensation 
for the loss of access to Miss As BMB was reasonable, although it was recorded as £300 
when Miss A was paid £150 by Barclays.
Miss A disagreed and added that Barclays had failed to send texts or get in touch about 
other payments. Miss A also stated that these payments were unusual because shed never 
transferred more than £50 from her account before.
Miss A later said that she believed a friend who she was with on the day of the transactions 
could have accessed her phone. Miss A added that her phone was protected with a security 
code that matched her date of birth and her BMB passcode was available on the notes 
section of her phone. Our investigator didnt change his view and Miss A asked for a further 
review of her complaint.
Miss A was asked for further details about what happened the day of the disputed 
transactions and she stated that her friend was with her all day at her house, her bedroom 
was locked, but her friend knew where her keys were, and the phone was on charge in the 
bedroom. Miss A thought that this was how the disputed transactions had happened after 
her friend asked to use the toilet upstairs.
The complaint has now come to me for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
 Where there is a dispute about what happened, and the evidence is incomplete or 
contradictory, I must reach my decision on the balance of probabilities  in other words, on 
what I consider is most likely to have happened in light of the available evidence.
The relevant law surrounding authorisations are the Payment Service Regulations 2017. The 
basic position is that Barclays can hold Miss A liable for the disputed payments if the 
evidence suggests that its more likely than not that she made them or authorised them. 
Authorisation is made up of two parts. Authentication and consent. Authentication is usually 
referred to as the technical evidence and in this case, Barclays have supplied evidence that 
shows the new payees were set up and the payments authorised using Miss As BMB on her 
genuine device and Im satisfied the evidence shows the disputed transactions were 
authenticated.
Consent refers to the way in which Barclays and Miss A agreed to operate the account to 
allow Barclays to make payments on Miss As behalf. For example, Barclays terms and 
conditions say that if a payment is arranged through mobile/internet banking and the account 
holder uses their security details to confirm the payment, then Barclays accept that the 
instruction to make the payment is authorised by the account holder. Thats what happened 
here, and Im satisfied that consent was given and the disputed transactions were 
authorised. But, there are exceptions where it wouldnt be appropriate for Barclays to hold 
Miss A responsible, for example if the mobile app was used without her permission.
Miss A has said that her friend was visiting and asked to go to the toilet, and this is when she 
thinks she gained access to her locked room after taking her keys and set up the payments. 
But, looking at the payments, they were made over a number of hours and it seems unlikely 
that her friend would repeatedly take a set of keys, make an excuse to go upstairs, enter 
Miss As room and access her BMB to set up additional payments on her phone. 
Miss As BMB was also accessed during the day, outside of the times when the payments 
were arranged, and presumably this was Miss A herself using the phone, rather than 
someone else as it makes no sense for someone who is stealing funds to risk using the 
phone for anything other than taking the money. Miss As debit card was also needed to 
confirm the new payees and theres no indication that this was available to anyone else but 
Miss A. So, I dont think this is a likely explanation for what happened.
Miss A has also stated that Barclays should have sent her texts to warn her of the new 
payees and I asked them about this, unfortunately the texts are only kept for a short period of time and are no longer available for me to consider. Barclays have explained that their 
system sends them out for new payees. Theres no reason to think that didnt happen for the 
other transactions in the same way it did for the one she says she received.
Miss A said the payments were unusual because shes never sent more than £50 from her 
account and this should have notified Barclays that something was wrong and contacted 
Miss A. Ive examined the statements from Miss As account and there are a number of 
larger transactions, some in the thousands that shes made from the account using her BMB. 
So, I dont think the payments that shes disputing are unusual.
The evidence supplied by Barclays shows that the payments were made from Miss As BMB 
with her genuine device, from an IP address associated with past undisputed use. The 
additional security required to confirm a new payee makes it unlikely it was anyone else but 
Miss A who was responsible for authorising the transactions. 
Barclays accepted that theyd unnecessarily delayed the activation of Miss As BMB after 
they blocked it at the time of Miss As report about the disputed transactions. The notes 
show that shortly after the report was made, it was intended to open up the access again, 
although it appears there were some technical problems. This resulted in a longer than 
necessary delay and Barclays recognised that with a payment of £150 to Miss A. I think this 
was a reasonable award for the loss of this service and I wont be asking Barclays to 
increase this. 
Taking everything into account, I think the transactions were more than likely authorised by 
Miss A and it follows that I wont be upholding this complaint. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint against Barclays Bank UK PLC.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss A to accept 
or reject my decision before 3 December 2021.
 
David Perry
Ombudsman