DRN-2772446
The complaint
Mr M has complained that Provident Personal Credit Limited (Provident) gave him 
unaffordable loans. 
What happened
Mr M took 10 home credit loans from Provident between December 2005 and November 
2014.  A summary of his borrowing, based on the information provided to us from Provident, 
can be found below:
Loan Date Taken Date RepaidNo. of Weekly 
InstalmentsAmount 
Borrowed
1 10/12/2005 sold 105 £1,500.00
2 08/04/2006 sold 55 £500.00
3 02/09/2006 sold 105 £1,600.00
4 17/12/2013 09/04/2014 32 £200.00
5 08/04/2014 23/09/2014 52 £650.00
6 17/06/2014 25/11/2014 52 £300.00
7 29/07/2014 outstanding 63 £400.00
8 02/09/2014 outstanding 84 £1,000.00
9 23/09/2014 outstanding 63 £1,000.00
10 25/11/2014 outstanding 110 £700.00
It appears that Mr M ran into difficulties repaying his loans. Loans 1-3 were sold to a 
third-party in September 2008. Whilst we have limited information about the status of loans 
7-10, it appears, according to Provident records, that an outstanding balance remains on 
each of these loans.  
One of our adjudicators looked at Mr Ms complaint. She explained that our service was 
unable to consider Mr Ms first three loans as they were taken out prior to 6 April 2007 - the
date when this type of credit was regulated and therefore falls within this services 
jurisdiction. So, the adjudicator was only able to consider whether loans 4-10 ought to have 
been approved.
The adjudicator didnt think Provident were wrong to lend loans 4-7, based on the 
information she had seen from both parties. But when Mr M applied for loan 8, he already 
had three outstanding home credit loans with Provident and he was applying for his fourth 
loan. So, the adjudicator thought that Provident shouldnt have approved loan 8 and any 
subsequent loans as it was unlikely he would be able to sustain the repayments.
Provident agreed with our adjudicators opinion and offered to settle in-line with the 
adjudicators recommendations. 
Mr M disagreed with the offer Provident was making to settle the complaint and that was in 
line with what the adjudicator recommended. In response, he made a number of points 
including;
Provident didnt carry out any income checks.  
Mr M says he was in arrears with his mortgage and he had other debts.  
Provident must have known there was a problem as he had a number of loans 
running at the same time.
Mr M says he hasnt received a breakdown and doesnt understand why there is an 
outstanding balance.
As no agreement could be reached the complaint has been passed to me for a final 
decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive also taken into account the law, any relevant regulatory rules and good industry practice 
at the time these loans were provided. 
Provident needed to take reasonable steps to ensure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In 
practice this means that it should have carried out proportionate checks to make sure 
Mr M could repay these loans in a sustainable manner. These checks could take into 
account a number of different things, such as how much was being lent, the repayment 
amounts, and the consumers income and expenditure. 
With this in mind, in the early stages of a lending relationship, I think less thorough checks 
might be reasonable and proportionate. But certain factors might point to the fact that 
Provident should fairly and reasonably have done more to establish that any lending was 
sustainable for the consumer. These factors include:
the lower a consumers income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make
any loan repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income);
the higher the amount due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to
meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income);
the greater the number and frequency of loans, and the longer the period of time
during which a customer has been given loans (reflecting the risk that repeated
refinancing may signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming,
unsustainable).
There may even come a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable.
Ive carefully considered all of the arguments, evidence and information provided in this
context and what this all means for Mr Ms complaint. 
Firstly, I would like to start by saying that this type of credit wasnt regulated until 6 April 
2007. This means I cannot consider any lending before this date because in terms of the 
rules which govern the ombudsman service - it wasnt a regulated product that this service 
can investigate. Loans 1-3 were approved before 6 April 2007. So, I dont have the power to 
make a finding on them. Provident has offered to settle loans 8-10 in-line with our adjudicators opinion. And this 
settlement is the same as I would award if I were to decide that it had done something wrong 
when these loans were provided. I dont think there is any ongoing disagreement about 
loans 8-10. And Ive included these loans in the putting things right section at the end of this 
decision. 
So, to be clear, I will only be considering loans 4-7 and whether Provident were right to 
approve these loans.
Loans 4-7
Firstly, I would like to start by saying Im satisfied there are two lending chains - loans 1-3 
and loans 4-10. I say this because Mr M took out loan 4 more than five years after loans 1-3 
were sold to a third party. So, I think this amount of time was enough for Provident to have 
reasonably assumed that Mr M had overcome whatever financial motive he had for taking 
out his earlier loans.
When Mr M applied for loan 4, Provident asked him to declare his weekly income and 
expenditure. Mr M declared that he had a weekly income of £450 and his weekly 
expenditure amounted to £320. This would have left Mr M with a monthly disposable income 
of £130 from which to meet his contractual weekly repayment of £10. So, I think the 
evidence suggested he had enough to meet his repayments.
Mr M says he was in arrears with his mortgage and he had other debts at the time. But I 
dont think the fact he was in arrears or had other debts automatically meant Provident 
shouldnt have approved the loan. This would be dependent on other factors. Provident has 
been unable to provide the results of Mr Ms credit checks showing the information it was 
aware of at the time of his applications. This is due to the data not being available due to 
these loans being taken more than six years ago  which I dont find unreasonable. And Mr 
M has not provided a copy of his credit file showing what his circumstances were like at the 
time of his applications.
But considering Mr M had declared he had enough disposable income to comfortably meet 
his repayments, and this was his first loan in over five years - I dont think it was 
unreasonable that Provident approved loan 4. 
Mr M applied for his fifth loan around the same time he repaid loan 4. It appears that 
Provident completed the same level of checks as it had done for Mr Ms previous loan, by 
asking him for his weekly income and expenditure.
Mr M declared his income had increased to £700 a week. This was made up of £450 salary 
and £250 for other income. Furthermore, Mr Ms declared weekly expenditure was now 
higher  £495. This left him with a disposable income of £205 from which to meet the 
contractual loan repayments of no more than £22.75 a week. So, given the monthly 
repayments that Mr M was committed to making, on this information alone, the repayments 
would have appeared affordable.
However, I think at this point Providents checks ought to have gone further to understand if 
Mr M was in a position to sustain his repayments. I say this because Mr M was committing 
himself to be indebted for a further 52 weeks  which is quite a significant period of time 
when considering Mr M was to make his repayments weekly. I think Provident should have 
verified the information Mr M was declaring, for example by obtained Mr Ms bank 
statements. But it couldve done this a number of ways, including asking to see payslips and 
or copies of bills that he had to pay. So for loan 5, and for any subsequent loans, Provident needed to understand Mr Ms full financial position, rather than just relying on what it was 
being told. 
In these circumstances, I would look at what proportionate checks would have revealed for 
loans 5-7. But Mr M has not been able to provide copies of his bank statements showing 
what his finances were like at the time of his loan application. And Mr M has already told us 
he isnt able to provide a copy of his credit file. 
So, in the absence of any information showing Mr Ms actual circumstances, Im unable to 
conclude that loans 5-7 were unaffordable for Mr M. Or that Provident were wrong to 
approve these loans.
So, Im not upholding Mr Ms complaint about loans 4-7. I appreciate this will be 
disappointing for Mr M, but I hope that hell understanding why Ive reached the findings that 
I have.
Loan 8-10
As Ive explained above, I wont be making a finding about these loans, because Provident 
has already agreed to put things right for Mr M as the adjudicator recommended. However, 
Mr M says he doesnt understand how he can still have a balance to pay to Provident. 
It may help if I explain this services approach to putting things right in cases that involve 
unaffordable lending. If a lender has done something wrong, as far as possible, this service 
attempts to put the consumer back into the position they wouldve been in had an error not 
been made. But that isnt always possible, especially in cases of unaffordable lending 
because the consumer has been given the money and normally spent it. 
So, in unaffordable lending cases, wed expect a lender to refund any interest and charges 
paid to the on the amount borrowed, which, in effect, means the consumer would end up 
with an interest free loan. But they would only get a refund on anything extra that has been 
paid, so if a loan has been taken, and not repaid, there wouldnt be a refund due. But the 
outstanding balance would likely be reduced to at most the capital borrowed. However, this 
service considers it reasonable that if an outstanding balance remains a lender can recover 
any remaining amount. 
So, in this case, Provident accepts that loans 8  10 shouldnt have been lent, this means Mr 
M shouldnt have to pay any interest on these loans. But, it seems, based on the payments 
that Provident has recorded, Mr M hasnt repaid it enough to clear the capital amount he 
borrowed. This is why, Provident says there is still a balance left to be paid. If Mr M believes 
that Providents records are incorrect, and can show something to contradict them, he is able 
to raise that separately with Provident.
Putting things right
In deciding what redress Provident should fairly pay in this case, Ive thought about what
might have happened had it not provided Mr Ms loans, as Im satisfied it ought to have. 
Clearly there are a great many possible, and all hypothetical, answers to that question.
For example, having been declined this lending Mr M may have simply left matters there, not 
attempting to obtain the funds from elsewhere  particularly as a relationship existed
between him and this particular lender which he may not have had with others. If this
wasnt a viable option, he may have looked to borrow the funds from a friend or relative 
assuming that was even possible.Or Mr M may have decided to approach a third-party lender with the same application, or 
indeed, a different application (i.e. for more or less borrowing). But even if he had done
that, the information that would have been available to such a lender and how they would (or
ought to have) treated an application which may or may not have been the same is
impossible to now accurately reconstruct. From what Ive seen in this case, I certainly dont
think I can fairly conclude there was a real and substantial chance that a new lender would
have been able to lend to Mr M in a compliant way at this time.
Having thought about all of these possibilities, Im not persuaded it would be fair or
reasonable to conclude that Mr M would more likely than not have taken up any one of these 
options. So, it wouldnt be fair to now reduce Providents liability in this case for what Im 
satisfied it has done wrong and should put right.
If Provident has sold the outstanding debts it should buy the debts back, if it is able to do so 
and then take the following steps. If Provident isnt able to buy the debts back then it should 
work with the new debt owner to achieve the results Ive outlined below. 
I think Provident was wrong to lend loans 8-10.
Provident should remove all unpaid interest, fees and charges from the outstanding 
loan balances on loan 8, 9 and 10.
Provident should rework the account so that Mr M only has to repay the principal
borrowed for loans 8 - 10. It should treat any repayments made by Mr M (and to the 
third party if applicable) as if it went towards the principal balance.
If and when Mr M has repaid enough to repay the principal, then any overpayment
should be refunded to him. To this overpayment, 8% simple a year interest should
be added from the date of the overpayment came due to the date of settlement*;
However, if after doing the above, an outstanding principal balance remains, 
Provident should try and come to an affordable arrangement with Mr M to repay the 
balance. But Id remind Provident of its obligation to treat him fairly.
Provident should provide Mr M with a breakdown detailing the amounts he has repaid 
for each loan, along with the redress calculations for his upheld loans.
Provident should remove any adverse information recorded about loans 8-10 from 
Mr Ms credit file.  
*HM Revenue & Customs requires you to deduct tax from this interest. Provident should give 
Mr M a certificate showing how much tax is deducted, if he asks for one.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained above, Im upholding Mr Ms complaint in part.
Provident Personal Credit Limited should put things right for Mr M as Ive set out above. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 10 June 2021.
 
Robert Walker
Ombudsman