DRN-2417869
The complaint
A company which Ill refer to as E complains that Lloyds Bank PLC (Lloyds) miscalculated 
the payments due towards a loan.
Mr L is a director of E and brings the complaint on its behalf.
What happened
E entered into an Enterprise Finance Guarantee Loan in 2012. In May 2019, Lloyds 
contacted E to explain that the loan repayments had been calculated incorrectly as Lloyds 
had failed to include a fee of £1,200, which resulted in the monthly repayment amount being 
quoted incorrectly on the credit agreement. That meant E has been making repayments of 
£666.67 per month and should have been making repayments of £676.67 per month. 
Initially, Lloyds proposed to increase the repayments to £692.19 per month to make up the 
shortfall, but Mr L was unhappy with this proposal and raised a complaint.
On 10 July 2019, Lloyds issued a final response to E, accepting that it had made an error in 
calculating the amount of the repayment. It offered to reduce the loan balance by £1,200  
i.e. the amount which would have been outstanding at the end of the loan if the payments 
werent increased. In addition to this, Lloyds offered an interest refund on this amount and 
also some compensatory interest, which it believed would together put E back in the position 
it would have been in were it not for its error. Mr L didnt agree so brought the complaint to 
this service.
Our investigator considered the complaint. He said that he agreed Lloyds had made an error 
in calculating the loan repayments but thought that the offer it had made was fair in the 
circumstances as Lloyds was effectively waiving the £1,200 fee and E had benefitted from 
making lower monthly repayments than it should have, which would continue for the 
remainder of the borrowing.
Mr L didnt agree so the complaint has been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
There is no dispute that Lloyds made an error in calculating the monthly loan repayments at 
the time the loan was sold. And as a result E has been paying £10 less per month than it 
should have been. So the only thing left for me to decide is whether Lloyds offer to E is fair 
and reasonable in the circumstances.
Lloyds has offered:
To reduce the loan by £1,200, which is the balance that would have been 
outstanding at the maturity date of the loan had E continued to make the lower 
repayments.
To refund interest totalling £341.11. This is calculated as follows:
Lloyds will pay E the difference between:
- The fixed interest rate payments already paid from the drawdown date to the 
calculation date (4 July 2019); and
- The fixed interest rate payments that would have been paid had the monthly 
capital repayments been correctly calculated between those dates
Lloyds will also pay E £70.15 interest which is calculated at a rate of 8% simple per 
annum on the partial interest refund above to the calculation date to compensate for 
any loss associated with being deprived the use of the money refunded during the 
above period.
To ensure any payments made by E between the calculation date and settlement will 
be taken into account and reflected in the amount paid to E. Lloyds will also pay E 
compensatory interest on interim payments up to the date of settlement.
Generally, we would expect Lloyds to put E back into the position it would have been in, 
were it not for the error. In this situation, Lloyds error was failing to add on the £1,200 fee to 
the loan repayments and its offer means that it has effectively waived that fee and honoured 
the original loan repayment amount quoted. It has also offered to recalculate the interest and 
to pay interest on any amount that E was deprived of throughout the life of the loan. As this 
offer puts E into a better position than it would have been in had the mistake not been made, 
I think Lloyds offer is fair in the circumstances.
I have also considered whether Lloyds should pay further compensation to E for the 
inconvenience caused. However Lloyds error meant that E was paying less each month 
than it should have been  and Es monthly repayments will remain at this lower amount for 
the remainder of the loan. In addition to this, Lloyds also contacted E proactively to address 
its error and acknowledged its mistake. So, while I think Lloyds did make an error, overall I 
think E has benefitted from the error and I do not believe that a fair outcome requires any 
further compensation. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr L to accept or 
reject my decision before 31 December 2021.
 
Sara Falzon
Ombudsman