DRN-2546665
The complaint
Mr S complains that RCI Financial Services Limited (RCI) gave him incorrect information 
about his contract. He would like compensation.
What happened
Mr S says he took out what he believed was a three-year Personal Contract Purchase (PCP) 
with RCI on 30 April 2016. He says as he was having financial problems, he contacted RCI 
in May 2019 as he wanted to exchange his car but was told he couldnt as his agreement 
was a Hire Purchase Agreement for 4 years
Mr S says he waited a further year but then found when he wanted to exchange the car it 
was worth less than the finance agreement. He isnt happy as he feels he should have been 
able to trade the car in after three years. And has suffered a loss as a result
RCI said it listened to the phone call Mr S made and said it gave the correct information 
based on the contract Mr S had taken out.
Our investigator didnt uphold the complaint. She found that understandable confusion had 
arisen as Mr S believed he had taken out a three-year PCP contract not a 4-year HP 
agreement. She found he had been given the correct information about his contract options 
when he called in May 2019.
She found that RCI had treated Mr S sympathetically about his financial situation. It offered 
several options for Mr S to hand back his car in May 2019
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr S feels strongly about his complaint and I do appreciate that and I realise he is going to 
be disappointed as Ive reached the same conclusion as our investigator..
Mr S believes he took out a three-year PCP with the option to extend for a further year not a 
four-year HP agreement. Just so Mr S is clear a PCP is a type of HP agreement . Mr S says 
he would never have agreed to a four year contract. I have looked at the contract and 
contract information that Mr S signed. That is quite clear that the agreement was a four-year 
HP  one. 
I cant be sure what Mr S was told at the point of sale, but I am clear that the paperwork he 
signed was for a four-year HP agreement, so I think that information was readily available to 
him.
Mr S also believes RCI misled him in a phone call in April 2019. I have listened to that call. I 
dont think that RCI did mislead Mr S. Mr S called as he said he couldnt afford the month 
repayments so wanted to part exchange his car.
It was at this point it became clear that Mr S thought he had agreed to a three year with an 
optional extra year contract not to a four year one. The adviser correctly advised Mr S of his 
options about his car.
Whilst she didnt specifically refer to the process known as Voluntary Termination (VT) she 
did offer this option.. In this scenario half of the total liability on the contract needs to be paid 
,if it hasnt been done so already, and the car is then handed back. She confirmed that if Mr 
S chose this route, he would need to pay £1,674.51 plus any extra charges that might arise 
from and liability about mileage or damage. She gave Mr S the number to pursue this option 
if he wanted to do so.
She then explained that the other option open to Mr S was to settle his account. Mr S could 
sell, or part exchange his car using the amount achieved at sale to pay off the settlement 
figure of £13,259.89. This figure she explained was valid until 21 May 2019.
These were the two options that I would have expected RCI to offer Mr S. I think the 
information provided was clear. Mr S chose not to take either of these two options instead he 
kept the car for the duration of the contract
Mr S says he believes he lost out financially as when his contract ended, he wanted to part 
exchange the car but couldnt do this based on its value at the end of the contract. Any 
number of factors can affect a cars value, but I dont believe RCI is responsible for the end 
of contract value of the car. 
RCI did say in its phone call of April 2019 that Mr S could sell, or part exchange his car to 
pay off the settlement fee. I am not sure if Mr S looked into this to see what the cars value 
was at that point or not. But he seems to have chosen to keep the car until the end of his 
contract.
Finally, Mr S doesnt believe that RCI helped him when he was struggling financially. He has 
told us that he would like compensation as he struggled to make his payments . And he 
believes if RCI had allowed him to return the car he wouldnt have been in that position.
RCI did offer Mr S the chance to return his car under a VT agreement but he chose not to do 
so. If he had chosen to do this and found it difficult to pay off the outstanding balance of 
£1674.51,  I would have expected RCI to agree a mutually agreeable repayment plan. But I 
cant see any evidence Mr S pursued the VT option.
At the end of the phone call when options were discussed the adviser noted  Mr S had an 
outstanding payment. Mr Ss response was that ,that was all sorted and would be paid. As 
he seemed to have resolved the payment issue, I wouldnt have expected the adviser to 
pursue that any further at that point. 
I dont feel there are any grounds for me to tell RCI to compensate Mr S for not being able to 
return his car early as Mr S would like. Some options were available for him to pursue but he 
chose not to do so.  
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold  this complaintUnder the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 6 May 2021.
 
Bridget Makins
Ombudsman