DRN-4108728
The complaint
Mr W complains that Admiral Insurance (Gibraltar) Limited increased the premium for his 
motor insurance policy following two non-fault claims. He wants the increase removed.
What happened
Mr Ws cars were damaged in an incident that wasnt his fault and he made claims on his 
policy. When Mr Ws policy renewed, his premium had increased because of the claims. But 
Mr W thought this was unfair and he thought the No Claims Bonus (NCB) was marketed 
incorrectly. 
Our Investigator didnt recommend that the complaint should be upheld. She thought Admiral 
was entitled to assess risks and charge what it wished to cover these. But she thought it 
should treat all consumers fairly. She saw from Admirals pricing information that the 
premium at renewal had been correctly calculated. And she thought the policy information 
didnt say that protected NCB would protect the price of cover. And a non-fault claim may 
lead to a premium increase. So she thought Admiral hadnt acted unfairly or unreasonably. 
Mr W replied that he thought he was being punished for something that wasnt his fault. He 
asked for an Ombudsmans review. So the complaint has come to me for a final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I can understand that Mr W feels frustrated by the increase in his premium when he clearly 
wasnt at fault. Hes told us about the incident when his cars were hit by an underage driver 
whilst Mr W was in bed. Mr W made a claim and so he had to pay his policy excesses and 
now he has to recover these from the Motor Insurance Board. I can understand that he feels 
this is an additional burden. 
While some insurers will only rate on NCB disallowed or fault claims, others will consider 
any claim  or even just a claim notification  as a risk factor. This is because insurers say 
that drivers who have been involved in incidents, regardless of fault, are more likely to be 
involved in future claims. 
I can understand that Mr W may find this to be illogical. But being involved in an incident 
could be linked to such things as his use of higher risk roads or junctions or driving at 
particular times. 
Its not our role to tell an insurer how to price their policies or what factors they should 
consider when calculating a risk. However we need to make sure the insurer is applying a 
fair and consistent approach to all consumers.
Insurers regularly update how they rate the risk of consumers. And their rates continually 
change. Admiral has provided us with confidential business sensitive information to explain 
how Mr Ws premiums were calculated. As our Investigator has explained, I cant share this 
with him, but I can assure him that weve checked it carefully. 
Im satisfied the renewal prices Mr W was quoted with the non-fault claims have been 
calculated correctly and all of Admirals customers in his position will have been charged a 
similar premium. 
Admirals decision to rate on all claims, regardless of fault, is its commercial decision. This 
doesnt break any relevant regulations and its in keeping with standard industry practice. 
And I cant see that Admiral has treated Mr W differently to any of its other customers. And 
so, as this isnt something that I would normally interfere with as it is a legitimate exercise of 
its commercial judgement, I dont require Admiral to refund any premium to Mr W.
Mr W thought the policys information about his NCB protection was unclear. I can see that 
Admiral provided Mr W with information about his protected NCB:
Protected No Claims Bonus does not protect the overall price of your insurance policy. The 
price of your insurance policy may increase following an accident even if you were not at 
fault.
I think this clearly explains the limits of NCB protection. And so I cant say that Admiral has 
done anything wrong in providing information about NCB protection. 
My final decision
For the reasons given above, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision before 8 September 2023.
 
Phillip Berechree
Ombudsman