DRN-3805429
The complaint
Mr B complains that Lloyds Bank PLC (Lloyds) wont refund money he lost after falling victim 
to a scam.
What happened
In June 2020, Mr B sold his home in the UK and received the proceeds into his Lloyds bank
account.
Mr B says he had been travelling to a location in Spain for a number of years and decided to
buy a house there from his sale proceeds. Mr B was referred to an estate agent (who Ill
refer to as G) by a friend who ran a local business in Spain. G worked for an estate agency
which was only a couple of doors away from Mr Bs friends business. Mr B says he had no
experience in buying property abroad, so wanted to use a proper estate agent. And, the
estate agency G worked for had been operating for 30 years and came highly recommended
by those living in the area. Also, while G hadnt sold properties to anyone Mr B knew, G was
their letting agent for their long-term rentals.
Mr B says he met G on several occasions and viewed properties, until he found one he
wanted to buy. Mr B was told he had to hold funds in a Spanish bank account in order to
purchase a property and says it was usual practice for the buyer to set up an account with
the estate agency to hold the deposit. Mr B says that G set up an account for him with the
estate agency while he was in their office and showed Mr B screen shots which confirmed
the account was set up. Mr B was also required to provide personal ID and evidence of the
source of his funds being used for the purchase  all of which he provided.
Unfortunately, the purchase for the first property fell through. Mr B says, as he was actively
looking for another property, he decided to leave the funds in the estate agency account so
that they could be used for the next property. Mr B says that a few weeks later G told him he
was leaving the employment of that estate agency and instead would be working with a
developer he knew. Mr B says he was told the developer was experienced and owned
multiple businesses and properties across the area. Mr B was introduced to him by G and
they met the developer on one of the development sites.
Mr B says he entered into a contract to purchase one of the new build properties the
developer was building and was told he needed to put more funds into an account to secure
the property. Mr B says he was told the account was in his name and that the funds would
be stored there until the house purchase went through. With the funds only being released to
the vendor on completion of the property.
Mr B says it was common practice not to have a solicitor involved in the initial stages of the
purchasing process and only to engage their services when the money is due to be
exchanged with the vendor. As such, he didnt have a solicitor engaged. Mr B signed a
contract which wasnt in English but says G translated it for him.
Between August 2020 and March 2021, Mr B sent payments totalling over £194,000 to G.
Mr B has explained that he thought his account was with Gs sole trader business, which is
why the payments were made to Gs name and not to his own.
These are the payments Mr B made as part of the scam. I have identified the payments Mr B
made in relation to his rent, which werent part of the purchase price for the new property.
All of these payments were made to a UK bank account in Gs name.
Date Pmt no: Details of payment Amount
    7.8.2020 1 Faster payment to G £     904.50
  11.8.2020 2 Faster payment to G £14,669.00
  13.8.2020 3 Faster payment to G £10,221.00
  18.8.2020 4 Faster payment to G £25,000.00
  19.8.2020 5 Faster payment to G £25,000.00
  24.8.2020 6 Faster payment to G £25,000.00
  25.8.2020 7 Faster payment to G £25,000.00
    3.9.2020 8 Faster payment to G £25,000.00
    4.9.2020 9 Faster payment to G £  8,884.40
  9.11.2020 10 Faster payment to G  rent payment £     660.00
13.11.2020 11 Faster payment to G £25,000.00
14.11.2020 12 Faster payment to G £     350.00
26.11.2020 13 Faster payment to G £     280.00
  7.12.2020 14 Faster payment to G £  2,100.00
11.12.2020 15 Faster payment to G £     230.00
14.12.2020 16 Faster payment to G £     912.00
31.12.2020 17 Faster payment to G  rent payment £     404.00
    9.1.2021 18 Faster payment to G  rent payment £     406.00
  18.1.2021 19 Faster payment to G £  1,594.00
    1.2.2021 20 Faster payment to G  rent payment £     741.00
  14.2.2021 21 Faster payment to G £     100.00
  22.2.2021 22 Faster payment to G £  2,000.00
    1.3.2021 23 Faster payment to G  rent payment £     250.00
Total payments made
Total less rent payments of £2,461£194,705.90
£192,244.90
Eventually Mr B was told the property was complete, and he asked for the keys. But he says
G gave him excuses and then stopped answering his calls. Mr B went back to the original
estate agency where his account had been opened, and asked for the money to be moved
from the holding account to the developer so he could sign the contract and move in. But the
estate agency couldnt get hold of G and discovered that Mr Bs payments had gone to a 
personal account held by G  not a business or holding account. Mr B says that included in
the payments he made to G was rental for the temporary home he was living in, while he
waited for the new home to be built. However, G didnt pass the rental payments onto the
property owner and Mr B was evicted. At this point Mr B realised hed been the victim of a
scam.
Mr B contacted Lloyds in March 2021 and raised a fraud claim, asking Lloyds to help recover
his money.
Lloyds considered Mr Bs fraud claim under the Lending Standards Boards Contingent
Reimbursement Model (the CRM Code) and initially declined to refund Mr B. Mr B raised a
complaint with Lloyds about the decision theyd reached and Lloyds reviewed Mr Bs claim
again.
Ultimately Lloyds agreed to refund Mr B 50% of the payments hed made, from payment 5
onwards  but excluding payments 17 and 18. The 50% refund totalled £71,550.70. Theyalso agreed to pay interest on that refund at 8% simple interest and paid Mr B £40
compensation for not reaching the right answer the first time. Lloyds told Mr B that they
didnt think the first four payments he made were unusual, so they wouldnt have issued a
warning. However, they thought they shouldve issued a warning from the 5th payment as 
the activity was significantly out of character for his account. But they felt that Mr B shouldve
done more checks before making the payments. As such, they felt they should share the
responsibility for the loss with Mr B and only refund 50% of those payments. They excluded
payments 17 and 18 from the refund, as they were rent payments and not related to the
purchase scam.
Mr B wasnt happy with Lloyds offer, so he brought a complaint to our service.
An investigator looked into Mr Bs complaint and upheld it. They felt Mr B had a reasonable
basis for believing that G was legitimate, and therefore recommended that Lloyds refund the
remaining 50%.
Mr B agreed with the investigators recommendation. Lloyds didnt agree and raised the
following points:
Mr B didnt do any checks of his own, so didnt meet the required level of care under
the CRM code.
Mr B shouldve questioned why he wasnt making international payments.
Theyre not satisfied that Mr B was shown sufficient evidence that an account had
been set up in his name.
Mr B hasnt provided invoices for all the payments he made.
Mr B shouldve had evidence when the first purchase fell through of where his funds
were being held.
Mr B shouldve had a solicitor involved, even if it wasnt a requirement.
Mr B didnt receive documentation in relation to the new house purchase.
Mr B relied on Gs translation of the signed contract, whereas they wouldve expected
him to get his own translation.
Lloyds also raised a concern about whether Mr B could potentially gain double benefit from
the overseas court case being pursued against G.
As Lloyds didnt agree with the investigators opinion, the case was passed to me to review.
My provisional decision
On 14 September 2022, I issued a provisional decision explaining I was reaching a different 
outcome than the investigator. I asked for both parties to provide any more comments or 
evidence they wanted to be considered before issuing my final decision. 
In my provisional decision I said:
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.Lloyds are a signatory to the Lending Standards Boards Contingent Reimbursement Model
(the CRM Code) which requires firms to reimburse customers who have been the victims of
APP scams like this, in all but a limited number of circumstances. It sets out standards that
must be met by both Lloyds and Mr B.
Ive started by looking at whether Lloyds have met the standards expected of them under the
CRM Code.
Did Lloyds meet the expected standards set for them under the CRM Code?
Under the CRM Code, Lloyds are expected to take reasonable steps to protect their
customers from APP scams. This should include procedures to detect, prevent and respond
to APP scams. And, where they identify an APP scam risk, they should take reasonable
steps to provide their customer with effective warnings.
Lloyds told Mr B they shouldve provided a warning when he made the 5th payment, which
was for £25,000. They say at this stage the number of payments, the pattern of the
payments and the value of the payments became significantly out of character for Mr Bs
account. However, I think Lloyds shouldve provided a warning when Mr B made the second
payment. This wouldnt warrant an intervention or Lloyds getting in touch with Mr B, but I
think they shouldve generated a system warning - which is less onerous.
I say this because Mr B had only made one payment for over £10,000 in the previous 12
months. His account was mainly used for low value day to day transactions rather than
regular larger payments.
Lloyds have provided a copy of the warning they say Mr B wouldve seen. However, I dont
consider that warning to meet the required definition of an effective warning under the Code.
The warning isnt specific to the scam Mr B was experiencing and wasnt impactful. It only
asked Mr B if he knew the person he was making the payment to, it didnt suggest that the
person he was paying could be scamming him. Also, it didnt provide any consequences if
Mr B continued to make the payment  that he may not be able to recover his funds. And, it
didnt give Mr B any information about how he could protect himself from the scam. On this
basis, Im not satisfied that Lloyds met the standards set for them under the CRM Code as
they didnt provide Mr B with an effective warning. Therefore, Lloyds should refund Mr B for
all of the payments he made, from the second payment onwards.
However, I also have to consider whether Mr B met the standards set for him as it will affect
whether hes entitled to a full refund.
Did Mr B meet the expected standards set for him under the CRM Code?
Under the CRM Code, a bank may choose not to reimburse a customer if it can establish
that*:
The customer made payments without having a reasonable basis for believing that:
the payee was the person the customer was expecting to pay; the payment was for
genuine goods or services; and/or the person or business with whom they transacted
was legitimate
* there are further exceptions outlined in the CRM Code, but they dont apply to this case.
So, I need to be persuaded that Mr B had a reasonable basis for believing that G was
operating legitimately.Mr B has told us that he trusted G for many reasons. Saying he was referred by a friend and
highlighting that G worked for an estate agency that had been operating for 30 years and
was highly recommended by those living in the area. Also, while G hadnt sold properties to
anyone Mr B knew, he was their letting agent for their long-term rentals. He also says he
saw positive reviews and personal referrals saying he should use G.
But Im not satisfied that Mr B had a reasonable basis for believing G was legitimate for the
following reasons:
Its unclear why Mr B was making payments to a UK bank account when G was
based overseas and the property Mr B was buying was overseas. Especially
considering Mr B says the account was set up in front of him while he was in the
estate agencys office abroad. I appreciate that he says G told him it was a business
currency account, but that still doesnt explain why it would be a UK bank account.
Its not clear how Mr B was kept updated with regards to the payments he had made,
evidence that they had been received and how they affected the balance he owed in
regard to the property he was purchasing.
Mr B has provided us with a contract he signed, which wasnt in English. As this is an
important document and a large amount of money is involved, I wouldve expected
Mr B to arrange to have it translated independently and not rely on Gs translation of
it. Mr B doesnt know what he signed to, or what terms or conditions could be
attached to the sale.
It appears that with the first house Mr B tried to buy (the sale of which fell through)
Mr B only paid a deposit. Its not clear why there appeared to be a different process
with the second property, whereby Mr B made regular and sizeable payments prior to
the property being completed. Also, its not clear why Mr B would be making
payments in stages, if the property Mr B was purchasing was part of a larger
development. And regardless, I wouldnt expect Mr B to make full payment until the
property was completed and signed off, which wouldve involved checks/confirmation
that it met various building regulations. I cant see that Mr B was given any updates
or evidence of the funds he was sending being spent on the property, and if it wasnt
being spent on the property then it doesnt make sense why he was sending money
piecemeal rather than just on completion.
Its not clear why G terminated his employment with the estate agency and decided
to go out on his own. Mr B has told us that he was reassured by using a reputable
estate agency, so I wouldve expected this to raise some questions for Mr B. But I
cant see that Mr B asked any questions or did any checks as a result.
Mr B has told us that a solicitor isnt usually engaged until the final stage of the
purchase process when the money and keys are exchanged with the vendor.
However, Mr B was making sizeable payments to G, so I think it wouldve been
prudent to have engaged a solicitor to make basic checks on what he had agreed to
and the progress of the purchase.
As Ive listed, there were a number of concerning factors, that I think shouldve been red
flags for Mr B and warranted him doing additional checks or getting a solicitor involved.
Importantly, its all of these points taken in combination rather than each individual reason
considered in isolation, that suggests to me that Mr B shouldve had concerns.Based on what Ive seen, Im not satisfied that Mr B did have a reasonable basis to believe
G was legitimate, so I dont think Mr B met the standards set for him under the CRM Code.
Because of that, I think Mr B should share the responsibility for his loss with Lloyds, so
Lloyds should only refund 50% of the payments Mr B made  from the second payment
onwards.
Should Mr B be refunded for the rent payments he made?
While Mr B was waiting for the property to be built, he was renting a property. As indicated in
the table above, Mr B made several payments in relation to that rental. From the evidence
Mr B has given us, it appears that the owner of that property hasnt received the rent they
were due, and Mr B hasnt evidenced that he arranged to remake the payments to her. As
Mr B wouldve had to make these payments regardless, hes not technically out of pocket for
these funds. So, I cant fairly ask Lloyds to reimburse Mr B for the rent payments  which are
payments 10, 17, 18, 20 and 23.
Additional points raised by Mr B or Lloyds
Lloyds have raised a concern about whether Mr B may receive double benefit, if he recovers
money from the overseas court case that is being pursued against G. However, based on
the information weve seen, it seems unlikely that G has any money  as he couldve
returned the funds and the court case wouldve been dropped. It also appears that G has
been remanded in custody in another country and will be held for a substantial period of
time. I havent seen anything that suggests Mr B is likely to recover his funds from G directly,
however it wouldnt be unreasonable if Lloyds asked Mr B to sign an indemnity whereby any
funds that are recovered by him are offset against the refund Lloyds have given him.
I cant see that Mr B has raised any points with regards to the £40 compensation hes
received from Lloyds. However, for completeness, Im satisfied that this payment is fair and
wont be asking Lloyds to pay any more.
Lloyds have been able to recover £72.57 from the beneficiary bank, which they should
refund to Mr B if they havent already done so. From what Ive seen they contacted the
beneficiary bank promptly on being made aware of the scam but were only able to recover
£72.57, as the balance of the funds had been removed from the account. Lloyds have taken
the appropriate steps in the circumstances to try and recover Mr Bs funds and I wont be
asking them to do anything further in that regard.
I appreciate that Mr B is going to be very disappointed that Im recommending a smaller
refund than the investigator did. However, Im not satisfied that I can fairly hold Lloyds 100%
liable for his loss for the reasons given above.
Putting things right
My provisional decision was that I intended to uphold this complaint and ask Lloyds to:
Pay Mr B the £72.57 theyve recovered from the beneficiary bank  if they havent
already done so.
Refund Mr B 50% of payments 2 to 9 (inclusive), payments 11 to 16 (inclusive),
payment 19 and payments 21 and 22 - being £95,597.63 (50% of £191,340.40 less
the £72.57 they recovered).
Lloyds should pay interest on those refunds at 8% simple interest from the date they
declined his claim until the date of settlement.Lloyds should pay Mr B the £40 compensation they offered - if they havent already
done so.
Lloyds can deduct from the overall refund, any payments theyve already made to
Mr B.
Responses to the provisional decision
Lloyds accepted my provisional decision. As such it agreed to refund an additional 
£24,046.93 and pay interest on that refund at 8% from the date of the claim until the date of 
settlement. Lloyds confirmed that the £40 compensation and recovered funds of £72.57 had 
already been refunded to Mr B.
Mr B responded disagreeing with my provisional decision and provided extensive points. Ive 
read all of Mr Bs points, however Ive focused on the main points hes raised which get to 
the heart of the matter Im being asked to consider. These include:
Mr B wasnt going to sign a contract for an unfinished building, this wouldve been 
irresponsible. Once the works were complete and Mr B was happy he wouldve 
requested a contract. Any contract before this wouldve been a huge risk.
Mr B had no idea that a UK personal bank account was the final destination of his 
money. If he had known, this wouldve been a red flag and no money wouldve been 
sent.
Mr B was regularly shown his account and its balance in an office on a computer, 
so he could see the payments hed made. Mr B also kept his own record of payments 
and believed his bank statements were formal evidence/proof of his payments.
The contract that wasnt in English that Mr B signed related to the first property.
Mr B wasnt paying for the property in stages, the idea was to send lump sums to the 
currency account when the exchange rate was in his favour based on what needed 
to be paid for. The rest of the money was to be held in a secure account ready for 
release when the property was built.
Gs employment didnt change, he was always a sole trader. He worked with the first 
agency because it was a long-standing business with many property listings. 
However, G wasnt happy with how the agency was dealing with things in respect to 
Mr Bs property purchase and didnt feel they had Mr Bs best interests at heart. So, 
he cut ties and went to work for another reputable business. This reassured Mr B that 
G was trustworthy and had his back.
Mr B didnt engage a solicitor for the second purchase, as a solicitor isnt usually 
engaged until the final stage of the property purchase when the money and keys are 
exchanged with the vendor.
The £40 compensation paid by Lloyds is insufficient as it doesnt cover the costs 
incurred since the start of this complaint.
Lloyds have been neglectful. If they had intervened and found out where the funds 
were ultimately going the scam wouldve been prevented. The issue wouldve been 
raised with G and its likely a solicitor wouldve been engaged.
Now both parties have provided their response to the provisional decision, Ive reconsidered 
the case.What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having carefully considered everything that Mr B has said in response to the provisional 
decision, Ive reached the same outcome as I did in the provisional decision. I still think there 
were a number of red flags that shouldve concerned Mr B and resulted in him doing 
additional checks or getting a solicitor involved. These are:
Mr B didnt sign any form of contract for the second property he was buying. This 
meant there was no clear agreement as to what the purchase price was, what 
deposit he was paying, or what the terms of the purchase were. So, Mr B was 
entering into an agreement without any protection. Im not satisfied that signing a 
contract before the property build was completed was a risk as suggested by Mr B. 
As potentially Mr B couldve lost some or all of the money that he had paid to G, as 
there was nothing to say what would happen if the deal fell through or he decided to 
back out of the purchase. I would expect some sort of agreement setting out the 
terms of the transaction.
Mr B has said that he wasnt paying for the property piecemeal as it was being built, 
rather that he was sending lump sums when the exchange rate was in his favour. 
However, its unclear why Mr B wouldnt send all of the funds if the exchange rate 
was particularly favourable, rather than these spread out payments. Also, Mr B still 
refers to sending payments based on what needed to be paid for. This suggests he 
was making some payments towards the purchase of the property or 
building/furnishing costs. This only adds to the concern that Mr B was paying money 
without any agreement of the terms.
I still have concerns about G changing his working arrangements and moving from a 
business that Mr B believed to be respectable with a long-standing local reputation. 
Especially as Mr B had told us that he was reassured in using G because of his 
working arrangement with the agency. Its not clear what checks Mr B carried out to 
satisfy himself that what G was telling him was accurate. 
For all of the reasons set out above, I believe Mr B shouldve had concerns and carried out 
more checks or got a solicitor involved before making the payments. And, Im still not 
satisfied that Mr B had a reasonable basis for believing the payment was for genuine goods 
or services, and/or the person or business with whom he transacted was legitimate. 
Therefore the refund that Ive asked Lloyds to make should be reduced by 50%. 
Mr B says that he wouldnt have risked his money if he had any concerns as it was a huge 
part of his life savings. And, that with the benefit of hindsight, there may have been things  
Mr B couldve done. But he feels that any short comings on his part dont outweigh what 
Lloyds shouldve done or their duty of care to him.
Id like to assure Mr B that I realise he has been the victim of a particularly cruel scam and 
the impact the loss of this money is having on him. However, the CRM Code sets standards 
that both the business (Lloyds) and the consumer (Mr B) are expected to meet. In this case, 
I agree with Mr B that Lloyds shouldve done more and havent met their obligations under 
the Code. On that basis, I recommended that Lloyds should refund the payments from 
payment two onwards. However, Im not satisfied, based on what Mr B has told us, that he 
has met the standards set for him under the Code either  which is why I reduced this refund 
by 50%. Mr B has now raised a concern about the £40 compensation that Lloyds paid, which Lloyds 
said was for reaching the wrong answer when they initially reviewed Mr Bs fraud claim. In 
making a compensation award, I cant award based on the complaint process, the costs in 
bringing a complaint or because a business reached a different answer on a case than we 
ultimately did. The complaints process requires financial businesses to investigate 
complaints and communicate the outcome to customers. Theyre also required to provide 
referral details for our service, so if the customer remains unhappy, they can bring their 
complaint to our service. Often a financial business may reach a different answer than we do 
following our investigation of the complaint. But we dont make an award of compensation on 
that basis, so I cant fairly ask Lloyds to increase the compensation of £40. 
Mr B has raised a point that if Lloyds had intervened, they wouldve found out the ultimate 
destination of the funds  which wouldve caused Mr B to raise concerns with G and would 
likely have resulted in a solicitor getting involved. I think its worth noting that intervention by 
Lloyds wouldnt have involved them doing a money trail audit. In this case, the information 
that Lloyds wouldve had is the same information that Mr B had, which is that he was making 
payments to a UK bank account. Mr B wouldve known this because the sort code and 
account number he used to set up the payment on his online banking was for a UK bank. 
There was no information, for example an IBAN number or any other indication that he was 
making a payment to an overseas account.
Im really sorry to disappoint Mr B, but having carefully considered everything hes said, Im 
unable to recommend a full refund.
Putting things right
To put things right Lloyds Bank PLC should:
Pay Mr B the £72.57 theyve recovered from the beneficiary bank  if they havent
already done so.
Refund Mr B 50% of payments 2 to 9 (inclusive), payments 11 to 16 (inclusive),
payment 19 and payments 21 and 22 - being £95,597.63 (50% of £191,340.40 less
the £72.57 they recovered).
Lloyds should pay interest on those refunds at 8% simple interest from the date they
declined his claim until the date of settlement.
Lloyds should pay Mr B the £40 compensation they offered - if they havent already
done so.
Lloyds can deduct from the overall refund, any payments theyve already made to
Mr B.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint against Lloyds Bank PLC and require them to 
compensate Mr B as set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 14 December 2022.
 
Lisa Lowe
Ombudsman