DRN-3770156
The complaint
Mr G complains about Casualty & General Insurance Company (Europe) Ltd (CG) declining 
a claim under his pet insurance policy for treatment of his dog.
References to CG include their agents who administer the policy.
What happened
In December 2021 Mr G took his dog to a vet as it was reluctant to eat and showed signs of 
pain when eating. The vet diagnosed suspected oesophageal haematoma caused by severe 
coagulopathy (a problem with clotting of the blood). Unfortunately, the condition meant the 
dog had to be euthanised. Mr G contacted CG to tell them and subsequently made a claim 
for the cost of treatment (£3,988). 
However, CG said they wouldnt accept the claim, as review of the dogs clinical history 
indicated previous consultations (and conditions) that would have affected the cover 
provided under the policy. They said had they been aware of the history when Mr G took out 
his policy they would have imposed specific exclusions (from November 2018, the date Mr G 
took out his policy. The exclusions related, firstly, to growths, tumours and resulting 
conditions. And, secondly, anything to do with the digestive system and any resulting 
conditions. As the claim related to the dogs oesophagus, this would have fallen under the 
exclusions, so CG said they wouldnt accept the claim.
Mr G was unhappy about CGs decline of his claim, as he didnt think the previous clinical 
history indicated anything other than minor illnesses. His vet also didnt think the current 
condition (that led to the dog being euthanised) was related to the previous conditions 
recorded in the clinical history. So, Mr G complained to CG (and subsequently to this 
service) about their decline of the claim.
CG didnt uphold the complaint. In their final response they said when Mr G took out his 
policy, the terms and conditions provided to him made it clear pre-existing conditions (or 
where there were clinical signs of existence) wouldnt be covered. CG referred to information 
in the Insurance Product Information Document (IPID) and the General Exclusions section of 
the policy which provided for CG to add endorsements to the policy where they became 
aware of pre-existing conditions after a policy had been taken out.
CG also referred to the dogs clinical history prior to the policys inception, including vomiting, 
gastroenteritis, diarrhoea, masses on the jaw and spots in the eye. Also the notes relating to 
the visits to the vet leading to the diagnosis of oesophageal haematoma and the decision to 
euthanise the dog. CG concluded there were signs of digestive issues and undiagnosed 
lumps prior to policy inception which, had they known about at that time, they would have 
added the two endorsements referred to when initially declining the claim. While no definitive 
diagnosis had been made for the dogs condition, as there was a possibility the condition 
was the result of a digestive issue or a tumour, CG confirmed their decline of the claim.
In his complaint to this service, Mr G said CG had unreasonably declined their claim, which 
their vet supported. He thought the previous conditions in the clinical history werent shown 
to be related to the present condition that led to the dog being euthanised. He also thought 
that as the previous issues were minor, it wasnt reasonable to expect them to all be 
declared when taking out the policy. If CG required a full clinical history, then they should 
have been stipulated as part of the process to take out the policy. He was out of pocket by 
£4,000 (the claim limit in the policy) although the cost of treatment was considerably greater. 
He wanted CG to reconsider their rejection of the claim (given the support of their vet) and to 
settle the claim in line with the policy limits (less any deductibles).
Our investigator upheld Mr Gs complaint, concluding CG hadnt acted fairly. He didnt think 
the evidence (and the opinion of the vet) indicated the dog had the conditions (or symptoms 
of the condition the vet suspected affected the dog in December 2021. So, CG had acted 
unfairly in declining the claim on the basis of a pre-existing condition. In respect  of the two 
endorsements CG said they would have applied had they been aware of the dogs clinical 
history, the investigator thought CG hadnt asked sufficiently detailed questions for Mr G 
reasonably to have concluded he needed to disclose any of the issues in the dogs clinical 
history/ So, the investigator concluded Mr G had taken reasonable care in answering the 
questions asked when he took out the policy. As such, he hadnt made a qualifying 
misrepresentation under the Consumer Insurance (Disclosure and Representations) Act 
2012 (CIDRA).
To put things right, the investigator thought CG should settle Mr Gs claim in accordance with 
the remaining terms of the policy. As Mr G had paid the vets bill himself, the investigator 
thought CG should add interest to the settlement amount from the date Mr G paid the vets 
bill to the date CG reimbursed him. The investigator also thought the decline of his claim had 
caused Mr G trouble and upset, along with the inference he hadnt taken sufficient care in 
answering the questions asked when he took out the policy. In the context of the distress at 
the loss of his dog, the investigator thought CG should pay Mr G £150 in compensation.
CG disagreed with the investigators conclusions, and requested an ombudsman review the 
complaint. In disagreeing, they referred to the clinical history, including that a tumour could 
not be ruled out. And that the diagnosis of Oesophageal Haematoma would fall under both 
endorsements that they would have applied. CG also said Mr G made a misrepresentation 
when he didnt inform them of what they considered a material change (when the dog was 
being looked after by other family members in a different location, which would have affected 
the policy premium).
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Id first want to express my sympathy to Mr G at the loss of his dog, which would have been 
distressing for him and his family. My role here is to decide whether CG have acted fairly 
towards Mr G. 
The key issue in Mr Gs complaint is whether CG acted fairly in declining his claim for 
treatment of his dog. CGs view is that they correctly declined the claim, firstly on the 
grounds the dogs clinical history indicated a possibility the condition was the result of a 
digestive issue or a tumour. Which would indicate a pre-existing condition, so excluded from 
cover under the policy. Mr Gs view is that the previous conditions werent shown to be 
related to the present condition that led to the dog being euthanised.
Theres a second, linked aspect to the complaint. While their final response doesnt explicitly 
refer to it as such (nor have they applied any of the remedies available in such 
circumstances), CGs conclusion there were signs of digestive issues and undiagnosed lumps prior to policy inception - which, had they known about at the time, they would have 
added the two endorsements referred to when initially declining the claim - implies they 
believe Mr G made a misrepresentation when he took out the policy. Mr G says the previous 
issues were minor, so it wasnt reasonable to expect them to all be declared when taking out 
the policy. If CG required a full clinical history, they should have stipulated this as part of the 
process to take out the policy. 
On the issue of the decline of the claim because of the exclusion for a pre-existing condition 
Ive considered both views carefully, including the relevant terms and conditions of the policy 
(particularly those referred to by CG in their final response) together with the supporting 
information and evidence, including the vets notes and the clinical history of Mr Gs dog. 
Looking at the policy terms and conditions, under the Your Cover part of the policy, it states:
What is not insured?
Any claim for Illness or Accidental Injury that relates to a Pre-existing Condition 
Similar wording appears under the Veterinary Fees heading, where theres a sub-heading 
What is not covered?
CG refer to the Policy Definitions which state a Pre-Existing Condition means:
any diagnosed or undiagnosed Condition and/or Associated Condition which has 
happened or has shown Clinical Signs or Symptoms of existing in any form before 
the Policy Start Date or within the Waiting Period.
CG also refer to the General Exclusions section of the policy that includes the following:
As with all insurance policies, there are exclusions and conditions You accept and 
understand that medical conditions or diseases that apply to your coverage
The following exclusions apply to the whole of this policy. We will not pay claims for 
any of the following reasons:
If we are made aware of any Pre-existing Conditions at the time of a claim, these 
Pre-existing Conditions will not be covered and we reserve the right to add a 
relevant endorsement(s) to your policy in respect of these Pre-existing 
Conditions. . 
Ive then considered the question of whether the dog did have a pre-existing condition, 
specifically, the oesophageal haematoma caused by severe coagulopathy that the vet 
diagnosed. Or whether there were any clinical signs or symptoms. Looking at the clinical 
history, there are notes of issues including vomiting, gastroenteritis, diarrhoea, masses on 
the jaw and spots in the eye. However,, none mention oesophageal haematoma or 
coagulopathy. And Ive also considered the vets opinion that the condition that led to the 
dog being euthanised was related to the previous conditions recorded in the clinical history. 
 
Ive also considered the general principle, where an insurer relies on an exclusion, that onus 
is on them to show its reasonable to apply it. As well as the points noted above, Ive also 
considered CGs final reference to there being no definitive diagnosis of the condition that 
led to the dog being euthanised. CG add that there was a possibility (my emphasis) that his 
illness was caused by a digestive issue or a tumour. However, as the onus is on CG to show 
the exclusion applies, I dont think it reasonable to rely on a possibility.Taking all these points into account, Im not persuaded CG have shown enough to apply the 
exclusion for a pre-existing condition in the circumstances of this case. So, Ive concluded 
CG acted unfairly to apply the exclusion to decline Mr Gs claim.
Turning to the second issue, whether Mr G failed to declare a condition at the point he took 
out the policy, Ive considered the circumstances in which Mr G took out his policy. Ive 
considered the questions asked of Mr G that CG refer to in their final response, which are:
Are you looking for insurance cover for a pre-existing condition?
Are you concerned that after 12 months a Condition is no longer covered?
The first question assumes that a consumer would reasonably have known their pet had a 
pre-existing condition and declared it. Mr G says the previous issues were minor, so it wasnt 
reasonable to expect them to all be declared when taking out the policy. If CG required a full 
clinical history, they should have stipulated this as part of the process to take out the policy. 
Given my conclusion it wasnt reasonable for CG to apply the exclusion for a pre-existing 
condition, together with the vets view the condition they suspected was the cause of the 
dogs illness (and subsequent euthanasia) wasnt linked to the dogs previous issues, then I 
dont believe it was unreasonable for Mr G to think his dog didnt have a pre-existing 
condition (and the clinical history makes no reference to the condition at the time of the dogs 
final illness).
In their response to our investigators view, CG said Mr G made a misrepresentation when 
he didnt inform them of what they considered a material change (when the dog was being 
looked after by other family members in a different location, which would have affected the 
policy premium). Ive considered this point carefully. However, this wasnt raised as an issue 
either in CGs initial decline of the claim, nor in their subsequent final response. Nor have 
they provided any evidence to suggest that the dogs location had any bearing on the illness 
and subsequent suspected diagnosis that led to the dogs euthanasia. So, it doesnt change 
my conclusion that CG acted unfairly and unreasonably in declining Mr Gs claim.
Given these conclusions, Ive thought about what CG need to do to put things right. As I 
dont think they can rely on the exclusion for pre-existing conditions, and Mr G didnt make a 
misrepresentation when he took out his policy, they should settle the claim in line with the 
remaining terms and conditions of the policy, including any limits on the costs of treatment 
and any policy excess (as appropriate). 
If CG settle the claim  they should also pay interest at a rate of 8% simple on the amount 
settled, from the date Mr G paid the vets bill to the date they reimburse him. 
Ive also considered the issue of compensation. Having his claim [unfairly] declined and so 
having to settle the vets bill himself will have been distressing and inconvenient to Mr G, at a 
time when his dog had been euthanised. Given my conclusion CG acted unfairly in declining 
his claim, I think compensation for distress and inconvenience would be appropriate. 
Considering all the circumstances of the case, I think £150 would be fair and reasonable.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, my final decision is that I uphold Mr Gs complaint. I require 
Casualty & General Insurance Company (Europe) Ltd to:
Settle Mr Gs claim in line with the remaining terms and conditions of the policy, 
including any limits on the costs of treatment and any policy excess (as appropriate).
Pay Mr G £150 compensation for distress and inconvenience.If Casualty & General Insurance Company (Europe) Ltd settle the claim, they should also 
pay interest at a rate of 8% simple on the amount settled, from the date Mr G paid the vets 
bill to the date they reimburse him.
Casualty & General Insurance Company (Europe) Ltd must pay the compensation within 28 
days of the date on which we tell it Mr G accepts my final decision. If they pay later than this 
they must also pay interest on the compensation from the date of my final decision to the 
date of payment at 8% a year simple.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision before 18 May 2023.
 
Paul King
Ombudsman