DRN-1910523
The complaint
Miss S complains that an appointed representative of Mortgage Next Network Limited, C Ltd, 
didnt act fairly or reasonably when giving her advice about her mortgage. She wants 
compensation.
What happened
Miss S wanted to buy a new property while selling her current property, which was 
mortgaged with a lender. Miss S said that she thought she had to pay an early repayment 
charge (ERC) to leave her mortgage product before the end of March 2016 and told C Ltd 
this. C Ltd was a mortgage broker and an appointed representative of Mortgage Next 
advising Miss S.
Miss S said C Ltd told her that there wasnt an ERC to pay after checking with the lender, 
and gave her advice about her next mortgage product. Miss S said that it wasnt until her 
solicitor told her in late February 2016 that she realised the ERC was being charged. Miss S 
felt obliged to continue the transaction as she was afraid of losing her buyer and the new 
property, even though this was before the end of March 2016.
Miss S complained. Mortgage Next said C Ltd went through Miss S financial position before 
giving her advice, and it recommended the cheapest possible mortgage product to her that 
met her needs. It said Miss S knew when the ERC applied as shed raised the point, but she 
was under pressure to sell her property and buy her new property which was why she 
ignored its advice to wait. C Ltd checked with the lender direct and was told that no ERC 
applied, and nothing was said about getting a new mortgage with that lender to waive the 
ERC. Mortgage Next noted that Miss S paid the ERC using her own funds in order to 
complete as planned. Mortgage Next said Miss S wouldnt have been able to get a mortgage 
for the amount she needed from the original lender due to her financial circumstances at the 
time  C Ltd had checked this before advising her. It didnt uphold the complaint.
Miss S complained to us, saying that she wouldnt have taken out the mortgage she did if 
shed known the ERC would be charged and delayed the move. The investigators view was 
that Mortgage Next wasnt at fault. It had asked the lender to confirm if an ERC would be 
charged and was told that it wouldnt. He said it was fair and reasonable for C Ltd to base its 
advice on the information from the lender. The investigator added that Miss S knew from the 
mortgage offer from the original lender that the ERC would be charged and could checked 
the position with the lender.
Miss S disagreed. She said she had told C Ltd about the ERC but relied on the information it 
got from the lender. Miss S felt shed suffered due to the mistakes of others. The investigator 
said Miss S chose to go ahead knowing of the ERC and didnt think it made a difference 
what the lender had told C Ltd. Miss S still disagreed and didnt accept the lender gave C Ltd 
incorrect information about the ERC.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
C Ltd didnt arrange Miss S original mortgage product, but reasonably checked the position 
with the lender when Miss S told it she was due to pay an ERC. C Ltd isnt to blame for the 
lender giving incorrect information and telling it that no ERC was due.
And in any event, Miss S knew about the ERC from the start  she told C Ltd about it and 
expected to pay it. She chose to continue with the sale, even after it was clear the lender 
would charge the ERC; she didnt delay the transaction. This was her choice, but doesnt 
mean C Ltd is to blame for her decision to pay the ERC.
While Miss S may feel that the mortgage product C Ltd recommended couldve been 
different, from the evidence available to me Im satisfied that Miss S couldnt have borrowed 
the amount sought from her original lender - it wasnt an option. C Ltd recommended the 
cheapest product that met Miss S needs. It was a suitable product to recommend.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold the complaint. Under the rules of the Financial 
Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss S to accept or reject my decision before 
28 December 2020.
 
Claire Sharp
Ombudsman