DRN-1780331
The complaint
Mr D complains that he was mis-sold a Silver Added Value Account (SAVA) by Lloyds Bank 
PLC (Lloyds). 
What happened
Mr D held a fee free account with Lloyds from July 2012. 
Mr D upgraded to a Silver Added Value Account (SAVA) in March 2013 which incurred a 
monthly fee.
Mr D says that he was told to take out the SAVA to improve his credit rating and improve his 
chances of getting an overdraft, but it was unsuitable for him.
Lloyds says that the SAVA was not mis-sold.
Our adjudicator investigated Mr Ds complaint and didnt uphold Mr Ds complaint. Mr D 
disagrees so the complaint has come to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve explained how we handle complaints about packaged bank accounts on our website. 
And Ive used this approach to help me decide Mr Ds complaint.
Mr D says Lloyds told him to apply for a SAVA online as it would help to improve his credit 
rating and enable him to get an overdraft. And he says this was the only reason he took out 
the SAVA which in his view was unsuitable for him.
Whilst I dont doubt that Mr D is giving his honest recollections, I think his memory of the sale 
may not be clear. 
I say this because Mr Ds submissions about the sale have varied considerably.
In his original complaint to Lloyds he describes his circumstances at the time as having no 
car, no mobile phone and that he took no holidays. He also described that he was taken into 
a room in his branch where Lloyds introduced him to the SAVA and then advised him to go 
online and open one. 
In his later submissions to this service Mr D said that his circumstances were that he had a 
car with breakdown cover, he travelled 1-3 times a year but had no phone. He also said he 
had no knowledge of the benefits that came with the SAVA.
In response to Mr Ds complaint, Lloyds has provided copies of his accounts at the time 
which appear to show payments to a mobile phone company. And in Mr Ds correspondence 
with Lloyds it appears that he tried to make a claim on mobile phone insurance; but he 
comments to us on Lloyds correspondence to him that he was unable to, as he wasnt told to 
register his phone.
In response to our adjudicators view Mr D said he was told in a phone call with Lloyds, not 
during a visit to a branch, that he would have a better chance of getting an overdraft if he 
took out the SAVA on line. He goes on to imply that the branch would have been a better 
environment for such a discussion.
So, understandably after so many years, Mr D appears to have differing recollections of what 
happened during the sale. So, I dont think it would be fair of me to say that Mr Ds memory 
of the sale is reliable enough to uphold his complaint only on what he says that Lloyds said 
to him.
But I can look at whether Lloyds acted properly overall in selling the SAVA to Mr D.
To do this, I need firstly to consider whether Mr D was aware the SAVA was optional and 
whether he was given a clear choice in taking out the account.
I think its more likely than not that he was aware and did get a choice and I say this for the 
following reasons.
Mr D had previously had a fee free account, so he was aware these were available. 
Mr D says he was told that he had to take out the SAVA to get an overdraft. But I can see 
from his account statements that he didnt make significant use of an overdraft for several 
months before or after opening the SAVA. And Lloyds has no record of a request for an 
overdraft. So, I think its more likely than not that he did not have an immediate financial 
demand that drove him to take the SAVA when he didnt need to.
Also, I think that if he had only taken the SAVA to get an overdraft but then hadnt used it or 
been declined for it, he had the option to close the account at any time, but he didnt and 
retained it for many years.
So, I think Mr D was aware he had a choice and chose to take out the SAVA.
I next need to consider if Lloyds acted appropriately during the sale.
Mr D took the SAVA out on line which I would usually consider to be a non-advised sale. But 
in this case, Ill assume it was an advised sale as this is to Mr Ds advantage and doesnt 
affect the outcome of my decision. So, Lloyds needed to provide Mr D with enough 
information about the SAVA to make an informed choice. And in recommending the SAVA, it 
also needed to take adequate steps to ensure that the SAVA was a reasonable fit for Mr Ds 
circumstances.
The SAVA contained a range of benefits including AA breakdown cover, European travel 
insurance, mobile phone insurance and sentinel card protection. And it offered a £50 fee free 
and interest free overdraft. 
Mr D took out the SAVA on line. I dont know what Lloyds said or exactly what information it 
gave Mr D about the SAVA, but I think it wouldve been of interest to him and suitable for 
him. I say this because he told us that at the time of the sale, he had a car, travelled in 
Europe regularly and he was interested in an overdraft. Lloyds account evidence suggests he also had a mobile phone. Mr D didnt have to register to be covered by the travel or 
mobile phone insurance, although it was recommended he did for the latter. And the car 
breakdown service covered him whether he was the driver or owner of a car or not.
So, even though Mr D says he didnt use the benefits, I cant say that the SAVA was 
unsuitable for him; and as the on-line process he followed took him through the main 
benefits of the account before he could apply, I think its more likely than not that he knew 
about them. And Mr D couldve cancelled the account at any time, but as I said above, he 
didnt for many years.
So, although I know this will be disappointing for Mr D, in my view the SAVA was suitable for 
Mr D. And there was no information that he didnt receive from Lloyds that would likely have 
put him off taking the SAVA. So, I think its more likely than not that Lloyds didnt do anything 
wrong in selling the SAVA to Mr D.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold Mr Ds complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision before 9 December 2020.
 
Richard Hill
Ombudsman