DRN-3612117
The complaint
Mr T complains about U K Insurance Limited trading as Direct Lines (Direct Line) handling 
of a claim made under his landlord insurance policy. 
Mr T has a loss assessor working on his behalf who Ill call Mr C.
 
What happened
Mr T made his claim in January 2021. He complained about the handling of the claim and 
Direct Line issued a final response in July 2021. The events up to that time have already 
been considered by this service and I issued a final decision in July 2022. This decision 
focuses on whats happened since July 2021.
Late in July 2021, Direct Line sent Mr C a breakdown of where things stood in that moment. 
This included whether costs had been accepted, or if further information was required. Mr T 
was unhappy with some of the costs being offered and Direct Line offered an interim 
settlement. Unhappy with this, Mr T made another complaint about the handling of the claim 
and his opinion Direct Line had refused to refused to appoint their own contactors to settle 
the claim. 
Direct Line responded to Mr Ts complaint in February 2022. It set out why it declined some 
of the costs Mr T asked for and set out what it as prepared to offer Mr T to settle the claim. It 
acknowledged its handling of the claim had fallen short in some areas and offered and said it 
would send Mr T £50 in respect of this. In March 2022, Direct Line agreed to increase the 
settlement figure in one area of the claim and paid Mr T £4,565.65 to settle the claim. 
Mr T remained unhappy and referred his complaint to this service. It was considered by one 
of our investigators who said the offer made by Direct Line was fair and reasonable in the 
circumstances. As Mr T didnt agree, this matter has been passed to me. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive included a brief summary of the complaint, and my decision here focuses on what I 
consider to the central issues to the dispute. I trust neither side will consider this to be a 
discourtesy, and instead reflects our informal nature. 
Ive considered Direct Lines handling of the claim. Towards the end of July 2021, it said to 
Mr T there was information outstanding it required before it could settle the claim. This 
information included clarification for a difference in the cost of skirting boards. Further 
information was provided, and Direct Line subsequently made a payment of £4,565.65 to Mr 
T. This covered the invoices and estimates for the repairs, less the policy excess. Mr T 
accepted this amount. I dont consider the requests Direct Line made to have sight of these 
invoices or estimates to be unreasonable before settling the claim. I dont uphold this part of 
Mr Ts complaint.
Ill turn now to Mr Ts concerns Direct Line declined to appoint its contractors. I can see there 
was a point in February 2022 when Direct Line said it didnt have any contractors available. 
It says this was due to a sudden increase in the number of claims it received. As a result, it 
relied on the following clause to settle the claim by way of a financial settlement. Ive 
included the clause below: 
Cover
In the event of Damage at the Premises to any Property insured in connection with 
the Business occurring during the Period of Insurance We will pay to You the 
Value of such Property insured or the amount of the Damage at the time of such 
Damage or, at Our own option, reinstate or replace such property
Having reviewed the email correspondence from July 2021, I havent seen any evidence to 
support Mr Ts opinion Direct Line declined to instruct contractors. I have seen emails from 
Mr T and Mr C where its inferred this is Direct Lines approach, but I havent seen anything 
originating from Direct Line, refusing to appoint their contractors. Im not going to uphold this 
part of Mr Ts complaint. And in any event, the policy terms didnt require Direct Line to 
appoint contractors to settle the claim. It was able to settle the claim by making a financial 
payment, as was the case here. I consider this fair and reasonable. 
Ive gone on to consider the other payments Mr T asked Direct Line to pay. These included 
costs for alternative accommodation while the flooring was being laid, for the excess to be 
waived, and an additional payment for his new insurance premium. 
Ive reached the same conclusion as our investigator in respect of Mr Ts request that Direct 
Line make a payment for alternative accommodation while the flooring was being laid. The 
policy says:
Alternative Accommodation Costs
Costs reasonably and necessarily incurred with Our consent in respect of alternative
accommodation whilst the Building is uninhabitable
While the policy doesnt provide a definition for what it means by uninhabitable, I dont 
consider that having a new floor laid would deem a property uninhabitable. Wed usually 
consider a property uninhabitable in certain circumstances  for example if there was not 
access to water. I havent seen any evidence to suggest laying new flooring would result in 
the property being uninhabitable. Im not going to require Direct Line to make a payment for 
alternative accommodation. 
Im not going to ask Direct Line to pay Mr T the £68 hes asked for in recognition of what he 
says is an increased policy cost. Its not unusual for customers to see their policy costs 
increase following a claim. I havent seen anything which supports Mr Ts view Direct Line 
acted incorrectly in its handling of his claim, or it is directly responsible for Mr T incurring this 
cost. I havent seen any evidence to show it held the claim open beyond the point of it being 
settled, or beyond a reasonable point. It follows, there is no reason for me to require it to 
refund this cost to him.
Im also not going to require Direct Line to waive the excess for this claim. The excess is 
required to be paid under the terms of the policy  its what Mr T agreed to pay when he took 
the policy out. And while he considers the handling of the claim has fallen below the 
standard hed expect, based on what Ive seen I dont agree. Im satisfied Direct Lines 
requests for information were proportionate and appropriate in the circumstances. There was 
a slight delay in reviewing some information Mr T provided but I consider the £50 Direct Line already sent Mr T was appropriate in the circumstances. Im not going to ask it to do 
anything more to put things right. 
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr T to accept or 
reject my decision before 15 December 2022.
 
Emma Hawkins
Ombudsman