DRN-2542666
The complaint
Mr M complains that Barclays UK Plc blocked and then closed his account.  Hes also 
unhappy about the way Barclays handled things. He wants Barclays to pay him 
compensation for the trouble and upset he was caused. And provide him with a proper 
explanation.
What happened
Mr M had a savings account with Barclays. On 24 March 2020 the bank blocked Mr Ms 
account  meaning Mr M was unable to access the funds in his account, which at the time 
was just over £26,000.  The bank wouldnt tell Mr M much about what was happening  only 
that it was complying with its legal and regulatory obligations. And carrying out a review of 
Mr Ms account. Following this, Barclays decided it no longer wanted Mr M as a customer 
and closed his account in June 2020. 
Mr M complained to the bank about the lack of information and not being able to access the 
money in his account. Hes wants Barclays to provide a proper explanation why it blocked 
and closed his account. He believes that the bank has treated him unfairly and discriminated 
against him. And pointed out that hes been a loyal customer of the bank for many years.  
Mr Ms also unhappy that when he called Barclays the staff, he spoke to were rude and 
dismissive.
Mr M has explained that because Barclays blocked his account, he had to borrow money 
from friends to support his family. And he suffered a great deal of worry and stress. So, he 
wants Barclays to pay him compensation. 
Barclays said it hadnt done anything wrong and had acted in accordance with the terms of 
the accounts and relevant regulations. Mr M wasnt happy with the banks response. So, he 
referred his complaint to us where one of our investigators looked into what had happened. 
When Mr M referred his complaint to this service one of our investigators considered it. She 
said Barclays hadnt done anything wrong. And explained that the bank didnt have to 
provide an explanation why it had decided to block and close Mr Ms account.
Mr M disagreed. He said Barclays hasnt treated him fairly and has discriminated against 
him. He wants Barclays to provide a proper explanation why it blocked his account and no 
longer wanted him as a customer. 
As no agreement could be reached the complaint has come to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Its clear from what Mr M has told us and the bank that he feels very strongly about his 
complaint.  I appreciate that hes upset that Barclays blocked and closed his account. I can 
also understand that this was no doubt stressful for him especially as the banks actions 
made it difficult for him to manage his finances and support his family. But for me to uphold 
this complaint, I must be satisfied that the bank has done something wrong. And in this case, 
I dont think it has. Ill explain why.
All banks in the UK are strictly regulated and must take certain actions in order to meet their 
legal and regulatory obligations. Banks are also required to carry out ongoing monitoring of 
an existing business relationship. That sometimes means banks need to restrict customers 
accounts. Barclays has said that Mr Ms access to his account was blocked to meet these 
requirements.
Having looked at all the evidence, Im satisfied first of all that Barclays was within its rights to 
review Mr Ms account and that it was entitled to block it while it carried out that review. 
Barclays also werent obliged to tell Mr M why it was carrying out a review of his account  
as much as hed like to know. And it wouldnt be appropriate for me to require it do so. The 
terms and conditions also permit Barclays to block an account. So, I cant say the bank has 
done anything wrong by not providing this information to Mr M. 
Ive no doubt that not having a functioning bank account made things quite difficult for Mr M. 
So, I can understand why he found this experience with Barclays stressful and upsetting. But 
as Ive explained, banks have a legal obligation to comply with various laws and regulations. 
Having looked at all the evidence, Im satisfied that Barclays was complying with its 
obligations when it blocked Mr Ms account. So, whilst I accept this caused Mr M 
inconvenience, I cant say Barclays treated him unfairly. 
I then turn to the banks decision to close Mr Ms account. As the investigator explained, its 
generally for banks to decide whether or not they want to provide, or to continue to provide, 
banking facilities to any particular customer. Unless theres a very good reason to do so, this 
service wont usually say that a bank must keep customer or require it to compensate a 
customer who has had their account closed.
Banks should however, give reasonable notice before closing an account. Usually, that 
means 60 days notice, but it can be less  depending on the circumstances. In this case 
Barclayss gave Mr M 60 days notice. So, it was entitled to close the accounts as it has 
already done. 
Mr M says that he is a victim of discrimination by Barclays. And the bank wouldnt have 
treated anyone else in the same way. But while I appreciate this is his perspective, it is not 
my role to decide whether discrimination has taken place as a matter of law  only the courts 
have the power to decide this. I have, however, considered the relevant law in relation to 
what Mr M has said when deciding what I think is the fair and reasonable outcome. Part of 
this has meant considering the provisions of The Equality Act 2010 (The Act). 
The Act describes race as a protected characteristic and sets out that a person (A) 
discriminates against another (B) if, because of a protected characteristic, A treats B less 
favourably than A would treat others. So, in considering whether Mr M has been unlawfully 
discriminated against, I need to determine whether there is evidence to suggest that he was 
treated less favourably on account of his race. But after looking at all the evidence, Ive not 
seen anything to suggest that this was the case. So, I havent found that Barclayss 
behaviour was improper when it decided to block and close his account.
Mr Ms also unhappy about the service he received when he called the bank to find out what 
was happening with his account. In particular, hes said staff were rude to him and 
dismissive.I can appreciate having to wait on the end of the phone to try and find out what was 
happening with his account, wouldve have been frustrating for Mr M  especially as he 
wasnt being given the information he wanted. I also fully accept that Mr M is upset about 
whats happened. But I must base my decision on the available evidence. Ive listened to the 
calls Mr M had with the bank. Having done so, I cant say the call handlers were rude, 
dismissive or unhelpful to Mr M. 
In summary, I recognise how strongly Mr M feels about whats happened, and I dont doubt it 
was a frustrating and worrying time. So, I realise Mr M will be disappointed by my decision. 
But overall, based on the evidence Ive seen, I cant say Barclays have acted unreasonably 
and treated Mr M unfairly when it blocked and closed his account. So, Im not going to ask 
the bank to do anything. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask X to accept or 
reject my decision before 26 February 2021.
 
Sharon Kerrison
Ombudsman