DRN-3801394
The complaint
Mr S complains about the way National House-Building Council (NHBC) has dealt with a 
claim hes made under his Buildmark building warranty. 
What happened
The background to this complaint is well known to the parties so Ive provided a summary 
here.
Mr S owns a property which has the benefit of a Buildmark building warranty 
underwritten by NHBC. After moving in, he identified a number of snagging issues 
and contacted NHBC in early Spring 2021. It asked him for more information to 
identify his policy. Mr S got back in contact sometime later, in February 2022, and 
provided a snagging list.
NHBC contacted the builder with a request to deal with the snagging issues. 
Sometime after, Mr S let NHBC know the builder hadnt been in contact so NHBC 
arranged a resolution meeting. 
After this meeting, a resolution report was issued and this instructed the builder to 
complete the agreed repairs by a deadline of 3 June 2022. A period of back and forth 
between NHBC and the builder followed as he thought his liability period had already 
ended. In mid May, the builder agreed to undertake the work and NHBC let Mr S 
know he would need to allow the builder the opportunity to do this.
Shortly after the June 2022 deadline, Mr S let NHBC know the builder hadnt been in 
contact directly or completed the works. Some contractors had attempted to book 
dates in for repairs but it hadnt been clear to Mr S what work had been agreed or 
which contractors were responsible for what work.
The builder provided NHBC with evidence his tradesmen had been in contact shortly 
after he accepted responsibility for the work, and in advance of the deadline. The 
builder said dates werent booked in as Mr S hadnt been happy to agree to anything 
until hed heard back from NHBC. NHBC therefore decided to extend the deadline for 
dates to be booked in until early July 2022.
Mr S complained to NHBC about this agreed extension but it didnt uphold his 
complaint. It said the builder had made a genuine attempt to arrange dates for the 
work so it was reasonable to provide the extension. 
Mr S raised a complaint with this Service. Our Investigator didnt uphold it as she 
thought NHBC had acted reasonably and in line with the policy terms when it agreed 
to extend the deadline to allow the builder more time to complete the repairs. Mr S 
didnt agree so the complaint has been brought to me for an Ombudsmans decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I explained in a decision on a separate case that I can only consider NHBCs actions 
after 3 June 2022. This decision focuses on the period from that date to when NHBC 
issued its final response on 11 July 2022.   
The terms of the building warranty explain what the parties can expect from the 
cover. Im unlikely to tell a business its done something wrong if its acted in line with 
the policy terms.
In Section 2, it explains If the builder is unable to meet the timescales we set, they 
must let us know and we will consider whether we can give them more time. From 
this, Im satisfied NHBC was entitled to extend the timeline given to the builder and 
this was in line with the policy terms.
Ive then gone on to think about whether it was fair and reasonable to do this in light 
of the evidence available at the time it made its decision.
Having established the claim was made in the builders liability period, the resolution 
report directed the builder to undertake works by 3 June 2022.
Ive seen evidence a contractor acting for the builder contacted Mr S on 16 May 2022 
to book time to start the work. There was then some back and forth as Mr S wanted 
to establish what work the contractor planned to undertake. 
Some time later, the builder also got in contact with Mr S but he was keen to await 
the outcome of his contact with NHBC before agreeing on a start date.
NHBC was satisfied the builder had made a genuine attempt to arrange a time for the 
work to be undertaken. It also said that as the builders tradespeople were ready and 
waiting to do the work, this would ensure the quickest resolution. Because of this, it 
extended the deadline for the work to be completed rather than take over the 
builders responsibilities at that time.  
Bearing in mind what Ive said above and the evidence Ive seen, Im satisfied this 
decision was reasonable and one NHBC was entitled to make in line with the policy 
terms. So, Im satisfied it acted fairly in deciding to provide the deadline extension to 
the builder.
I wont be asking NHBC to do any more on this complaint. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 16 December 2022.
 
Paul Phillips
Ombudsman