DRN-4051987
The complaint
Mr H has complained that Fundsmith LLP placed unreasonable restrictions on his account 
with them. He has also complained of several service failings. 
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I will not repeat them again 
here. The facts are not in dispute so I will focus on giving the reasons for my decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the conclusions reached by the investigator for these reasons:
Mr H invested with Fundsmith on five occasions for amounts between £95,000 and 
£310,000, during the months of June to September 2021. Fundsmith say that for  
anti-money laundering purposes, they required a signed source of funds declaration 
for each of these five amounts. I think that was reasonable and in line with their 
requirements and Fundsmith were acting fairly in requiring this. 
However, Fundsmith say that despite sending written requests for two of these 
declarations on three occasions, they didnt receive what was required until January 
2022. Mr H is unhappy as he says all declarations were sent when requested and 
that the two missing declarations had been sent in July and August 2021, well before 
the receipt date of January 2022. He says this saw him with a prolonged time without 
full access to considerable investments of his (which had come from a sale of a 
property). 
Whilst I empathise with Mr H, and recognise that it must have been very distressing 
for him not to have full sight of a considerable amount of investment, I havent seen 
enough evidence to safely conclude that Fundsmith received the declarations and did 
not act on them. Mr H has provided the dates he sent them but no further evidence of 
them being posted (as stamped and addressed enveloped were used). Fundsmith 
have shown the dates they received them were in January 2022 and I havent seen 
anything to show they received them sooner. 
I am satisfied that Fundsmith made reasonable attempts to let Mr H know there were 
missing declarations. They sent three letters for the two that were missing, that is in 
line with their policy and what I would expect. However, when Mr H called in 
November and December 2021, he was given misinformation and wasnt told over 
the phone that the declarations were still not received. If he hadve been (as he was 
in January 2022), I am satisfied he wouldve provided them sooner and had sight of 
his full invested amount. 
Mr H has said this caused him some financial loss. He says he wanted to buy a 
property with these proceeds but couldnt because of this issue. However, Fundsmith 
have said that he could still have accessed these amounts at any time and they 
werent made aware of any request for a withdrawal until March 2022, two months 
after the issue had been resolved. Fundsmith have offered a total of £500 for the 
inconvenience caused, which includes for not telling Mr H the correct information on 
the phone in November and December 2021. I think this is a fair amount and I am not 
satisfied that Mr H suffered any financial loss from the errors. 
Mr H has also said that he wasnt made aware that a bank statement hed provided 
didnt match his account details, so they couldnt be verified. However, I agree with 
the investigator that Fundsmith have provided sufficient evidence that a correctly 
addressed letter explaining this was sent on 8 September 2021. 
Fundsmith have acknowledged that they didnt correctly look into an issue Mr H 
made them aware of in September 2021 of his bank details not being recorded on his 
account page. He had to chase this in November 2021, before anything was 
resolved. Fundsmith have apologised for this and I think the total compensation 
offered also recognises the impact this issue had on Mr H. 
In summary, I think Fundsmith did enough until the calls in November and December 
2021, to make Mr H aware of the missing declarations. However, Im not satisfied he 
suffered a financial loss from this but rather it was distressing and inconvenient. As it 
also was not to have the account details issue he logged looked into sooner. 
For these reasons, although I understand Mr Hs frustration, I think the offer made by 
Fundsmith to settle the complaint is fair.
My final decision
My final decision, for the reasons set out above, is that the offer already made by   
Fundsmith LLP to settle the complaint is fair. To put things right, Fundsmith LLP should pay 
Mr H a further £300 (on top of the £200 they have already paid). 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 27 April 2023.
 
Yoni Smith
Ombudsman