DRN-3052740
The complaint
Ms R complains Clydesdale Financial Services Limited trading as BPF Partner Finance 
(BPF) wrongly repossessed her car. She would like the car returned.
What happened
I set out the background to this complaint in my earlier provisional decision, for clarity I 
repeat it here.
In September 2017, Ms R entered into a conditional sale agreement with BPF. The total 
amount payable was £29,302.20 payable over a 60-month term. The monthly repayments 
were £435.87, with a final payment of £585.87.
Ms R says she took the finance out to purchase the car for her son. She says the broker and 
BPF were aware of this from the beginning. Unfortunately, her son had an accident in the car 
and there was a dispute with the insurance. This led to the car being impounded by police.  
She says her son is now in prison and she has been lumbered with a debt for the car. She 
says she wasnt able to recover the car from the compound as it needed confirmation from 
BPF that she was responsible for the car. She also was very unhappy at having to pay 
storage costs. 
Ms R says she was contacted by DWF Solicitors, who were acting for BPF to recover the 
arrears on the account. She maintains at no point did she want to relinquish ownership of the 
car and points out she had paid more than a third of the repayments and so under the 
agreement, BPF need a court order to repossess it and so she complained.
BPF says Ms R fell into arrears on the account quickly, sometimes she was able to bring 
them up to date and then the account would fall into arrears again. It says it has had no 
payments at all since February 2020 and the account was transferred to DWF Solicitors as 
the arrears stood at £3922.83. It also says it was informed on at least two occasions that the 
car had no valid tax, MOT or insurance. It confirmed it spoke with Ms R in December 2019 
about the fact the car wasnt registered in her name and it had explained this was a condition 
of the agreement.
In its final response dated 27 November 2020. BPF said it recovered the car from the 
compound and paid the storage costs of £936. It discovered the car had been there since 
November 2019. It didnt agree to return the car to Ms R. It said Ms R had breached the 
terms and conditions of the agreement as the car should always have been registered to her 
and in her possession. It also said she was required to inform them if the car had been in an 
accident. It accepted it should have terminated the agreement before possessing the car and 
offered Ms R £100 by way of an apology. It then gave Ms R the option to voluntary terminate 
the agreement before 4 December 2020. It terminated the agreement on 16 December 2020 
and told Ms R it intended to seek a Return of Goods Order from the court but has placed a 
hold on the account at present.
Dissatisfied, Ms R referred her complaint to this service.
An investigator looked into things for Ms R. He looked carefully at the terms of the 
agreement. He felt it was very clear the car should always have remained in Ms Rs 
possession and that she should have informed it when the car had been in an accident. He 
could see there had been multiple conversations around the arrears on the account and that 
since February 2020 no payments had been made to the account. In the circumstances he 
felt BPF had acted fairly and reasonably and so he didnt ask it to do anything further.
Ms R disagreed. She said at no time was the car not taxed or insured with a valid MOT. She 
maintains BPF and the broker were aware from the beginning the finance was being taken 
out by her for her son and as she has paid more than a third of the repayments BPF has no 
right to repossess the car without a court order. She asked for an ombudsman review.
In my provisional decision, I said Id reached the same outcome as the investigator, but my 
reasoning differed and so I wanted both parties to have the opportunity to respond before I 
issued my final decision. 
I said, Im very aware that Ive summarised this complaint in far less detail than the parties 
and Ive done so using my own words. Im not going to respond to every single point made 
by all the parties involved. No discourtesy is intended by this. Instead, Ive focussed on what 
I think are the key issues here. 
I explained our rules allow me to do this. This simply reflects the informal nature of our 
service as a free alternative to the courts. If theres something Ive not mentioned, it isnt 
because Ive ignored it. I havent. Im satisfied I dont need to comment on every individual 
argument to be able to reach what I think is the right outcome. 
In considering what is fair and reasonable, I take account of the relevant law and regulations, 
regulators rules, guidance and standards, codes of practice and (where appropriate) what I 
consider having been good industry practice at the relevant time. 
The conditional sales agreement in this case, is a regulated consumer credit agreement  
therefore this service can consider a complaint relating to it. There are various rules and 
protections about how conditional sales agreements operate, including those set out in the 
Consumer Credit Act 1974 (CCA) The CCA is therefore relevant law in this complaint. 
Ms R raised several issues as relevant in her complaint and so for ease I considered each in 
turn.
Was there a breach of the terms of the agreement?
The credit agreement stipulates terms and conditions including, but not limited to:
Keep the vehicle in your possession or control at all times. You must
tell us where the vehicle is when we ask you.
Make sure the vehicle has a valid Ministry of Transport (MOT) test
certificate (if this applies).
Write to us immediately to tell us if there has been any damage to the
vehicle or if the vehicle has been stolen, seized or lost, and about
anything else which may affect our ownership of the vehicle
Pay on time all licence fees, duties, charges, taxes and other amounts
that must be paid for the vehicle, and all rent, rates, taxes and other
amounts that must be paid for any premises where the vehicle is kept.
You must arrange and pay for insurance for the vehicle for its fullreplacement value.
I said I could see from the contact notes that there are multiple conversations and attempted 
contacts after BPF has been informed the car has not been taxed, insured or MOTd. I 
appreciated Ms R disputed there has ever been a time where this was not the case, there 
were clear concerns and information to the contrary brought to BPFs attention. By her own 
admissions the car wasnt always in her possession as her son was driving it. Her son had 
also been involved in an accident and the car detained at a compound and this wasnt 
reported to BPF for over 10 months. The agreement is also in arrears. There have been no 
payments to the account since February 2020. So, I said, from what I have seen Ms R is in 
breach of several of the terms and conditions of the agreements. Moreover, all of these 
breaches happened before Ms R had paid one third of the sum owing under the agreement.
Were BPF aware Ms R was taking out a credit agreement for her son?
Mrs R has said several times that both the credit broker and BPF were aware from the 
beginning she was taking out this agreement to acquire a car for her son. This is an 
important consideration as both parties should be entering into a contract fully understanding 
the terms and the parties involved. BPF says it only became aware of this during a 
telephone call in September 2020, some three years after the agreement had been taken 
out.
Firstly, I explained in circumstances like this where the information is unclear or 
contradictory, Im required to reach a decision based on a balance of probability. That is to 
say, what I think is more likely the case from the information available and the wider 
circumstances.
I looked closely at the credit agreement and the contact notes. All the documents are set up 
in Ms Rs name and the bank details entered on the direct debit details are in her name. The 
car was registered to Ms R at her address. The contact notes clearly show that all discussion 
that took place were between Ms R and BPF, and that has always been the case. In 
September 2020, the contact notes record Ms R reporting she had taken the finance out for 
her son, who was now in prison and the car had been in an accident and was now in a 
compound. I havent seen any other evidence to suggest Ms R made BPF aware of this 
information prior. So, although I have no reason to doubt Ms R was acquiring a car for her 
son, theres no evidence to suggest she made BPF aware of this at inception and Im 
satisfied she was aware she had entered into the agreement directly with BPF. I havent 
seen anything to suggest that Ms R did not acquire the car and that the business should 
have been concerned that the car was not for her use.
This is a very important consideration because Ms R freely admits to taking out the finance 
for her son to acquire a car. I said I appreciated that she may feel this was very 
straightforward and at the time her son intended to make the repayments for the car to her. 
But it is in fact a practice known as fronting. BPF says it wasnt aware this was the case, 
and as I have already said I have seen no evidence to suggest it was aware. Had BPF been 
aware it may not have entered into the agreement in the first place and it is in itself a further 
breach of the agreement. And in any event might have meant that BPF could have ended 
the agreement immediately and Ms R would have had no rights against it. And that still may 
well be the case.
Can BPF retain possession of the car?Ms R feels very strongly that the agreement stipulates quite clearly that when a given 
amount, in this case, £9,767.40 has been paid BPF must obtain a court order to repossess 
the vehicle. As she has paid more than this amount, she objects to BPF retaining the car and 
says they were wrong to collect the car from the impound and keep it.
Ms R is right to point out this clause in the agreement. Such a term is written for the 
protection of the consumer, but in this case, BPF has not repossessed the car from Ms R, it 
has recovered the car from a compound where it had been held, since November 2019.
Ms R informed BPF in September 2020 that the car had been in an accident and was being 
held at recovery compound. It wouldnt give Ms R access as the car was recovered from an 
accident her son had been in and it wanted the finance company to confirm it should be 
released to Ms R. Due to the length of time it had been in the compound there were 
accumulating storage costs which also needed to be paid. Ms R informed BPF she was not 
prepared to pay the storage costs and so BPF paid the storage costs and recovered the car. 
It has applied for a return of goods order, which it has currently suspended pending the 
outcome of her complaint with this service. BPF has acknowledged although it issued a 
default notice it didnt issue a termination notice beforehand. It has now done so and paid Ms 
R £100 in recognition of this.
I said Id thought carefully about the events that have led up to BPF retaining the car and I 
carefully considered Ms Rs submissions regarding the legal requirement for BPF to obtain a 
court order to repossess the car.
This service is an alternative to the courts and my remit is to determine what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. I said it seems to me that Ms R holds up 
one term of the agreement whilst in breach of several others and Im afraid Ms R cannot 
have it both ways.
In any event, Im persuaded that BPF has in fact recovered the car from the compound 
where it was detained and paid the storage costs Ms R would not, rather than repossessed 
it. On that basis I dont agree that BPF has breached the term of the contract that Ms R 
relies on.
It has applied for a return of goods order from the courts and Im satisfied that in these 
circumstances BPF has acted fairly and reasonably and can hold the car pending the 
outcome of the application to the court. Not least because the account remains in significant 
arrears and as far as I am aware Ms R has made no attempt to pay off these arrears. I have 
no details as to the condition of the car but given what has happened, I think BPF should be 
allowed to protect its asset. 
And even if Im wrong, I said Im of the view, that given the evidence available, BPF entered 
into a contract with Ms R based on misinformation and absence of fact, in other words the 
contract was fronted without BPF knowledge. I appreciate Ms R had the intention of 
helping her son and may not have realised the implications of doing so, not least in the event 
of circumstances such as these, but it has the effect of making the contract voidable and 
under those circumstances BPF would be within its rights to retain the car.
So, whilst understanding Ms R will be disappointed, I said Im not able to uphold her 
complaint or make any award.
I asked both parties to make any additional submissions they wished me to consider.
BPF responded and had no further comment to make.Ms R responded with a number of comments. In summary she feels very strongly:
1. More than 50% of the car payments had been made  she feels this has been 
misunderstood
2. The car was never taxed, MOTs or insured in her name  only her sons
3. The account only feels into arrears after it was impounded
4. The collection agents gave false information and at no point had she said she 
wouldnt pay the storage fees. She required BPF to confirm to the car compound that 
she was the legal owner.
5. Ms R was only ever trying to help her son and has been disadvantaged as a result.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I thank both parties for their submissions. I have revisited all the information. Having done 
so, Ive not seen any new evidence to lead me to change my mind from that of my earlier 
provisional decision.
I can see; however, Ms R has a number of concerns, where she feels there may have been 
a misunderstanding, so Ive clarified them here.
I understand the total amount payable on the account was £26,302.20 and Ms R had paid 
£13,661.97, which is just over half of the outstanding balance. The reference I made, was in 
respect of a number of breaches on Ms Rs part before one third of the agreement had been 
paid. 
These included the car not being taxed or Mots or insured in her name, as these were 
requirements of the agreement. As Ive already said, the agreement also always required Ms 
R to keep the car in her possession, which she accepts she did not and to inform BPF 
immediately, if the car was involved in an accident, which she also didnt do. My point here 
was that Ms R wants to rely on certain terms of the agreement to have the car returned to 
her whilst breaching other terms, and I as I have already said I dont agree this is 
reasonable.
I appreciate Ms R feels BPF knew the agreement was taken out for her son, but there is no 
evidence to support this. Ive no doubt this was her intention from the start as means to 
assist her son, and it may be that she had a discussion with the broker, but there is no 
record any suggestion to BPF. On balance, from what I have seen, had BPF have been 
aware of this at the start or at any time been aware the car was not in Ms Rs possession it 
would have recorded this information and sought to discuss the matter. I cant see that 
happened and so I find it more likely than not, BPF were not aware of the situation.
I have seen the transcript of the telephone call between Ms R and the collection agent. On at 
least four occasions Ms R is noted to have said she is not prepared to pay the storage fees. 
If she feels this inaccurate, she would need to raise a complaint directly with the collection 
agents. Im not able to hold BPF responsible for the discussion between Ms R and another 
party.
The agreement required Ms R to make the payments when they fell due, and so regardless 
of when the payments stopped, they were still due and payable. To my understanding no 
further payments were made from February 2020.So whilst I understand Ms R feels she was just helping her son, she hasnt provided me with 
any further evidence to consider, so it follows I have reached the same conclusion as I did 
my provisional decision.
My final decision
For the reasons I have given, I dont uphold this complaint and I make no award.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs R to accept or 
reject my decision before 28 October 2021.
 
Wendy Steele
Ombudsman