DRN-1369288
The complaint
Mr H says Lloyds Bank PLC mis-sold him a payment protection insurance (PPI) policy. 
What happened
Mr H bought the policy in 1987 at the same time as taking out a credit card. 
Our adjudicator didnt uphold the complaint. Mr H disagreed with the adjudicators opinion, 
so the complaint has been passed to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding Mr Hs case.
Ive decided not to uphold Mr Hs complaint for the following reasons.
There's not enough evidence to make me think that Lloyds didn't make Mr H aware that he 
had a choice about buying the PPI, or that he didn't choose to take it. Mr H says he wasn't 
aware of the PPI, and that if he was he'd have claimed on it after an accident in 1997. But I 
don't think it would be reasonable to uphold the complaint solely based on his recollection of 
events that happened so long ago. I'm mindful that his accident was about ten years after 
the policy was sold, so he could well have forgotten about it by 1997, despite having agreed 
to take it in 1987.
Ive assumed that Lloyds recommended the PPI to Mr H, and it seems to have been right for 
him based on what Ive seen of his circumstances at the time. Although he had some 
sickpay through his work, the PPI would've paid out for up to 12 months, which would've 
left his sick pay available for other things. 
Its possible the information Lloyds gave Mr H about the PPI wasnt as clear as it shouldve 
been. But Mr H doesnt appear to have been affected by any of the main things the policy 
didnt cover  and based on what I know about his circumstances it looks like the policy 
couldve been useful to him. So I dont think better information wouldve stopped him buying 
it. 
Ive taken into account Mr Hs comments, including what hes said about Lloyds having 
settled some PPI complaints on his other accounts.  But these points dont change my 
conclusion. I've looked at the circumstances of this sale and haven't found that it was mis-
sold. 
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I dont uphold Mr Hs complaint.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 21 April 2020.
Phillip Lai-Fang
Ombudsman