DRN-2967529
The complaint
Ms S is unhappy with how Barclays Bank UK PLC (Barclays) dealt with her situation, after
she explained to it that she was suffering from financial difficulties.
What happened
Ms S has explained that in April 2019 she contacted Barclays in relation to three loans and a
current account she held with it, which were in arrears. At this time, she let it know she was
experiencing financial difficulties, and therefore struggling to repay these commitments. This
was as a result of some personal circumstances where meant her income had changed.
At this point Ms S loans and current account were put on a 30-day hold. Over the coming
months, this hold was extended, until late July 2019. But, once these temporary holds had
elapsed, Barclays wrote to Ms S and explained that, in respect of the three loans, defaults
would be logged with the credit reference agencies. And, in terms of the current account, the
temporary overdraft facility was removed. This temporary overdraft facility was later
reinstated at Ms S request. But in September 2019 Ms S was written to again, and told the
current account would be terminated, and an arrangement to pay these arrears would need
to be put in place.
Ms S raised her concerns about the way her circumstances had been handled by Barclays.
She told it she didnt think it had acted fairly by registering defaults for the loans. And she felt
Barclays had failed to support her whilst she was in a vulnerable position. Including that
Barclays called her on a number of occasions on the day she was attending a family funeral,
despite telling Barclays this on the first call she had with it that day.
In Barclays response, it said that as far back as January 2019 it had been offering Ms S
assistance with her financial difficulties. But Ms S chose not to accept these offers of help.
Barclays also said it was satisfied it had acted fairly in terms of the support it did offer.
In addition to this, Barclays said it was unable to remove the defaults it had registered for
Ms S accounts as this were factual and true reflections of their position.
Barclays did however apologise for delays in providing Ms S with an answer to her complaint
and offered her £100 compensation for this upset this caused.
Ms S remained of the opinion that Barclays didnt treat her fairly. She let this service know
she hadnt felt supported, and that the way Barclays had handled things added to the stress
and pressure she was feeling at an already difficult time. Ms S also highlighted she was
unhappy with the way her complaint had been handled by Barclays once this was raised.
Because Ms S remained unhappy, she referred her complaint to this service for an
independent review.
Our investigator considered this complaint and didnt think it should be upheld. She thought
Barclays had offered reasonable assistance to Ms S once it was aware of her circumstances
 and she thought it had therefore been supportive.
Our investigator also thought that the defaults Barclays registered fair  as they were a true
and accurate reflect of the account. She said Ms S hadnt settled the account, or agreed a
repayment plan before the deadline Ms S was given on the default notices sent to her.
Ms S didnt agree with our investigators opinion. She said she had called Barclays on the
date the defaults were due to be logged, to come to an arrangement with it. But that
Barclays hadnt let her come to an arrangement at this point, and instead continued to log
the defaults. She also highlighted that Barclays should be considering her vulnerability when
taking action on her accounts, and she didnt think it did this correctly.
As Ms S didnt agree with our investigators opinion on the matter, this complaint has been
referred to me to decide.
I issued a provisional decision on this complaint to both parties, outlining my thoughts. In this 
I said;
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I dont intend on upholding this complaint. Ive explained my current
reasoning for this below. And, unless any new information or evidence changes my mind, my
final decision will be along the same lines.
Handling of financial difficulties
As above, Ms S contacted Barclays in April 2019, to explain she was experiencing financial
difficulties, and as such as struggling to repay what she owed to it. As Ms S had explained
she was struggling to pay, I would expect Barclays to act in line with the rules, guidance and
standard industry practice for dealing with customers in financial difficulties.
The rules, which can be found in The Consumer Credit Sourcebook (CONC), explain that a
firm must treat customers in arrears with forbearance and due consideration. Because the
sourcebook says this, Ive considered whether Barclays treated Ms S this way. And, based
on the information Ive seen  which includes contact notes between Ms S and Barclays, as
well as details of Ms S accounts, Im satisfied it did.
Ive seen contact notes of the first conversation between Ms S and Barclays about Ms S
financial difficulties in April 2019. And from looking at this, Im aware Barclays did take the
time to understand Ms S circumstances. It offered to put her through to a specialist team to
support her with financial difficulties. And, when Ms S didnt agree to this, Barclays agreed to 
place her accounts on a 30-day hold, to allow her some time to decide her next steps. This
meant Ms S didnt need to make any payments, and interest and charges were suspended
on the accounts. This is what I would have expected Barclays to do  it was looking to
support Ms S in getting back on her feet.
Im also aware that Ms S and Barclays continued to communicate after this first call. Ive
listened to a call between Ms S and Barclays, from May 2019. During this call Ms S
explained that an offer of a job had unfortunately fallen through, owing to a previous default
on her credit file. An income and expenditure assessment was completed during the
conversation, and Barclays explained that as Ms S outgoings were more than the income
she was receiving, it would put her in a worse position to agree a repayment plan with her.
So, it instead agreed to an extended hold on the accounts, which would run out in late July
2019.Im satisfied this was fair, and that Barclays were acting with forbearance and due
consideration. Barclays was aware Ms S had a negative income at the time and wasnt up to
date with her priority bills (i.e. mortgage). And, I think that the hold it placed on the accounts
recognised the situation Ms S was in and sought to support her during this time.
In terms of the loans, Barclays sent default notices to Ms S in July 2019. Ive thought about
whether this was fair, in Ms S circumstances. And I think that it was. The Information
Commissioners Office (ICO) principles do note that a default may be recorded when an
account is three months in arrears, and normally by the time the account is in six months of
arrears. In Ms S case, her accounts were all six months arrears. So, Im satisfied Barclays
did act as it should have, by contacting Ms S and letting her know the defaults would be
registered, if the arrears werent paid, or an arrangement to pay wasnt sought before the
date on the letters  which was 23 August 2019.
Im aware there wasnt any arrangements put in place, before 23 August 2019, to pay the
arrears and future instalments. Having listened to a call in July 2019, Im aware the above
letters were discussed, and Ms S said she would call on 5 August 2019 to discuss a plan.
But I cant see any calls were made to Barclays in terms of this, until 23 August 2019, on the
date of default, when at this point it was too late as the deadline for a plan had elapsed.
I appreciate that Ms S feels Barclays didnt act fairly, by registering defaults, especially given
she had called on 23 August 2019 to look at an arrangement. But Im afraid I dont agree. It
was made clear to Ms S that an arrangement would need to be in place before this date.
And the defaults show a true and accurate reflection of Ms S accounts. So, whilst I
appreciate the difficulties Ms S has explained the defaults have meant for her, I dont think
Barclays did anything wrong by registering them. I think it had acted with forbearance and
due consideration when looking to help Ms S with her credit commitments. But it was now at
the point where it was reasonable to take further action, in line with the above ICO principles.
In terms of Ms S current account, I can see that Ms S was sent a notice of termination of
this account in September 2019. And that this letter explained the balance on the account
was due, that it could be transferred to a debt collection agency and information would be
reported to the credit reference agencies in relation to the account. The letter explained that
Ms S should contact Barclays if she was unable to pay the outstanding amount. So, Im
satisfied this made clear the position and what Ms S would need to do next. As such, I dont
think Barclays acted unfairly here.
Ms S has said she feels Barclays should write the amounts to it off  given the experience
she has received. But Im satisfied Barclays did act with forbearance and due consideration.
And, Ms S did have the benefit of the money owed  so it wouldnt be reasonable in this
case to expect Barclays to write it off.
Ms S has also raised concerns about the communications she was receiving from Barclays
during what was a very difficult time for her. So, Ive looked at this communication. And, in
terms of the letters sent out to Ms S, I dont think Barclays did anything wrong. Barclays
needs to ensure it is letting its customer know the position of their accounts. And this is what
the letters were doing  even where there were holds placed on accounts. These letters did
also offer support and assistance to Ms S.
I understand Ms S has said Barclays kept calling her on the day she was attending a close
relatives funeral  despite her telling it why she was unavailable that day. Ms S hasnt
provided any firm information evidencing this. But Barclays has said it would be willing to
consider the matter, should Ms S provide it with further information. I do think this is fair. So,
if Ms S has any evidence about the date of the funeral, and showing the incoming calls on
this date, she should provide this to Barclays, and it should consider this information further.Complaint handling
As above, Ms S has expressed her concerns with how her complaint was handled by
Barclays once she raised it. Specifically, the time it took to provide her with a complaint
response.
Ive thought carefully about this element of Ms S complaint. And, I do think the offer made to
her of £100 is fair and reasonable. So, I dont intend on requiring it to do anything more here.
I say this because it is accepted Barclays did delay providing a response to Ms S. And I can
see this would have been upsetting and frustrating, given the situation Ms S was in. Im
satisfied this £100 fairly compensates for Ms S for the trouble and upset she experienced as
a result of the delay. And therefore, if Barclays hasnt already paid this to Ms S, I intend on
requiring it to do so.
Neither party responded to my provisional decision, with any additional evidence or 
comments for me to consider.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As above, I havent received any comments or evidence from either party, that changes my 
thoughts on the outcome of the case, or the reasoning around this outcome. As such, my 
final decision remains the same as noted in my provisional decision.
My final decision
Given the above, my final decision is that the £100 compensation offered in this case is fair 
and reasonable. And so, if it hasnt paid this already, Barclays Bank UK PLC should provide 
this to Ms S. I dont require it to do anything more than this, in respect of this case. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms S to accept or 
reject my decision before 7 September 2021.
 
Rachel Woods
Ombudsman