DRN-3739064
The complaint
Mr K complains Everyday Lending Limited trading as GeorgeBanco.com unfairly applied a 
default.
What happened
Everyday Lending approved Mr K for a £3,000 guarantor loan in February 2020. Mr K 
complains Everyday Lending unfairly registered a default in relation to this account. A default 
notice was sent in February 2022, and a default applied in March 2022.
Mr K says Everyday Lending acted unfairly in registering the default. He says he was making 
payments, but Everyday Lending applied the default because his guarantor did not engage 
with Everyday Lendings communications. 
Our investigator did not recommend Mr Ks complaint be upheld. In summary he said:
Mr Ks account was in sustained arrears; and Everyday Lending had provided the 
relevant notices to Mr K;
The guarantor could not be contacted; and as such was unable to make any 
payments to prevent the default occurring;
Mr K remained liable for the payments; and as the arrears were more than three 
months, Everyday Lending had not acted unfairly in applying the default.
Mr K disagreed with the outcome. He maintained that Everyday Lending had acted unfairly. 
He says it was not reasonable that because Mr Ks guarantor did not cooperate with 
Everyday Lending that a default was applied. Mr K says he was making payments towards 
the loan. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so Im satisfied this complaint should not be upheld. I appreciate this outcome 
will be disappointing to Mr K.
All parties agree that by the time Mr Ks account was defaulted, his account was in sustained 
arrears. Mr K complains that Everyday Lending acted unfairly in part because it wasnt able 
to get in contact with his guarantor. And Mr K says that it did not notify him of this prior to 
registering the default.
Ive considered Mr Ks arguments, but Im satisfied that Everyday Lending has acted 
reasonably in this instance. 
It is important to note that all parties agree that Mr K was unable to meet the required 
payments on this account. By the time Everyday Lending had started the default process,  
Mr K was paying around £70 per month. This was substantially below the required amount 
(the required payments were around £180); meaning that even though a reduced payment 
plan has been in place arrears were continuing to accrue. The arrears at the point Everyday 
Lending sent the default notice were approximately £900 (effectively over three months in 
arrears).
From what Ive seen Everyday Lending made the decision to default the account as a result 
of these arrears. Whilst Mr K may disagree with the actions of Everyday Lending; Im 
satisfied it acted reasonably in relation to this aspect of Mr Ks complaint. By the time the 
account was defaulted Mr K had developed sustained arrears on the account; and there 
seemed little reasonable prospect of these arrears being reduced or cleared. The contact 
notes suggest that a further reduced payment plan was being discussed, with Mr K providing 
bank statements and information on his current finances. However, this payment plan could 
not be agreed by Everyday Lending.
So Im satisfied there was no reasonable prospect that Mr K was going to complete the 
contract as intended at the outset. Mr K says that Everyday Lending shouldve continued to 
work to find a suitable repayment plan, but I note he already had been on a reduced 
payment plan, and this had not helped to reduce the arrears on the account. So Im not 
persuaded that there was much more it reasonably needed to have offered to do to bring the 
account back on track at this stage. 
From what I can see Everyday Lending made the decision to start the default process after a 
sustained period of arrears and because there was no reasonable prospect of the account 
being brought back up to date. This is a decision that it was entitled to make; and Im 
therefore satisfied it acted fairly in this instance by doing so.
Mr K says that Everyday Lending acted unfairly because it defaulted the account after failing 
to make contact with his guarantor. I disagree this means Everyday Lending acted unfairly in 
this instance. Ultimately Everyday Lending is required to keep the guarantor of the loan 
informed of the status of the account, and this is what it was attempting to do. It was unable 
to get in contact with the guarantor, and as such no payment to settle the arrears was 
received, or amendments to the agreement reached. This meant that the arrears remained, 
and as Ive set out above, it was these sustained arrears with no reasonable prospect of 
them reducing (not the lack of communication alone from the guarantor) which was the 
reason the default was applied. And as Ive set out above, Im satisfied Everyday Lending 
applying the default as a result of these arrears was reasonable.
Finally, Mr K says that Everyday Lending did not communicate this process well to him; 
especially after it failed to make contact with the guarantor. Im satisfied that Mr K was 
reasonably aware that his account was being defaulted, and that there were outstanding 
arrears on the account. Im also satisfied that Everyday Lending had sent Mr K the relevant 
notices, and as such Im satisfied Mr K was reasonably aware that the failure to clear the 
arrears by the specified date would lead to the default. And ultimately this is what happened. 
So whilst I appreciate this outcome will be disappointing to Mr K, Im satisfied Everyday 
Lending has acted reasonably in relation to this complaint.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint. Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr K to accept or 
reject my decision before 14 April 2023.
 
Tom Whittington
Ombudsman