DRN-4168252
The complaint
Mr W complains about the performance of a managed fund he invested in, and about the 
way Legal & General (Portfolio Management Services) Ltd display certain information about 
his investments on his account. He says that the layout of the statements didnt allow him to 
easily identify the under performance in his managed fund, and this should be rectified.  
What happened
In June 2021 Mr W complained to L&G. He firstly explained that he was dissatisfied with the 
performance of the L&G Managed Alpha Trust Growth Fund that he had held for over 10 
years compared with an Index Tracker fund that he also held. He said that given the 
managed fund attracted extra charges, he expected the additional attention from 
experienced professionals wouldve at least allowed the fund to perform along market 
trends, and not lose capital over 10 years which is what had happened. 
He also complained about an ongoing error in his annual statements. He said that one of 
his Index Tracker funds was added to the Growth Trust Managed amount, which 
misrepresented how the two investments were doing. He said that this was only picked up 
through detailed analysis. He said that he wouldve expected that the amounts invested and 
generated in his Index Tracker would have been added together to give a truer reflection of 
the performance of the various types of funds. Mr W explained that overall the poor 
performance of the managed fund was mitigated by the Index Tracker. 
L&G looked into Mr Ws concerns, but didnt think it had done anything wrong. It provided an 
explanation and some acknowledgement of the poor performance which Mr W had 
experienced in the managed funds he was invested in. And it explained that the statement 
showed his investments at portfolio level, rather than fund level. It acknowledged Mr Ws 
points, but explained that its system constraints, as well as the fact that its investment 
business had been sold to another firm, meant that it was unlikely it would make any 
changes to the way the statements looked. 
Mr W remained unhappy and referred his complaint to this service. One of our investigators 
looked into his complaint, but concluded it shouldnt be upheld. In short, he said that the 
performance of an investment isnt something this service would uphold a complaint for. And 
he said that L&G was required to display certain information on its annual statements, and 
he was satisfied that is what it did. Whilst he acknowledged Mr W considered other ways of 
laying out this information to be beneficial, he didnt agree this meant Mr W had been treated 
unfairly nor that this service could ask L&G to do anything more. 
Mr W didnt agree and asked for an ombudsman to decide the matter. 
He repeated that whilst unhappy with the performance of the managed investment, his main 
concern was around the way the information was displayed on his annual statement. He said 
that by grouping the managed fund with the index tracking fund, the performance was 
misleading. 
He said that it was only after he retired and had an opportunity to analyse the investments 
himself that he realised just how poorly the managed fund had performed. He said that L&G 
mustve known how badly it was performing and thats why it had closed the investment. He 
said that the way the investment had been portrayed was misleading, because it was 
showing in profit rather than loss making, after a period of 10 years during which time he had 
been paying fees.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive reached the same conclusions as the investigator and for broadly the 
same reasons. Id like to take this opportunity to thank Mr W for his detailed comments and 
clarifications around his complaint. I fully understand why Mr W has raised his concerns and 
why he considers L&G has done something wrong. 
I should start by echoing what the investigator said in relation to the performance of the 
managed fund. Ive read the explanations L&G has provided, and I consider it has provided 
a reasonable and factual explanation for why the performance of that particular fund had 
been so disappointing overall. However, as the investigator has explained, it isnt my role to 
be critical of L&G because an investment it managed turned out to be less profitable than 
other investments on the market. Its clear that investing in the market carries a risk of 
underperformance or capital loss, and Im not persuaded I can make any findings about the 
way this particular fund was managed purely by looking at its performance over the last 10 
years. 
I acknowledge Mr Ws point that the disappointment with the performance of the investment 
was secondary to his dissatisfaction at how the performance was set out in his annual 
statements. But here too, Im sorry that I cant add much to what the investigator has already 
explained to Mr W. 
The rules required L&G to send to Mr W periodic reports which set out the value of his 
portfolio and any transactions carried out. Whilst I can understand why Mr W believes that a 
different layout wouldve allowed him to identify the performance of one fund over the other 
more efficiently, I dont agree that means L&G has acted unreasonably nor that Mr W has 
suffered a loss or some other detriment which L&G should put right. 
As Mr W has said, he had access to all the information he needed to work out for himself 
how his various investments were performing. In order to uphold Mr Ws complaint, Id need 
to conclude that L&Gs statements fell foul of the rules in COBS around periodic reporting for 
firms carrying on MIFID business. Or Id need to conclude that the way the statements were 
laid out was so misleading as to cause Mr W a financial loss or some other detriment. 
In looking at the information that was sent to him, whilst I can see why Mr W thinks 
alternative layouts wouldve allowed him to spot the underperformance sooner, I dont agree 
that the statements are so obscure as to essentially be lacking in the detail which the 
regulator required L&G to send to Mr W. 
Overall, I dont agree there was anything misleading about the statements  they simply 
focused on portfolio performance overall. For these reasons, Im not persuaded theres 
anything inherently wrong with the statements themselves  and importantly, Im satisfied 
they contained the information needed to satisfy the regulators requirements.  My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold Mr Ws complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision before 3 August 2023.
 
Alessandro Pulzone
Ombudsman