DRN-2561806
The complaint
Mr and Mrs T complain about the terms offered to them by Great Lakes Insurance SE on 
renewal of their annual travel insurance policy. Reference to Great Lakes includes reference 
to its agents.  
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again 
here. The facts are not in dispute, so Ill focus on giving my reasons for my decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I agree with the conclusions reached by the investigator for these reasons:
Each policy is a separate contract between the insurer and the insured. When          
Mr and Mrs Ts annual travel insurance policy expired on 30 June 2020, Great Lakes 
wasnt obliged to offer a new policy on the same terms as the previous policy. 
In general, and as long as consumers are treated fairly, insurers can decide which  
risks they wish to accept and the terms on which theyre willing to do so. This service 
isnt the regulator and we cant tell an insurer how to conduct its business.  
The annual policy offered to Mr and Mrs T in June 2020 for the policy year            
2020 to 2021 excluded certain claims caused by or relating to Covid-19 and its 
mutations. I can understand why Mr and Mrs T were concerned about this, as in 
January 2020 theyd booked a trip for September 2020. So, if they renewed their 
annual policy with Great Lakes, the new terms would be relevant to their trip. 
It was open to Mr and Mrs T to decline to renew their annual travel policy with     
Great Lakes and to seek cover elsewhere. Mr and Mrs T didnt renew their policy with   
Great Lakes.  
I dont think that Great Lakes treated Mr and Mrs T unfairly or unreasonably in 
offering a new contract of insurance on the terms that it did. As Ive said, it was open 
to Mr and Mrs T to refuse the offer, which they did. 
For these reasons, I dont uphold this complaint. 
My final decision
My final decision is  that I dont uphold Mr and Mrs Ts complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs T and Mr T to 
accept or reject my decision before 12 April 2021.
 
Louise Povey
Ombudsman