DRN-3253785
The complaint
Mr and Mrs H complain that HSBC Bank Plc (HSBC) set up a payment protection 
insurance (PPI) policy without their consent.
What happened
HSBC wrote to Mr and Mrs H in August 2018 to explain that when increasing the benefit of 
an existing PPI policy in July 2001, it had set up an additional policy in error. It apologised for 
its mistake and confirmed that the policy was already cancelled, and no premiums had ever 
been paid. 
Mr and Mrs H are concerned that HSBC could have set up a policy without their consent. 
And they are unhappy because HSBC said they cancelled the policy before any premiums 
were charged  they dispute that they cancelled it themselves as they say they were not 
aware the policy ever existed until they received the letter about it in August 2018. Mr and 
Mrs H say they have experienced distress since finding out about the mistake and the 
lengthy complaints procedure has been inconvenient.
HSBC offered Mr and Mrs H £50 as a gesture of goodwill, but as Mr and Mrs H remained 
unhappy, they brought the complaint to the Financial Ombudsman Service.
Our adjudicator reviewed Mr and Mrs Hs concerns but felt HSBCs offer was fair in the 
circumstances. As Mr and Mrs H disagreed, the complaint has been referred to me to 
consider.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having thought carefully about everything Mr and Mrs H have said, Ive decided not to 
uphold Mr and Mrs Hs complaint and Ill explain why. 
It might help if I first explain our role. The Financial Ombudsman Service is an impartial 
service that was set up to help resolve disputes between consumers and financial service 
providers. We do not take sides but look at all of the information and evidence provided to us 
and decide whether we think the business in question has done anything wrong. If we find a 
business has done something wrong, we need to think about what financial loss this has 
resulted in for the consumer. And if a financial loss has occurred, we will look to put the 
consumer back in the position they would have been in, had the mistake not occurred. 
Finally, we can think about what other impact this may have had, such as whether the 
mistake would have caused distress and if so, to what extent. 
In terms of this complaint, HSBC accepts that a mistake was made  that when increasing 
the policy benefit of Mr and Mrs Hs original policy, HSBC set up a new policy for the same 
amount in error. The internal screenshots HSBC has provided show this. So, I dont need to 
decide whether the second policy should or shouldnt have been arranged  we all agree 
that it shouldnt have. 
I then need to think about whether Mr and Mrs H experienced a financial loss as a result of 
HSBCs mistake. And from everything Ive seen  I dont think they did. The new policy was 
free for the first six months, and HSBC has provided screenshots of its internal records to 
show that the policy was cancelled around the time the first premium would have been 
payable. Another screenshot shows that Mr and Mrs did not ever pay a premium for the 
policy. So, Mr and Mrs H had additional protection in place for six months for free and after 
this, the policy was cancelled.
While I know Mr and Mrs H say they are upset HSBC may have referred to them having 
cancelled the policy even though they werent aware it existed, I dont think how the 
cancellation came about really matters at this point in time. If Mr and Mrs H are correct that 
they didnt know about the policy and so wouldnt have contacted HSBC to cancel it, then 
that would mean HSBC realised it had made a mistake and proactively corrected this before 
there was any financial impact on Mr and Mrs H. And I cant see how Mr and Mrs H could 
have been distressed or inconvenienced by it if they werent aware any of it ever happened.
I appreciate Mr and Mrs H may have spent some time trying to work out what happened now 
they are aware of the policy. And that they also experienced significant delays due to the 
high number of PPI complaints being handled around the same period that they complained. 
But HSBC has explained everything its found on its records and I cant see that theres 
anything more it could have done to resolve the matter. It offered Mr and Mrs H £50 as a 
gesture of goodwill and I think this is fair in the circumstances. 
My final decision
For the reasons explained above, I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr and Mrs H to 
accept or reject my decision before 18 March 2022.
 
Hanna Johnson
Ombudsman