DRN-3077584
The complaint
Mr H complains about the service hes received about Skipton Building Society. Hes 
unhappy with their Monitored Informed Investing (MII) service and doesnt think it has 
provided what was offered when he took it out. 
What happened
Mr H took out Skiptons MII service in 2015. He complained to Skipton in 2020 about the 
performance of the funds theyd recommended, the closure of the MII service, removal of 
underperformance re-imbursement, lack of review meetings and delay in fund switch offers.
Skipton looked into the concerns hed raised. They didnt uphold most of his concerns but 
accepted that he didnt receive the reviews he should have done. They offered him £200 in 
compensation and arranged a review meeting. 
Mr H brought the complaint to this service where it was considered by one of our 
investigators. She didnt think Skipton needed to do anything else to resolve the complaint. 
She hadnt seen anything to suggest that the MII Portfolio was unsuitable or unaffordable for 
Mr H. Hed been made aware of the ongoing costs and accepted them when he signed up to 
the service and thered been no guarantee provided by Skipton around investment 
performance.
She thought Skipton had reserved the right to amend or discontinue features within the MII 
service and from what shed seen, she didnt think that Skipton had failed to review the 
funds. Regular updates were provided within the quarterly and annual reports that were 
issued. The reports gave a snapshot of current value, performance and commentary on their 
future prospects. In addition, funds would be removed if they didnt meet the aims of the 
service and MII customers would be notified of this change and a free fund switch offered.
She didnt agree that fund switches should have been offered sooner. She thought it wasnt 
possible to stipulate when fund switches should be offered as funds are generally viewed on 
a long-term basis and therefore short-term falls would not necessarily mean that a given 
fund could not recover in the long term. 
She acknowledged that Mr H was entitled to a review every three years, but thought the 
compensation offered was fair and reasonable. She said she was unable to assess the 
suitability of the advice provided in the meeting as Mr H hadnt accepted it, but thought that a 
new proposal didnt mean that the advice provided in 2014/15 was unsuitable.
Mr H didnt accept her findings. He questioned why less than six years after the original 
advice, the funds hed invested in were viewed as being inappropriate despite no change in 
his circumstances. He didnt accept that the MII proposition had offered what it had originally 
said. He pointed to the rebate for underperforming funds being removed only for the financial 
benefit of Skipton. He understood that fund performance couldnt be judged over a quarters 
performance but expected action when it had underperformed over a long period of time. 
He reiterated that he was never offered a review meeting which he suspected was due to a 
keying error and not a system error. He said that hed arranged the 2020 review, not 
Skipton, as result of being informed the MII service was being phased out. And he hadnt 
accepted the advice from the 2020 review as he wished for his complaint to be resolved 
before making a decision. Hed cancelled MII as he wasnt prepared to continue paying for a 
service that was offering poor value and was unaware that Skipton had considered that hed 
declined their advice. 
The investigator wasnt persuaded to change her opinion so the complaint has been passed 
to me to make a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I dont think this complaint should be upheld and I will now explain why. Ive 
firstly thought about the initial recommendation to Mr H. The documents from the time show 
that he wanted to an invest a portion of his capital in order to try and get a better return than 
the available deposit rates at the time. He had around £350,000 on deposit and was advised 
to invest £38,800 in medium-low risk funds.
Taking what we know about Mr H circumstances and objectives into account, I dont think 
Ive seen enough to persuade me that the investment advice was unsuitable. He was in full 
time employment, had sufficient capital left in reserve after the investment and the answers 
he gave to the questions used to gauge his risk profile indicate that he had a good 
understanding of the relationship between risk and reward. 
Overall, Im satisfied that Skipton explained the risk these investments posed to Mr Hs 
money, and that this was a level of risk he was willing to take to achieve his objectives. He 
lacked investment experience, but the answers he gave in his risk assessment show that he 
was willing to take some risk in order to get a better return and he had the capacity to do so.
Mr H has questioned why the advice he received in 2020 was to sell all his existing funds 
when his circumstances hadnt changed. He didnt accept the advice so Im unable to 
comment much on what happened, but as I dont think the original recommendation was 
unsuitable, then it follows that I dont think Skipton have done anything wrong. 
Some of Mr Hs concerns are to do with how Skipton has changed the nature of the MII 
service over time e.g. the removal of the re-imbursement and also the phasing out of the 
service. Ultimately, the terms of the MII service that Mr H accepted meant that features could 
be changed. As the investigator noted, our service wont usually interfere with a commercial 
decision. Our role here is to look at what happened and check that Skipton followed their 
rules and procedures and applied them fairly. They wrote to Mr H to give notice of the 
changes and the reasons why. I appreciate that Mr H disagrees with the reasons they gave 
for removing the re-imbursement, but Im not persuaded that they acted unfairly in making 
any changes or by phasing out the MII service.
Ive thought about the concerns Mr H has raised with the timing of fund switches and Ive 
considered if Skipton gave Mr H the service he was promised when he first took out the MII 
service. I appreciate that he thinks some funds within the MII service should have been 
switched sooner but we can now only say this with the benefit of hindsight. The frequency of 
fund switches is a commercial decision for Skipton and as Ive said above, this is not usually 
something we would interfere with. 
The documentation from the time says that We'll write to you four times a year to keep you updated with all your MII Core Fund investments - including any Fund Switch options we're 
offering. Through this approach, you can be confident of knowing how your investments are 
performing.
Mr H received regular MII reports from Skipton. Ive looked at an example of an MII quarterly 
report from 2021 and I note that it includes commentary on the performance of the available 
MII funds over the last quarter. The commentary on the core MII funds gives more detail and 
describes the performance of the funds, any associated factors to consider and an opinion 
on the future prospects. Ive also seen that fund switches were offered in 2017, 2018 and 
2020. While I accept that Mr H thinks switches should have been carried out sooner, the fact 
that the switches didnt happen sooner doesnt mean that Skipton didnt provide Mr H the 
service he was promised.
Ive also considered the issues with reviews. The documentation from the time Mr H first 
took out the MII service says that Skipton would formally review his investments at certain 
intervals. Also in 2018, they wrote to Mr H and said that he would receive a formal review at 
least once every three years. Due to an error, Mr H didnt receive a review and Skipton have 
accepted they were at fault. They offered him £200 compensation and he then had a review 
in 2020. I think this is fair and reasonable in the circumstances and wont be asking them to 
do anything else to resolve this point.
Having reviewed the available evidence and circumstances of Mr Hs complaint, Im satisfied 
that Skipton havent treated him unfairly and therefore I wont be asking them to do anything 
else to resolve this complaint.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 13 January 2023.
 
Marc Purnell
Ombudsman