DRN-3339732
The complaint
Ms W complains Punjab National Bank (International) Limited (PNBIL) unfairly refused to 
open an ISA for her, and provided her with extremely poor customer service.
What happened
On 15 January 2021 Ms W visited a branch of PNBIL to open an ISA, She wanted to transfer 
funds from an ISA she held elsewhere which was due to mature.
Ms W says she was treated very poorly by branch staff. Shes said:
- She was given inaccurate advice about opening her ISA  namely,  that she should 
pay funds into the account in two separate transfers a month apart, which Ms W 
notes would be against the terms and conditions of the account;
- PNBIL then said it would not open an account for her, and Ms W feels this decision 
was discriminatory; and
- The staff member who dealt with her was rude and gave her incorrect information 
about ID requirements for the account 
Ms W was unhappy with PNBILs initial response to her complaint and so she referred her 
concerns to us. In preparing its files for our service PNBIL reconsidered Ms Ws complaint 
and accepted its staff had made errors and given poor advice. To try to resolve things PNBIL 
offered to arrange to open an ISA for Ms W at the rate it had been offering in January 2021, 
and to pay her £250 to recognise the impact of the poor service she had received. 
One of our investigators put this offer to Ms W, but Ms W remained unhappy. She explained 
she had already opened another ISA elsewhere, albeit at a lower rate, so PNBILs offer was 
of no help to her. She also noted that she felt PNBILs actions meant there had been a delay 
in her transferring the funds out of her old ISA, resulting in a further financial loss to her.
After further discussion with PNBIL our investigator issued their findings. They explained that 
in light of what PNBIL had said about why Ms Ws ISA application was refused, they didnt 
think she had been discriminated against. But they did feel PNBIL had been unreasonable to 
refuse Ms W an ISA and had provided poor service, although they didnt agree that PNBILs 
actions had caused any significant delays in the ISA funds being reinvested. To resolve 
things, the investigator recommended that PNBIL:
- Pay Ms W the difference between the interest rate she is receiving now and what she 
would have been receiving if she had been allowed to open the account she wanted 
with PNBIL, and PNBIL should calculate this difference for the whole two year period 
of the fixed rate ISA; and
- Pay Ms W a further £50 on top of the £250 it had already offered her to recognize the 
poor service and incorrect information she was given by PNBIL staff.
PNBIL agreed with the investigators recommendation, but Ms W remained unhappy. She 
maintained the service she had received was extremely poor and that the investigators 
recommendation didnt go far enough to put things right. Ms W has also says she believes 
PNBIL has breached banking and tax rules, and regulations.
Because our investigator could not resolve things, Ms Ws complaint has been passed to me 
for a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive reached the same overall findings as our investigator, and for the same 
reasons. Ill explain why.
I appreciate Ms W was initially given some inaccurate advice in branch about doing two 
transfers into the ISA, and that if Ms W had done this then it could have caused her 
significant problems further down the line. But her application didnt progress to that stage, 
so while I acknowledge the advice Ms W was given was wrong, she didnt suffer any 
detriment because of that poor advice.
PNBIL then told Ms W it would not be able to open an ISA for her, and Ms W says she feels 
PNBIL discriminated against her when it made this decision. But having looked at all the 
evidence I dont think PNBIL has discriminated against her. PNBIL has explained the total 
value of Ms Ws investment in the ISA was high, and the staff who made the decision not to 
offer her the ISA incorrectly assumed that meant she would be classed as high risk. And at 
the time PNBIL was not opening accounts for high risk customers. But what PNBIL should 
have done instead was carry out a full risk assessment, instead of basing its decision on just 
the one factor. PNBIL accepts that on this basis it was wrong to refuse Ms W the account, 
and Im satisfied with this explanation of what happened. I havent seen anything to suggest 
Ms W was directly discriminated against, just that PNBIL didnt properly assess her 
application. 
And Im satisfied what PNBIL has now agreed to do to put things right is reasonable in the 
circumstances of this complaint as Ms W is being put back in the position she would most 
likely have been in had PNBIL properly assessed her application. I appreciate Ms W says 
PNBILs actions caused a delay in her being able to reinvest her funds, but I can see PNBIL 
gave Ms W its final response to her complaint within a week of her raising her complaint, so I 
dont think it caused any significant delays which prevented Ms W from reinvesting her funds 
earlier.
Turning to the overall level of service Ms W received, I agree she was given incorrect 
information about both the ID she would need to open her account and the transfer of funds. 
And I appreciate this poor advice caused Ms W inconvenience and concern. But overall I am 
satisfied that the compensation that has been recommended here - £300 in total  is 
appropriate in all the circumstances of this complaint. 
I know that Ms W feels strongly that PNBIL has breached rules and regulations with the 
advice it gave, and that its staff have not been properly trained. But my role here is to focus 
on the impact of what has happened to Ms W specifically. And for the reasons detailed 
above Im satisfied that what PNBIL has now agreed to do is reasonable to put right what 
has happened to Ms W. In any case, PNBIL has confirmed that it will be giving feedback to 
its staff about what went wrong here.I know that Ms W may remain disappointed with my decision, but I hope that it helps her to 
know that someone impartial and independent has looked into her concerns.
Putting things right
PNBIL should put things right by:
- Paying Ms W the difference between the interest rate she is receiving now and what 
she would have been receiving if she had been allowed to open the account she 
wanted with PNBIL, and PNBIL should calculate this difference for the whole two 
year period of the fixed rate ISA; and 
- Paying Ms W £300 - in total - to recognize the poor service and incorrect information 
she was given by PNBIL staff.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, Im upholding Ms Ws complaint. Punjab National Bank 
(International) limited should put things right in the way Ive set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms W to accept or 
reject my decision before 27 September 2022.
 
Sophie Mitchell
Ombudsman