DRN-3636142
The complaint
Mr T has complained about the service he received from Trading 212 UK Limited. In 
particular he complains about the conflicting information he was given and that he was not 
provided with an adequate explanation on how the execution price he received was 
calculated.
What happened
Mr T complained to our service. Our investigator didnt uphold his complaint and Mr T 
appealed. I issued a provisional decision on 8 August 2022. I explained that as the details of 
this complaint were well known to both parties I wouldnt repeat them again. As the facts 
werent in dispute I focused on giving the reasons for my provisional findings which were as 
follows:
Mr T called to ask about the payment he could expect. He was given an incorrect 
calculation and incorrect payout date by a Trading 212 staff member. I understand 
why he was frustrated and disappointed when it transpired that the information given 
was incorrect and ultimately the payment he received was less than hed been told. 
However Im pleased to note that Trading 212 investigated the matter, admitted its 
mistake and apologised and offered £50 in compensation.
Mr T requested an audit trail for the prices achieved. I think that was a reasonable 
request. I appreciate that Trading 212 have no influence over the way that any order 
is going to be filled, nevertheless Mr T posed questions with regard to this rights 
issue and I cant see that he was given a satisfactory response to all the questions he 
asked. Im satisfied that he was only given partial information in response to his 
request. Its not clear why the information wasnt provided or, if not possible an 
explanation as to why.  It is not for this service to step into the shoes of Trading 212, 
but I can appreciate that on this occasion Mr T had a frustrating and unsatisfactory 
experience.
To add to this in the explanatory response the choice of words used by Trading 212 
could have been taken as insulting. For example even you can calculate very 
easily. Mr T raised the tone of correspondence in his complaint here and I find his 
concern is justified.
In all the circumstances I found Mr T didnt receive the service he could have expected, 
which would have caused him frustration and inconvenience. I was satisfied compensation 
was merited. Trading 212 offered £50, but I found that sum to be insufficient and I was 
minded to require Trading 212 to pay Mr T £100 in compensation.
I invited the parties to provide any more comments or evidence.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im grateful to both parties for responding so promptly to my provisional findings. Trading 
212 UK Limited agreed to pay Mr T £100 in compensation. Mr T said he had nothing further 
to add to his previous comments on the matter. 
As I had taken all Mr Ts comments into consideration in reaching my provisional findings, I 
see no reason to depart from them. It follows that for the reasons given above I uphold this 
complaint. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint. I require Trading 212 UK Limited to pay Mr T 
£100 in compensation.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr T to accept or 
reject my decision before 5 September 2022.
 
Lindsey Woloski
Ombudsman