DRN-2083059
The complaint
Mr G and Ms G  complain that Lloyds Bank PLC (when it was trading as TSB) mis-sold them 
a mortgage payment protection insurance (PPI) policy.
Lloyds Bank is responsible for dealing with this complaint. So from now on Ill just refer to 
Lloyds as the business that sold the PPI to keep things simpler.
What happened
In 1996 Mr G and Ms G took out PPI alongside a mortgage. The policy covered Mr G and 
protected their monthly mortgage repayments if he couldnt work. 
Mr G and Ms G have some other complaints also about the mortgage and other services 
Lloyds provided. But here, in my decision, Im just concentrating on what happened when 
they were sold this PPI with their mortgage.
Our adjudicator looked at this complaint and didnt think it should be upheld. Mr G and Ms G 
disagree and theyd like an ombudsman to review whats happened. 
As far as I can see, Mr G and Ms Gs main complaint about the PPI they were sold is that 
they already had other insurance set up. So they say its unclear why Lloyds sold them PPI 
and theyre unhappy that theyve paid for this over the years.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding this case. 
Ive decided not to uphold Mr G and Ms Gs complaint. Ill explain why I say this.
Mr G and Ms G told us they remember arranging their mortgage during a meeting at the 
bank. 
The copy of the signed paperwork Lloyds provided from when Mr G and Ms G took out their 
mortgage isnt very clear. 
But I can see that in the section headed: Applying for TSB MortgageSure (this is what 
Lloyds called its PPI at the time) there were two tick boxes  and theres a tick in one of the 
boxes. 
The next part of the form is headed: Checking you are eligible for TSB MortgageSure and 
I can see that boxes are ticked in answer to the questions being asked. 
So it looks to me like Mr G and Ms G ticked to say they wanted to have PPI and answered 
the questions to check eligibility.
I cant know exactly what was discussed when Mr G and Ms G arranged their mortgage. But 
I think they wouldve known that it was up to them to say if they wanted PPI because this 
was information they were asked to provide on the mortgage application. 
As this happened so long ago, its easy to understand how Mr G and Ms G couldve 
forgotten some of these details now. And I cant be sure what was discussed between them 
and Lloyds when they took out the PPI. But, looking at the paperwork they completed, I think 
Lloyds made Mr G and Ms G aware that the PPI was optional and they chose to have it.
Mr G and Ms G remembered taking out the PPI in a meeting at the bank and say Lloyds 
recommended PPI to them. 
If a business makes a recommendation about PPI, it doesnt just have to give important 
policy information in a clear way. It also has to take reasonable steps to make sure the cover 
it recommends is suitable. And if this didnt happen, I have to think about whether this 
wouldve made any overall difference to Mr G and Ms G .
Lloyds told us that it doesnt any longer have a policy document from the date 
Mr G and Ms G took out PPI. But it has provided a policy document which was in use 
afterwards  so I think its likely that in all main respects the policy that they took out 
wouldve had similar terms and conditions.
Mr G was eligible for the policy given his circumstances and the likely PPI terms and 
conditions that applied.
Ive taken into account what Mr G and Ms G told us about their financial situation.
As a self-employed person Mr G didnt have any sick pay to rely on and Ms G wasnt in paid 
work at the time. They only had limited other ways to pay the mortgage if Mr G couldnt work.
But PPI wouldve covered their mortgage repayments for up to 12 months per claim if 
Mr G was off work sick or disabled. Also the policy wouldve paid out if he became 
unexpectedly unemployed. 
Looking at the information Ive got, I dont think its likely that Mr G or Ms G couldve easily 
managed the mortgage repayments for long if Mr G wasnt working. Although they were still 
paying into an endowment policy that theyd set up with an earlier mortgage that was a long 
term savings scheme and different to PPI which paid a monthly benefit if Mr G was affected 
by accident, sickness or unemployment. Life cover Mr G and Ms G had arranged also provided a different sort of cover and paid out 
only in the event of death. 
So although they had this other insurance in place, it didnt mean that PP wasnt still needed.
Mr G and Ms Gs mortgage was a major financial commitment, due to run for a number of 
years. 
Their home wouldve been at risk if the mortgage payments werent kept up to date. 
PPI provided a dependable means of ensuring the monthly repayments were protected even 
if Mr G couldnt work. 
So, I can see why they mightve felt PPI was useful. 
I think PPI provided a useful benefit in what wouldve been difficult circumstances for 
Mr G and Ms G if theyd needed to make a claim and it was suitable for them.
I dont think being self-employed wouldve made it particularly difficult for Mr G to make a 
claim. 
And even if all the policys terms and conditions werent clearly explained, I dont think it 
likely that better information about what wasnt covered wouldve put Mr G and Ms G off 
taking it out because I think Mr G couldve benefitted from all the main policy benefits they 
might reasonably have expected.
Its possible some of the information Lloyds gave Mr G and Ms G about the PPI wasnt as 
clear as it shouldve been. 
I dont know if the policy cost was clearly explained when they took the policy out. But I can 
see the amount they would have to pay each month to keep the policy running was set out 
on their mortgage offer  which they both wouldve seen as theyve both signed it.
So it looks like Mr G and Ms G were happy to pay for the policy at the time  and if their 
circumstances changed or they no longer wanted PPI they couldve cancelled the policy at 
any time at no extra cost. 
Taking into account everything I've seen and been told, it appears that Mr G and Ms G 
chose to take out the policy, when they couldve said they didnt want to, and so it looks like 
they did want to have this type of cover. 
Ive seen nothing that suggests this policy was unaffordable for Mr G and Ms G  when they 
signed up to it. 
Looked at overall, even if there were failings in the way Lloyds sold PPI to Mr G and Ms G, 
I dont think that better information wouldve put them off having it for Mr G. 
So I cant fairly say that theyve lost out financially as a result of anything that Lloyds did 
wrong. And this means theres nothing it needs to do to put things right.  
I appreciate that what Ive said will come as a disappointment to Mr G and Ms G. 
But I hope that setting out the reasons as Ive done will help explain how Ive reached my 
decision.My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms G and Mr G to 
accept or reject my decision before 5 November 2020.
 
Susan Webb
Ombudsman