DRN-3388217
The complaint
Mr L complains that Lendable Ltd (trading as Lendable) lent to him in an irresponsible 
manner.
What happened
Mr L was given a loan by Lendable in August 2021. He borrowed £1625 and agreed to repay 
this over 36 months. Mr L had an amount outstanding to repay on this loan when he first 
made his complaint to Lendable.
Mr Ls complaint has been assessed by one of our investigators. After reviewing all of the 
documentation sent by both parties, they felt Lendable had not done anything wrong when it 
agreed to give Mr L the loan. 
Mr L didnt agree with our investigator. So, as the complaint hasnt been resolved informally, 
it has been passed to me, an ombudsman, to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Our approach to irresponsible lending complaints is set out on our website and Ive followed 
it here.
Before agreeing to lend, lenders must work out if a borrower can afford the loan repayments
alongside other reasonable expenses the borrower also has to pay. This should include
more than just checking that the loan payments look affordable on a strict pounds and pence
calculation. A lender must take reasonable steps to satisfy itself that the borrower can
sustainably repay the loan  in other words, without needing to borrow elsewhere.
The rules dont say what a lender should look at before agreeing to lend. But reasonable and
proportionate checks should be carried out. For example, when thinking about what a
borrower has left to spend on a new loan after paying other expenses, as well as taking into
account the loan amount, the cost of the repayments and how long the loan is for, a
proportionate check might mean a lender should also find out the borrowers credit history
and/or take further steps to verify the borrowers overall financial situation.
If reasonable and proportionate checks werent carried out, I need to consider if a loan
wouldve been approved if the checks had been done. If proportionate checks were done 
and a loan looks affordable, a lender still needs to think about whether theres any other 
reason why it would be irresponsible or unfair to lend. For example, if the lender shouldve 
realised that the loan was likely to lead to more money problems for a borrower who is 
already struggling with debt that cant be repaid in a sustainable way.
Ive kept all these things in mind, and Ive thought carefully about the information Lendable 
relied on when it decided to lend to Mr L.
Lendable gathered some information from Mr L before it agreed to lend. It asked Mr L about 
his income. It says it verified his income using an online tool. It carried out a credit check and 
could see what commitments Mr L held at the time and whether he had any credit 
impairment. It also says it carried out an affordability check and looked at Mr Ls debt to 
income ratio. 
Mr L was entering into a fairly significant commitment with Lendable. He was agreeing to 
make monthly repayments for a period of 3 years. So, I think it is right that Lendable wanted 
to gather, and independently check, some detailed information about Mr Ls financial 
circumstances before it agreed to lend to him. I can see that it didnt gather information 
about Mr Ls expenditure. But I can also see that the loan and monthly repayment were 
relatively low compared to Mr Ls income. So, when I consider this and also that this was his 
first loan with Lendable, I think that the checks it did were sufficient to achieve that aim. I 
think Lendables checks on balance, were proportionate. 
But simply performing proportionate checks isnt always enough. A lender also needs to
react appropriately to the information those checks show. Those results might sometimes 
lead a lender to undertake further enquiries into a consumers financial situation. Or, in some 
cases, the results might lead a lender to decline a loan application outright. So, Ive looked at 
what Lendable gathered to see whether it needed to ask for more or whether it made a fair 
lending decision. 
I have looked at the credit search that Lendable conducted. The search showed that Mr L 
had 11 active accounts. Ive looked through these and his most recent settled accounts to 
the date he applied for the loan. In general, I think his finances were well managed and I 
cant see anything that ought to have given Lendable concerns here or at least not enough 
that it ought to have carried out further enquires. So, I dont think Lendable would have had 
any concerns by what its search showed it.
I think when I consider how much Mr Ls verified monthly income was, and what was 
showing on his credit report as well as the affordability indicators lendable used, I think the 
credit he applied for with it did seem affordable for him.
Mr L has submitted bank statements to our service for the 2 months leading up to the loan 
application he made to Lendable. When I look through these, I can see that Mr L had several 
gambling transactions listed in particular in June 2021. Lendable might have considered 
these transactions as potentially a sign that Mr L was struggling with his finances, if it had 
carried out further checks and uncovered this. But I think that the checks Lendable 
performed were proportionate and didnt suggest that Mr L was facing any current problems 
in managing his finances, from the information it did gather. I think Lendable was entitled to 
rely on what Mr L said about his finances, and his circumstances at the time. And that 
information suggested that he would be able to sustainably afford the repayments on the 
loan. So, I dont think Lendable was wrong to give the loan to Mr L. 
My final decision
My decision is that I do not uphold Mr Ls complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr L to accept or 
reject my decision before 17 May 2022.
 
Mark Richardson
Ombudsman