DRN-2673477
The complaint
Miss S complains AIB Group (UK) Plc (AIB), trading as First Trust Bank, mis-sold her a 
payment protection insurance (PPI) policy. 
What happened
Miss S took out a variable rate loan with AIB in June 1998. At the same time she bought a 
PPI policy. I understand both the loan and the PPI were sold in a meeting at a branch.
The PPI wouldve covered Miss Ss loan repayments for up to 24 months if she couldnt work 
due to an accident or sickness and for up to 12 months if she lost her job. The policy also 
gave Miss S life cover for the balance of the loan. 
Miss S says under no circumstances did she agree to purchasing PPI with the loan. 
The adjudicator who looked at Miss Ss complaint didnt uphold it. Miss S disagrees, so her 
complaint has been passed to me to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account here. 
Having done so, Ive decided not to uphold Miss Ss complaint. I know this will disappoint her 
but I hope the reasons Im about to give help her to understand why Ive reached this 
conclusion.
The PPI was sold more than 20 years ago. So its unsurprising neither Miss S nor AIB has 
the original documents from the sale. AIB has, though, given us examples of the personal 
lending application form and credit agreement it says were in use in branches when Miss S 
took out her loan and the PPI. From the information AIB has given us about its sales process 
at the time, I think its likely these  or very similar  forms were in use for Miss Ss sale.
The two-page loan application example form Ive looked at  and that Miss S wouldve 
signed  has a section about PPI. There are two clear options  either to say yes or no to 
it. And theres a space underneath for the loan applicants name to be filled in. Because PPI 
was added to Miss Ss account, I think its likely Mis S said yes to PPI when she was going 
through her loan application with AIB. 
As Ive mentioned, Miss S says under no circumstances would she have agreed to the PPI. 
But Miss S has given us no other information about how she remembers the PPI being sold. 
Her statement alone about something that happened more than 20 years ago  and without 
anything else to back it up, isnt strong enough for me to think its likely the PPI was added to 
her loan without her knowledge or consent.
And I can also see from the example credit agreement AIB has given us, which Miss S 
would also have signed to accept the loan, has a section  which is before even the details 
of the main loan  saying if PPI is or isnt required (to be deleted as applicable). It sets out 
the amount of the PPI premium (if PPI is being taken). The next section of the agreement 
also shows the PPI premium as a loan thats separate from the main loan. So if PPI had 
been added without Miss Ss agreement, I think she wouldve seen this from the credit 
agreement and couldve got it amended before she signed it. Ive seen no evidence Miss S 
did this.
On the information I have available to me I think its likely Miss S agreed to the PPI knowing 
she had a choice about it  even though thats not how she remembers it now.
AIB didnt make a personal recommendation to Miss S about the PPI so it didnt need to take 
reasonable steps to make sure it was suitable for her. But it did need to make sure it gave 
Miss S all the information she needed to make her own decision. 
Its possible AIB didnt do this well enough. For example, I dont think its likely AIB explained 
to Miss S that the policy wouldnt have paid out a proportionate refund if Miss S settled the 
loan early (which she did). But I havent seen anything to suggest that was something Miss S 
was planning to do when she took out the policy, so I dont think it wouldve stopped her from 
buying it if shed understood this. 
Looking at the rest of Miss Ss circumstances at the time of the sale, I dont think more 
information wouldve changed her mind about buying it. I think its likely Miss S understood 
the policy would pay a benefit if she wasnt able to work, as this is how its described in the 
paperwork shes likely to have signed. 
It doesnt look like Miss S was affected by any of the terms that mightve made it more 
difficult for her to make a successful claim, such as those about existing medical conditions 
or self-employment. And I havent seen anything to suggest the PPI was unaffordable for 
Miss S. 
Miss S says she was entitled to good sick pay  six months full pay, followed by six months 
half pay. But the policy wouldve paid out in addition to any sick pay and potentially for 
considerably longer. So I think the policy offered Miss S a useful benefit. 
On balance, I dont think Miss S has lost out because of anything AIB did wrong. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given, I dont uphold Miss Ss complaint, so it follows AIB Group (UK) 
Plc trading as First Trust Bank doesnt have to pay any compensation.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss S to accept 
or reject my decision before 14 April 2021.
 
Jane Gallacher
Ombudsman