DRN-2977363
The complaint
Mr P complains that TFS Loans Limited (TFS) should not have accepted him as a 
guarantor for a loan taken out by a family member of his. He would like to be removed from 
the loan agreement and released from all liability.
What happened
In December 2015 TFS approved a loan for a family member of Mr P, for which he acted as 
guarantor. Financial difficulties arose. A complaint has been brought to this service under a 
separate reference dealing with issues of the affordability of the lending for the borrower, as 
opposed to Mr P.
One of our investigators looked into this case and thought that TFS shouldnt have given this 
loan to the borrower, as it ought to have been clear that it wasnt sustainable or affordable 
for her. So, she concluded that, as the loan should never have been given, Mr P should 
never have been asked to be a guarantor, and upheld the complaint.
TFS didnt respond to the view, so the case has been passed to me for review and a 
decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im going to uphold this complaint and Ill explain why. A different 
Ombudsman has made a finding that the loan in question should never have been 
provided. It therefore follows that, as the loan should never have been granted, Mr P 
should never have been put in place as a guarantor, and that mistake should be 
rectified.
Putting things right
In order to put things right for Mr P, TFS must do the following:
remove him as guarantor from the loan agreement in question;
ensure that no adverse information is on his credit file as a result of the loan in 
question; and
make no attempts to contact him in relation to any payments towards the loan in 
question.
If Mr P has made any repayments in his role as guarantor, those must be refunded to him, 
together with 8% interest on each amount from the date it was paid by Mr P until the date 
TFS refunds it.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, I uphold this complaint and direct TFS Loans Limited to put 
things right as set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision before 7 December 2021. 
Siobhan McBride
Ombudsman