DRN-2769276
The complaint
Ms P complains about a whole of life insurance policy sold to her in 1989 by Phoenix Life 
Limited. 
Ms P is being represented in her complaint by a claims management company. For ease I 
will refer to all actions as being those of Ms P
What happened
One of our investigators looked into what happened when the policy was sold to Ms P in 
1989 and they thought the policy hadnt been mis-sold. Ms P disagreed so the complaint 
came to me for a decision.
After reviewing the complaint, I came to the same conclusion as our investigator but for 
substantially different reasons. I issued a provisional decision on 9 March 2021 in which I 
said:
This policy was taken out in 1989 which is over 30 years ago. In situations like this where a 
lot of time has passed, and there isnt a full record of what happened, I must come to a 
decision on the balance of probabilities as to what I think was most likely to have happened. 
There are no notes about what was discussed between the advisor and Ms P so Ive relied 
on the available documentation.
The advisor completed a Personal Financial Analysis which was signed by Ms P. This is a 
record of the information collected by the advisor when talking to Ms P. I find this type of 
evidence from the time persuasive about what was discussed. 
In the section called Your Priorities the top priority for Ms P was listed as Do you want 
protection against long term illness? 
Ms P said she needed £10,000 income per year in the event that she wasnt able to earn. 
This policy ensures that Ms P had that amount which she could use to cover her living costs. 
So Ms Ps top priority was met by the critical illness part of the policy. 
Phoenix have said at the time critical illness cover was only available on a whole of life basis 
or with an endowment plan. I agree this was the case with stand alone critical illness policies 
only becoming available in the latter half of 1989 and when available those standalone 
policies also tended to be quite expensive. 
Since having protection against long term illness was the highest priority for Ms P, and at the 
time this wasnt available as a standalone product, Im satisfied the policy was suitable. 
Later in the Personal Financial Analysis Ms P is asked What is your attitude to the amount of 
risk associated with investing your savings/investments? and the answer is recorded as 
medium. Ive seen nothing to show that Ms Ps policy wasnt administered in this way. 
Ive seen nothing as to why the sum assured of £50,000 was chosen. However based on 
Ms Ps declared income of £10,000 this seems like a reasonable amount of cover. £50,000 
would provide Ms P cover for some if she couldnt work due to disability. Ms P said she 
would need £10,000 per year if she couldnt work and this amount meets that need to 
support herself. 
Ms P says that at the time the policy was sold she was single with no dependents and no 
mortgage. There has been some debate about whether the policy was taken out to cover a 
mortgage which Phoenix thought was the case. Looking at the evidence I think its possible 
there was a mortgage in place at the time. But even if there wasnt, then Ms P would still 
need cover if she suddenly had no income to support herself, and this was provided by the 
policy.
Having carefully considered everything, Im satisfied the sale of the policy was suitable for 
Ms P.
I asked both parties to provide me with any further submissions they had before I issued my 
final decision.
Phoenix didnt provide anything further for me to consider.
Ms P didnt agree with my provisional decision saying that a previous decision for a different 
person had strong parallels with this situation and our service had decided that the policy 
wasnt suitable.
The complaint has now been passed back to me for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I find myself coming to the same conclusion as I did in my provisional 
decision, and for the same reasons. 
I know Ms P will be disappointed with my decision. Each complaint is dealt with on its own 
individual set of circumstances so whilst another complaint may appear similar there are 
differences which can affect the outcome. 
Having carefully considered everything Im satisfied the sale of the policy was suitable for 
Ms P.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained above, my decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms P to accept or 
reject my decision before 19 May 2021.
 
Warren Wilson
Ombudsman