DRN-3368041
The complaint
Mrs F complains about a drop in the value of her personal pension with Utmost Life and 
Pensions Limited following a change in the calculation of bonus rates, and about changes to 
guaranteed annuity rates.
What happened
Mrs F took out two pension plans in 1989. The plans were transferred to another provider in 
July 2008 and then taken on by Utmost Life and Pensions in August 2019.
Mrs F requested annuity quotations with different options. She was unhappy to find the fund 
values had dropped by around £5,000 between the 2018 Bonus Notice and 2019 Bonus 
Notice, and that the various pension annuity options she had been quoted were no longer 
available. She complained to Upmost.
In its final response to the complaint, Utmost said it had reviewed the annuity rates and 
these now only applied from the age and terms set out in the policy conditions, but as it 
hadnt made this clear it would honour the guaranteed annuity rates for the annuity option of 
Mrs Fs choice. Utmost didnt agree that the bonus reduction should be reinstated. It said 
amounts paid through bonuses were not guaranteed and would vary over time.
When Mrs F referred her complaint to this service, our investigator didnt think it should be 
upheld. She didnt consider the annuity rates, as Utmost had agreed to honour those. With 
regard to the fund values, she said the bonuses had been calculated correctly and in line 
with the bonus structure, which had been approved by the High Court.  
Mrs F remains unhappy and has requested an ombudsmans decision. Amongst other 
things, she says:
the fund values dropped after her pensions were moved to Utmost, but she had been 
promised nothing would change as a result of the takeover;
whilst Utmost may have had High Court approval, she couldnt understand how the 
court could approve a scheme to reduce guaranteed benefits;
she wasnt aware that when another business transferred to Utmost the following 
would occur:
- the pension pot would be reduced; 
- the various pension options would be taken away; 
- bonuses would be changed from being guaranteed to not guaranteed; 
- the actuary would change the way of calculating the company profits.
although Utmost said it would honour the annuity options, she received further 
correspondence in September 2021 saying the annuity rates would only apply in 
certain circumstances and in other circumstances would be lost, so it wasnt 
honouring the rates given previously.
The investigator considered Mrs Fs comments but didnt change her view of the complaint. 
So it has been passed to me for a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Although I have considered all the information provided by both Mrs F and Utmost I havent 
set out everything in detail; I will focus on the key points that I need to consider in order to 
determine the complaint.
Mrs Fs pensions were invested in with-profits funds. These are a type of pooled  
investment fund where payments from investors are put together and invested in a range of 
investments. What distinguishes with-profits funds from other pooled funds is smoothing. 
This aims to reduce the impact of market changes on the fund investments, so investors are 
less directly exposed to rises and falls in the value of their investments over the shorter-term. 
The aim is that policy benefits will be broadly similar year on year. The value of with-profits 
investments can grow through the addition of bonuses  either an annual bonus or a final 
bonus. These bonuses are not guaranteed and bonus rates can go down as well as up. 
When pensions were moved from the original provider in 2008 they were put into a 
ringfenced fund and this arrangement continued when Utmost took it over. 
The Financial Conduct Authoritys Conduct of Business Sourcebook (COBS) sets out 
detailed rules and guidance for firms on the operation of their with-profits funds. And the 
regulator requires policy providers to publish a document called Principles and Practices of 
Financial Management (PPFM) which explains how it manages its with-profits funds, 
including the decisions it makes to manage the fund and how it uses its discretion to treat 
customers fairly. Among other things, the PPFM sets out how policy values are calculated. 
The regulator monitors the management of with-profits funds. Businesses are required to 
appoint a with-profits actuary and there are rules and guidance on their duties.
Utmost sets out the way it manages its with-profits funds in its PPFM document. This 
includes the following provisions:
A policy has guaranteed benefits, which generally consist of the initial sum assured 
plus annual bonuses and extraordinary bonuses already declared and allocated to 
that policy. 
The ringfenced fund that Mrs Fs pensions are invested in has some annual bonuses 
declared from December 2001 that are not guaranteed and dont increase the 
guaranteed benefits.
The bonus reserve valuation explicitly allows for the restructure of benefits that was 
carried out when the business was transferred.
When the business in the ringfenced fund was transferred, benefits were 
restructured. The High Court approved a scheme that reduced guaranteed benefits 
by 12.5% for the majority of policies, with a smaller reduction for some policies.  
These amounts became non-guaranteed and are called the special final bonus.
Annual bonuses on these policies were awarded on a non-guaranteed basis in the 
past. These historically declared amounts were subsequently set to zero for some 
years and are currently being paid in full. The level of these non-guaranteed, 
historically declared, bonuses is reviewed annually.
Utmost says the annual statements sent to Mrs F explain that bonuses are not guaranteed 
and can be withdrawn at any time. Mrs F says she understands this but didnt think the way 
the calculations were done would change. However, since this was done with High Court 
approval it wouldnt be for me to interfere with that. Utmost has dealt with the funds in line 
with the PPFM.I appreciate that seeing the value of her pension funds reduce would have been upsetting for 
Mrs F. However, based on everything Ive seen, Im satisfied the way Utmost dealt with this 
was in line with the relevant rules and policy conditions and was fair. It manages the funds 
and calculates bonuses in line with the PPFM. The with-profits actuary reviews the rates and 
makes declarations every six months, deciding how to share profits among policyholders.
Mrs F also raised concerns about her options for taking an annuity  she referred to 
correspondence in September 2021 saying the annuity rates would only apply in certain 
circumstances. On the basis of this correspondence it appeared Utmost wasnt honouring 
the rates given previously  Utmost indicated that the guaranteed annuity rates now only 
applied from the age and terms set out in the policy conditions. Utmost would generally be 
entitled to offer annuities in line with the policy conditions. But as it had said it would honour 
the guaranteed annuity rates for the annuity option of Mrs Fs choice, we asked Utmost 
about this. It has confirmed that the offer to honour the various guaranteed annuity rates is 
still open to Mrs F.
As Utmost has confirmed the offer to honour the guaranteed annuity rates advised 
previously, Mrs F should contact Utmost directly if she wishes to accept this.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold the complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs F to accept or 
reject my decision before 25 July 2022.
 
Peter Whiteley
Ombudsman