DRN-3769867
The complaint
Mr M complained - on behalf of the policyholder Ms C and himself - that repairs to Ms Cs 
car following a collision werent completed properly by the garage instructed by Watford 
Insurance Company Europe Limited (Watford).
What happened
Ms C insured her car with Watford.  Mr M was a named driver on the policy, so is entitled to 
make a complaint.
In autumn 2021, Mr M collided with a parked car at the side of the road.  Ms C notified 
Watford and confirmed she wanted to make a claim for repairs.  She confirmed she and     
Mr M wanted the repairs done at their own garage.  Watford confirmed this was possible, but 
an additional excess of £200 would be payable.  And Ms C would need to send Watford a 
quote for the work.
Ms C and Mr M later changed their minds and asked Watford to arrange for repairs through 
their own garage instead.  Watford did this.  But, after repairs had been completed, Mr M 
contacted Watford to let them know he wasnt happy with the quality of the work done and 
not all of the repairs had been completed.
Watford advised Mr M to speak directly to their garage about his concerns.  He wasnt 
satisfied with their response and asked Watford to arrange a further inspection of the work.  
He subsequently told Watford he didnt want the garage working on the car again, and asked 
Watford for a cash settlement to enable him to have the repairs completed.  At one point he 
also asked they write the car off.
Watfords engineers assessed photos and video evidence provided by Mr M and concluded 
that the damage he complained about hadnt been caused by the collision  so Watford 
werent responsible for repairing it.  They confirmed in their final response to a complaint    
Mr M made that they were satisfied all damage relating to the collision had been dealt with.
Mr M didnt accept what Watford said and brought his complaint to us.  In addition to the 
quality of the repairs, Mr M complained that the garage had refused to let him in when he 
went there as he wasnt wearing a face mask because he was exempt. 
Our investigator considered the complaint and concluded Watford needed to do more to 
resolve matters for Mr M.  He reviewed the report from Watfords assessors and noted theyd 
identified some supplementary repairs were needed, as well as rectification to the cars 
nearside front wing.  Watford confirmed having this work done would cost £985 plus VAT 
(£1,182) and they would do this.
However, Ms C had sold the car after Watford had responded to Mr Ms complaint.  So the 
investigator said Watford should pay him £1,182 in lieu, as well as interest on that amount.  
But he didnt think they should pay Ms C and Mr M the difference between the market value 
and what it had been sold for.  And he said that Watford should pay Mr M £300 
compensation for the distress and inconvenience the incomplete repairs, and having to go to 
the garage when Covid 19 restrictions were in place, had caused. 
Mr M agreed with our investigators view.  Watford havent responded.  So Ive been asked 
to make a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done that, Im upholding Ms Cs and Mr Ms complaint.  Ill explain why.
Ms Cs policy provides cover for damage to her car resulting from an accident.  The policy 
says that, if a claim is made, Watford:
will either:
Repair the damage
Replace what is lost or damaged beyond economical repair
Pay the cost of the loss or damage
We can choose which of these actions We will take for any claim We accept.
So, while I appreciate Mr M did at one point ask for the car to be written off, I think its clear it 
was Watfords decision which option to choose.
And it was Watfords responsibility to assess  and repair - the damage caused by the 
collision.  I can see Mr M didnt agree that all the work was done.  But Im satisfied that 
Watford had the car assessed both before and after the initial repairs and concluded the car 
needed other work which wasnt the result of the collision.  And they explained this to Mr M.  
So, while I understand Mr Ms position, I cant say they should have repaired all the cars 
faults, as the policy covers only repairs resulting from the collision.
Ive noted the assessment of the car made by Watfords agent noted not all work had been 
completed and some rectification work was required.  Watford agreed to consider making a 
cash in lieu payment for what it would cost them to deal with this.  I think thats fair.
Putting things right
I think its fair for Watford to pay Ms C and Mr M the amount it would have cost them to 
repair the work identified as needed by their assessor.  So they should pay them £1,182 
(£985 + VAT).  
And Watford should pay Ms C and Mr M simple interest on this amount, calculated at the 
rate of 8% per annum, from the date their assessor identified the work was needed (21 
December 2021) until they pay them.
And I agree with our investigator that its clear that the delays in addressing the inadequate 
work, and difficulties when he visited the garage have caused Ms C and Mr M distress and 
inconvenience for which he should be compensated.  I think £300 is a reasonable amount 
for Watford to pay for this.My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, Im upholding Ms Cs and Mr Ms complaint about Watford 
Insurance Company Europe Limited and directing Watford to pay them:
£1,182 in lieu of the repairs they accepted hadnt been done and needed rectification 
work;
Simple interest on £1,182, calculated at the rate of 8% per annum, from 21 
December 2021 until the date of settlement.  If Watford considers that its required by 
HM Revenue & Customs to deduct income tax from that interest, it should tell Ms C 
and Mr M how much its taken off. It should also give Ms C and Mr M a tax deduction 
certificate if they ask for one, so they can reclaim the tax from HM Revenue & 
Customs if appropriate; and
£300 compensation for the distress and inconvenience Ms C and Mr M were caused.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms C and Mr M to 
accept or reject my decision before 2 December 2022.
 
Helen Stacey
Ombudsman