DRN-4238786
The complaint
Mrs M complains about Lloyds Bank PLC continuing to send her Foreign Account Tax 
Compliance Act correspondence.
What happened
Mrs M was born overseas in Country A and was only a resident for a few weeks after her 
birth.
Due to Foreign Account Tax Compliance Act (FATCA) and Common Reporting Standard 
(CRS) regulations, Lloyds sent Mrs M mailings in relation to her tax status in Country A.
Mrs M completed the paperwork with all her details and is distressed as Lloyds continue to 
send her FATCA correspondence. Mrs M has requested that Lloyds stop sending her 
correspondence such as tax residency self-certification forms.
Lloyds say they liaised with the tax office and were informed that communications needed to 
continue until all the information required by Country A is received. Mrs M says she doesnt 
have the required information and she feels she is being treated unfairly by Lloyds. 
Lloyds provided Mrs M with contact information to help her resolve the issue, however Mrs M 
remains dissatisfied and complained to our service.
Our investigator didnt think that Lloyds had done anything wrong, so this complaint has 
been referred to me to look at.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im not upholding this complaint and Ill explain why.
I should first explain that although I can fully understand Mrs Ms upset and frustration here, 
having only lived in country A for a few weeks, I cant tell a business to make alterations to 
their policies, procedures or processes. I say this because we arent the regulator of the 
financial services industry. 
Furthermore, even in cases where a customer feels their circumstances are unique and 
requests shouldnt apply to them, Lloyds still have a responsibility to ask questions and pass 
on information as they have obligations and must comply with legislation such as the CRS.
I can also understand Mrs Ms added frustration as, although she is a Country A national, 
she just doesnt have the required Tax Identification Number (TIN) or Nationality Certificate. 
Mrs M is a Country A national and applying for a TIN appears difficult. However, as 
mentioned above, Im satisfied Lloyds communications and tax office liaison are necessary 
because they have responsibilities and are complying with legislation. 
I also found that Lloyds have recognised Mrs Ms frustration and difficulty in satisfying tax 
office queries, providing her with FATCA and CRS information, a frequently asked questions 
document and the Country A tax office website so she can apply for a TIN.   
They also recognised that they had added to Mrs Ms frustrations, by sending additional 
letters, when they indicated reporting details were up to date, when this was not the case 
and offered her £75.00 compensation. 
So, having considered all the above, I sympathise with Mrs Ms situation here, however I 
cant see that Lloyds actions have been either unfair or unreasonable and Im not upholding 
this complaint.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs M to accept or 
reject my decision before 25 December 2023.
 
Paul Douglas
Ombudsman