DRN-1613617
The complaint
Miss H is unhappy about how Royal & Sun Alliance Insurance Plc (trading as John Lewis 
Financial Services Limited) dealt with a claim on her home insurance policy.
What happened
Miss H took out an insurance policy with Royal and Sun Alliance (RSA). In December 2018, 
the policy was due for renewal. Miss H spoke to RSA to add a Rolex watch to the policy. 
Miss H was asked the value of the watch, which she said she didnt know.
In August 2019, Miss Hs partner was mugged and the watch was stolen. She contacted 
RSA to claim for the stolen watch and was told that it would only pay the claim for the 
amount she quoted when she insured it.
Miss H complained to RSA. She said that when she spoke to RSA to add the Rolex watch to 
the policy, she had said that she did not know its value. It was also not explained to her that 
the value she provided would then be used as the maximum to settle any claim about the 
watch and that it would not be replaced on a like for like basis.
RSA investigated the complaint. It confirmed that it had checked the phone call where Miss 
H had given a value of about £4,000. As part of validating the claim, its assessors valued 
the watch at £5,650, but it was unable to pay more than the specified amount of £4,000. 
RSA also referred the case to its senior underwriting team who had decided that the call 
handler had not made an error and that RSA had to accept the value given by Miss H. The 
documents sent to Miss H after the watch was added to the policy also confirmed the 
amount the watch was insured for and the terms on which items would be replaced.
Miss H complained to this service. Our investigator did not think that RSA needed to do 
anything more, as it had dealt with the claim reasonably and fairly.
As Miss H did not agree, the complaint has been referred to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I am aware that Miss Hs main concern is that she thinks that the call handler should have 
done more to ensure that the watch was insured for the correct amount when it was added 
to the policy. 
I have listened to the phone call where Miss H added the watch to her policy. In this call, 
Miss H said that she wanted to add the Rolex watch to her policy. The call handler said that 
this would make the policy more expensive and asked the value of the watch. Miss H said 
about £4,000. While the call handler was getting the revised premium, Miss H said I dont 
know anything about Rolexes and then said what type of Rolex she thought it was.Although I accept that Miss H thought she told the call handler that she didnt know the value 
of the Rolex, she didnt actually say that. When she was asked about the value of the watch, 
she immediately gave a value of about £4000. I dont think that would have caused the call 
handler to think that Miss H had concerns about whether the value was correct. I also think 
her comment about not knowing anything about Rolexes could have been interpreted in a 
number of ways, including as a general comment that didnt require a specific response from 
the call handler. I dont think that comment would automatically have caused the call handler 
to think that Miss H had doubts about the correct value of the watch.
On that basis, I dont think RSA did anything wrong by not asking further questions or that it 
had any specific reason to question the value Miss H had provided. It is also normal practice 
for insurers to ask customers to put a value on items for insurance purposes and that is what 
it did in this case.
I have also considered whether the information that RSA provided following the watch being 
added to the policy was clear. RSA sent a revised policy schedule. In the cover letter it says: 
Please check this to ensure that the information is correct. If you need to make any further 
changes please contact us.. In the Personal Possessions section it then lists the watch and 
the sum insured as £4,000. In the Policy Wording document, on page 5 it says: The most 
we will pay in respect of any one claim is detailed below. In the Personal Possessions 
section on page 6 it says, Personal Possessions sum insured and then The limit shown on 
your Schedule, in other words, the limit was £4,000. On page 28, it then says The most we 
will pay for any one claim is the amount it will cost us to replace your items insured under the 
Options that you have selected as new, but not more than the sum insured or any limits 
shown on the Schedule or in this Policy Wording.
Having thought about this wording, I think it is fair and reasonable and that it was clear what 
the limits were in terms of what RSA would pay for a claim for the watch.
I know that Miss H had expected the watch to be replaced like for like but given the 
circumstances of this case and the wording of the policy, I think it is reasonable that RSA 
agreed to pay the claim based on the amount that the watch was insured for. For the claim 
to have been paid at the assessors value, it would have had to be insured at that value and 
the appropriate premium paid.
I am sure this has been a distressing case for Miss H but I think this is the correct outcome 
in the circumstances. 
My final decision
For the reasons I have given, it is my final decision that the complaint is not upheld. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss H to accept 
or reject my decision before 5 May 2020.
Louise O'Sullivan
Ombudsman