DRN-3798148
The complaint
Miss S complains Barclays Bank UK Plc (Barclays) failed to tell her she was not able to 
make payment transfers from her travel wallet on her mobile banking app. And as a result 
she lost money.
What happened
Miss S has a bank account with Barclays. She needed to pay a supplier in Europe in euros 
and so she contacted Barclays. 
Miss S says she was told the maximum she could transfer to her travel wallet was 25,000 
euros. But Barclays failed to tell her that any payments from her travel wallet could only be 
card payments, she wouldnt be able to make any direct payments from it. 
So Miss S transferred £9,500 to her Barclays travel wallet so she could pay the supplier in 
euros. Miss S subsequently realised she wasnt able to use the funds as she needed to. And 
so she had to move the money back into her current account which meant she had to 
exchange from euros back into sterling.
Miss S says she wouldnt have transferred the funds into her travel wallet had she been 
aware she could only use it for card payments, she would have used another method of 
payment. 
Miss S says as a result of this she lost money on the exchange rate fee; approximately 
£1,500. Miss S says Barclays should have been more transparent.  And so she complained. 
Barclays said it had listened to the call and heard Miss S explain she needed to pay her 
supplier. The advisor told her there was a limit of 25,000 on the travel wallet but making a 
payment transfer wasnt discussed. Barclays said the supplier wasnt able to accept the card 
payment since it was over their limit of 7,000 euros. Barclays said since the issue didnt arise 
as a result of a bank error it wasnt upholding the complaint. 
Miss S wasnt happy with the response from Barclays and so referred her complaint to the 
Financial Ombudsman. The investigator looked into Miss Ss concerns. He said he could 
appreciate Miss S lost out on approximately £1,500. But on listening to the calls between 
Barclays and Miss S the issue of making a transfer from the travel wallet wasnt discussed. 
And since it wasnt specifically discussed he wasnt able to say Barclays had given Miss S 
incorrect information. So he didnt uphold the complaint. 
Miss S didnt agree. She said although she didnt specifically say transfer when she called 
Barclays she did say she needed to make a payment. She said at this point Barclays should 
have told her about transfers not being available within the travel wallet. Miss S said 
payment is open to interpretation. So the complaint has come to me to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so I am not upholding the complaint. Ive focused my comments on what I think 
is relevant. If I havent commented on any specific point its because I dont think it affects 
the outcome. But I want to assure Miss S I have considered the points she has raised 
together with the information I have been provided. 
I am sorry to hear about the difficulties Miss S experienced here. I can see how strongly she 
feels about the issues raised in this complaint. My role is to assess whether I think Barclays 
made a mistake, or treated Miss S unfairly, in the way it dealt with her international payment. 
I think its perfectly understandable that when someone is transferring money overseas they 
want to minimise the cost of that by achieving the best possible exchange rate and reducing 
or avoiding any fees involved. So I can empathise with the situation Miss S finds herself in. 
But what I have to decide is whether this is as a result of anything Barclays have done 
wrong. And from what Ive seen I dont think it was. 
I have listened to the call where Miss S asks about the payment transfers. Initially the call is 
to request a new bank card. And then Miss S says that she needs the card to convert the 
pounds into the euros wallet, and then pay the suppliers with my euro wallet and make the 
most of the exchange rate. Miss S asks the operative if there is a limit on how much she can 
add to her wallet, or a daily limit she can make in euros. Miss S is told the limit is £25,000. 
Miss S says that is fine because thats her limit anyway. The conversation then goes on to 
discuss other banking matters not related to the currency exchange or any payment 
transfers. I havent seen or heard anything which persuades me that Barclays mis-advised 
Miss S in relation to the travel wallet.
Having listened to the call I think its likely that if Miss S had explained to the operative that 
she needed to pay her suppliers by bank transfer she would have been told how to do this 
by bank transfer rather than using her travel wallet, since the travel wallet is for card 
payments only.
I have reviewed the documents sent to me by Barclays. The call notes show Miss S told the 
bank the supplier could not accept a card payment since the payment was over their limit of 
£7,000. And Barclays couldnt have known that, nor is it something thats within its control. 
Ive thought carefully about what Miss S has said. And Ive considered the content of 
Barclays website and its terms and conditions to assess whether it provides sufficient 
information to its customers about the travel wallet. The terms and conditions say, the only 
payments permissible from a Travel Wallet are those made with your debit card. So the 
information regarding how the travel wallet works is within the terms and conditions.
I know Miss S is hoping to be refunded the difference in the amount she exchanged from 
sterling to euro and back again. But since I dont think Barclays made an error here I wont 
be asking it to pay this. 
I know what Ive set out wont be the answer Miss S was hoping for, and I know how strongly 
she feels about the matter. But, for the reasons Ive set out above, I dont find that Barclays 
has acted unfairly or unreasonably here. So it follows that I dont require it to take any further 
action. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained I dont uphold Miss Ss complaint. Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss S to accept 
or reject my decision before 5 January 2023.
 
Kiran Clair
Ombudsman