DRN-2319356
complaint
This complaint is about a payment protection insurance (PPI) policy taken out with a credit 
card in 1998. Mr N says Lloyds Bank PLC mis-sold him the PPI.
To keep things consistent, Ill refer mainly to Lloyds.
background
Our adjudicator didnt think we should uphold the mis-sale complaint. Mr Ns representative 
disagreed with the adjudicators opinion. However, they didnt raise any new or additional 
points and repeated the same complaint points and arguments theyd previously made. As 
the complaint couldnt be resolved informally, it has been passed to me for a final decision.
my findings
I have read and considered all the evidence and arguments available to me from the outset, 
in order to decide what is, in my opinion, fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of this 
complaint. When considering what is fair and reasonable, I am required to take into account 
relevant: law and regulations; regulators rules, guidance and standards; codes of practice; 
and, where appropriate, what I consider to have been good industry practice at the time. 
Weve set out our general approach to PPI mis-sale complaints on our website and 
published some example final decisions that set out in detail how these relevant 
considerations may apply to PPI sales like Mr Ns. I havent set out that detailed information 
here but Ive taken into account all relevant considerations in deciding Mr Ns complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided not to uphold the complaint. 
did Mr N agree to the PPI?
Its not entirely clear how this policy was taken out. We know Mr N filled out a form but it 
could have either been at a branch of the bank or through the post. Either way, this doesnt 
affect my overall decision.
Ive looked at the original credit agreement Mr N signed and I can see theres a section on it 
for a Payment Protection Plan. I think it presents the PPI as optional and its indicated on 
the form that Mr N wanted to take out the PPI cover. Thats because theres a tick placed in 
the relevant box to agree to the PPI. Mr N would have then seen any charges appearing on 
his statements.
I therefore think Lloyds properly obtained his consent for the PPI policy.
 
was the PPI suitable for Mr N?
Lloyds says it could have recommended the PPI to Mr N as part of an advised sale, so in 
this case it would have been expected to check that it was suitable for him. I think it was. For 
example, he was eligible for the cover and he had only limited other means to fall back on in 
the event of something unexpected happening, such as losing his job or being unable to 
work. I note he says he had some limited sickness protection with his job, but this doesnt 
make the PPI unsuitable Im afraid. The policy could have paid 10% of his existing credit 
card balance for up to a year if hed needed to claim, this would have been in addition to any 
other means he had. 
We were told by his representatives that Mr N had a medical history which might have 
affected any future claims he could have made. However, I dont think his representative is 
reliable about this  it said hed had an operation in 1956 and had needed to take several 
months off work. However, Mr N was a young child at this point, so I dont think this is 
correct. In all other aspects, I cant see anything that would have affected Mr N making a 
claim under the policy rules. In my view, the evidence about Mr Ns circumstances at the 
time, shows that the policy wasnt fundamentally wrong or unsuitable for him.
did Mr N have enough information?
Its obviously possible the information Lloyds gave Mr N about the PPI wasnt as clear as it 
should have been, but as Ive said, he chose to take it out so it looks like he wanted this type 
of cover. It also wasnt too dissimilar to what he probably thought he was buying from the 
information he was likely given at the point of sale. It looks like it was affordable for him and 
useful if something went wrong. And although his representative says there were some 
additional / onerous rules about back pain and mental health claims, Mr Ns particular policy 
didnt have these rules. 
I therefore dont think Mr N would have declined the policy even if Lloyds could have done a 
better job at explaining certain things.
Mr Ns representative raised a number of what I consider to be general points, which it says 
apply to all PPI complaints. These include: a claim that the Financial Ombudsman Service is 
not correctly applying the regulators rules and guidance for handling PPI complaints; these 
policies represented poor value because of the number of significant exclusions and 
limitations of cover coupled with a low claims ratio; and the duty of utmost good faith meant 
Lloyds should have disclosed the poor value and explained the significance of the limitations 
and exclusions and the impact on the chances of making a claim.
But Mr Ns representative has not said how these points apply to the specific facts and 
circumstances of Mr Ns individual complaint  just that they apply to all PPI complaints. Ive 
thought about these and how they might apply in Mr Ns particular case. But these points 
dont persuade me to alter my conclusions about what is fair and reasonable in all the 
circumstances of the complaint. 
For the reasons Ive set out above I dont uphold the mis-sale element of this complaint. This 
means Lloyds doesnt have to pay back the cost of the PPI to Mr N.
my final decision
Overall, having considered all the evidence and arguments to decide what is, in my opinion, 
fair and reasonable in all the circumstances, I do not uphold the complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, I am required to ask Mr N to accept or 
reject my decision before 4 January 2022.
 
Michael Campbell
Ombudsman