DRN-3054728
The complaint
Miss W complains that SLL Capital Limited is unfairly refusing to remove a loan from her 
credit file. 
What happened
In September 2019, SLL took over ownership of a loan debt that it says Miss W owed to a 
business that I will call S. SLL sent Miss W a notice of assignment and asked her to repay 
the outstanding balance.
Miss W was unhappy because she said that the loan had been mis-sold to her. She asked S 
to amend her credit file, but it said it couldnt because S was in administration and no longer 
owned the data. 
In July 2021, SLL told Miss W that following guidance from the Financial Conduct Authority it 
had adjusted her loan to remove any interest on the account, leaving a balance of just over 
£54 to pay.
Miss W said she shouldnt be paying anything and wanted SLL to remove the loan and 
balance from her credit file. Miss W said that S should be paying her compensation. And that 
the entry on her credit file was stopping her being able to secure rented accommodation.
SLL has since told Miss W that it has written off the debt and closed the account. SLL says 
the loan account will remain on Miss Ws credit file.
The investigator didnt recommend that Miss Ws complaint be upheld. He said that Miss W 
would have to speak to the administrator acting on behalf of S if she wanted it to do anything 
about the data on her credit file.
Miss W is happy that SLL has written off the outstanding balance. But she wants it to update 
her credit file to say the debt has been removed.
  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I realise that Ive summarised this complaint in less detail than the parties and Ive done so 
using my own words. Ive concentrated on what I consider to the key issues. The rules that 
govern this service allow me to do so. But this doesnt mean that Ive not considered 
everything that both parties have given to me.
I know that Miss W wants SLL to remove the loan from her credit file, but I dont consider I 
can require it to do this. Miss W had the benefit of the money lent. And after SLL 
recalculated the loan to remove interest and charges, there was still a balance to be paid. 
SLL made a business decision to close the account and not ask Miss W for repayment. This 
doesnt mean the debt has been repaid or settled. SLL didnt make the original lending 
decision and the default was recorded before it bought the debt. So, I dont require SLL to 
remove the loan including the default, from Miss Ws credit file.
In early September 2021, SLL told Miss W that it would mark her credit file as zero balance 
and closed account. In November 2021, Miss W told this service that her credit file still 
shows the SLL account as open with an outstanding balance. 
The investigator has approached SLL and it is going to check the position again with the 
credit reference agencies. It can take several weeks for a credit file to update so I 
recommend that Miss W checks again in a few weeks. 
Miss W asked whether this service could direct the administrators of S to remove the loan 
from her credit file. The investigator explained that this service cant consider complaints 
about the administrator which is correct. I leave it with Miss W to contact the administrator 
again if she wants.
Miss W was unhappy that SLL asked her to repay the outstanding balance while her 
complaint was with this service. Although this didnt form part of Miss Ws original complaint, 
I wanted to say that just because a complaint has been made, this doesnt automatically 
mean that a lender must stop trying to collect the debt. Miss W still owed money on the loan, 
so it was reasonable for SLL to ask for her repayment proposals. However, the debt has now 
been written off so Miss W shouldnt receive any further requests for repayment. I hope this 
will be of some comfort to her.
Overall, Im not persuaded that SLL has treated Miss W unfairly, so I dont require it to pay 
compensation.
My final decision
My decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss W to accept 
or reject my decision before 21 December 2021.
 
Gemma Bowen
Ombudsman