DRN-3813515
The complaint
Mr H says that Santander UK Plc (Santander) acted irresponsibly by approving an 
overdraft for him. He says the charges he incurred for this were unaffordable and caused 
financial difficulty. 
What happened
Mr H applied and opened an account with Santander in March 2019. As a gesture of 
goodwill Santander refunded £50 overdraft fees in September and advised Mr H that under 
its policy there would be no further refunds. Mr H stopped using the account at the start of 
October when it had a debit balance of £290 and the account entered collections in 
November.
Mr H got in touch regarding financial difficulties in February 2020. Santander requested Mr H 
complete his income and expenditure before it could agree an arrangement to pay back the 
overdraft. Mr H returned his income and expenditure but as the details were unclear and 
Santander had no further payments or contact from Mr H his account was transferred to a 
third party debt collection agency and a default applied to Mr Hs credit file.  
Mr H complained to Santander that it never should have granted him with an overdraft which 
has left him in financial hardship due to the excessive charges. Santander said all the 
checks were carried out correctly and based on the information Mr H provided it agreed to 
the overdraft requested. Santander said all fees were applied correctly in line with the terms 
and conditions of the account and that it was Mr Hs responsibility to inform it should his 
circumstances change and the overdraft was no longer affordable.
Mr H was dis-satisfied with this and brought his complaint to this service. One of our 
adjudicators looked into Mr Hs concerns and didnt think there was anything in the 
information Mr H provided to Santander when he applied for his overdraft to suggest he 
wouldnt be able to repay it within a reasonable period of time, so didnt think Santander had 
done anything wrong or treated Mr H unfairly. 
Mr H disagreed and the complaint was passed to an ombudsman for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about irresponsible lending - including the 
key rules, guidance and good industry practice - on our website. And Ive referred to this 
when deciding Mr Hs complaint. Having considered everything provided, Ive decided not to 
uphold Mr Hs complaint. Ill explain why in a little more detail. 
Santander needed to make sure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In practice, what this means 
is Santander needed to carry out proportionate checks to be able to understand whether Mr 
H would be able to repay what he was being lent before providing any credit to him. Our 
website sets out what we typically think about when deciding whether a lenders checks 
were proportionate. 
Generally, we think its reasonable for a lenders checks to be less thorough  in terms of 
how much information it gathers and what it does to verify it  in the early stages of a lending 
relationship. But we might think it needed to do more if, for example, a borrowers income 
was low or the amount lent was high. And the longer the lending relationship goes on, the 
greater the risk of it becoming unsustainable and the borrower experiencing financial 
difficulty. 
Ive kept all of this in mind when thinking about whether Santander did what it needed to 
before agreeing to Mr Hs overdraft. Mr H was given what was an open-ended credit facility. 
So overall this means the checks Santander carried out had to provide enough for it to be 
able to understand whether Mr H would be able to repay his overdraft within a reasonable 
period of time. 
Mr H opened and account and applied for a £300 overdraft in March 2019. Santander says it 
carried out all checks taking into account information Mr H provided about his income and 
expenditure checking it against information held both internally and externally. And based on 
this information Santander was satisfied his score was high enough to provide him with the 
overdraft limit and facility he requested.
I accept that Mr Hs financial position may well have been worse than the check carried out 
showed or in any information he disclosed to Santander at the time. And it is possible that 
further checks might have told Santander this. But given the relatively low amount of credit 
being advanced I think Santanders checks went far enough and it was reasonably entitled to 
rely on the credit check it carried out. So I dont think Santander provided Mr H with an 
overdraft unfairly or responsibly.
Ive seen that Mr H has in some of his correspondence referred to the proportionality of the 
charges applied to his account. But before I go any further, I want to be clear in saying that I 
havent considered whether the various amounts Santander charged over the years were fair 
and reasonable, or proportionate in comparison to the costs of the service provided. 
Ultimately, how much a bank charges for services is a commercial decision. And it isnt 
something for me to get involved with. That said, while Im not looking at Santanders various 
charging structures or processes per se, it wont have acted fairly and reasonably towards 
Mr H if it applied any interest, fees and charges to Mr Hs account in circumstances where it 
was aware, or it ought fairly and reasonably to have been aware Mr H was experiencing 
financial difficulty.
So Ive considered whether there were instances where Santander didnt treat Mr H fairly 
and reasonably. I dont think that Santander did treat Mr H unfairly or unreasonably though. I 
say this because having looked at Mr Hs statements I cant see anything to suggest that 
Santander ought to have realised he might have been experiencing financial difficulty prior to 
when Mr H stopped using his account in October 2019 and Santander being notified of 
financial difficulties in February 2020.
In the short period of time that Mr H used his account the statements show that Mr H did use 
his overdraft, but that in itself isnt enough to show that Santander ought to have known Mr H 
was in financial difficulty. Initially Mr H received credits into his account that at times brought 
his account into credit and if not into credit reduced it. I accept that Mr H did exceed his limit 
in August 2019, but I can see this was rectified the following month with a large transfer in 
which again brought his account into credit.  I can also see that although some bills were being paid from the account there were just as many non-committed, non-contractual and 
discretionary transactions.
Again, this doesnt necessarily mean Mr H wasnt experiencing financial difficulty. But I dont 
think there is enough here which ought to have alerted Santander to any potential financial 
difficulty before Mr H stopped using the account and got in touch. And in these 
circumstances, I dont think that it was unreasonable for Santander to proceed with adding 
the interest, fees and charges it did.
So I dont think that Santander treated Mr H unfairly or unreasonably and this means that Im 
not upholding this complaint. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, Im not upholding Mr Hs complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 23 December 2022.
 
Caroline Davies
Ombudsman