DRN-4432866
The complaint
Mr T complains that HSBC UK Bank Plc hasnt protected him from losing money he paid to 
one of its customers as a result of fraud.
What happened
The background to this complaint is well known to both parties, so I wont repeat everything 
here. In brief summary, in August 2022 Mr T paid $13,000 from his non-HSBC account to a 
third-party account held with HSBC. Mr T subsequently realised hed been scammed. 
Ultimately Mr T remained unhappy when he was unable to recover his lost funds and he 
referred his complaint about HSBC to us. An Investigator here looked into things but Mr T 
remained unhappy. The case has therefore been passed to me for a decision. 
I sent Mr T and HSBC my provisional decision last month explaining what I was intending to 
decide. Now both parties have had reasonable opportunity to comment further, Im now 
ready to explain my final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive reached the same conclusions and for the same reasons as explained 
in my provisional decision. That is, Ive decided not to uphold this complaint. Ive explained 
why again below.  
Let me say, first of all, Im sorry to hear Mr T has been the victim of a scam. The fraudsters 
tricked him into a false sense of reassurance by leading him to believe he was, through his 
payment, entering into an agreement whereby HSBC would hold his funds and only release 
them to the scammer (posing at the time as a legitimate vendor) upon satisfactory inspection 
of the goods; but unfortunately this wasnt real but just a ploy used by the fraudsters to trick 
Mr T. I sympathise with the situation Mr T has consequently found himself in, and 
I understand why he thinks its unfair he should bear the loss. Ultimately, however, Mr T has 
suffered his loss because of fraudsters. I cant reasonably ask HSBC to reimburse losses 
that resulted from the criminal actions of third parties unless its acts or omissions unfairly 
resulted in Mr Ts loss. So what I have to decide is whether or not HSBC reasonably did 
enough to prevent, or respond to, the alleged authorised push payment (APP) fraud. 
HSBC has shared relevant information with this service in confidence to allow us to 
discharge our investigatory functions and has provided that which is necessary for the 
determination of this complaint. But Im also limited to how much of this I can share for the 
same reasons as HSBC. But Id like to assure Mr T Ive carefully reviewed everything before 
reaching my decision. 
Ive considered the fact alleged fraudsters in this case were able to open and operate an 
account with HSBC. But an account later found to have been utilised to misappropriate funds 
doesnt automatically entitle the payer (victim) to a refund nor does it mean that the recipient 
bank unreasonably failed to prevent the loss. What I need to consider is whether at the time 
of opening the account HSBC ought reasonably to have known that the account being 
opened would later be used fraudulently. And in the circumstances of this complaint, there 
wasnt anything at the time that I think reasonably couldve alerted HSBC that the account it 
was opening would later be used to misappropriate funds. So, Im satisfied it didnt miss an 
opportunity to prevent the fraud when opening the account. 
Ive also considered whether there was anything about the activity on the recipients account 
that ought to have alerted HSBC to the possibility of fraud prior to it being notified Mr T had 
been scammed. As pointed out by our Investigator, at a certain point in 2022, before Mr T 
made his payment, the recipients account activity changed significantly. However, HSBC 
has received no notifications of fraud regarding the account apart from Mr Ts. So I cant say 
there was fraudulent activity on the account prior to Mr Ts payment that HSBC ought to 
have been obliged to have intervened in. But in any event, even if HSBC had intervened, 
I havent seen anything that persuades me this wouldve changed things.  
Ive also thought about the arrival of Mr Ts payment and the spending of those funds. And 
when assessed against the general use of the account, particularly the weeks prior, I cant 
say that it looked materially or sufficiently different or suspicious to warrant intervention at 
that point. This means I cant fairly say HSBC unreasonably missed an opportunity to 
prevent Mr Ts loss. 
Im also satisfied that by the time HSBC was told that Mr Ts payment had been made as a 
result of a scam, there werent any available funds for HSBC to recover for Mr T. 
Unfortunately for Mr T, his funds were spent within just a matter of days of his payment. So, 
Im satisfied HSBCs acts or omissions when it was notified of the fraud were not the cause 
of Mr Ts loss. 
I understand Mr T will be disappointed, and Im really sorry hes lost this money. However, 
for the reasons Ive explained, I dont think HSBC unreasonably missed an opportunity to 
either prevent the fraud or to have recovered the funds. So, I dont uphold this complaint.
My final decision
For the reasons explained, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr T to accept or 
reject my decision before 29 November 2023.
 
Neil Bridge
Ombudsman