DRN-2819533
The complaint
Mrs R complains that HBOS Investment Fund Managers Limited (HBOS) delayed selling her 
shares resulting in her suffering a financial loss.  Mrs R would like to be refunded her loss. 
What happened
On 15 January 2020, Mrs R telephoned HBOS to sell her shares as she believed that the 
price was favourable to her. HBOS informed Mrs R that they needed a written instruction to 
process the sale. Mrs R went to her local branch the same day and called HBOS from the 
branch to make sure they had everything that they needed form her. Mrs R left the 
documents with the branch to forward onto HBOS.
On the 20 January 2020, Mrs R called HBOS as she hadnt received her proceeds from the 
sale and clarified that she wanted to split the proceeds between her savings account and an 
ISA. HBOS said that they hadnt received the documents at that point and to wait a couple of 
days. Mrs R said that she was concerned as the share price had fallen.
On 23 January 2020, Mrs R called again but the documents still hadnt been received. Mrs R 
raised a complaint at this point. Mrs R called the next day and was told that the documents 
were probably lost in the post and another set of documents should be sent.
Mrs R visited the branch on 23 January 2020 and resent the documents which were 
received by HBOS on 27 January 2020. 
Mrs R called HBOS on 28 January 2020 to discuss what she wanted. HBOS thought that 
Mrs R had changed her mind on what she initially wanted which was a complete 
encashment, but Mrs R said on this call that she wanted part of the proceeds transferred to 
an ISA.
HBOS informed Mrs R at this point that she would need to complete an ISA Transfer form 
and paid her £100 for the trouble and upset caused.
HBOS received the ISA transfer form on 29 January 2020 and a cheque representing the 
proceeds. This cheque was sent back to an internal department as the receiving department 
had not received all the transfer documents.
The cheques were reissued on 20 February 2020 and were cashed on 2 March 2020.
HBOS paid Mrs R £314.50 net interest and paid a further £200 for the trouble and upset 
caused by the delay in crediting her accounts.
Mrs R was unhappy with the amount offered by HBOS and referred her complaint to the 
service.  One of our investigators reviewed the complaint and thought that HBOS had acted 
unfairly. The investigator asked HBOS to pay a further £562.75 for the delay in processing 
Mrs Rs instruction.
Unhappy with the investigators view, HBOS have asked for an ombudsman to look at the 
complaint. Mrs R responded to the investigators view but raised a separate point on a 
different issue.
  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the outcome reached by the investigator and will be upholding 
Mrs Rs complaint.
The facts of the complaint are not disputed by HBOS so its not my intention to go over what 
happened but to look at whether the redress offered by HBOS was fair and reasonable.
In their submission to the service, HBOS say that Mrs R changed her instructions to what 
was originally requested. They say that Mrs R originally wanted to encash her investment 
and close her account but later changed her instruction to sell and transfer the funds to her 
ISA.  
HBOS say that Mrs R was not clear as to her intentions before acting and that as different 
parts of HBOS were involved, they dont think that they are responsible and shouldnt have 
to honour the amount suggested by the investigator.
I have considered what HBOS have said and have the following comments:
I acknowledge that different parts of HBOS were involved but I think that Mrs R was 
entitled to think that different parts of the organisation would work together to process 
her instructions 
I think that Mrs R took repeated steps to ensure that she had the correct paperwork. Mrs 
R visited the local branch twice and telephoned from within the branch to check that she 
had the right documents.
It was always Mrs Rs intention to sell the shares, but it appears she changed her mind 
from wanting to close to transferring the funds to her ISA. 
In considering what would be fair and reasonable, I have looked at when the request should 
have been processed. HBOS have said that this date was the 21 January 2020, so I have 
used this date. The value of Mrs Rs shares at this point was £66,994.26 and this is the date 
and value used by the investigator in his view.
It is my opinion that Mrs R attempted to make sure that everything was in place and made 
trips to her local branch and spoke with staff. Im not sure what more Mrs R could have 
done. In a call to HBOS on 20 January 2020, Mrs R clarified what she wanted which was to 
transfer to her ISA and savings account.
I acknowledge that HBOS have attempted to put things right and have paid Mrs R 
compensation for loss of interest and for the trouble and upset caused. 
In her submission to the service, Mrs R raised a point about uninvested cash with an 
account with HBOS. As this doesnt refer to this complaint, I cant consider this, but Mrs R 
can take this up with the service separately.
  
Putting things rightI think that HBOS were provided clear instructions on the telephone call of 20 January 2020. 
I agree with the award suggested in the investigators view and require that HBOS 
Investment Fund Managers Limited pay Mrs R the following:
£562.75 representing the loss of value from when the instruction was passed to the 
value when the shares were sold
 
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I uphold the complaint.
  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs R to accept or 
reject my decision before 18 June 2021.
 
Brian Gray
Ombudsman