DRN-4130665
The complaint
Mr H complains that MotoNovo Finance Limited (who Ill call MotoNovo) didnt support a
claim he made to them under a warranty that was paid for through a finance agreement with
them. 
What happened
I issued my provisional decision on this complaint in April of this year. An extract from that 
provisional decision is set out below.
Mr H took receipt of a used car in May 2021. He financed the deal through a finance
agreement with MotoNovo. Included within the finance was a 36 month warranty.
The car broke down in July 2022 and MotoNovo arranged an independent inspection to
diagnose the problem. The inspector noted that the fault code was consistent with a Diesel
Particulate Filter (DPF) issue.
Mr H submitted information from a technical bulletin provided by a garage who had
subsequently identified that the cause of the problem was a blocked Exhaust Gas
Recirculation (EGR) cooler. The independent inspector was asked to comment on that
bulletin and noted that the bulletin said the EGR cooler must be replaced in conjunction with
the DPF.
MotoNovo said that as the inspector had confirmed the fault related to the DPF and the DPF
wasnt a warrantable item, they would not cover the £1,171.55 it cost Mr H to have the car
repaired.
Mr H referred his complaint to this service, but our investigator agreed with MotoNovo and
the complaint has therefore been passed for a final decision by an ombudsman.
What Ive provisionally decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im inclined to agree with Mr H that the cost of this repair should be refunded to him.
Where the information Ive got is incomplete, unclear, or contradictory, as some of it is here I
have to base my decision on the balance of probabilities.
Ive read and considered the whole file, but Ill concentrate my comments on what I think is
relevant. If I dont comment on any specific point its not because Ive failed to take it on
board and think about it but because I dont think I need to comment on it in order to reach
what I think is the right outcome.
Mr H acquired his car under a regulated finance agreement and as a result our service is
able to look into complaints about it.
Hes been unable to make a claim under the warranty as hes explained the company who
arranged it have gone out of business.
Mr H has provided evidence that the warranty was paid for through the finance agreement.
Theres no dispute that is the case and I think MotoNovo have been fair to accept
responsibility.
MotoNovo havent accepted the warranty claim as they say the fault is related to the DPF
and that the warranty doesnt cover DPF faults. I agree as the warranty says the following
parts are covered:
Fuel system - Internal failure of all components, except (my emphasis) catalytic convertor,
diesel particulate filter (my emphasis), hoses and pipes, fuel filters, the fuel tank, cleaning
and tuning.
The independent inspector suggested that the technical bulletin required the EGR cooler and
the DPF to be replaced, but I dont think thats what the technical bulletin said. It said:
Replace only the low pressure EGR cooler and clean other components affected by the
deposits. The diesel particulate filter must only be replaced (my emphasis) if there are
clearly significant soot marks.
Ive looked at the invoice for the work Mr H subsequently commissioned to fix the problem.
The invoice says Found blocked ports EGR cooler cause of issue. Replaced EGR and
cooler with genuine parts. There is no mention of the DPF needing to be replaced and I
dont therefore accept that the EGR cooler fault was related to the DPF and that MotoNovo
were fair to reject Mr Hs claim on that basis.
Ive therefore considered if the EGR cooler is a part whose failure would be considered
warrantable.
The warranty says on page 6 that, Unless specifically listed above, all other parts are
excluded. The EGR cooler isnt listed above but Im persuaded it is likely to have been
covered under the warranty because the independent inspector has explained that the EGR
and DPF are integral parts of the emission control system. That system isnt referred to in
the warranty, but the DPF is listed under the fuel system and I think the EGR cooler would
therefore be likely to be considered under the fuel system as I can see nowhere else in the
warranty it could fairly be considered.
So, Im persuaded that the repair should have been covered under the warranty and that it
would be fair to tell MotoNovo to refund the cost of the repair. Theyll need to add 8%
interest to that refund as Mr H has been deprived of the money.
Mr H has been inconvenienced by the issue as hes had to escalate his complaint to this
service. MotoNovo offered him £150 in compensation for the distress and inconvenience he
experienced. I think thats sufficient in the circumstances.
My provisional decision
For the reasons Ive given above Im inclined to uphold this complaint and to tell MotoNovo
Finance Limited to:
Refund the £1,171. 55 Mr H paid to have the car repaired and add 8% simple interest
per year to that refund from the date of payment until the date of settlement.
Pay Mr H £150 to compensate him for the distress and inconvenience hesexperienced unless theyve already done so.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr H didnt provide any further comments, but MotoNovo did. They didnt agree with my 
provisional decision and said:
The issue would not have been present or developing at the point of sale and therefore 
MNF (MotoNovo) cannot be held liable. Due to the fault being a wear and tear item the cost 
of the repairs would be the customers to burden.
I explained in my provisional decision that Mr H has provided evidence that the warranty 
was paid for through the finance agreement. Theres no dispute that is the case and I think 
MotoNovo have been fair to accept responsibility and that MotoNovo havent accepted the 
warranty claim as they say the fault is related to the DPF and that the warranty doesnt cover 
DPF faults.
It's the fairness of MotoNovos decision to reject the claim on the warranty, that they 
considered in their final response and that was paid for through the finance agreement, that 
Ive therefore considered here; not whether the car was of satisfactory quality. And, for the 
reasons Ive already given, I dont think that decision was a fair one. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above I uphold this complaint and tell MotoNovo Finance Limited 
to:
Refund the £1,171. 55 Mr H paid to have the car repaired and add 8% simple interest
per year to that refund from the date of payment until the date of settlement.
Pay Mr H £150 to compensate him for the distress and inconvenience hes
experienced unless theyve already done so.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 12 June 2023.
 
Phillip McMahon
Ombudsman