DRN-1484385
 
Complaint 
Mr H and Miss K complain that Santander UK Plc (Santander) gave incorrect advice about 
the terms of a personal loan, which led to them suffering a financial loss. 
Background 
Mr H and Miss K took out a loan for £12,000 in September 2018. The loan was for a period 
of 24 months and was taken out over the phone. Mr H and Miss K believed that the loan was 
flexible based on information Mr H was given during the call. 
A year after taking out the loan they tried to extend its term to help bring down the monthly 
payments. At this point they were told that the loan wasnt flexible and that they had been 
given incorrect advice during the sales process. This meant that Mr H and Miss K werent 
accepted for a mortgage that they wanted to take out at the time. 
Santander agreed that they had provided incorrect advice during the call and offered £50 
compensation, which they later increased to £100. This was to take into account the 
inconvenience Mr H and Miss K had suffered. 
Mr H and Miss K explained that as a result of the incorrect advice they had to sell their car at 
a loss of £2,000 in order to reduce their outgoings to get the mortgage they wanted. They 
would like this reimbursed by Santander, along with compensation for the stress the situation 
has caused. 
Our investigator looked into the complaint. He didnt think Mr H and Miss K took out the loan 
based on the incorrect advice given. In particular, he didnt think the flexibility of the loan was 
a factor that Mr H and Miss K took into account when deciding on the loan. 
Mr H and Miss K disagreed with the investigators opinion, so the complaint has been 
passed to me to make a final decision. 
My findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. 
Mr H and Miss K believe the flexibility of the loan was a factor they relied on when taking it 
out. As the loan was taken out over the phone Santander have been able to provide us with 
a copy of the call recording which Ive listened to. Most of the conversation was between Mr 
H and Santander but Miss K can be heard in the background during some parts of the call. 
The call was broken into two parts as Mr H was placed on hold. In the initial part of the call 
Mr H and Miss K are reminded that the loan is being sold on a non advised basis. This 
means that Santander werent advising or recommending the loan. They were simply 
providing information to Mr H and Miss K and leaving it to them to decide if the loan was 
suitable to meet their needs.Mr H is asked how long he would like for the term of the loan and he confirms he would like it 
for a 24 month period. Santander explains to Mr H that the loan is for a fixed sum of money, 
to be repaid in equal fixed monthly payments over an agreed term. The handler gave clear 
information that the loan was for a fixed term. If flexibility was an important part of the loan 
then I would have expected Mr H or Miss K to have questioned this when discussing the 
term of the loan but this didnt happen.   
Santander have agreed to pay compensation based on what they perceive to be a mistake 
made by their handler during the second part of the call. Having listened to the call, I dont 
think it is clear that the handler gave misleading advice on the flexibility of the loan. Ive 
provided details of the call below to help provide some context. 
Towards the end of the call the handler processes the loan application and tells Mr H how 
much interest he will pay on the loan and that his monthly repayments will be over a 24 
month period. Mr H then asks if the there is an early repayment charge on the loan. The 
handler explains that there are no penalties for overpayments but there is a settlement fee 
and explains what this is. The handler then states: and if you find the monthly payment is 
too high we can always look to either, extend the term of the loan or lower the amount you 
want to borrow. Mr H then replies with ok thats perfect. The handler then asks so would 
you like me to reprocess it or are you happy with these figures?. Mr H confirms hes happy 
with the figures.  
Although the handler does discuss extending the term of the loan to lower the repayments 
on it, its clear from listening to the call that hes asking if Mr H wished to do this as part of 
the application process, rather than at an unknown point in the future. I say this because he 
asks if Mr H wants him to reprocess the loan before proceeding, suggesting he could still 
change the term or amount borrowed at that point. If Mr H didnt understand this or wanted a 
loan that was flexible then I would have expected him to raise this with the handler. Mr Hs 
response of ok thats perfect suggested that he understood what the handler was saying. 
So I dont think the handler did give misleading advice about the loans flexibility.  
Mr H explained that his knowledge of loans is limited and believed all loans were extendable. 
He also explained that Santander didnt do enough to explain that the loan was fixed and 
that the responsibility should fall on a bank to explain if its loan is flexible or not.  As 
explained above, I dont agree that the handler was discussing the possibility of a flexible 
loan. Having looked at terms of the loan there is nothing to suggest that the loan would be 
flexible. I also dont think its reasonable to expect Santander to give advice on a feature that 
didnt exist with the loan they were selling. 
Mr H has also told our investigator that the flexibility of the loan may not have affected his 
final decision to take out the loan. Again suggesting that flexibility of the loan wasnt a 
feature that influenced whether the loan was taken out or not. Based on the above 
information I believe Mr H and Miss K would have taken out the loan regardless of the above 
statement. 
Mr H and Miss K strongly believe Santander are responsible for the losses they incurred 
when selling their car. But in order for me to find this was the case, Id need to be satisfied 
that there was a causational link to the losses as a result of an error made by Santander. As 
I havent found that Santander gave misleading information that led to Mr H and Miss K 
taking out a loan they wouldnt have otherwise, I dont think there is this link. Im also 
satisfied that Santander isnt responsible for the problems Mr H and Miss K incurred when 
trying to obtain a mortgage. I do empathise with the situation they found themselves in but I 
dont agree this was as a result of something Santander did. Santander have already paid Mr H and Miss K £50. They have also offered an additional £50 
after the complaint was raised with our service. Mr H and Miss K have told our investigator 
that they dont want to accept this offer. As I havent found Santander at fault, Im not 
recommended it pays any further compensation. If Mr H and Miss K change their mind about 
accepting the offer, they would need to contact Santander about this.  
I appreciate that Mr H and Miss K will be disappointed with this outcome but for the reasons 
set out above, I dont uphold this complaint. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H and Miss K 
to accept or reject my decision before 3 April 2020.
Daniel Little
Ombudsman