DRN-3490329
The complaint
Mr D has complained about the service he received from West Bay Insurance Plc under his 
motor policy and is particularly concerned it said his car was a total loss instead of repairing 
it.
What happened
Mrs D, a named driver on Mr Ds policy had an accident where the car collided with a 
bollard. Initially West Bay thought the car might be repairable but then decided it wasnt 
economical to repair. So, it paid Mr D the market value of his car. 
Mr D is upset as he didnt think his car was inspected properly and therefore the decision to 
write it off wasnt fair. And because it was deemed a total loss he wasnt entitled to any 
courtesy car. This caused him financial losses of £288.21 in alternative transport costs plus 
the inconvenience of having to buy a replacement car. Mr D also didnt think West Bays 
communication with him was good. So, he complained.
West Bay didnt think it had done anything wrong, so Mr D brought his complaint to us. The 
investigator was also of the view that West Bay hadnt done anything wrong. Mr D disagreed 
so his complaint has been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im not upholding this complaint. Ill now explain why.
Sadly, being involved in an accident is always very inconvenient and time consuming and 
obviously West Bay didnt cause this accident. However West Bay has duties under Mr Ds 
policy, namely under section two Damage to the car it says the following:
We will decide either to:
Pay to have the damage repaired: or
Pay to replace what is lost of damaged if this is more cost effective than repairing it; 
or 
Pay you an amount equal to the loss or damage. 
.
By purchasing this policy you agree we can handle your claim in this way. 

We will not pay more than the market value of the car at the time of the loss unless 
the new car benefit applies.
This shows that it is West Bays decision on whether to repair Mr Ds car or not. This type of 
clause is common in every motor policy, so I dont find it unusual or significant. In every 
motor policy, it is the insurer who makes the decisions on the repair or not of a car and 
indeed whether to pursue any claim. Thats fair and reasonable too, considering the insurer 
pay for the repair or the market value and indeed fund the costs of any claim.  My role and 
that of this service is to assess whether West Bay here did this reasonably and I think it did. 
Initially given Mrs D had collided with a bollard West Bay was of the view the car might well 
be repairable. So, it told Mr D this. It also told Mr D what the pre-accident value of £3,200. 
So that amount is the limit of West Bays liability to Mr D for his car. 
West Bay has shown me that its engineers then believed the cost to repair Mr Ds would be 
around £2,100, on viewing the images of the damage. Further given where the damage was 
located, the engineer was firmly of the view there was likely to be suspension damage also. 
As the investigator explained it is industry practice to deem a car a total loss if the repairs 
exceed 60 to 70% of the market value of the car. And I dont consider thats unreasonable. 
Here £2,100 repairs with possibly further damage to the suspension amounts to 66% of the 
repair costs as against the market value. 
Mr D is upset because initially West bay told him his car was repairable and then it changed 
its mind. But I think it was initially reasonable to assume his car should be repairable, given 
the circumstances of the accident, but following the engineers more expert opinion I do 
consider it reasonable to then decide it wasnt economical to repair. West Bay told Mr D 
immediately it had its engineers opinion. So, theres nothing to show me, it delayed in telling 
Mr D this either. 
Mr D is also concerned that his car wasnt physically inspected. I dont consider its unfair or 
unreasonable for West Bay to assess the repair costs on images in the first instance, which 
is what happened here. Motor engineers are very experienced at doing this routinely on a 
daily basis, and had West Bay not obtained its engineers view on the matter, my decision 
might have been different, but it did and it told Mr D of the engineers opinion as soon as it 
received it. 
Mr D is also upset he wasnt entitled to a courtesy car. Courtesy cars arent available in the 
main to any policyholder whose car is deemed a total loss by the insurer. This is because 
the total loss issue then triggers a payment of the insured cars market value which is 
insured under the motor policy. I dont consider West Bays explanation in the policy is that 
clear on this issue, however it details that the courtesy car comes from the repairer when the 
car is being repaired. Mr Ds car sadly wasnt being repaired as it was a total loss. So, there 
was no duty under this policy to provide Mr D with a courtesy car.
 
I appreciate Mr D has to pay alternative transport costs in the sum of £288.21 but the policy 
clearly says under section two that West Bay wont pay for costs relating to the loss of the 
use of the car. So, these costs arent covered.
So, in conclusion Ive seen no evidence that West Bays engineer didnt based his 
assessment on Mr Ds car, and Ive seen no evidence that the cost of repairs was inflated. 
Also, I consider West Bay did tell Mr D his car was a total loss as soon as it was aware of its 
engineers opinion on the matter. My final decision
I appreciate Mr D will be disappointed with my decision, but for these reasons, its my final 
decision that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision before 26 July 2022.
 
Rona Doyle
Ombudsman