DRN-4163976
The complaint
Ms D complains about the advice given by Lifestyle Financial Services (Droitwich) Limited 
(LFS) to transfer the benefits from her defined-benefit (DB) occupational pension scheme 
to a personal pension. She says the advice was unsuitable for her and believes this has 
caused a financial loss.
What happened
Ms D contacted LFS in June 2021 to discuss her pension. LFS says Ms D had spoken to 
another adviser, at the company she worked for, about transferring her benefits. And they 
had suggested she should not do so. But she wanted advice about this. 
I understand LFS had an introductory meeting with Ms D on 29 June 2021, during which it 
recorded information about her circumstances. It noted she was 58, single, employed 
earning approximately £23,000 per annum and had two non-dependent children. She owned 
her own home, unmortgaged, with no other liabilities or debts recorded. And Ms D had 
approximately £12,500 in savings. 
In addition to her DB scheme benefits, Ms D was recorded as having another small pension, 
valued at just over £6,500. But no other retirement provisions were noted. And, based on the 
information recorded, the DB scheme, which had a cash equivalent transfer value (CETV) 
of £189,669.84, seems to have represented the majority of Ms Ds private retirement 
provisions. 
LFS said Ms D didnt intend to retire for at least four years and didnt anticipate needing to 
draw benefits until then. It said she was interested in transferring to have more flexibility and 
to provide her the option of leaving her pension to her children if she passed away. There 
doesnt appear to have been any information recorded about her expected retirement 
income needs.
LFS says there was a general discussion about attitude to risk (ATR). It says that Ms D told 
it, when she discussed her pension with an adviser from her employer, shed been told her 
ATR was too low for a transfer to be worthwhile. LFS says it explained that Ms D would need 
to be comfortable accepting average to above average risk, which it referred to as an ATR of 
average plus risk, before it provided advice. 
On 30 June 2021, LFS sent Ms D a letter. This said that Ms D wanted it to give her advice 
on the advantages and disadvantages of transferring out of her DB scheme and that ideally 
she would like to give up these benefits to invest in a flexible arrangement that could pass to 
her children. It said the normal retirement age of the DB scheme was 60 and at that point it 
was estimated the scheme would provide a guaranteed escalating pension starting at £4,800 
per year. It also said there was the option to take tax-free cash but didnt set out in monetary 
terms how this would impact the benefits. 
It then explained that the CETV could purchase an annuity at that time for someone aged 60 
on a single life basis  as Ms D was single  paying £5,143 per year, escalating at 3%. So, it 
said the transfer value could purchase a better pension than the scheme assuming RPI was 
equal to 3%. And it said if Ms D transferred to a flexible pension, shed need to achieve 
growth of under 3% per year to be able to draw a pension starting at £4,800 and increasing 
in line with inflation.
LFS said the advantages were the flexibility a transfer would provide but said Ms D would 
need to be able to tolerate risk and that it would urge her to keep withdrawals within 4% of 
the fund value to preserve it.
The letter concluded by saying, once Ms D had read the letter, she should let LFS know how 
she wished to proceed. LFS included client and fee agreements with the letter for Ms D to 
complete  including an agreement that LFS would provide ongoing servicing of the pension, 
for a fee, if transferred.
I understand these were signed and returned around 3 July 2021, based on when the 
signatures were dated.
On 5 July 2021, LFS sent Ms D a further letter. This gave a recommendation for a pension 
provider and about how the funds should be invested after a transfer. It said Ms D had an 
average plus risk approach. LFS recommended investment in eighteen different funds, fact 
sheets for which said they were largely rated around 5 or 6 on a scale of 1-7 in terms of risk. 
Transfer paperwork appears to have been signed on 5 July 2021 and I understand the 
pension was invested in line with LFS recommendation.
When Ms D came to have her first annual review with LFS in 2022, I understand the value of 
the pension had fallen to under £160,000. She raised concerns about this and whether the 
investments were right for her as she was concerned they were too high risk. Ms D then 
raised a complaint with LFS about the advice it had provided, as she felt transferring was 
unsuitable adding that what average plus risk meant was never clearly explained to her.
LFS didnt uphold Ms Ds complaint. It said it had told Ms D that unless she was willing to 
accept risk or was looking to buy an annuity, the information shed been given by her 
employer was right  that a transfer wasnt suitable. But it said she had indicated she was 
happy to take average plus risk and the transfer meant the pension could be left to her 
children. LFS also said that, even though the fund value had fallen, because of market 
conditions changing, Ms D could still purchase an annuity providing greater benefits than the 
scheme pension. So, it said she was in a better position and didnt agree the advice was 
unsuitable.
Ms D referred her complaint to our service. One of our Investigators considered the 
complaint. She thought it should be upheld and that LFS should compensate Ms D for any 
loss the DB transfer had led to. She said she didnt think Ms D needed flexibility and that 
alternative options for providing a legacy to her children werent explored and wouldve been 
more appropriate, as the pension was intended to provide for Ms Ds retirement. She didnt 
think, given Ms D was an inexperienced investor and the DB scheme made up the majority 
of her retirement provisions, that she had capacity to lose the pension. And she didnt think 
the evidence supported that her attitude to risk had been assessed  rather she thought LFS 
had gotten her to agree to a category that supported the transfer, without her necessarily 
understanding this. She thought Ms Ds attitude to risk was more likely to be lower and that it 
wasnt clear that investing in line with that attitude to risk wouldve resulted in her improving 
her retirement benefits. So, she didnt think the transfer was suitable.
LFS disagreed and said Ms Ds pension fund could still purchase an annuity that provided 
benefits exceeding the DB scheme.  The investigator wasnt persuaded to change their opinion, so the complaint was referred to 
me to make a final decision.
LFS then said, while it didnt agree with the Investigators opinion, it would carry out a loss 
calculation and if that showed a loss it may decide to make a without prejudice offer. But it 
indicated that this could take several months. So, in the circumstances, as Im in a position 
to do so, to bring finality to the matter I feel it is appropriate to issue my findings.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive taken into account relevant law and regulations, regulators rules, guidance and 
standards and codes of practice, and what I consider to have been good industry practice at 
the time. This includes the Principles for Business (PRIN) and the Conduct of Business 
Sourcebook (COBS). And where the evidence is incomplete, inconclusive or contradictory, 
I reach my conclusions on the balance of probabilities  that is, what I think is more likely 
than not to have happened based on the available evidence and the wider surrounding 
circumstances.
The applicable rules, regulations and requirements
The below is not a comprehensive list of the rules and regulations which applied at the time 
of the advice, but provides useful context for my assessment of LFS's actions here.
PRIN 6: A firm must pay due regard to the interests of its customers and treat them fairly.
PRIN 7: A firm must pay due regard to the information needs of its clients, and communicate 
information to them in a way which is clear, fair and not misleading.
COBS 2.1.1R: A firm must act honestly, fairly and professionally in accordance with the best 
interests of its client (the client's best interests rule).
The provisions in COBS 9 which deal with the obligations when giving a personal 
recommendation and assessing suitability. And the provisions in COBS 19 which specifically 
relate to a DB pension transfer.
Having considered all of this and the evidence in this case, Ive decided to uphold the 
complaint for largely the same reasons given by the investigator.
The regulator, the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA), states in COBS 19.1.6G that the 
starting assumption for a transfer from a DB scheme is that it is unsuitable. So, LFS should 
have only considered a transfer if it could clearly demonstrate that the transfer was in Ms Ds 
best interests. And having looked at all the evidence available, Im not satisfied it was in her 
best interests.
LFS says it told Ms D that unless she was looking to buy an annuity or was willing to take 
risk then a transfer was not suitable for her. And its letter of 30 June 2021 did say that the 
transfer value would purchase a better pension than the scheme on the open market and 
that if purchasing a personal pension Ms D would need to be able to tolerate risk and have 
an Average Plus (Average to Above Average) risk tolerance. 
LFS has provided an annuity quotation from the point of sale. This was based on purchasing 
an annuity then, using the whole transfer value. With the policy being a single life annuity, with income increasing at 3% per year. But this quote was obtained on the basis that Ms D 
was 60 at that point, when she was only 58.
LFS has also said that an annuity paying the same annual amount, £4,800, as the DB 
scheme was estimated to provide from age 60 wouldve cost £177,020 at that time. Which 
was less than the CETV. But this again was on the basis of Ms D being 60 at that point, 
which wasnt the case. 
These quotations werent therefore based on Ms Ds actual circumstances  specifically her 
age. I understand what LFS was aiming to achieve with these quotations  comparing what 
the DB scheme offered with the open market. But the amounts quoted werent available to 
Ms D at the time of the advice. Because she was 58, not 60. 
And the FCA prescribed a way for such a comparison to be carried out and presented. It 
required adviser to produce an appropriate pension transfer report and to calculate a transfer 
value comparator. But I havent been provided evidence that LFS did so here. I think this 
was a significant failing on its part and meant that Ms D wasnt provided with all of the 
information that she shouldve been in order to make an informed decision.
LFS has said that it believes Ms D would be able to purchase an annuity now that exceeds 
what the DB pension wouldve provided, so its advice was suitable. But Im looking at what 
happened at the time. And the analysis Ive seen isnt sufficient to say, at the time, Ms D was 
likely to be better off.
In any event though, LFS didnt recommend that Ms D take an annuity. So, as LFS has 
acknowledged, unless Ms D was willing to take average to above average risk, the transfer 
would not have been suitable.
LFS has said that it had a general discussion about risk with Ms D when it first spoke to her 
 which I understand was the day before it issued its recommendation. And that it said shed 
need an average plus attitude to risk and that she agreed to this. But Ms D says what this 
meant was not explained to her.
I cant see that a detailed assessment of Ms Ds attitude to risk was carried out. There is no 
record of explanations of risk, with subsequent questions, having been asked or recorded in 
order to actually establish Ms Ds thoughts on the subject. Rather it appears that Ms D was 
told a level of risk that would make the transfer, in LFS view, suitable, and asked to agree to 
this. But I dont think, given Ms D appears to have been an inexperienced investor, that she 
wouldve had the knowledge to decide this or that simply gaining her agreement represented 
an appropriate assessment of her actual thoughts relating to risk.
Looking at Ms Ds circumstances, like our Investigator, I dont think this did likely reflect her 
actual attitude to risk. The DB pension made up the significant majority of her private 
retirement provisions. She had a small personal pension and some savings. But these were 
significantly smaller in value than her DB scheme pension. And as a result, Im satisfied she 
didnt have the capacity to bare much loss at all to her pension scheme. I also havent seen 
anything to suggest that Ms D was an experienced investor. And so, overall, I think its likely 
that her real attitude to risk was low and certainly not at the level of average plus. And 
indeed LFS has said that, during its general discussion about risk with Ms D, shed 
indicated that the previous adviser shed spoken to had said her attitude to risk was too low 
for a transfer to be worthwhile. 
With that in mind, given that LFS said that without Ms D having an average plus attitude to 
risk the transfer would not be suitable, it appears that a transfer was unsuitable for her, 
based on her actual attitude to risk. And I cant reasonably conclude, a transfer was likely to result in her improving her retirement benefits, based on investing in line with her actual 
attitude to risk. So, it doesnt appear to have been in her best interests.
LFS has said that the transfer gave Ms D flexibility in how she could draw her retirement 
benefits, which it says she was interested in. But LFS role wasnt to put in place what Ms D 
mightve thought she wanted. It was to look at her circumstances and advise her on what 
was in her best interest. And I cant see that she had a specific need for flexibility.
LFS recorded that Ms D didnt intend to retire for several years  possibly after the normal 
retirement age of her scheme. But the scheme information indicates she couldve deferred 
taking her benefits under the DB scheme had she wanted to. Or she couldve drawn benefits 
and used these to supplement her income. 
There doesnt appear to have been anything recorded about Ms Ds income needs in 
retirement. And, given the primary function of a pension is to provide for the holders 
retirement needs, I think this ought to have been considered. But there is nothing that 
supports that Ms D needed to transfer, in order to meet these needs or that drawing benefits 
under the DB scheme would not have met her needs.
There also doesnt appear to have been anything recorded about Ms D having any planned 
large expenditure that meant she had a genuine need to access tax-free cash earlier than 
the normal scheme retirement age, and leave her funds invested until a later date, or at all. 
Ms D was recorded as not having a mortgage or any other outstanding debt. And she had a 
reasonable amount of savings and a small personal pension that couldve been used as an 
alternative.
So, I dont think achieving flexibility meant that a transfer was in Ms Ds best interests.
LFS said that Ms D was interested in the option of leaving her pension to her children. And 
Ms D has confirmed this was one of her motivations for considering a transfer. Death 
benefits are an emotive subject and of course when asked, most people would like their 
loved ones to be taken care of when they die. And the lump sum death benefits on offer 
through a personal pension might well have been an attractive feature to Ms D. But whilst 
I appreciate death benefits are important to consumers, and Ms D might have thought it was 
a good idea to transfer her DB scheme to a personal pension because of this, the priority 
here was to advise Ms D about what was best for her retirement provisions. Again, a 
pension is primarily designed to provide income in retirement. 
In addition, Ive seen nothing to suggest Ms D was not in good health. And given the sum 
remaining on death in a personal pension is dependent on both investment performance and 
withdrawals made by the pension holder during their lifetime, it was entirely possible there 
may not have been a large sum left to leave as a legacy, particularly if Ms D lived a long life.  
In any event, LFS should not have encouraged Ms D to prioritise the potential for higher 
death benefits through a personal pension over her security in retirement.
Furthermore, if Ms D genuinely wanted to leave a legacy for her children, which didnt 
depend on investment returns or how much of her pension fund remained on her death, life 
insurance couldve been explored as an alternative. But I cant see that this was discussed 
or considered. This option wouldve enabled Ms D to tailor her choice based on how much 
she wouldve ideally like to leave to her children, and this couldve been explored on a whole 
of life or term assurance basis, which was likely to be a lot cheaper to provide. And given 
there was no indication Ms D was in ill health, was likely to have been an affordable 
alternative that did not require her to give up her security in retirement.
So, while Ms D mightve thought transferring to achieve alternative death benefits was a good idea, I dont think different death benefits available through a transfer to a personal 
pension meant that this was in her best interests. And I dont think that insurance was 
properly explored as an alternative.
Ms D has also questioned the appropriateness of the investments which LFS recommended. 
As Im upholding the complaint on the grounds that a transfer out of the DB scheme wasnt 
suitable for her, it follows that I dont need to consider the suitability of the investment 
recommendation. This is because Ms D should have been advised to remain in the DB 
scheme and so the investments wouldnt have arisen if suitable advice had been given.
Summary
I dont doubt that the flexibility and the potential for alternative death benefits on offer 
through a personal pension would have sounded like attractive features to Ms D. But, as Ive 
already explained, LFS wasnt there to just transact what Ms D might have thought she 
wanted. The advisers role was to really understand what Ms D needed and recommend 
what was in her best interests.
Ultimately, I dont think the advice given to Ms D was suitable. She was giving up a 
guaranteed, risk-free and increasing income. LFS acknowledged a transfer was likely 
unsuitable if Ms D didnt take an annuity, which it didnt advise her to, or if she wasnt willing 
to accept average to above average risk, which Im satisfied was likely not in line with her 
actual attitude to risk. And, as Ive explained, in my view there were no other particular 
reasons which would justify a transfer and outweigh this.  
So, I think LFS shouldve advised Ms D to remain in her DB scheme.
Of course, I have to consider if Ms D would've gone ahead anyway, against LFS' advice. 
Ive considered this carefully, including the fact that Ms D had already spoken to an adviser 
from the business for which she worked, who had indicated a transfer was potentially 
unsuitable, but she still went on to speak to LFS. But Im not persuaded that Ms D wouldve 
insisted on transferring out of the DB scheme, against LFS advice. I say this because, whilst 
I appreciate this was the second opinion she had sought, I havent seen anything to suggest 
that the discussion shed had previously with her employer had resulted in formal advice or 
that she had paid for this service. And Ms D was an inexperienced investor with, in my view, 
a lower attitude to risk that LFS recorded and this pension accounted for the majority of her 
retirement provision. So, if LFS had provided her with clear advice against transferring out of 
the DB scheme, explaining why it wasnt in her best interests, I think she wouldve accepted 
that advice.
Im not persuaded that Ms Ds thoughts about flexibility and the potential death benefits of a 
personal pension meant she wouldve insisted on the transfer knowing that a professional 
adviser, whose expertise she had sought out and was paying for, didnt think it was suitable 
for her or in her best interests. Particularly if it had been explained that it didnt appear 
flexibility was a necessity or if alternative ways of providing a legacy had been correctly 
explored. If LFS had done this, as I think it should, I think that wouldve carried significant 
weight. So, I dont think Ms D would have insisted on transferring out of the DB scheme.
In light of the above, I think LFS should compensate Ms D for the unsuitable advice, using 
the regulator's defined benefits pension transfer redress methodology. 
Putting things right
A fair and reasonable outcome would be for the business to put Ms D, as far as possible, into the position shed now be in but for the unsuitable advice. I consider Ms D would have 
most likely remained in the occupational pension scheme if suitable advice had been given. 
LFS must therefore undertake a redress calculation in line with the rules for calculating 
redress for non-compliant pension transfer advice, as detailed in policy statement PS22/13 
and set out in the regulators handbook in DISP App 4: 
https://www.handbook.fca.org.uk/handbook/DISP/App/4/?view=chapter. 
For clarity, I understand Ms D has not yet retired. So, compensation should be based on her 
normal retirement age under the scheme of 60, as per the usual assumptions in the FCA's 
guidance.
This calculation should be carried out using the most recent financial assumptions in line 
with PS22/13 and DISP App 4. In accordance with the regulators expectations, this should 
be undertaken or submitted to an appropriate provider promptly following receipt of 
notification of Ms Ds acceptance of the decision.
If the redress calculation demonstrates a loss, as explained in policy statement PS22/13 and 
set out in DISP App 4, LFS should:
calculate and offer Ms D redress as a cash lump sum payment,
explain to Ms D before starting the redress calculation that:
- her redress will be calculated on the basis that it will be invested prudently (in 
line with the cautious investment return assumption used in the calculation), 
and
- a straightforward way to invest her redress prudently is to use it to augment 
her DC pension
offer to calculate how much of any redress Ms D receives could be augmented rather 
than receiving it all as a cash lump sum,
if Ms D accepts LFS offer to calculate how much of her redress could be augmented, 
request the necessary information and not charge Ms D for the calculation, even if 
she ultimately decides not to have any of her redress augmented, and
take a prudent approach when calculating how much redress could be augmented, 
given the inherent uncertainty around Ms Ds end of year tax position.
Redress paid to Ms D as a cash lump sum includes compensation in respect of benefits that 
would otherwise have provided a taxable income. So, in line with DISP App 4, LFS may 
make a notional deduction to cash lump sum payments to take account of tax that 
consumers would otherwise pay on income from their pension. Typically, 25% of the loss 
could have been taken as tax-free cash and 75% would have been taxed according to 
Ms Ds likely income tax rate in retirement  presumed to be 20%. So, making a notional 
deduction of 15% overall from the loss adequately reflects this. 
Where I uphold a complaint, I can award fair compensation of up to £375,000, plus any 
interest and/or costs that I consider are appropriate. Where I consider that fair compensation 
requires payment of an amount that might exceed £375,000, I may recommend that the 
business pays the balance.
My final decision
Determination and money award: I uphold this complaint and require Lifestyle Financial 
Services (Droitwich) Limited to pay Ms D the compensation amount as set out in the steps 
above, up to a maximum of £375,000.
Recommendation: If the compensation amount exceeds £375,000, I also recommend that Lifestyle Financial Services (Droitwich) Limited pays Ms D the balance.
If Ms D accepts this decision, the money award becomes binding on Lifestyle Financial 
Services (Droitwich) Limited.
My recommendation would not be binding. Further, its unlikely that Ms D can accept my 
decision and go to court to ask for the balance. Ms D may want to consider getting 
independent legal advice before deciding whether to accept any final decision.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms D to accept or 
reject my decision before 18 August 2023.
 
Ben Stoker
Ombudsman