DRN-3391742
The complaint
Mr I is unhappy that NewDay Ltd, trading as Aqua, provided him with credit which he feels
was unaffordable for him and didnt provide appropriate financial assistance to him when he
was experiencing financial difficulty.
What happened
In January 2017, Mr I applied for a NewDay administered Aqua credit account. Mr Is
application was accepted and NewDay issued Mr I with a credit card with an initial credit limit
of £600.
In July 2017, NewDay increased the credit limit on Mr Is Aqua credit account from £600 to
£1,500. Further credit limit increases took place in November 2017 and November 2018, to
£2,900 and £4,150 respectively.
In April 2018, Mr I applied for a personal loan with NewDay. Mr Is application was accepted,
and he received a loan of £6,000 repayable with interest over a 48-month term.
In October 2019, Mr I applied for a new, differently branded NewDay credit account. Mr Is
application was accepted, and Mr I was issued a new credit card account by NewDay with
an initial credit limit of £900.
Mr I then fell into financial difficulties and his first credit account, the Aqua credit account, fell
into arrears. Mr I spoke with NewDay in January 2020 and advised that he was experiencing
financial difficulties at that time. NewDay placed a 30-day hold on the account and sent an
income and expenditure form to Mr I to complete and return so that NewDay could better
understand Mr Is financial position and consider what further forms of financial assistance
they could offer. However, Mr I didnt receive the form, and wasnt able to complete and
return it as required, and so when the 30-day hold expired NewDay resumed collections
activities on that account.
Mr I also contacted NewDay about his second credit account in January 2020 and made a
payment arrangement with them. In February 2020, NewDay transferred Mr Is Aqua credit
account to a third-party debt collection company who contacted Mr I who agreed to repay
£50 per month towards the account. Then, in March 2020, Mr I became unable to meet the
monthly loan account repayments which resulted in the loan account falling into arrears, and
Mr I spoke with NewDay about this in April 2020 and requested financial assistance.
In July 2020, Mr I raised a complaint with NewDay on the basis that he felt that NewDay had
provided him with credit facilities that hadnt been affordable for him, and that this should
have been evident to NewDay, had they undertaken reasonable checks into his financial
position before offering him such credit. Mr I also didnt feel that NewDay had provided him
with reasonable financial support when hed explained to them that he was experiencing
financial difficulty.
NewDay looked at Mr Is complaint. They noted that they had undertaken checks into Mr Is
financial position before offering any new or further credit to Mr I, and they felt that thered
been nothing resulting from those checks that should have given them any cause to suspect
that the credit being offered to Mr I might be unaffordable for him at those times. NewDay
also felt that theyd offered reasonable financial support to Mr I when hed requested it, and
so, they didnt uphold Mr Is complaint.
Mr I wasnt satisfied with NewDays response, so he referred his complaint to this service.
One of our investigators looked at this complaint. They felt that it hadnt been unreasonable
for NewDay to have approved Mr I for the Aqua credit account or the loan account, or to
have increased the amount of credit available to Mr I on the Aqua credit account, given the
information that NewDay had gathered and assessed about Mr Is financial position at those
times. And our investigator also felt that NewDay had offered reasonable financial
assistance to Mr I when hed requested it.
However, while liaising with NewDay about the second credit account, NewDay accepted
that the amount of existing credit that Mr I already held at the time of the second credit
application, when considered against Mr Is annual income, meant that it was likely that
NewDay shouldnt have offered that second credit account to Mr I at that time. NewDay
therefore offered to reimburse all interest and charges accrued on the second credit account
from the point of inception, and our investigator felt that this offer of redress by NewDay
represented a fair and reasonable resolution to what had taken place.
Mr I didnt agree with the view of this complaint put forwards by our investigator and
remained dissatisfied. So, the matter was escalated to an ombudsman for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I issued a provisional decision on this complaint on 1 March 2022 as follows:
Its for a business to decide whether it will offer credit to a customer, and if so, how much
and on what terms. What this service would expect would be, that before approving a
customer for a new line of credit, or before increasing the amount of credit available to a
customer on an existing line of credit, the business would undertake reasonable and
proportionate checks to ensure that any credit being offered to a customer is affordable for
that customer at that time.
NewDay say that they did that here. Before approving Mr I for a new line of credit they took
information from Mr I about his annual income and amount of existing credit, and they
obtained information about Mr I from a credit reference agency to gain a better
understanding of Mr Is wider financial position.
Furthermore, before increasing the amount of credit available to Mr I on an existing line of
credit, NewDay reviewed how Mr I had managed that credit account in the months leading
up to the credit limit increase, and also obtained updated information about Mr I from a credit
reference agency to refresh their understanding of Mr Is wider financial position.
And NewDay contend that, for the Aqua credit account and for loan account, there was
nothing resulting from any of these checks that they feel should have reasonably given them
any cause to suspect that those provisions of credit might be unaffordable for Mr I at those
times.
Aqua credit account applicationWhen Mr I applied for the Aqua credit account in January 2017, he advised NewDay that he
was employed with an annual income of approximately £15,000. NewDay then reviewed
Mr Is credit file information, which showed that Mr I had existing credit of approximately
£2,200 and that he wasnt in arrears on any of his existing credit arrangements. Mr Is credit
file also showed that Mr I didnt have any recent defaults or use of payday loans which might
be an indication that Mr I was struggling financially at that time.
Given Mr Is stated annual income at that time, as well as Mr Is relatively low amount of
existing credit and his credit file information, which appeared to demonstrate that Mr I was
managing his existing credit commitments responsibly and without issue, it seems fair and
reasonable to me that NewDay would conclude that Mr I in all likelihood would be able to
afford the Aqua credit account he was applying for with the initial credit limit of £600.
First Aqua credit account credit limit increase
In the months leading up to the first credit increase on the Aqua credit account, which took
place in July 2017, its notable that Mr I didnt appear to be struggling to maintain that credit
account. I say this because the account usage confirms that Mr I maintained the balance of
that account below the agreed credit limit of £600 and didnt exceed that limit or incur any
over-limit fees. Its also notable that Mr I made several large payments towards the credit
account in the months leading up to the credit limit increase and cleared the outstanding
balance of the account in full on more than occasion.
Mr Is credit file did show that Mr Is total amount of credit had increased since the Aqua
credit account had been opened, but the total credit amount was still relatively small when
compared to Mr Is previously declared annual income. And, while Mr I had taken two
payday loans shortly after the Aqua account had been opened, these payday loans appear
to have been repaid by Mr I on time and without incident, and indeed Mr Is credit file
continued to show that Mr I wasnt in arrears on any of his existing credit facilities at that
time. As such, in consideration of all this information, Im satisfied that it was reasonable for
NewDay to conclude that Mr I would most likely be able to afford the credit limit increase
from £600 to £1,500 that they offered to him and which he didnt decline.
Second Aqua credit account credit limit increase
The second credit limit increase on the account, from £1,500 to £2,900, took place in
November 2017, only four months after the first credit limit increase, meaning that the
amount of credit available to Mr I had increased significantly in less than half a year, from
£600 in June 2017 to £2,900 in November 2017. And at this time I do feel that there were
some indicators that Mr Is financial position might have been deteriorating at that time, most
obviously the fact that Mr Is total amount of credit had continued to grow on a monthly basis,
rising from approximately £1,500 in February 2017, shortly after the Aqua credit account was
opened, to just under £3,000 the month before the first credit limit increase, and then to over
£6,000 the month before the second credit limit increase.
This could potentially demonstrate a growing reliance on credit on the part of Mr I. But this
must be countered by the fact that Mr Is credit file continued to demonstrate that Mr I wasnt
in arrears on any of his existing credit commitments at that time.
Additionally, Mr I continued to maintain his Aqua credit account largely below the original
credit limit of £600 and hadnt utilised the further credit provided to him by NewDay following
the first credit limit increase. Its also notable that Mr I continued to make large payments
towards the account, clearing the full balance outstanding on the account on several
occasions, and I do feel that Mr Is responsible management of his Aqua credit account
during this period does mean that it was reasonable for NewDay to conclude that the creditlimit increase to £2,900 would in all likelihood be affordable for Mr I at that time.
Also, given that Mr I wasnt using the full amount of credit available to him on his Aqua credit
account in the months leading up to the credit limit increase, it seems reasonable to me that
Mr I would have declined that further credit limit increase, if hed felt that the further credit
might be potentially unmanageable. And it follows therefore that I dont feel that NewDay
acted unfairly towards Mr I by offering him this further credit.
Personal loan application
The next event that happened was that Mr I applied for the £6,000 personal loan in April
2018. When Mr I applied for that loan, he stated that his monthly income was £1,500 per
month, which equates to £18,000 per annum. Mr I also stated that he was living with parents
and as such didnt have any monthly mortgage or rental commitments, meaning that his
declared monthly outgoings were relatively low. Considering Mr Is declared income and
expenditure here, I feel that it was reasonable for NewDay to have concluded that the
potential loan repayment amount of £165 per month would have been affordable for him.
Additionally, Mr I continued to display responsible management of his Aqua credit account,
and in the months leading up to the loan application continued to maintain the balance of the
Aqua credit account below the initial credit limit of £600 and therefore significantly below the
actual credit limit at that time of £2,900. And Mr Is credit file continued to confirm that Mr I
wasnt in arrears on any of existing credit commitments at that time and appeared to
demonstrate that Mr I was managing his existing credit unproblematically and without issue.
As such, Im satisfied that it was reasonable, in consideration of all this information, for
NewDay to have concluded that Mr I would be able to afford the loan he was applying for at
that time and to have approved his application for it.
Third Aqua credit account credit limit increase
In November 2018, NewDay increased the credit limit on Mr Is Aqua credit account for the
final time, from £2,900 to £4,500. Again, in the months leading up to this credit limit increase,
Mr I had maintained the balance of the account significantly below the agreed credit limit and
made several large payments to clear the full balance outstanding  although in the two
months immediately before the credit limit increase this behaviour had changed, with Mr I
making payments of £100 in those months, without any new account spending, so as to
gradually reduce the outstanding balance amount.
Mr Is credit file also continued to show that Mr I wasnt in any arrears on any of his existing
credit arrangements at that time, and while Mr Is total amount of credit did now stand at
approximately £11,300, that amount was down from a high of over £13,500 several months
prior, and I dont feel that this was prohibitively excessive when considered against Mr Is
most recently declared annual income of £18,000 per annum. And once again, in
consideration of this information, I do feel that it was reasonable for NewDay to have
concluded that Mr I would in all likelihood be able to afford the higher credit limit being
offered to him and which he didnt refuse, even though he wasnt using the full amount of
credit available to him on the Aqua credit account at that time.
Second credit account application
Just under a year later, in October 2019, Mr I applied for a new differently branded NewDay
credit account. At the point of application, Mr I declared to NewDay that he was self-
employed with an annual income of £16,000. And, while Mr Is credit file continued to show
at that time that Mr I wasnt in arrears on any of his existing credit commitments, it also
showed that Mr I already had existing debt of over £16,000, and therefore had a greateramount of debt than his declared annual income.
It therefore doesnt seem reasonable that NewDay should have offered further credit to Mr I
in these circumstances, increasing his level of indebtedness at a time when its difficult not to
conclude that he was already financially overcommitted. And NewDay have accepted that
they shouldnt have approved Mr Is new credit application at that time, and have offered to
reimburse to Mr Is credit account all interest, fees and charges that were incurred or
accrued on the account for the full history of that account.
This feels fair to me, and it mirrors the instruction that I would have given to NewDay had
they not made this offer themselves, although my provisional decision here will also include
the caveat that should these reimbursements result in a credit balance in Mr Is favour that
NewDay must pay this credit balance to Mr I along with 8% simple interest  although they
may apply that payment to reduce the balance of one of Mr Is other outstanding balances,
so long as that other balance remains under administration by NewDay at this time.
Aqua credit account financial difficulty
Around this time, Mr I fell into financial difficulty such that he was no longer able to maintain
the payments required on his Aqua credit account, so that the account fell into arrears.
In January 2020, with no payments having been made by Mr I towards the Aqua credit
account for three months, NewDay contacted Mr I by telephone. NewDays telephone notes,
which I see no reason to not accept, indicate that Mr I informed NewDay that he was
experiencing financial difficulty at that time and that Mr I offered to pay £25 per month to
NewDay on this account. NewDays notes also indicate that Mr I was asked about his
income and expenditure information at that time so that an assessment of his financial
position could be undertaken. Mr I informed NewDay that he didnt have his income and
expenditure information to hand, so NewDay advised that they would be sending an income
and expenditure form to Mr I in the post for him to complete and return.
Mr I has stated that he didnt receive this form, and has questioned why NewDay didnt
chase the information from him, rather than simply resuming collections activities when the
completed form hadnt been received back to them. I can appreciate Mr Is position here, to
a degree, but given that NewDay had asked Mr I for his income and expenditure information
and then advised that they would be sending a form to him  which Im satisfied from the
information that NewDay have provided that they did send to Mr I in the post  I feel that it
was incumbent on Mr I to have informed NewDay that he hadnt received that form and to
have requested a replacement form or to have provided his income and expenditure
information to NewDay by other means.
And while it would be expected that NewDay would work with Mr I and provide a fair
measure of support to him if he was in a position of financial difficulty, it wouldnt be
expected that NewDay would accept an offer of low monthly repayment without Mr I
providing income and expenditure information to demonstrate why such an offer of low
monthly repayment should be accepted. As such, I dont feel that NewDay can be
considered to have acted unfairly towards Mr I in how they managed the arrears that had
developed on his Aqua credit account at that time, including that NewDay resumed
collections activities when Mr I didnt provide his income and expenditure information to
them.
Personal loan financial difficulties
In March 2020, Mr I wasnt able to make the scheduled payment that was due on his loan
account, and the loan fell one month into arrears. Shortly afterwards, on 16 April 2020, Mr Ispoke with NewDay and explained that his work had been severely impacted by the
restrictions put in place surrounding the Covid-19 pandemic that was emerging globally at
that time. Mr I also asked NewDay if there was any help that they could provide.
In response, NewDay once again asked Mr I to provide his income and expenditure
information to allow an assessment of his financial position to be undertaken, and NewDay
have confirmed that it remained their position that they were unable to offer any form of
assistance to Mr I at that time without an income and expenditure assessment being
completed.
However, on 9 April 2020, a week before Mr I spoke with NewDay, the Financial Conduct
Authority (FCA) published temporary guidance regarding the provision of three-month
payment holidays to eligible consumers who were experiencing difficulty meeting the
payments due on their credit or personal loan accounts because of financial difficulties
brought about by the impact of Covid-19. The FCA guidance included that, for these three-
month payment holidays only, the reporting of these payment holidays to the credit reference
agencies would be suspended, so that an eligible consumer who benefited from such a
payment holiday didnt have their credit file impacted by doing so.
Not all consumers were eligible to receive these three-month payment holidays, and the
FCA explained that the purpose of the guidance was to protect consumers who had been
able to meet the repayments on their credit or loan account without incident until that time,
but who were at risk of incurring adverse reporting for missed or late payments on their
credit files solely as a result of the impact of Covid-19.
In this instance, Mr I had been able to meet the repayments due on the loan account without
incident until that time, only falling one month into arrears in March 2020, at a time when the
Covid-19 restrictions were coming into effect. As such, I do feel that Mr I was eligible to
receive one of the FCA prescribed three-month payment holidays in relation to his loan
account at that time.
As an aside, I must also note that I dont feel that this was the case on the Aqua credit
account, where the level of arrears that had already accrued on the account before the FCA
guidance came into effect meant that Mr I wasnt an eligible consumer for such payment
holidays on that account.
Additionally, the FCA also explained that for these three-month payment holidays, there was
no expectation or requirement for a business to make enquires, such as an income and
expenditure assessment, to validate whether such a payment holiday was warranted. And as
such, I find it difficult to conclude anything other than by not providing such a three-month
payment holiday to Mr I, that NewDay didnt treat Mr I fairly in this regard.
Furthermore, as the Covid-19 pandemic developed, the FCA later issued further guidance
which would have enabled Mr I to be eligible for a second three-month payment holiday
when the first payment holiday term ended. This meant that Mr I could and should have
benefited from a payment holiday on this loan account for the months of April 2020 to
September 2020. And the FCA also issued continuing guidance which explained that if Mr I
continued to be in a position of financial difficulty because of Covid-19 at the end of the six
months of prescribed payment holiday, that NewDay should continue to offer tailored
financial support to Mr I at that time.
But Mr I didnt receive the support that he should have done from NewDay here, and instead
his loan account was passed to a debt collection company, and then ultimately defaulted by
NewDay for non-payment with the outstanding balance then being sold by NewDay to a debt
purchasing company with whom the outstanding balance currently resides.This doesnt feel fair to me, and I will be provisionally upholding this aspect of Mr Is
complaint. However, it doesnt follow from this that I feel that NewDay should remove the
default from Mr Is credit file here, and this is because Im not convinced from the information
available to me that Mr I would have been able to make the contractual monthly payments
required by the loan when the six months of FCA prescribed payment holiday that he should
have received would have ended in October 2020.
And, while NewDay would have been obliged to provide continuing financial support to Mr I
from that date onwards, if Mr I couldnt make the contractual monthly payments, the arrears
on his account would have continued to grow, even while he was being supported, and I feel
that its more likely than not that those arrears would have grown to a degree where the
responsible thing for NewDay to have done, to prevent Mr I falling into an unreasonable
amount of debt, would have been to have defaulted the account  albeit at a much later date
than the account was defaulted by NewDay in actuality.
As such, accepting that Mr Is loan account would have defaulted at some stage, it seems
beneficial to Mr I to leave the default in place at the time that it currently stands, so that that
default will fall off Mr Is credit file sooner than would be the case if it were amended to a
later date. However, If Mr I can provide evidence that he could have reasonably afforded to
make the contractual payments required on his loan from October 2020 onwards, such as
current account statements showing available funds at that time, I may be willing to
reconsider my position on this matter.
Second credit account financial difficulty
In regard to Mr Is second credit account, its evident that Mr I encountered financial difficulty
on that account at an early stage and entered into a payment arrangement with NewDay in
January 2020. As such, given that Mr I was already in a payment arrangement in January
2020, I dont feel that he was an eligible consumer in regard to the FCA prescribed three-
month payment holidays in April 2020 in regard to that account.
Third credit account application
Im aware that Mr I also applied for another NewDay branded credit account, and that his
application for that credit account was approved. However, Mr I closed that other credit
account without it ever being used and so I dont feel that any detriment to Mr I can be
deemed to have occurred and as such I havent considered this account further.
Summary
I feel that the information that NewDay gathered before approving Mr Is Aqua credit account
application, and before increasing the credit limit on that Aqua credit account, was such that
on all occasions it was reasonable for NewDay to offer those credit amounts to Mr I. And I
feel that the same applies in regard to Mr Is personal loan application, and so I wont be
provisionally upholding these aspects of Mr Is complaint.
I do feel that NewDay shouldnt have approved Mr Is application for the second credit
account  which NewDay themselves have acknowledged.
I dont feel that NewDay acted unfairly towards Mr I in how they managed Mr Is Aqua credit
account when it fell into arrears in late 2019, including that NewDay werent prepared to
accept an offer of low repayment from Mr I at that time without obtaining his income and
expenditure information from him, or in regard to the payment arrangement that NewDay
made with Mr I on his second credit account.But I do feel that NewDay did act unfairly towards Mr I by not providing him with the FCA
prescribed three-month payment holiday that I consider Mr I was eligible for following Mr I
informing NewDay that his financial position had been affected because of the impact of
Covid-19 in April 2020  although I dont feel that this should result in the default incurred on
that loan account being removed or amended by NewDay in this instance, for the reasons
explained above.
Provisional instructions
All of which means that I will be provisionally upholding this complaint in Mr Is favour on the
limited basis explained above. Consequently, my provisional instructions to NewDay are as
follows:
NewDay must reimburse to Mr Is second credit account all interest, fees, and charges that
have been incurred or accrued on that account since the point that the account was opened
in October 2019.
If these reimbursements result in a credit balance on that account in Mr Is favour, NewDay
must pay this balance to Mr I along with 8% simple interest  although NewDay may apply
any such payment to reduce the balance outstanding on one of Mr Is other NewDay
accounts so long as that other account remains under administration by NewDay at this
time.
Finally, NewDay must make a further payment of £650 to compensate Mr I for the distress
and inconvenience incurred as a result of his second credit account being approved and also
from Mr I not being given the FCA prescribed financial assistance he should have been
given by NewDay in relation to his loan account when he contacted them in April 2020.
In arriving at this compensation amount, Ive considered the impact of NewDays actions on
Mr I, and in regard to his not being given the FCA prescribed three-month payment holidays
in particular, I feel that the impact was significant, given that Mr I has confirmed to this
service that he did experience severe upset as a result of the considerable financial difficulty
he found himself in at that time. This compensation payment may not be applied by NewDay
to one of Mr Is outstanding NewDay balances, unless Mr I permits NewDay to do so.

In my provisional decision letter, I gave both Mr I and NewDay the opportunity to provide any 
comments or new information they might wish me to consider before I moved to issue a final 
decision. Mr I confirmed that he was happy to accept my provisional decision, whereas 
NewDay did provide some comments for my consideration.
Specifically, while NewDay accepted aspects of my provisional decision, they felt that £650 
compensation that I had provisionally instructed wasnt reasonable and that a lower amount 
of compensation was merited in this instance. 
NewDay reiterated that in regard to the emailed request for a three-month payment holiday 
made by Mr I in April 2020, that they responded to that request and asked Mr I to contact 
them to discuss his financial circumstances at that time. NewDay also confirmed that they 
wouldnt set up a payment holiday without speaking to a customer about their situation first.
I can appreciate NewDays point here, but the FCA guidance that was published on 9 April 
2020 included that:There is no expectation under this guidance that the firm makes enquiries with each 
customer to determine the circumstances surrounding a request for a payment 
deferral, or whether this is not in the customers interests.  We have disapplied 
CONC 6.7.18R and 6.7.19R to give effect to this.
As such, while I understand that it was NewDays normal process to discuss a customers 
circumstances with them before providing financial assistance, the need for NewDay to do 
this had been removed by the FCA guidance in regard to these specific three-month 
payment holiday requests. This was done by the FCA to enable credit providers such as 
NewDay to quicky and efficiently apply such payment holidays to applicant customers 
accounts. And Mr I was such an applicant customer in this instance. 
And while I can appreciate how NewDay might feel that the £650 compensation amount I 
provisionally instructed is high, Mr I has reasonably and convincingly explained how the 
difficult personal and financial circumstances that he was experiencing at that time were 
significantly exacerbated by his not being provided with the type of financial assistance that 
Im satisfied NewDay should have provided him with here. And because of this, and for the 
other reasons explained in my provisional decision letter, I continue to feel that a 
compensation amount of £650 is warranted in this instance.
All of which means that my final decision here will be that I am upholding this complaint in   
Mr Is favour on the basis as outlined in my provisional decision, and I can confirm that I do 
uphold this complaint accordingly.
Putting things right
NewDay must reimburse to Mr Is second credit account all interest, fees, and charges that
have been incurred or accrued on that account since the point that the account was opened
in October 2019.
If these reimbursements result in a credit balance on that account in Mr Is favour, NewDay
must pay this balance to Mr I along with 8% simple interest  although NewDay may apply
any such payment to reduce the balance outstanding on one of Mr Is other NewDay
accounts so long as that other account remains under administration by NewDay at this
time.
Finally, NewDay must make a further payment of £650 to compensate Mr I for the distress
and inconvenience hes incurred.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint against NewDay Ltd, trading as Aqua, on the 
basis explained above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr I to accept or 
reject my decision before 21 April 2022.
 
Paul Cooper
Ombudsman