DRN-3704236
The complaint
Ms T has complained that Ikano Bank AB (publ) (Ikano) rejected her claim against it under 
section 75 of the Consumer Credit Act 1974 in relation to her purchase of some solar panels.
Ms T is represented by a claims management company (the CMC).
Background
Ms T bought solar panels for her home in March 2018. The purchase was funded by a loan 
from Ikano, and that business is therefore liable for the acts and omissions of the installer 
under the relevant legislation. Ms T says the installer misled her into believing that the 
panels would be self-funding, which they werent.
One of our adjudicators looked into what had happened. Having considered all the 
information and evidence provided, our adjudicator didnt think that P had misrepresented 
the system to Ms T and found no reason to uphold the complaint. The CMC did not agree, 
and so the case was referred for an ombudsmans decision.
My findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having carefully considered everything provided, I do not uphold this complaint. That is 
because the sales documentation sets out the cost and the estimated benefit of the panels 
very clearly, and the benefits did not begin to approach the cost.
There is a one page document titled Estimated Returns. This clearly sets out that the cash 
price of the panels is £8,500. Right next to that, it states that the monthly loan repayments 
will be £93.56 (this figure includes the interest on the loan). Next to that, it says that the 
monthly benefit from the panels will be in the range of £41.24 to £64.08. And right beside 
that it says that the shortfall will be £52.32 to £29.48. I think these figures are conspicuous; 
they are not buried in some fine print.
I think this document made it very clear that the panels would not be self-funding during the 
term of the loan. It does not seem plausible to me that the salesman told Ms T otherwise, at 
the same time as showing her this document. So I am not persuaded that the installer misled 
Ms T about the benefits and cost of the panels, or that they were mis-sold.
My final decision
My decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms T to accept or 
reject my decision before 9 November 2022.
 
Richard Wood
Ombudsman