DRN-1614340
complaint
Mr S complains that Vitality Health Limited turned down his private medical insurance claim. 
background
In 2017, Mr S experienced loss of hearing. He was diagnosed with endolymphatic hydrops, 
and made a claim for treatment. Vitality accepted this claim. 
Then in 2018, Mr Ss hearing deteriorated. His consultant recommended further treatment, 
however Vitality refused to cover this. It thought Mr Ss condition was chronic and therefore 
no longer covered by the policy. Mr S went ahead with the treatment, but brought a 
complaint to this service about Vitalitys claims decision. 
Our investigator recommended the complaint be upheld. He didnt think Vitality had shown 
that Mr Ss condition was chronic. He therefore thought Vitality should deal with the claim. 
Vitality didnt agree with our investigators recommendations, and so the matter has been 
passed to me.  
my findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. 
The policy explains it doesnt cover chronic conditions. It defines this as:
A disease illness or injury that has one or more of the following characteristics:
it needs ongoing or long-term monitoring through consultations, examinations, check-
ups and/or tests
it needs ongoing or long-term control or relief of symptoms
it requires your rehabilitation or for you to be specially trained to cope with it
it continues indefinitely
it has no known cure
it comes back or is likely to come back
 
In relying on the above exclusion to turn down the claim, the onus is on Vitality to show that 
it applies. 
Mr Ss treating consultant (Mr B) has provided some information. Hes explained that Mr S 
was first referred to him in April 2017 with sudden bilateral hearing impairment. Treatment 
was given, by way of myringotomy and fluid drainage with the insertion of grommets. Mr S 
also had left steroid infusion, and then a long-term T grommet. 
Mr B said that in July 2018, Mr S was referred back to him with right tinnitus and right 
hearing loss. Mr B thought his condition would be potentially reversible with a course of 
steroid infusions. Mr B confirmed that Mr S had suffered an acute relapse and exacerbation of his right ear endolymphatic hydrops, and said the treatment given to him was for an acute 
medical condition and not for monitoring purposes. 
Vitality doesnt think the treatment would cure Mr Ss condition. It also says that although Mr 
B said Mr Ss condition is endolymphatic hydrops, theyve found that this condition is very 
similar to Mnires disease, which is a long-term condition. It therefore thinks Mr S will 
require long-term control or relief of his symptoms.
Ive checked what the Mnires Society says about endolymphatic hydrops. It says there 
can be primary endolymphatic hydrops (also known as Mnires disease), or secondary 
endolymphatic hydrops.
I note that Vitality asked Mr B if Mr S had Mnires disease, and he confirmed he didnt. I 
would therefore assume that Mr S has secondary endolymphatic hydrops. 
Ive looked at the articles elsewhere on the internet that Vitality has referred to, and I 
appreciate they do indicate that endolymphatic hydrops is a long-term condition that cant be 
cured. However, Mr B hasnt said that. Instead he said the recommended treatment would 
potentially reverse Mr Ss condition, which he thought was acute. 
In order for Vitality to show that Mr Ss condition cant be cured, I think it would need 
confirmation of this from Mr B, rather than relying on some internet articles which may not be 
from particularly reliable sources.
Vitality also thinks Mr Ss condition needs long-term control or relief of symptoms. I accept 
that he needed quite a lot of treatment in the first year or so following his diagnosis. 
However, I dont think this necessarily means that he will continue to need treatment in order 
to control his symptoms. In July 2018, Mr B said he thought Mr S would need three courses 
of the steroid infusions to treat his right hearing loss, and Mr S had these shortly afterwards. 
Mr S says this treatment resolved his problems. I therefore assume he hasnt needed further 
treatment since then.
Based on the information Ive seen, I dont think Vitality has done enough to show that Mr 
Ss condition falls under the chronic conditions exclusion. Although Vitality apparently had 
concerns with Mr Bs evidence, it didnt go back to him to ask if Mr Ss condition could be 
cured, nor did it ask if Mr S would need ongoing or long-term control or relief of symptoms 
for his condition. If it had done, then Mr B may have provided further information to support 
Vitality's view that Mr S's condition is chronic. 
However, the available evidence we have from Mr B doesnt support Vitalitys view that the 
condition falls under the exclusion. That being the case, I agree with our investigator that the 
claim should be paid. 
my final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint. I require Vitality Health Limited to deal with 
the claim under the remaining policy terms and conditions. 
If Mr S has paid for the treatment, then Vitality should reimburse him for this. Interest should 
be added to this at a rate of 8% simple per annum from the date the invoices were paid to 
the date of settlement. 
If Vitality considers that its required by HM Revenue & Customs to take off income tax from 
that interest, it should tell Mr S how much its taken off. It should also give Mr S a certificate showing this if he asks for one, so he can reclaim the tax from HM Revenue & Customs if 
appropriate. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 6 April 2020.
Chantelle Hurn-Ryan
Ombudsman