DRN-3690267
The complaint
Mr Ws complained that Goldman Smith Claims Management Ltd (GS) have sent him a bill 
for their fee for recovering a mis-sold loan  even though hes not received the money.
What happened
Mr W instructed GS to represent him in trying to recover a mis-sold payday loan from a 
business Ill call L.  GS submitted a claim to L on Mr Ws behalf in April 2019.
Several months later, L went into administration.  GS re-submitted Mr Ws claim to Ls 
administrators.  The claim was upheld and a cheque for the amount recovered was posted to 
Mr W in May 2021.  GS were notified of the payment in November 2021 and invoiced Mr W 
for their success fee.
Mr W contacted GS and told them hed not received the cheque from L.  He said hed moved 
from the address GS and L had for him 18 months previously.  GS suggested he contact L 
and ask them to reissue the cheque.  When Mr W got no response, GS chased L on his 
behalf.  L contacted Mr W to advise they were closing down and wouldnt be able to reissue 
the cheque.
GS continued to pursue Mr W for their fee.  Mr W complained about this.  He feels that, as 
he didnt receive the cheque, he shouldnt have to pay GSs invoice.
GS rejected Mr Ws complaint.  They said theyd represented Mr W on a no win, no fee 
basis and his claim had been successful.  And they said they werent responsible for the 
cheque being posted to the wrong address, because Mr W hadnt told them hed moved until 
they sent him their invoice.
Mr W wasnt satisfied with GSs response and brought his complaint to our service.  Our 
investigator considered it and concluded GS didnt need to do any more to resolve it.  He 
was satisfied GS had done the work that had led to a successful claim being made.  And he 
noted theyd advised Mr W what to do when hed not received the cheque and had chased it 
for him.  And, although he acknowledged Mr W hadnt received the cheque, this wasnt 
because of any mistake by GS.
Mr W didnt agree with the investigators view.  So Ive been asked to make a decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done that, Im not upholding Mr Ws complaint.  Ill explain why.
Like our investigator, Ive looked at GSs terms and conditions.  They make it clear that a fee 
is charged when a claim is successful.  Mr Ws claim was successful.  So, on the face of it, 
GSs fee is due.  They issued an invoice in accordance with clause 4.4 of the terms, which 
says:
We will issue an invoice and send it to You as soon as possible following the earliest
date on which We become aware that the Bank has offered to Pay You or has paid You
a Settlement Amount
It was only when they did this that Mr W told them he hadnt received the cheque.
Ive thought about this.  The clause doesnt require Mr W to have been paid before an 
invoice is sent.  So its not fair to say GS cant charge Mr W just because he hasnt received 
the cheque.
Nor do I think any of the circumstances in this case mean GS arent entitled to their fee.  Ive 
seen they submitted the claim on Mr Ws behalf  which included his address.  And they kept 
him updated on its progress via email.  They were notified by L of the payment to him by 
cheque.  So Im satisfied they provided the service they were supposed to.
I understand Mr W didnt receive the cheque.  But I can only say GS should do more to 
resolve his complaint if Im satisfied they made a mistake which had a negative impact on  
Mr W.  Unfortunately for Mr W, it was him that overlooked telling GS hed moved.  When 
they found out, GS did try to get the cheque re-issued but it was too late.  Thats not GSs 
fault.  And that means I dont think they have to do any more to resolve Mr Ws complaint. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, Im not upholding Mr Ws complaint about Goldman Smith 
Claims Management Ltd.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision before 7 October 2022.
 
Helen Stacey
Ombudsman