DRN-4000382
The complaint
Mr H has complained about his motor insurer Tesco Underwriting Limited because it told him 
his policy for his pick-up vehicle would have to be cancelled, even though it had just 
renewed.
What happened
Mr H held three policies with Tesco. Two were due to renew in December 2022, one of those 
was for his pick-up and listed Mrs H as a named driver. Mr H spoke to Tesco on 
29 December 2022, confirmed all the policy details were correct and the policy renewed on 
30 December 2022. On 6 January 2023, Mr H spoke to Tesco about the third policy, for his 
wifes car. He realised that her occupation needed updating, and that it likely did on the other 
two recently renewed policies too. Tesco said it couldnt change the pick-up policy and, in 
fact, that cover would have to be cancelled.  
It transpired that Tesco had changed its underwriting criteria in mid-December 2022, 
in-between Mr H being offered renewal and renewal taking place. This meant it would no 
longer be offering cover for pick-ups and similar vehicles. Tesco though had decided to 
honour the already offered renewal terms, but on all its policies for similar vehicles it had 
decided to not continue cover where mid-term changes were subsequently requested by the 
policyholder. So when Mr H spoke to Tesco on 6 January 2023 he was told the policy he had 
would have to be cancelled as it couldnt be changed to allow for correction of the incorrect 
detail regarding Mrs Hs occupation. Tesco gave Mr H the option of cancelling the policy 
himself and it provided him a full premium refund without deducting anything for the period of 
cover. However, it didnt offer to refund the cost Mr H had paid for his no claims protection. 
Mr H was unhappy. He had to find cover at short notice. On review Tesco accepted that its 
change of policy had caused Mr H some inconvenience, so it said it would pay him a total of 
£80 to his bank account. It noted he felt hed had to pay more for new cover  but it didnt 
think this additional cost was something it was reasonably responsible for paying. Mr H 
complained to the Financial Ombudsman Service.
Our Investigator felt Tescos offer of compensation, totalling £80 was fair and reasonable in 
the circumstances. So he didnt uphold the complaint.
Mr H said he had not been given seven days notice within which to cancel the policy. He 
said hed been told if he continued with the policy for seven days, Tesco would view him as 
having been declined insurance and hed have to declare that. This obviously wasnt 
acceptable to him. Mr Hs complaint was referred to me for an Ombudsmans consideration.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I understand it was frustrating for Mr H to have just renewed his cover only to be told, when 
making a seemingly simple change, that hed have to find cover elsewhere. I also 
understand that he felt he had to change the cover straightaway such that his choice of 
alternative providers was somewhat limited, causing him to take more expensive cover. But 
Im not persuaded that Tesco did anything wrong to cause any of that.
Tesco, as any insurer constantly reviews what risks it is prepared to take, what cover it will 
offer and at what price. Sometimes reviews like that cause an insurer to decide to stop 
offering certain types of cover altogether. That is a commercial decision for the insurer to 
make and not one the Financial Ombudsman Service would interfere with. As long as the 
change is implemented fairly, causing no more than minimal impact to its policyholders.
Here I can see that in mid-December 2022, Tesco made a busines decision to no longer 
offer cover for pick-up vehicles. But, at this time, Tesco had already offered cover, on the 
agreed terms, to Mr H for his pick-up vehicle. So Tesco honoured that offer. That was fair 
and reasonable. However, after the change to Tescos business and Mr Hs renewal had 
occurred, Mr H sought to change the terms of his cover. I accept that, for Mr H it was a 
simple change necessary due to an understandable small oversight. But the change 
effectively meant the policy as a whole, as agreed before Tescos business decision about 
pick-ups was made, came under review. Which meant the policy was then viewed in the light 
of that decision. Whilst I appreciate that was frustrating and somewhat inconvenient for 
Mr H, I think it was fair and reasonable.
During the conversations Mr H had about his pick-up with Tesco in January 2023, he was 
given the chance to cancel the cover himself. A forced cancellation by Tesco would have 
needed to be declared. I bear in mind that the policy requires the holder to tell Tesco of any 
changes but doesnt guarantee that any/all changes will be acceptable to it. Rather that upon 
being told of a change, it will consider what effect that will have on the cover. But the policy 
also gives Tesco the right to cancel with notice i.e. at the end of the seven day notice period 
the policy, if still in effect, will be cancelled by it  where a requested change results in it no 
longer being able to offer cover. Which is what Tesco said it would do here. So, unless Mr H 
cancelled the policy within the next seven days, Tesco would cancel it. I appreciate this 
made Mr H feel he had to cancel immediately, which caused him an additional expense. But 
as Tesco was reacting to Mr Hs request for a change to the cover, in light of its recent 
business decision, and it acted within the terms of the policy as was in place, Im not 
persuaded I can fairly and reasonably hold it liable for any cost Mr H incurred when changing 
his cover. I note Tesco has agreed £80 compensation for inconvenience. Taking into 
account what Ive said above  about Tesco acting reasonably, I think thats a fair response 
from it, Im not going to require it to do anything more.
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint. I dont make any award against Tesco Underwriting Limited.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 5 September 2023.
 
Fiona Robinson
Ombudsman