DRN-2454273
The complaint
  Mr B has complained that delays caused by Unum Ltd in approving his claim for income 
protection when he became unable to work has caused him serious financial and medical 
harm.
What happened
 Mr B has income protection through an employee group scheme at his place of work. In late 
2017 Mr B was experiencing a lot of stress and anxiety both inside and outside of work. In 
November 2017 he was signed off work by his GP for depression, anxiety and work-related 
stress. His employer contacted Unum in March 2018 to explain what was happening and put 
them on notice that Mr B may need to make a claim against the policy. In May 2018 when he 
was still unable to return to work his employer contacted Unum again to start a claim under 
the policy.
In June 2018 Unum responded declining the claim. At the time it felt that there was 
insufficient evidence to show that Mr B was incapacitated as per its policys wording and so 
it believed he should be able to return to work. Mr B strongly disagreed with Unums findings 
and submitted an appeal via his employer in October 2018.
Various requests for additional medical information were made by Unum and in November 
2018 it contacted Mr Bs employer to confirm the appeal had been unsuccessful. There 
continued to be correspondence between Mr B and his employer, and his employer and 
Unum. In March and June 2019 Unum requested additional medical evidence from Mr B on 
the basis a separate and unrelated claim may be possible. Mr B provided the additional 
evidence and in August 2019 Unum decided to overturn its decision to decline the claim and 
paid it backdating the payment to May 2018. It also offered Mr B £250 compensation for the 
inconvenience caused. 
Mr B has said that at all times it was apparent from his medical records, GP notes, 
occupational health report and psychiatrists report that he was unable to work. He has told 
us that Unums decision to decline his claim in June 2018 resulted in huge amount of 
additional stress and upset during what was already an extremely difficult time. In addition to 
this he has said that as a result of receiving a lump sum back payment, as opposed to 
monthly contributions, which is what would have happened if the claim been accepted in 
May 2018, he has been charged at a higher tax rate. He also believes the lump sum 
payment has negatively impacted other work benefits such as his pension. He has asked 
that Unum pay additional compensation in recognition of the distress and financial impact its 
decision to decline his claim in June 2018 caused. 
One of our investigators looked at Mr Bs complaint already. She found that Unum were right 
to pay the claim in August 2019 and agreed that its failure to do so in June 2018 had caused 
Mr B additional stress. She suggested Unum increase the compensation it offered Mr B to 
£350. She also asked Unum to pay 8% simple interest on the lump sum payment it had 
made to Mr B. 
Unum accepted her suggestion, but Mr B didnt. He believed that Unum should pay 
substantially more money in compensation to acknowledge the impact its wrong decision in 
June 2018 had had on him. He asked for an ombudsman to look at his complaint, so the 
case has been passed to me to consider.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Unum has confirmed it shouldve accepted Mr Bs claim in 2018. So, Im not going to 
address the merits of Mr Bs claim or whether Unum applied the terms of its policy correctly 
at the time. It has since admitted itself it didnt. Instead Im going to consider the impact of 
the delayed claim and receiving a lump sum payment has had on Mr B. 
Mr B has told us that during the time when he no longer had access to any form of sick pay 
he had to sell his home and move back in with his mother. He has said that he ended up 
using savings and this was a time of enormous stress for him. He has also told us that he 
sold some personal items to raise funds as his savings depleted. In addition to this he has 
also explained that receiving a lump sum payment some 15 months after making the initial 
claim resulted in him being charged tax at a higher rate than he should have been and losing 
out on contributions to his pension and the associated interest he could have earned. 
I have no doubt that this was an extremely difficult time for Mr B. I have read through his 
submissions, including his medical notes, and want to reassure him I taken all of this into 
consideration. 
In regard to Mr Bs decision to sell his property and move back in to his mothers house, I 
note that happened in early 2018 before he contacted Unum to make the claim. So, I cant 
hold the underwriter responsible for that decision. In addition, while I accept Mr B used his 
savings to pay bills while the claim was in dispute, as it has since been paid I would expect 
Mr B has been able to return his savings to their previous value so I cant say there is still a 
loss there that Unum need to rectify. And while I understand if the savings had remained in a 
savings account, they would have accrued interest, the addition of 8% simple interest as 
requested by the investigator, will address any potential issue regarding lost earnings. 
Mr B has also told us that he spent a lot of time and effort trying to sort out the tax 
implications of receiving a lump sum payment. He has said that it also negatively impacted 
his pension contributions and that he and his employer are still trying to untangle the impact 
its had. However, Mr B hasnt provided any additional evidence to demonstrate what the 
financial cost was. He has explained that he spent a lot of time speaking to HMRC to resolve 
the issue with his tax payments but from his submissions it would appear that it was resolved 
in the end. So there doesnt seem to be a linked financial loss, although I do appreciate it 
would have taken time and effort to put right. And at a time when Mr B was extremely unwell 
and such conversations would have been substantially more difficult for him. 
Likewise, regarding his pension contributions, Mr B hasnt provided any supporting evidence 
to show how theyve been negatively impacted or what the financial loss was. So, Im unable 
to make a finding saying Unum are directly responsible for the loss as its unclear what it 
was. Although I do appreciate that Mr B was, and still is, extremely unwell. So I understand 
the time and levels of concentration needed to engage with these issues has been 
exceptionally difficult for Mr B. 
I appreciate Mr B doesnt believe that £350 suggested by the investigator is insufficient given 
the impact and upset caused by Unums actions between June 2018 and August 2019 when 
it finally paid his claim. But, its important to clarify that the purpose of this service isnt to punish businesses when they make mistakes. Rather were asked to investigate complaints 
and to make a finding on whether or not a business has behaved in a fair and reasonable 
manner. If we find that a business did do something wrong, we ask it to put the consumer 
back in the position they would have been in if that mistake hadnt happened. 
Unum had already begun to put Mr B back in the position he wouldve been in by agreeing to 
pay his claim. And our investigator completed this by requesting the addition of 8% simple 
interest be added to the back payment. Having reviewed the file in full I agree that £350 is a 
reasonable amount of additional compensation to be paid in recognition of the distress and 
upset caused by Unums behaviour throughout the claim. And for that reason, I wont be 
asking Unum to do anymore in relation to Mr Bs complaint. 
My final decision
For the reasons set out above I uphold Mr Bs complaint against Unum Ltd. To put things 
right Unum Ltd should:
Add 8% simple interest to the lump sum payment made to Mr B. This should be back 
dated to start when his employer contacted Unum about the claim in May 2018 up to 
the date when Mr B received the payment.
Pay Mr B £350 in recognition of the distress and inconvenience caused by how 
Unum handled his claim and the delays it caused in paying it 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 10 March 2021.
 
Karen Hanlon
Ombudsman