DRN-2364636
The complaint
Mr W complains that Admiral Insurance Company Limited didnt pay him enough when 
settling a claim he made on his motor insurance policy. 
What happened
Mr W had an accident in November 2019 and his car was written-off. Admiral then found that 
he hadnt disclosed a conviction from 2016 for driving whilst using a hand-held device. It 
decided that Mr W had made a careless misrepresentation to it. It said the remedy for that 
was for it to pay only a percentage of the claim, in line with the percentage of the correct 
premium hed paid for cover. On that basis, Admiral said 66.84% of the claim should be paid. 
But Mr W later got quotes online (with and without the conviction). He said the difference in 
price between the quotes was only 20%, so Admiral should pay 80% of the claim. 
One of our investigators reviewed Mr Ws complaint. He said it was reasonable for Admiral 
to settle the claim on a proportionate basis and noted that Mr W hadnt objected to that. But 
he said Mr W was relying on quotes from December 2019 - rather than the figures Admiral 
had used, which were from the time that Mr W had renewed his policy in April 2019. The 
investigator pointed out (as Admiral had done previously) that the quotes Mr W got were 
likely to have included discounts that wouldnt have been in the figures Admiral used. 
Mr W asked for a review of his complaint by an ombudsman.      
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I think Admiral acted reasonably in accepting that Mr Ws non-disclosure was careless rather 
than deliberate. Had it not done so, the policy may have been avoided altogether and the 
claim would then not have been dealt with at all. But Mr Ws complaint is limited to the 
proportion of the claim that Admiral then paid. 
Admiral explained to Mr W why it was settling the claim as it did and how it arrived at a 
settlement of around 68% of the cost of the claim. Mr W doesnt accept that - as he was 
looking at quotes in December 2019 - he was getting rates from that date, when the 
appropriate date was April 2019. But the rates quoted by insurers can change on a daily 
basis. Numerous factors other than a consumers driving record are taken into account 
before a quote is issued. And the weighting given to some factors (such as motoring 
convictions) may vary, depending on the time that has passed since the date of the offence.
I think Admiral was correct in using the figures from the date the policy was renewed (as 
thats the point from which Mr W should have paid the higher premium) and basing its 
calculations on the rate that was applicable then. 
In my opinion, Mr Ws argument about being entitled to 80% of the value of the claim is 
misinformed, given that I think hes relying on the wrong figures. Admiral had already 
checked its calculations when dealing with his complaint, but recently we received further 
details from senior underwriters clarifying exactly how its calculations were done. I think the 
data Admiral has provided is persuasive - and supports what it had already told Mr W and 
this service. But as its commercially sensitive, unfortunately it cant be shared with Mr W. 
I think Admiral has shown that the calculations it carried out to establish what Mr Ws 
premium should have been in April 2019 were correct - and that it settled the claim based on 
the right percentage of the premium he paid. As I dont think Admiral acted unreasonably, I 
cant uphold Mr Ws complaint.   
 
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision before 23 June 2021. 
Susan Ewins
Ombudsman