complaint
Miss K complains that she was mis-sold a monthly premium payment protection insurance 
(PPI) policy in June 2001.
Its been agreed in this case that Financial Insurance Company Limited (FICL), as the 
insurer, should accept responsibility for the complaint. To keep things simple, Ill refer to 
FICL in my decision.
background
Miss K bought the policy in June 2001. The PPI was sold to her when she applied for a store 
card by filling in a leaflet while in a store.
Our adjudicator didnt uphold the complaint. Miss K disagreed with the adjudicators opinion, 
so the complaint has been passed to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding Miss Ks case.
Ive decided the policy wasnt mis-sold. Ill explain why below.
Miss K says she wasnt given an option of having the store card without the PPI. She says 
that had she been given a choice, she would have declined it. So, Ive thought about what 
shes said alongside the additional information Ive seen from FICL.
FICL has provided us with a copy of Miss Ks credit agreement. This shows Miss K was 
given the option of adding the PPI to her account. Under the section Protecting your 
Account Miss K was asked to sign if she wanted the PPI. Looking at Miss Ks credit 
agreement, I can see she signed next to the statement Yes, I would like to protect my 
Account with Account Cover (subject to eligibility). Please debit my Account with the relevant 
premium until further notice.
Taking everything into account, I think its more likely than not Miss K would have 
understood that the PPI was optional. And I dont think she would have signed for the cover 
if she didnt want to take it out.
FICL didnt recommend the PPI to Miss K so it didnt have to check if it was right for her. But 
it did have to make sure Miss K got the information she needed to decide if it was right for 
her.
DRN-1115525Its possible the information FICL gave Miss K about the PPI wasnt as clear as it should 
have been  particularly about the things it didnt cover. But Miss K chose to take out the 
PPI, so it looks like she wanted this type of cover. Based on what Ive seen of her 
circumstances at the time it doesnt look like she was affected by any of the exclusions to or 
limits on the PPI cover, such as pre-existing medical conditions - so it would have been 
useful for her if something went wrong. It also looks like the PPI was affordable.
Miss K has told us she would have received six months full pay followed by six months half 
pay from her employer if she was too unwell to work. She says this shows she didnt need 
the PPI, as her existing work benefits were very good.
Having thought about what Miss K has said about her sick pay, I dont think this means she 
wouldnt have found the policy useful. I say this because the PPI would have paid out in 
addition to any sick pay Miss K would have received from her employer and would have 
potentially paid out for longer than she would have received full pay. The PPI also would 
have paid a benefit if Miss K was ever made redundant.
So overall, I think Miss K could have found the policy useful if she ever fell on hard times and 
I dont think that any better information would have put her off from taking out the policy.
Based on what Ive said above, I dont think the PPI was mis-sold.
my final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss K to accept 
or reject my decision before 30 October 2019.
Margaux Stride-Noble
Ombudsman