DRN-3716618
The complaint
Mr D complained about the advice he was given to transfer the benefits from his defined-
benefit (DB) occupational pension scheme (OPS) to a type of personal pension plan. Mr D 
says the advice was unsuitable for him and believes this has caused him a financial loss.
WPS Advisory Limited is responsible for answering the complaint. To keep things simple, Ill 
refer mainly to WPS.
What happened
Mr D was a deferred member of an OPS, having accrued the benefits from service with a 
previous employer between 1985 and 2001. 
As a result of the changing pensions landscape including the so called pension freedom 
rules, his OPS signalled an intention to offer independent financial advice to deferred 
members like Mr D. 
WPS was contracted to provide that advice. Mr D first approached WPS in 2018 to discuss 
his pension and retirement, and he was given a recommendation about what to do, in 
February 2019. Information gathered about Mr D at that time was broadly as follows:
He was aged 58 and had no financial dependents. Although single at the time, Mr D 
told WPS his partner was intending to move in with him in due course.
Mr D owned a home valued at approximately £180,000. The property had an 
outstanding mortgage of around £53,000 on it, with 11 more years left to run.
As well as the DB scheme in question, Mr D also had a modest personal pension 
with his current employer. His state retirement age was just over the age of 66.
Mr D had suffered a heart attack around 4 years before he sought this advice. He 
told WPS that as a consequence of this, hed like to reduce his working hours which 
at the time were quite high. However, he expected to work reduced hours or part-
time until 65 or later.
The cash equivalent transfer value (CETV) of Mr Ds OPS was £177,590.
Mr D now says he was given unsuitable advice by WPS and states he is worse off as a 
result. He complained first to WPS which said it hadnt done anything wrong. It said its 
recommendations were in accordance with Mr Ds financial objectives. 
In 2021 the complaint was referred to our service. WPS made an offer to resolve the 
complaint which was rejected by Mr D. As the complaint couldnt be resolved informally, its 
come to me for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive taken into account relevant law and regulations, regulators rules, guidance and 
standards and codes of practice, and what I consider to have been good industry practice at 
the time. This includes the Principles for Business (PRIN) and the Conduct of Business 
Sourcebook (COBS). And where the evidence is incomplete, inconclusive or contradictory, I 
reach my conclusions on the balance of probabilities  that is, what I think is more likely than 
not to have happened based on the available evidence and the wider surrounding 
circumstances.
The applicable rules, regulations and requirements
The below is not a comprehensive list of the rules and regulations which applied at the time 
of the advice, but provides useful context for my assessment of WPS's actions here.
PRIN 6: A firm must pay due regard to the interests of its customers and treat them 
fairly.
PRIN 7: A firm must pay due regard to the information needs of its clients, and 
communicate information to them in a way which is clear, fair and not misleading.
COBS 2.1.1R: A firm must act honestly, fairly and professionally in accordance with 
the best interests of its client (the client's best interests rule).
The provisions in COBS 9 which deal with the obligations when giving a personal 
recommendation and assessing suitability. And the provisions in COBS 19 which 
specifically relate to a DB pension transfer.
I have further considered that the regulator, the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA), states in 
COBS 19.1.6 that the starting assumption for a transfer from a DB scheme is that it is 
unsuitable. So, WPS should have only considered a transfer if it could clearly demonstrate 
that the transfer was in Mr Ds best interests. 
Ive used all the information we have to consider whether transferring away from the OPS to 
a personal pension was in Mr Ds best interests. 
I dont think it was, so Im upholding his complaint. 
Financial viability 
The advice was given in February 2019, after the regulator gave instructions in Final 
Guidance FG17/9 as to how businesses could calculate future 'discount rates' in loss 
assessments where a complaint about a past pension transfer was being upheld. Prior to 
October 2017 similar rates were published by the Financial Ombudsman Service on our 
website. Whilst businesses weren't required to refer to these rates when giving advice on 
pension transfers, they provide a useful indication of what growth rates would have been 
considered reasonably achievable for a typical investor.
The relevant discount rate closest to when the advice was given which I can refer to was 
published by the Financial Ombudsman Service for the period before 1 October 2017 and 
was 3.3% per year for 6 years to retirement, calculated to the normal retirement age (NRA) 
of 65 under Mr Ds OPS. The share returns that were used to compile this discount rate 
wouldnt have been significantly different from the time of transfer and, if anything, the bond 
returns would have got lower. 
Ive also kept in mind that the regulator's upper growth projection at the time was 8%, the 
middle projection rate 5%, and the lower projection rate 2%. Mr Ds attitude to risk (ATR) was categorised by WPS as cautious and so I think all these figures were already 
demonstrating that Mr Ds ability to achieve higher growth than these rates by transferring 
out would be constrained. 
WPS didnt say what the critical yield figure was in Mr Ds case. The critical yield is 
essentially the average annual investment return that would be required on the transfer 
value - from the time of advice until retirement - to provide the same annuity benefits as the 
DB scheme. However, Ive calculated that the critical yield would have probably been 
significantly higher than the discount rate and the regulators lower growth projection 
(above). And in such a case, this would mean Mr D was highly likely to receive lower 
pension benefits overall as a result of transferring out of his DB scheme to a personal 
pension arrangement.
I say this because looking at the transfer value comparator WPS produced, this showed that 
Mr D would need a sum in excess of £242,000 to invest, at a risk-free return, to provide the 
same benefits as the DB scheme at the age of 65 (the schemes NRA). This was 
substantially above Mr Ds CETV which was £177,590. So, in my view this provided a 
revealing window into the value of pension benefits Mr D would be giving up by transferring 
from his DB scheme.
I've therefore taken all these things into account. In my view, there would be little point in him 
giving up the guarantees available through his DB scheme, only to achieve, at best, the 
same level of benefits outside that scheme after transferring. But here I think Mr D was likely 
to receive benefits of a materially lower overall value at retirement than those with his DB 
scheme. 
However, its reasonable to say these were probably moot points anyway. This is because 
WPS itself didnt promote the transfer-out based on him being able to grow his pension 
outside the DB scheme to an extent that made transferring the right thing to do. Even WPS 
itself said in its suitability report that a realistic but not guaranteed rate of growth was only 
1.7%. So, having implied at the time there was no financial viability case for the transfer, it 
would be hard for WPS to argue now that there was. 
Accordingly, WPS based its recommendation for Mr D to transfer on other reasons. Ive 
considered these below.
Basis for the recommendation
In its suitability report of 22 February 2019, WPS recommended a transfer to a personal 
pension based on what it said were Mr Ds objectives which Ive summarised:
Mr D wanted to access his pension fund immediately to clear his outstanding 
mortgage. 
The recommendation to transfer out said he could access £44,397 as a tax-free lump 
sum, and another £12,837 which would be taxed. Taken together, these sums would 
enable Mr D to completely pay down his mortgage and reduce his monthly outgoings 
by £450 so he could afford to work less hours.
WPS said Mr D had said he would be able to use his state pension to live on in 
retirement.
WPS said Mr D would be able to access the rest of the residual fund as he wished.
Health and mortgage issuesWPSs advice was predicated on Mr D telling the adviser that he had been working very long 
hours for quite a while and that he was looking to reduce these commitments to more 
manageable levels. The main factor behind this was his health: Mr D had suffered a heart 
attack around four years earlier and although evidently recovered by the time of the advice, 
he said his doctor had advised him that working fewer hours and to keep active would be 
beneficial. Mr D said hed been working up to 60 hours per week and wanted to bring this 
down to the 40s.
Given what Ive said above about both the financial viability of transferring not being 
apparent in this case - and the regulators starting assumption that transfers from a DB 
scheme are unlikely to be suitable - I thought about whether WPSs advice to transfer for 
these other reasons was in Mr Ds best interests. 
WPS said if he transferred out to a personal pension arrangement, hed be able to eradicate 
his mortgage and save the £450 it was costing him each month. In turn, this would enable 
Mr D to reduce his working hours.
I concede that upon first look it could be said that the issue of health can constitute a 
genuine reason for changing ones working lifestyle. However, to think this transfer was 
suitable because of his health, Id need to think that irreversibly transferring from Mr Ds DB 
scheme was necessary to achieve what he wanted to do i.e. reduce his working hours. I 
would need to also think that the advice to do things this way was in his best interests.
I certainly dont doubt Mr D wanted to reduce his working hours, which upon any reasonable 
view could be described as being very high at the time. Nor do I doubt that his income would 
have been lowered as a consequence of this. But Ive seen nothing showing that Mr Ds 
health was, at that point, at such a serious stage whereby he had no other options but to 
completely pay off his outstanding mortgage. 
I say this because there is every reason to say that Mr D was still physically able to work. 
And his plan was to moderate his hours down rather than to drastically reduce them or stop 
working altogether. In fact, hed told WPS of his intention to still work up until his NRA of 65 
and maybe to even work part-time beyond that. So I think what the evidence shows here is 
that what Mr D was planning at the time was not going to represent a big financial drop in his 
monthly salary. 
So, whilst paying down a mortgage early could be viewed as a generally good thing to do, 
Mr Ds mortgage was only costing him £450 per month. Mr D earned £1,885 per month (net) 
at the time, he was single and from what Ive seen of his income and outgoings, he would 
have had some monthly disposable cash left available to mitigate some of the work / salary 
changes he was hoping to make. And Ive also seen nothing showing that saving £450 was 
absolutely necessary for Mr D to achieve the desired reduction in his working hours. For 
example, there was no real assessment of what his actual financial requirement was to 
make good his potential losses in pay from working less. And Ive also noted that Mr D told 
WPS that his partner intended to move in with him and that bills would be shared as a result. 
So, I think these things show there were other solutions available to Mr Ds desire to work 
less. Put another way, I dont think the case was made out for transferring out of his DB 
pension, and to access his benefits via a personal pension, just to completely pay off a 
mortgage that wasnt costing him that much. 
Even if I were to consider that paying down his mortgage really was important to Mr D as 
WPS infers, and he simply didnt want to compromise in making at least some in-roads into 
the outstanding debt, I dont think WPS sufficiently investigated the use of his existing DB 
pension scheme to do this. We know, for instance, that taking the benefits from his existing DB scheme more or less 
straight away was possible for Mr D. At the age of 58, this would have yielded him a tax-free 
lump sum of £28,141 and an annual pension of £4,221. The majority of this pension would 
have increased in line with the RPI capped at 5%. I think that drawing upon that pension 
would have largely covered his income reduction which would have resulted from him 
working less hours, as this represented around 15% of his current gross salary. And bearing 
in mind Mr Ds capacity to absorb some monthly income losses, which Ive explained above, 
I think its reasonable to say that this course of action ought to have been more seriously 
considered. Ive noted WPS now accepts this.
This option would also have enabled Mr D to pay down over half of his outstanding mortgage 
and, of course, derive a monthly benefit from doing so in the form of lower interest and 
repayment charges. I think his partners potential contributions to the household in the near 
future and Mr Ds lack of any other debt adds weight to the suitability of this option. There 
would then have been no reason why he couldnt continue to pay the much-reduced 
mortgage in the usual way.
Alternatively, accessing his DB pension at the NRA would have resulted in higher tax-free 
cash and a higher pension still, as Mr D wouldnt have had the actuarial reductions applied in 
taking his pension earlier, and for longer. Of course, Mr D could have also started to access 
his DB pension somewhere between the ages of 58 and 65, which would have enabled him 
to pay a higher percentage of his mortgage down. Doing this would have enabled Mr D to 
achieve his objectives whilst retaining the guarantees and benefits in his DB scheme.
Pension for retirement
WPS also referred to Mr D being able to access the maximum tax-free cash via a personal 
pension. It showed Mr D that the lump-sum in a personal pension was more than in the DB 
scheme. 
However, its usually the case that more tax-free cash can be accessed from a personal 
pension when compared against a DB scheme; this is because the values and benefits of 
the two schemes are calculated differently. But WPS should have been telling Mr D at the 
time that extra tax-free lump sums being removed from a personal pension also came with 
consequences in that the amount left for his later retirement years would obviously 
decrease. 
So, whilst I accept the notion of accessing more tax-free cash might have been appealing, 
this needed to be considered against the other options Mr D faced, including opting for 
keeping his funds in a DB scheme where future income was guaranteed. 
The advice therefore needed to balance using his pension funds to pay for something at the 
time, against his overall retirement needs in the future. A pension is primarily for use to fund 
retirement and Mr Ds pension was getting smaller as a result of what WPS recommended to 
him. I say this because WPSs recommendation was based on him transferring out, 
accessing 25% in tax-free cash and then accessing a further £12,837 in cash which would 
be taxed at his personal rate. This meant that in total, around one-third of Mr Ds overall 
pension was being used before his retirement. 
In my view, this left Mr D with a modest sum as he approached his retirement years. And if 
hed needed to stop working in his 60s, for example, there would be a gap until his 
transferred pension funds were complemented by the state pension, in his case at the age of 
just over 66. WPS also implied the state pension would be enough for Mr D to live on when he retired, but 
this might have come sooner that the age of 66 in Mr Ds circumstances. Even if it didnt, I 
think theres conflicting evidence of the state pension being enough for him to live on. In the 
fact-find mention was made of the state pension being insufficient for his needs and that 
part-time work or other income might be needed to add to this. I do accept there is some 
speculation here, as we cant say what Mr D would have done or when hed have stopped 
working  and hes still working four days a week now. However, I think going into retirement 
with the guarantees associated with a DB pension would have been a much more suitable 
option in Mr Ds case, particularly as his other pensions and savings were so modest.
I dont think WPS comprehensively assessed this option and so I dont think Mr D was given 
enough information to make an informed choice.
Flexibility and control of funds
Ive seen no evidence that Mr D needed flexibility in his income requirement going forward. 
In fact, I think the opposite was true. In reality, Mr Ds requirement was for a steady and 
reliable income stream and once hed made payments to his mortgage, I think his needs 
were for him to access the DB pension in the way it was originally intended.
Ive also seen no evidence that Mr D had the capacity or desire to manage his own pension 
affairs. The evidence here suggests that he was an inexperienced and cautious investor 
whos only exposure to money market investments was very limited. So, access to the 
residual funds  as set out by WPS as an advantage  was really no more than a stock 
objective in his case; it was simply a consequence of transferring away from his DB scheme.
Death benefits 
In this case, I dont think the issue of death benefits arose or was relevant although I note 
WPS provided some information to Mr D in its suitability report. 
Death benefits are an emotive subject and of course when asked, most people would like 
their loved ones to be taken care of when they die. The lump sum death benefits on offer 
through a personal pension were probably made to look like an attractive feature to Mr D in 
the information provided by WPS. But whilst I appreciate death benefits are important to 
consumers, and Mr D might have thought it was a good idea to transfer to a personal 
pension because of this, the priority here was to advise him about what was best for his 
retirement provision. 
Mr D wasnt married but had a partner who was intending to move in with him, so this may 
have made the death benefits in the DB scheme relevant to their situation in the future if they 
had ever decided to marry. Ive seen nothing showing this was likely at this particular stage. 
However, as far as passing on money in a personal pension to other beneficiaries was 
concerned, there may not have been a large sum left anyway upon Mr Ds passing. This is 
particularly true if he either lived a long life or, as we know he did, he used large sums from 
the pension for other spending. So passing money on after death wasnt a suitable reason to 
transfer away from his DB scheme. I dont think all this was made clear enough on the 
suitability report. 
To be clear, whilst I dont think different death benefits available through a transfer to a 
personal pension justified the likely decrease of the valuable retirement benefits Mr D would 
enjoy through the DB scheme, the issue of death benefits doesnt much feature in this case.  Summary
I dont doubt that the flexibility on offer through a personal pension would have sounded like 
an attractive feature to Mr D. But WPS wasnt there to just transact what Mr D might have 
thought he wanted. The advisers role was to really understand what Mr D needed and 
recommend what was in his best interests.
Ultimately, I dont think the advice given to Mr D was suitable. He was giving up a 
guaranteed, risk-free and increasing income. By transferring, Mr D was very likely to obtain 
lower retirement benefits and in my view, there were no other particular reasons which would 
justify a transfer and outweigh this. I dont think the evidence shows Mr Ds health was so 
bad to prevent him earning for several more years. In fact, the evidence shows Mr D wanted 
to continue working. So, Mr D shouldnt have been advised to transfer out of the scheme just 
to repay a mortgage that was affordable and which could have been paid down in other 
ways, with the assistance of his existing DB scheme whilst still retaining its major benefits.
I therefore think WPS should have advised Mr D to remain in the DB scheme and access 
these benefits early.
I have considered whether Mr D would have transferred to a personal pension in any event. I 
accept that WPS disclosed some of the risks of transferring to Mr D, and provided him with a 
certain amount of information. But ultimately it advised Mr D to transfer out, and he relied on 
that advice.
Im not persuaded that Mr D would have insisted on transferring out of the DB scheme, 
against WPSs advice. I say this because Mr D asked WPS for advice and this pension also 
accounted for virtually all of his retirement provision at that time. So, if WPS had provided 
him with clear advice against transferring out of the DB scheme, explaining why it wasnt in 
his best interests, I think he would have accepted that advice.
In light of the above, I think WPS should compensate Mr D for the unsuitable advice, using 
the regulator's defined benefits pension transfer redress methodology. 
Putting things right
A fair and reasonable outcome would be for the business to put Mr D, as far as possible, into 
the position he would now be in but for WPSs unsuitable advice. I consider Mr D would have 
most likely remained in his OPS, rather than transfer to the personal pension if he'd been 
given suitable advice. 
On 2 August 2022, the FCA launched a consultation on new DB transfer redress guidance 
and set out its proposals in a consultation document - CP22/15-calculating redress for non-
compliant pension transfer advice. 
In this consultation, the FCA said that it considers that the current redress methodology in 
Finalised Guidance (FG) 17/9 (Guidance for firms on how to calculate redress for unsuitable 
defined benefit pension transfers) remains appropriate and fundamental changes are not 
necessary. However, its review has identified some areas where the FCA considers it could 
improve or clarify the methodology to ensure it continues to provide appropriate redress. 
A policy statement was published on 28 November 2022 which set out the new rules and 
guidance- https://www.fca.org.uk/publication/policy/ps22-13.pdf. The new rules will come into 
effect on 1 April 2023.The FCA has said that it expects firms to continue to calculate and offer compensation to 
their customers using the existing guidance in FG 17/9 for the time being. But until changes 
take effect firms should give customers the option of waiting for their compensation to be 
calculated in line with the new rules and guidance.
Weve previously asked Mr D whether he preferred any redress to be calculated now, in line 
with current guidance, or wait for any new guidance/rules to be published. He wants the 
calculation done now, so doesnt want to wait for the new guidance to come into effect. 
I am therefore satisfied that a calculation in line with FG17/9 remains appropriate and, if a 
loss is identified, will provide fair redress for Mr D. 
For clarity, Mr D didnt retire and is actually still working. He did however access his 
transferred benefits whilst still 58 in accordance with the recommendation. I think Mr D would 
have always wanted to pay down part of his mortgage. And so, whilst my findings are that 
hed have remained in the DB scheme, I think he would have taken his benefits as soon as 
possible. So, compensation should be based on a retirement age of 58 and using the FCA's 
guidance.
This calculation should be carried out as at the date of my final decision and using the most
recent financial assumptions at the date of that decision. In accordance with the regulators 
expectations, this should be undertaken or submitted to an appropriate provider promptly 
following receipt of notification of Mr Ds acceptance of the decision.
WPS may wish to contact the Department for Work and Pensions (DWP) to obtain Mr Ds 
contribution history to the State Earnings Related Pension Scheme (SERPS or S2P). These 
details should then be used to include a SERPS adjustment in the calculation, which will 
take into account the impact of leaving the occupational scheme on Mr Ds SERPS/S2P 
entitlement.
If the redress calculation demonstrates a loss, the compensation should if possible be paid 
into Mr Ds pension plan. The payment should allow for the effect of charges and any 
available tax relief. The compensation shouldnt be paid into the pension plan if it would 
conflict with any existing protection or allowance.
If a payment into the pension isnt possible or has protection or allowance implications, it 
should be paid directly to Mr D as a lump sum after making a notional deduction to allow for 
income tax that would otherwise have been paid. Typically, 25% of the loss could have been 
taken as tax-free cash and 75% would have been taxed according to his likely income tax 
rate in retirement - presumed to be 20%. So making a notional deduction of 15% overall 
from the loss adequately reflects this.
The payment resulting from all the steps above is the compensation amount. This amount 
must where possible be paid to Mr D within 90 days of the date WPS receives notification of 
his acceptance of my final decision. Further interest must be added to the compensation 
amount at the rate of 8% per year simple from the date of my final decision to the date of 
settlement for any time, in excess of 90 days, that it takes WPS to pay Mr D.
Its possible that data gathering for a SERPS adjustment may mean that the actual time 
taken to settle goes beyond the 90 day period allowed for settlement above - and so any 
period of time where the only outstanding item required to undertake the calculation is data 
from DWP may be added to the 90 day period in which interest wont apply.If the complaint hasnt been settled in full and final settlement by the time any new guidance 
or rules come into effect, Id expect WPS to carry out a calculation in line with the updated 
rules and/or guidance in any event.
Where I uphold a complaint, I can award fair compensation of up to £160,000, plus any
interest and/or costs that I consider are appropriate. Where I consider that fair compensation
requires payment of an amount that might exceed £160,000, I may recommend that the
business pays the balance.
My final decision
Determination and money award: I am upholding this complaint and I now direct WPS 
Advisory Limited to pay Mr D the compensation amount as set out in the steps above, up to 
a maximum of £160,000.
Where the compensation amount does not exceed £160,000, I would additionally require
WPS Advisory Limited to pay Mr D any interest on that amount in full, as set out above.
Where the compensation amount already exceeds £160,000, I would only require WPS 
Advisory Limited to pay Mr D any interest as set out above on the sum of £160,000.
Recommendation: If the compensation amount exceeds £160,000, I also recommend that
WPS Advisory Limited pays Mr D the balance. I would additionally recommend any interest 
calculated as set out above on this balance to be paid to Mr D.
If Mr D accepts my final decision, the money award becomes binding on WPS Advisory 
Limited
My recommendation would not be binding. Further, its unlikely that Mr D can accept my 
decision and go to court to ask for the balance. Mr D may want to consider getting 
independent legal advice before deciding whether to accept any final decision.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision before 13 January 2023.
 
Michael Campbell
Ombudsman