DRN-2556075
The complaint
Mrs G complained that Canada Square Operations Limited (CSOL) mis-sold her credit card 
payment protection insurance (PPI) policy. 
What happened
Mrs G bought the policy in April 2001 when she took out her credit card. CSOL said this was 
an online application and that it didnt advise Mrs G to take out the policy. I can also see 
from the information provided by CSOL that Mrs G cancelled the PPI in May 2002 and 
closed the credit card account in 2005.
Mrs G couldnt remember much about the sale, but said the PPI was added without her 
knowledge and consent. She also said she didnt need the cover.
The policy cost 59p for each £100 Mrs G owed on her credit card, and provided accident, 
sickness and unemployment cover. If shed successfully claimed on the policy, each month it 
would have paid out 10% of what she owed on the card when she stopped working. This 
would have carried on for up to 12 months per claim. The policy also provided life cover.
Our adjudicator didnt uphold the complaint. Mrs G disagreed, and asked that it be referred 
to an ombudsman for review. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website, and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding Mrs Gs case.
Ive decided not to uphold Mrs Gs complaint. Ill explain why.
CSOL sent in a copy of its computer records of Mrs Gs credit card application, along with 
screenshots of its online application process at the time and copies of some of Mrs Gs credit 
card statements, showing the PPI premiums. 
The screenshots show that, as part of the credit card application process, there were yes 
and no options to give a choice about taking out PPI. And I cant see that either of the 
options would already have been completed. CSOLs computer record of Mrs Gs application 
shows she selected PPI. So overall, I think its most likely that Mrs G was aware of the PPI 
and had a choice about taking it  and decided to do so. I think she probably just doesnt 
remember doing so as it was so long ago. 
Im satisfied CSOL didnt advise Mrs G to take out the PPI. But it shouldve given her enough 
information for her to decide if the policy was right for her. 
The screenshots show a brief introduction to the PPI above the yes and no options, and 
this included the premium of 59p per £100 owed. The screenshots also show that details of 
the cover appeared underneath the yes and no options. The policy details were quite 
lengthy, and I cant know whether Mrs G looked at them in any detail, or how the information 
wouldve appeared on screen if she did. So I cant be certain that CSOL clearly pointed out 
the main things the policy didnt cover. But I dont think Mrs G wouldve been affected by any 
of these. 
As Ive said, CSOL explained on the screen that the cost of the policy was 59p for each £100 
owed. But I dont think it was clear that interest could be charged on the premiums, or that 
Mrs G wouldve had to keep paying for the policy during a claim. 
CSOLs record of Mrs Gs application shows that she was employed at the time of the sale, 
and had been working for her employer for about three years. Mrs G told us that, when she 
took out the policy, she was entitled to sick pay from her employer of six months full pay. 
She also said that her partner couldve helped out if necessary. However, her partners 
circumstances couldve changed so I dont think that that help couldve been guaranteed. So 
on balance, I think Mrs G couldve found it difficult to make the card repayments once her 
sick pay ended or if shed lost her job. So I think the PPI couldve provided a useful benefit.
Overall, although I cant say that CSOL fully explained the policy, Im not satisfied that Mrs G 
would have acted differently  and not taken out the PPI  if it had. It couldve provided 
useful protection for her if she couldnt work. This means Mrs G isnt worse off as a result of 
what CSOL may have done wrong, so theres nothing it needs to do to put things right.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, Ive decided not to uphold Mrs Gs complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs G to accept or 
reject my decision before 13 March 2021.
 
Jan Ferrari
Ombudsman