DRN-3414585
The complaint
Mr W has complained that Admiral Insurance Company Limited (Admiral) undervalued his 
vehicle following a total loss settlement claim he made on his motor insurance policy.
What happened
Mr W was involved in an accident and he submitted a claim on his motor insurance policy. 
His vehicle was deemed a total loss and Admiral offered Mr W £12,950 (less an excess of 
£500) to settle the claim as it said this represented the market value of the vehicle involved.
But Mr W doesnt think this offer is fair and wants Admiral to pay what he thinks the vehicle 
is worth. Mr W says to get a like for like replacement it would cost a lot more. Mr W says this 
vehicle is worth closer to £14,000 or even £15,000 and its impossible to get something 
similar for the amount Admiral is offering.
An investigator from our service looked at this complaint and said the valuation placed on 
the vehicle by Admiral was fair. 
But Mr W doesnt agree, and hes asked for an ombudsman to review the complaint.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im not upholding this complaint. Ill explain why.
Mr W says the valuation guides we use dont take into account the current price hikes weve 
seen in the UK car market. He says the Covid19 pandemic has had an impact on current 
market values and this is not reflected in the offer hes receiving for his vehicle from Admiral. 
Mr W says the valuation guides work off an algorithm from the previous 12-months of data, 
which he says is not in line with current market values. He says that the incident he was 
involved in occurred in October 2021, not long after one of the government-imposed 
lockdowns. He says non-essential business was closed, and this wouldve affected the 
data used by the trade guides. He says the data used by the valuation guides is limited and 
not a true reflection of the market.
Mr W says looking at todays prices (March 2022) a similar vehicle with an identical 
specification is £14-£15k. He says hes had this vehicle from new, so its had one owner 
only, has a full-service history and is in a desirable colour. Mr W says as a member of the 
general public theres no scope any more to haggle or bargain, and theres no way he could 
get a 10% reduction in price from what hes seen on the market. Mr W has provided some 
links and a screen shot of similar vehicles for sale.
This service has an established approach to valuation cases https://www.financial-
ombudsman.org.uk/consumers/complaints-can-help/insurance/motor-insurance/vehicle-
valuations-write-offs And when looking at the valuation placed on a vehicle by an insurance 
company, I have to consider the approach the insurer has adopted to decide whether the 
valuation is fair in all the circumstances. It isnt the role of this service to come to an exact 
valuation for a consumers vehicle. Our approach is to consider whether Admiral has settled 
Mr Ws claim in line with the terms and conditions of his policy, fairly and reasonably using 
our established approach. 
So, Ive considered the terms of the policy and the offer made. And I can see that in the 
event the vehicle cant be repaired, Admiral wont pay more than the market value of the 
vehicle at the time of the loss.
Market Value is defined as The cost of replacing your vehicle; with one of a similar make, 
model, year, mileage and condition based on market prices immediately before the loss 
happened. Use of the term market refers to where your vehicle was purchased. This value 
is based on research from industry recognised motor trade guides.
Our usual approach to complaints about vehicle valuations is to look at motor trade guides 
for valuing second-hand vehicles. We find these persuasive because their valuations are 
based on nationwide research and likely selling prices. The guides refer to advertised and 
auction prices to work out what the likely selling price for the same vehicle would be. This 
takes into account all the specifications of the vehicle as well as any extras and the mileage. 
If any guides price is significantly higher or lower than the others, we may think its 
reasonable to ignore it. This depends on the value of the vehicle.
Customers sometimes say the amount theyve been paid is unfair because theyve seen 
similar vehicles advertised at higher prices. And that can sometimes be the case. And 
especially in todays volatile market, we would always consider all evidence submitted as 
long as its relevant. But differences in mileage or year of registration can significantly affect 
a vehicles value. Adverts can sometimes be helpful if they strongly indicate that the guides 
could be wrong. 
Ive checked the motor trade guides for the value of Mr Ws vehicle at the time of the incident 
and they produced a range in values from £12,900 to £13,537
Admiral has placed a value of £12,950 on Mr Ws vehicle.  And taking everything thats been 
submitted into account, I cant conclude that Admirals offer is unreasonable. I say this as 
Admirals offer is fair and in line with our approach.
However, Mr W makes some points that Id like to address. Mr W says the algorithm the 
trade guides use runs off 12-month data and that the current inflation of vehicle valuations is 
not reflected in these guides. Mr W also questions the origin of the data due to the fact a lot 
of car businesses were closed during the pandemic. And I can see why he has these 
concerns. There were periods in 2020 and 2021 where garages were closed. But car sales 
continued, both online and in a private capacity. So even though there was less data to work 
on, there were still car sales happening, so there was data to run the valuation guides. 
Further to this we use three guides that are used across the insurance industry. And I can 
confirm that two of these guides update their data daily, whilst the other one updates 
monthly. So, I cant agree with Mr Ws 12-month data argument. I do agree there has been a 
rise in the market value of second-hand vehicles, mainly driven by the pandemic, and other 
external factors. But Im confident the prices generated by the trade guides reflect current 
market conditions, given how frequently the data is run. 
Further to this Mr W talks about todays prices and the cost of replacing a similar vehicle with 
an identical specification today. But the policy only provides cover for market value 
immediately before the loss happened, not today. I appreciate Mr W had kept this vehicle in good condition, with a full-service history. And I understand what hes said about not being in 
a position to bargain or haggle anymore and hes provided links and images of similar 
vehicles with higher prices. But one of the trade guides gives us a list of closest match 
vehicles for sale or recently sold around the date of his accident. These range in various 
different mileage variables and sales sources, whether private, dealership or independent. 
And from what I can see similar vehicles with 50k to 80k miles were priced from £11,700 to 
£13,500. And the offer made by Admiral is within this range. Yes, there are higher prices in 
this list too. But in the main these vehicles have lower mileage than Mr Ws vehicle. 
Mr W has also raised the deduction of excess to the total loss settlement hes been offered. 
Nearly all insurance policies have an excess. The excess is the first part of a claim that the 
consumer has to pay. The policy says excess is the amount you must pay towards any 
claim. Your excess details are shown on your Policy Schedule. The policy has £500 listed 
under the excess heading, so Im satisfied this deduction is correct. 
Its not up to this service to place an exact valuation on Mr Ws vehicle. Its our role to make 
sure Admiral is giving Mr W a fair price using a fair and recognised approach. I appreciate 
the arguments Mr W has made. But the policy is in place to pay a market value as defined in 
the policy. And Admiral has shown in its file that it used the trade guides to come to its 
valuation. Based on the information provided about Mr Ws vehicle and using these trade 
guides alongside the evidence Mr W has submitted, Im satisfied that the market value that 
Admiral has placed on Mr Ws vehicle is fair and reasonable based on our established 
approach. Because of this I dont uphold this complaint.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I don't uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision before 12 May 2022.
 
Derek Dunne
Ombudsman