DRN-3709390
The complaint
Mr M has complained about Tesco Underwriting Limiteds decision to decline a claim he 
made for an escape of water under his home and buildings insurance policy.
What happened
In October 2021 Mr M contacted Tesco to make a claim. He said hed discovered that the 
living room carpet was wet and the floorboards underneath were soaking. Mr M discovered 
that a wall in the living room was also damp. Mr M told Tesco that his wife is disabled. 
Tesco asked Mr M to provide photos of the damage, which he did. Tesco instructed a 
Surveyor to attend to validate the claim. In November 2021 the Surveyor found that there 
was no insured peril. The Surveyor said the damage had been caused by rainwater leaking 
into the house from outside over a long period of time, possibly years.
Mr M was very unhappy with Tescos decision and he complained. But Tesco said its 
decision was correct. So Mr M asked us to look at his complaint. He told us hes paid for the 
repairs, but cannot afford to pay for replastering of the walls or a replacement carpet. 
Our Investigator didnt recommend the complaint should be upheld. He said there was no 
evidence of an insured event. 
Mr M didnt agree. In summary he says the damage wasnt identified sooner as there was a 
heavy TV unit in the corner of the room concealing the damage. He thought the Surveyor 
hadnt been specific enough in the report as to the likely cause of damage. 
Mr M says Tesco initially led him to believe it would meet the claim. He accepts that Tesco 
offered for him to obtain an independent Surveyors report to show the cause of damage was 
covered under the policy. But Mr M said he was quoted between £350 and £450 with a six 
week wait for a Surveyor to provide him with a report when he made enquiries. So he didnt 
instruct one.
So the case has been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Insurers provide cover for specific insured perils: sudden unforeseen events such as flood, 
fire or storm. Tesco, like all other insurers, doesnt provide cover under a home insurance 
policy for damage caused over time. 
Mr Ms policy with Tesco says it will cover loss or damage caused by; Water or oil escaping 
from any fixed domestic water or heating installation, including underground drains and 
pipes or from any domestic appliance.
The Surveyor reported that there was no evidence of an insured peril. There was a gas pipe 
at ground level in the living room and it seemed that rainwater was coming through from 
outside into the property around the gas pipe. The Surveyor believed his had been 
happening for a number of years. 
I can understand Mr Ms disappointment when Tesco told him it wouldnt meet the claim. I 
think it initiated the process with a view to meet Mr Ms claim. But once the Surveyor 
provided the report, it was clear to Tesco that this wasnt a claim it could meet. I dont think 
Tesco misled Mr M. It was reasonable for it to obtain an expert opinion before being able to 
validate the claim. 
I also appreciate that the impact of the damage and the upheaval in having the repairs done 
will have been significant for Mr M and his wife. But I cant say that Tesco is responsible as I 
dont have anything to show me the claim was covered under the policy. There is no 
evidence that water was escaping from any pipes, drains, fixed domestic water or heating 
installation. So I think Tescos decision to reject the claim was reasonable and in line with 
the policy. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 2 November 2022.
 
Geraldine Newbold
Ombudsman