DRN-3169538
The complaint
Ms H complains about how HSBC UK Bank Plc handled unrecognised debit card 
transactions on her account.
What happened
In August 2016, two transactions for £15,000 were made on Ms Hs debit card. She 
contacted HSBC about the transactions as she hadnt made them. HSBC began an 
investigation into the transactions and credited Ms Hs account.
On 10 September 2016, Ms H contacted HSBC as she discovered that someone she knew 
had taken her card and made these transactions. She said she wasnt going to be involving 
the police. What was said and how Ms H was treated in this call is the crux of her complaint 
now.
Ms H says she was told that as she knew whod made the transactions, she couldnt pursue 
a fraud claim. Shes said she didnt agree they were authorised or that she wanted to drop 
her claim to have the amount refunded to her, but HSBC gave her no other option or 
information on the matter. She says it wouldnt allow the claim to continue and took back the 
money, despite her also being very distressed and vulnerable on the call. This complaint 
was raised with HSBC in September 2020.
HSBC didnt uphold Ms Hs complaint. It said the notes it had from the call with Ms H in 
September 2016 indicated she was happy for her account to be re-debited. It said it didnt 
now have the evidence it needed to investigate things further and it was too late to raise this 
matter under the Payment Services Directive. 
Ms H brought her complaint to our service. She disagreed shed authorised the transaction 
or had understood her rights to pursue this complaint, despite knowing whod made the 
payment. Our investigator didnt uphold her complaint. He said the evidence from 2016 
suggested she had agreed to close the fraud claim and she was no longer disputing the 
payments. Ms H disagreed and asked for a decision.
I contacted Ms H directly and set out that we didnt hold any contemporaneous evidence to 
support her chain of events. I said I understood shed been through a very difficult and 
traumatic time and that I had considered her testimony. But HSBCs notes didnt support 
what she was now telling us. And as she hadnt raised this complaint for four years, it wasnt 
possible to now listen to the call and determine if Ms Hs recollections or the calls note 
evidence from the time presented the most accurate version of events. But as we had this 
evidence from HSBC, I couldnt uphold this case on her testimony alone.
Ms H asked for a formal decision. She said that she disagreed HSBCs notes contradicted 
her account of what happened, as they didnt specifically refer to post-authorisation and did 
continue to say the matter was fraud. She considered HSBC had not acted fairly or in her 
financial best interests in the call. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive reviewed HSBCs system notes from the call in September 2016. There are two sets of 
notes. One set reads:
CH CALLED TO STOP FRD REPORTING AS TAXN DONE BY [someone Ms H 
knew].. REDEBIT DONE
And the other:
ch doesnt wnt to report to police , ch doesnt wish to report frd and ch ok for 
redebit..discalimer gvn,,redebitd the a/c. 
I accept Ms H says she didnt agree the transactions were authorised in the call. And I can 
see this isnt explicitly written. But at the same time, HSBCs notes state she was ok for the 
transactions to be re-debited and that she didnt wish to report fraud. So on the basis of 
these notes, Im satisfied this is post-transaction authorisation. As by no longer reporting the 
transactions as fraud and accepting the re-debit, Ms H has, in effect, accepted the payments 
are legitimate and agreed for the matter to be closed. These notes strongly suggest that at 
the time, Ms H was making a proactive request for the fraud case to be stopped, so it follows 
these transactions are then not/no longer fraud  and so authorised. 
However, I have considered again Ms Hs testimony that these notes are not reflective of the 
call she had, to decide if I should rely on these notes.
HSBC has relied on its system notes, which are date stamped to show they were made at 
the time of this call. While I have weighed up Ms Hs testimony against this, on the basis of 
what I hold, I am placing more weight on the notes from the time.
HSBC did need to explain Ms Hs rights to her, but the notes indicate she was read some 
form of disclaimer. And if HSBC thought Ms H didnt want to pursue the matter further at that 
time, I wouldnt have expected it to push this. It was Ms Hs account and money, so her 
decision to make. I know she says she didnt make this decision, but I cant know now what 
was said in the call. What did happen was the amount was re-debited and the fraud case 
closed, and Ms H didnt raise this again for four years. I do understand that Ms H is saying 
she wouldve pursued this if shed been given the option, but I just cant verify that was the 
case now.
I fully accept Ms H was going through a very difficult time following these transactions. And 
that there were some big changes to her personal situation shortly after this that meant she 
wasnt necessarily in a position to bring this complaint straight away. But that has meant the 
recording of this call is no longer available  and without this to evidence HSBCs notes from 
the time are incorrect, I cant fairly uphold this complaint.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I dont uphold Ms Hs complaint.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms H to accept or 
reject my decision before 22 February 2022.
 
Amy Osborne
Ombudsman