DRN-3139640
The complaint
Mr P is unhappy that Lloyds Bank PLC approved him for a loan which he feels was 
unaffordable for him at that time.
What happened
In 2015, Mr P applied for a loan with Lloyds. The loan application was approved. The loan 
was for £13,900 to be repaid over a term of six years, with Mr Ps stated purpose for the loan 
being to refinance existing debt.
In 2020, Mr P raised a complaint with Lloyds on the basis that he felt that the loan hadnt 
been affordable for him at that time. 
Lloyds looked at Mr Ps complaint, but they noted that the loan had been used for debt 
refinancing and that it had resulted in Mr Ps debt repayments reducing by approximately 
£200 per month. Because of this, Lloyds felt that the loan had been of financial benefit to    
Mr P, and so they didnt uphold his complaint. 
Mr P wasnt satisfied with Lloyds response, so he referred his complaint to this service. One 
of our investigators looked at this complaint, but they also felt that the loan had been of 
financial benefit to Mr L and they felt that Lloyds hadnt acted unreasonably or unfairly 
towards Mr P by providing the loan to him. So, they also didnt uphold Mr Ps complaint.
Mr P remained dissatisfied, so the matter was escalated to an ombudsman for a final 
decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Its notable that Mr P applied for this loan to refinance existing debt. Indeed, the stated 
purpose of the loan was for Mr P to make payments to reduce or clear debt from several 
other accounts, including a credit card and other loans held with Lloyds as well as other 
existing credit accounts held with other credit providers. 
This means that, by taking this loan to pay off other debt, Mr Ps overall existing amount of 
debt wasnt projected to increase. Conversely, by making the payments to reduce or clear 
his existing debt that Mr P had stated he would when applying for the loan, the impact of the 
loan on Mr P would be that his cumulative monthly debt repayments would be reduced by 
approximately £200 per month.
Taking these factors into account, its very difficult to reach any conclusion other that the 
loan was beneficial to Mr P and that it was affordable for him, given that it improved his 
financial position by £200 a month meaning that it would have been to Mr Ps financial 
detriment to have not taken the loan. 
Additionally, when Mr P took the loan, one of his stated intentions was to make a payment to 
reduce the balance outstanding on his Lloyds credit card account, and it was recognised by 
Lloyds at that time that the credit limit on the credit card account should be reduced following 
this payment so that Mr P couldnt re-use the credit card to fall further into debt. 
This seems reasonable to me, and Im satisfied that this further demonstrates that Lloyds 
approved the provision of the loan to Mr P with an understanding and appreciation of his 
financial position at that time in mind  a financial position which, as already mentioned, was 
improved by Mr P being granted the refinancing loan.
Its also notable that Mr P was able to make the monthly repayments required by the loan 
without incident for over a year. This suggests that the loan was affordable for Mr P at the 
time that it was taken, but that Mr Ps financial position later deteriorated.  
All of which means that I dont feel that I can fairly or reasonably conclude that Lloyds acted 
unfairly or unreasonably towards Mr P by providing him with this loan, and it follows that my 
final decision here will be that I wont be upholding this complaint or instructing Lloyds to 
take any further action at this time.
I realise that this wont be the outcome that Mr P wanted, but I hope that hell understand, 
given all that Ive explained, why Ive made the final decision that I have. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision before 3 February 2022.
 
Paul Cooper
Ombudsman