DRN-4095565
The complaint
Mr Cs complaint concerns the way Lloyds Bank General Insurance Limited has dealt with a 
subsidence claim under a Home Insurance policy.
What happened
Mr Cs garage experienced movement and Lloyds accepted a claim for subsidence in 2021. 
Lloyds proposed a cash settlement, which Mr C wasnt happy with this as he wouldnt know 
how to arrange and manage repairs. Lloyds had recognised its communication had been 
poor at times and offered £750 compensation. Mr C didnt think the compensation was 
enough and thought a previous subsidence incident, for which repairs were carried out in 
2002, hadnt been done properly and had failed.
Our investigator looked at both issues and gave the following opinion:
2002 repairs
Lloyds hadnt agreed to review these repairs as the only information available from 
that time was a certificate of structural adequacy and a report Mr C had provided. But 
there wasnt any information about the repairs that were carried out.
The investigator said the cause of subsidence was related to drains, which was 
different from the more recent incident. And although Mr C had consulted a retired 
civil engineer, there was no evidence to support the 2002 repairs as being 
inadequate or faulty. The investigator didnt think Lloyds needed to do anything 
further.
2021 claim
While the policy permitted a cash settlement, the investigator didnt think Lloyds had 
acted fairly in the circumstances. Lloyds hadnt offered its own contractors to carry 
out the work and Mr C hadnt requested a cash settlement. In such circumstances it 
wouldnt be fair for Lloyds to offer an amount based on the preferential rates it has 
with contractors. 
The investigator thought Lloyds should pay a reasonable market rate that Mr C would 
have to pay. And to facilitate this Lloyds would need to share the Schedule of Works 
with Mr C for him to obtain quotes on the insured repairs.
In terms of the impact on Mr C of the delay and instances of poor communication, the 
investigator thought Lloyds offer of £750 was a fair.
Lloyds agreed with the investigator stating it would review the settlement offer in line with 
market rate, but Mr C could also provide his own for consideration. And it had offered £1,500 
for the subsidence related repairs. It stated though that there was severe lateral damage that 
wasnt insured, evident from 2001, and so it wouldnt cover this.
Mr C didnt accept the investigators opinion and made the following points, which Ive 
summarised:
Lloyds process was long and included a series of new investigations which led to the 
discovery of structural defects and puts him at a disadvantage.
Lloyds and its agents are difficult to deal with, multiple people involved with poor 
understanding of what had happened.
No mitigation work was offered, and he hasnt been able to sell the property, which 
formed part of an estate and so was to be sold.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
When considering whats fair and reasonable in the circumstances I need to take into 
account relevant law and regulations, regulators rules, guidance and standards, codes of 
practice and, where appropriate, what I consider to have been good industry practice at the 
time. Insurers are under a duty to:
handle claims promptly and fairly
provide reasonable guidance to help a policyholder make a claim and appropriate 
information on its progress
not unreasonably reject a claim (including by terminating or avoiding a policy); and
settle claims promptly once settlement terms are agreed.
2021 claim
Whats apparent is Mr Cs claim was accepted but that issues arose in determining what was 
insured damage and covered by the policy as distinct from damage not covered. The expert 
evidence available shows the main point in contention, that of the bulging wall, is not insured 
damage under the policy. Within the causes of damage covered are subsidence, heave and 
landslip. These are defined in the policy and the bulging wall does not fit into those 
definitions. Experts have concluded that the bulging wall is a result of it not being able to 
properly retain the earth and ground it is required to. And the pressure of that is causing the 
bulge. Im satisfied that Lloyds has fairly declined this aspect of the claim.
The extent of subsidence related damage in this wall is minor in comparison and while I 
understand why Lloyds decided to offer a cash settlement as opposed to carrying out 
repairs, I am satisfied that its fair to expect Lloyds to offer the market rate to cash settle as 
opposed to the preferential rates it can obtain. This is because Lloyds isnt offering to repair 
the insured damage and so Mr C will need to arrange repairs himself. He wont have access 
to the discounted rates Lloyds does so he will only be properly indemnified by having the 
market repair rate. I am pleased that Lloyds has now recognised this and will review the 
repair cost in line with market rates and it has offered to review any estimates that Mr C 
provides for the insured related damage.
2002 repairs
While the 2021 damage is in a similar place to that repaired in 2002 that of itself doesnt 
mean the initial repair was inadequate or faulty. Whats clear from the information is that the 
hydrostatic pressure in the retained ground is causing an outward push and its this thats the 
major problem rather than the initial repairs. Without expert evidence to challenge that view 
Im satisfied Lloyds decision not to review the 2002 repairs is fair.
Claim handlingLloyds has already accepted that some of its handling and communication impacted the 
overall claim journey and took longer than it should have. I agree, there some points at 
which Lloyds didnt respond and didnt progress things promptly. And the fact that Lloyds 
initially refused to offer a market rate for a cash settlement has also added delay to final 
settlement. I am satisfied though that the £750 paid is a fair reflection for the impact on Mr C. 
While Im mindful that Mr C understandably wanted to sell the house, Im not satisfied that 
Lloyds handling is the reason he hasnt been able to or indeed marketed it for sale. The 
main damage to the retaining wall isnt covered by the policy and so Mr C would always 
have been in a position where hed have to decide whether to spend a significant sum to put 
that right or sell it in a damaged state. 
My final decision
I uphold this complaint in so far as Lloyds Bank General Insurance Limited treated Mr C 
unfairly on two points; not offering a market rate settlement value and inadequacies in its 
handling and communication. To put things right I require Lloyds to do the following:
Pay Mr C the market rate for the required insured repairs (not discounted rate) 
oFirst step is to make Mr C an offer based on Lloyds revised assessment of 
the cost at market rate within 14 days of the date we advise that Mr C has 
accepted this final decision
oIf Mr C obtains his own detailed estimate of the repair works (from a VAT 
registered builder) he should provide this to Lloyds within 28 days of 
accepting this final decision. Lloyds should then issue a final offer within 14 
days of receiving Mr Cs estimate.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 30 November 2023.
 
Sean Hamilton
Ombudsman