DRN-1748451
 
The complaint
Mr F complains that Barclays Bank UK PLC, trading as Barclaycard, mis-sold him a payment 
protection insurance (PPI) policy. The complaint is brought on his behalf by a claims 
management company. 
What happened
This complaint is about a PPI policy attached to a credit card that Mr F took out in 2001 
during a phone call. The PPI covered Mr F if he couldn't work because of accident, sickness 
or unemployment.
Our adjudicator didn't recommend that the complaint should be upheld. Mr F didn't agree. 
His representative said, on his behalf and in summary, that Mr F had another complaint 
about PPI upheld by Barclays and his circumstances were the same in both cases.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Weve set out our general approach to 
complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding 
Mr Fs case.
Barclaycard doesnt have a full record of the sale, which isnt surprising given it took place so 
long ago. In cases like this, I reach my decision on the balance of probabilities  in other 
words, what I consider is most likely to have happened in light of the available evidence and 
the wider circumstances.
Im not minded to uphold Mr Fs complaint and Ill explain why.
Mr F took out the PPI during a phone call around four years after he'd opened his credit card 
account. Barclaycard can't tell us whether the call was inbound or outbound and Mr F 
doesn't recall the call. There's no recording of the phone call and Barclaycard can't provide 
us with a copy of the script that would have been used. None of this is unreasonable or 
unsurprising given the time thats passed. 
Mr F had had a credit card for several years without a PPI policy. So I think it would have 
been reasonably clear that he didn't have to have PPI. Overall, I think its most likely 
Barclaycard made Mr F aware he had a choice about buying the policy and he chose to take 
it. 
Barclaycard says it recommended the PPI to Mr F, but it doesnt look as if it was unsuitable 
for him based on what Ive seen of his circumstances at the time. Hes told us he would have 
received six months full pay followed by six months half pay from his employer if he couldnt 
work due to sickness or an accident. But the PPI would have covered his credit card 
repayments for up to 12 months, and in addition to his sick pay. So it could have been a 
useful benefit.I've taken into account that Mr F told us he had various insurance policies in place since 
1994 but, from what he's been able to tell us, I don't think these duplicated the benefits 
available under the PPI policy. So this doesn't make a difference to my conclusion.
Its possible the information Barclaycard gave Mr F about the PPI wasnt as clear as it should 
have been. But Mr F chose to take out the policy and so appears to have wanted this type of 
cover. He was not affected by any of the exclusions or limitations and the policy was 
competitively priced and apparently affordable. So I think it unlikely Mr F would have made a 
different decision if better information had been provided. On balance I think he would still 
have taken out the policy.
I've considered what Mr F's representative has told us about another PPI complaint being 
upheld by Barclays. But the representative did not provide any information about that 
complaint. I find it unlikely that the circumstances of the other PPI sale were identical to this 
one as Mr F's representative suggests. Even if Mr F's circumstances were the same, where 
and how the PPI was sold, the policy terms and conditions and its benefits and cost, were 
unlikely to be the same, and this all has a bearing on the overall outcome. So Barclays' 
decision to compensate Mr F for the mis-sale of another PPI policy does not change my 
conclusion here.
My final decision
 For the reasons I've explained, my final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
 Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr F to accept or 
reject my decision before 10 June 2020.
Elizabeth Dawes
Ombudsman