DRN-2738389
The complaint
Mrs P complains about the supply and installation of a kitchen and bathroom, both of which 
were financed with loans from Hitachi Capital (UK) Plc.  
What happened
In February 2019 Mrs P ordered a bathroom and a kitchen from a retailer, W. The bathroom 
cost just over £3,500 and the kitchen £13,000. Installation was included, although specialist 
work would be charged separately. The bathroom and the kitchen were the subject of two 
separate contracts between W and Mrs P.
Mrs P also took out two fixed sum loan agreements with Hitachi Capital, one to meet the 
cost of the bathroom and one to pay for the kitchen. Each was arranged by W and was for 
60 months in total, with the first monthly payment being due in February 2020. 
The delivery and installation did not go as Mrs P had hoped. Specifically, she says that there 
was miscommunication between W and its fitters, some faulty equipment was delivered and 
for a time she was left without either a kitchen or a bathroom. There was a delay in fitting 
some elements of the kitchen and she had to wait at home for some of the deliveries.
Mrs P complained to both W and to Hitachi Capital and then to this service, where one of our 
investigators considered what had happened. He noted that Mrs P had been put to some 
inconvenience and that Hitachi Capital had offered her £100 in recognition of that. He did not 
think this was sufficient and recommended instead a payment of £250. Mrs P did not think 
that was enough either and indicated she wanted a very much larger sum. Hitachi Capital 
said it would offer £350 but no more. The case was therefore passed to me to review.           
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Each of the loans that Mrs P took out with Hitachi Capital was set up under pre-existing 
arrangements it had with W; the loan funds were paid to W to pay for the kitchen and the 
bathroom and basic (that is, non-specialist) installation. Under section 75 of the Consumer 
Credit Act 1974, the effect of that arrangement was that, if Mrs P has a claim for breach of 
contract against W, she has a like claim against Hitachi Capital  as long as her claim is in 
respect of one or both of the contracts funded by the loans.
I note at this point that Mrs P made separate arrangements with W for specialist installation 
work for both rooms. Those arrangements were not funded by Hitachi Capital. It follows that 
Hitachi Capital has no liability for any issues Mrs P might have with them. It financed some 
of Mrs Ps contractual arrangements with W, but W was not  as   Mrs P has suggested  
Hitachi Capitals contractor. 
I must therefore consider whether Mrs P has a claim for breach of contract against W in 
respect of the goods she bought or the basic installation work. 
Mrs P has identified two items which she says were faulty or not as described  an extractor 
fan and a bath panel. The extractor fan was replaced, and W said that the bath panel was 
the only one it supplies, so must have been what Mrs P selected. I accept that. Any breach 
in respect of the fan has been rectified, and I note that Mrs P signed a confirmation that work 
had been completed to her satisfaction. 
Mrs Ps main concern however appears to be the timing of the work. Under the Consumer 
Rights Act 2015, where a contract does not specify how long work will take, it is to be read 
as including a term that it will be completed within a reasonable period. The contract here did 
not specify a time for completion; it said expressly that any times for commencement or 
completion of work were estimates only. So, whilst I understand that Mrs P feels the work 
took longer than it should have done, I dont believe there was a breach of contract on the 
part of W. The work was completed within a reasonable time, even if took longer than initially 
estimated.  
I acknowledge too that Mrs P feels that Ws customer service was poor and that this caused 
her some distress and inconvenience. That however does not constitute a breach of contract 
and so cannot of itself give rise to a claim against Hitachi Capital under section 75.
In the circumstances, I do not believe that it would be fair to hold Hitachi Capital liable for 
what Mrs P feels was poor service and contractual breaches on the part of W. I shall 
therefore simply leave it to her to decide whether she wishes to accept its offer of £350  
assuming it is still available for acceptance.              
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not require Hitachi Capital (UK) Plc to take any further steps to 
resolve Mrs Ps complaint. Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im 
required to ask Mrs P to accept or reject my decision before 2 June 2021. 
Mike Ingram
Ombudsman