DRN-2696973
The complaint
Mr D complains about the actions STARTLINE MOTOR FINANCE LIMITED (Startline) took 
when he needed to voluntarily surrender a car he had been financing through an agreement 
with them. He says they were wrong to instruct agents to collect his car; didnt explain the 
surrender process correctly; didnt explain the balance that was due and havent provided a 
rebate of interest.
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again 
here. Instead Ill focus on giving my reasons for my decision.  
  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I know it will disappoint Startline, but I agree with the investigators opinion. Please let me 
explain why.
Where the information Ive got is incomplete, unclear or contradictory, as some of it is here I 
have to base my decision on the balance of probabilities.
Ive read and considered the whole file, but Ill concentrate my comments on what I think is 
relevant. If I dont comment on any specific point its not because Ive failed to take it on 
board and think about it but because I dont think I need to comment on it in order to reach 
what I think is the right outcome.
Mr D acquired his car under a hire purchase agreement. This is a regulated consumer credit 
agreement and as a result our service is able to look into complaints about it.  
repossession
Startlines system notes show that repossession agents were dispatched on two occasions 
in the summer of 2019. But a payment arrangement was in place then and repossession 
shouldnt have been pursued. I can understand that will have been distressing for Mr D and I 
would agree with the investigators view that Startline should pay him £100 to compensate 
him for the distress and inconvenience caused.
termination
Startline issued a late payment notice in December 2018 when Mr Ds account fell into 
arrears and when subsequent payments werent made a default notice was sent and the 
account was fairly terminated on 24 January 2019.
After the agreement was terminated Mr D decided to voluntarily surrender the car in August 
2019 and Startlines notes show that they explained the amount the car sold for would be 
debited from the balance on the account and Mr D would then have seven days to pay.
I cant see that Startline sent Mr D details of the charges they would seek to apply if he 
voluntarily surrendered the car. Theyve suggested that they would have been explained in 
the voluntary surrender documentation, but Ive not been provided with that and I dont think 
it would be fair to charge Mr D for items he was not warned he would be liable for. Those 
charges are £300 for the car recovery, £84 for auction charges and two unexplained £15 
charges. Altogether they total £414.
Mr D is upset that Startline didnt tell him how much the car sold for. But they did tell him 
hed be responsible for paying the outstanding debt after the car was sold and the proceeds 
were deducted from the outstanding balance. I understand Mr D claims to have been sent 
contradictory letters about what was owed but I think its clear had he wished to clarify that 
he could have contacted the business. He had been advised that the outstanding balance 
would need to be paid within seven days. So, I dont think Startline need to take any further 
action about this.
interest rebate
I understand that Mr D would like me to take into account the amount of time he had the car 
and all the circumstances of this complaint when considering if any interest should be 
waived. But as this account was defaulted, all sums due under it became payable. That 
includes the interest on the account, and I dont think it would be reasonable to tell Startline 
to waive that.
Putting things right
Startline should pay Mr D £100 to compensate him for the distress and inconvenience 
caused when they wrongly sought to repossess the car.
They should also remove the recoverable charges totalling £414 they have levied as Ive 
not seen sufficient evidence that Mr D was warned he would incur these charges.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above I uphold this complaint in part and tell STARTLINE 
MOTOR FINANCE LIMITED to:
pay Mr D £100 compensation for the distress and inconvenience hes experienced;
remove the recoverable charges totalling £414 they have made.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision before 9 June 2021.
 
Phillip McMahon
Ombudsman