DRN-4419605
The complaint
Mrs E is unhappy with the service received from BUPA Insurance Limited after it ended her 
private medical insurance policy and subsequent issues around its reinstatement.
What happened
Mrs E had the benefit of private medical insurance with BUPA for many years. Her monthly 
insurance premiums had been paid by a third party (who Ill refer to as Mr X), and who didnt 
live at the same address as her.  
Due to a deteriorating medical condition, Mrs E says Mr X stopped paying the monthly 
premiums. BUPA sent several letters, over a couple of months, addressed to Mrs E but to Mr 
Xs address reflecting that it was having trouble collecting the insurance premium. And when 
it didnt receive a reply  or receive payment  it wrote to Mrs E at her address in November 
2022 confirming that her policy had now ended. She was invited to contact BUPA if she 
wanted to reinstate cover without interruption so long as it was within three months of 1 
September 2022, and her premiums were brought up to date. 
Upon receipt of this letter, Mrs E promptly contacted BUPA looking to reinstate the policy. 
She explained that hers (and Mr Xs) son had Power of Attorney for Mr X. And that he would 
be able to arrange for the backdated insurance premium to 1 September 2022 to be paid as 
a lump sum (the lump sum payment) and set up a new direct debit going forwards for future 
monthly premiums. Ultimately the lump sum payment was paid, and the policy was 
reinstated at the beginning of December 2022. 
Subsequently, BUPA had issues collecting the monthly premiums due for January 2023. It 
contacted Mrs E and Mr Xs son to confirm that the account details hed given were correct. 
He confirmed that they were and asked BUPA to try collecting payment again. He asked 
BUPA to contact him again if there were any issues. 
Premiums were unable to be collected for January and then February 2023. BUPA wrote to 
Mrs E confirming that it was having trouble collecting the insurance premium and explained 
how she could contact it to make payment. 
Mrs E complained to BUPA about the service she received.
In its final response letter dated May 2023, BUPA accepted that it shouldve provided Mrs E 
with a better service and apologised. It clarified that the policy had been suspended with 
effect of 1 January 2023 as it had not received any monthly premiums since then. The policy 
subsequently ended in June 2023.
Mrs E complained to the Financial Ombudsman Service. Shed like BUPA to refund the lump 
sum payment made to have the policy reinstated after it ended in November 2022.
Our investigator looked into what happened and partially upheld Mrs Es complaint. She 
recommended BUPA pay her £150 compensation for distress and inconvenience.
BUPA didnt provide a response. So, this complaint has been passed to me to consider 
everything afresh to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
BUPA has an obligation to treat customers fairly.
In its final response letter BUPA accepts that it failed in several aspects when providing 
service to Mrs E including:
Not calling Mrs E or her son in February 2023 to confirm that premiums for January 
and February 2023 had failed. Im satisfied this was after BUPA had contacted Mrs E 
and Mr Xs son to confirm the account details for the direct debit. Hed asked BUPA 
to try to collect the payment again and, if unsuccessful, to call him back. 
Not calling Mrs E back on 17 February 2023 as requested. So, Mrs E had to call back 
to chase. I accept having to call BUPA back wouldve caused unnecessary 
inconvenience and from the calls Ive listened to, by this time, Im satisfied that Mrs E 
was becoming understandably upset.
A BUPA representative saying Mrs E would be fully protected under the policy 
moving forward, but it wasnt made clear what she meant by this. The same 
representative didnt then terminate the call properly. So, Mrs E overheard BUPAs 
representative receiving feedback about the call, including feedback that she 
shouldve given Mrs E clearer information. Im satisfied from listening to calls which 
took place shortly thereafter  including the call during which she raised her 
complaint in February 2023 - that Mrs E knew, having had the experience of being a 
policyholder for many years, that she wasnt covered for everything and there would 
be restrictions on her policy. However, I can also understand why she was concerned 
that the representative didnt terminate the call, leaving Mrs E to overhear the 
subsequent discussion she had with a colleague. And why this was another issue 
which started to erode her overall trust in BUPA and whether she was being given 
correct information. 
From listening to the call recordings, Im also persuaded that it wasnt made clear to Mrs E in 
initial phone calls that she had continuation of cover once the policy was reinstated. 
From listening to the call in February 2022, when Mrs E made her complaint to BUPA, its 
clear she was confused about what the policy wouldve in respect of matters which occurred 
during the period of time she was initially without cover due to the non-payment of premiums 
towards the end of 2022. I can understand why. I dont think this was properly explained to 
her as it ought to have been at the time. Although Im satisfied that the representative Mrs E 
spoke to during the call in which she raised her complaint did clarify the position for her and 
that the policy had been reinstated on a continuation basis. I accept this is likely to have 
been the position given that the membership certificate issued in December 2022 reflects 
that the policy start date to be 1 April 2022 (when it was last renewed) and the effective date 
of underwriting was many years before.
Overall, Im satisfied that Mrs E experienced unnecessary distress, confusion and 
inconvenience as a result of BUPAs service errors in this case. BUPA has said sorry for 
some of these errors in its final response letter, but I dont think an apology is sufficient to 
fairly reflect the impact on Mrs E.Im satisfied the apologies already provided together with £150 compensation more fairly 
reflects the distress and inconvenience experienced by Mrs E because of BUPAs service 
failings.
I dont think it would be fair and reasonable for BUPA to refund the lump sum payment which 
was paid to reinstate the policy and ensure no break in cover. Im satisfied that Mrs E was 
still able to benefit from the policy from 1 September to 31 December 2022 once the lump 
sum payment was made. And by reinstating the policy, BUPA had accepted the risk of a 
claim being made during this time. 
Putting things right
I direct BUPA to pay Mrs E £150 compensation for distress and inconvenience. 
My final decision
I partially uphold this complaint and direct BUPA Insurance Limited to put things right as set 
out above. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs E to accept or 
reject my decision before 28 November 2023.
 
David Curtis-Johnson
Ombudsman