DRN-1377755
The complaint
This complaint is about Mr and Mrs Bs mortgage with Paratus AMC Limited. The mortgage 
term has expired; Paratus say theres still an outstanding balance for which it has been 
considering legal action for possession of the mortgage property (albeit that is hold 
presently). 
Mr and Mrs B dispute the outstanding balance, saying its entirely extra interest and charges 
for which Paratus has repeatedly ignored their requests to provide a detailed calculation. 
Mr and Mrs B are also unhappy with an increase in their monthly instalment, and what they 
consider insulting and condescending comments made in one of Paratus letters, to them.
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties so I wont repeat them again 
here. Instead Ill focus on giving the reasons for my decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Were not the regulator of financial businesses, and we dont police their internal processes 
or how they operate generally. Thats the job of the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA).Whilst  
Mr B in particular has made much of a fine issued by the previous regulator against a 
predecessor business to Paratus, it wont form any part of my consideration of this case.
We deal with individual disputes between businesses and their customers. In doing that, we 
dont replicate the work of the courts. Were impartial, and we dont take either sides 
instructions on how we investigate a complaint. We conduct our investigations and reach our 
conclusions without interference from anyone else.
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
It seems to me that the very heart of the complaint is the outstanding balance that 
Mr and Mrs B say is invalid. Its quite apparent to me just how important a matter it is to 
them; they have submitted a calculation claiming that theyve been overcharged around 
£60,000, which is more than the outstanding balance. I have to say, though, that on the 
evidence before me, I couldnt fairly uphold this aspect of the complaint.
To explain why, it might help if I set out our starting position on complaints of over-charging 
or accounting errors generally; which is that the Financial Ombudsman Service doesnt 
provide an account checking service. Mr and Mrs B have provided their own version of what 
they think should have been charged over the years. Indeed, theyve gone back further than 
were able to go, given that this subject has, at least in part, been covered in previous 
complaints weve dealt with.
My difficulty is that Ive no reason to consider Mr and Mrs Bs calculations are any more or 
less correct than the official figures from Paratus. I dont know what methodology 
Mr and Mrs B have used for their calculations, and cant know if they contain errors and 
inaccuracies of their own. In short, I cant rely on these calculations or attach any evidential 
weight to them.
Mr and Mrs B say Paratus should provide calculations of its own to justify its claim. Im not 
sure that would help; if Mr and Mrs B didnt agree, I think it more likely than not that theyd 
simply continue to dispute the debt. Whats needed here, in effect, is a forensic check of the 
mortgage accounts by an independent party; this could at the same time deal with the 
monthly payment change that happened in the spring of 2019. 
If Mr and Mrs B remain of the view that Paratus have overcharged them, and that they have 
suffered financially as a result, it is for them to arrange for the account to be audited by a 
suitably qualified and independent party, and the evidence of the audit could then be used 
as the basis for a new complaint, but not as the basis for this one. I make the latter point 
because Paratus would need to be presented with the finished audit first, and be given the 
opportunity to consider and respond to it.
Mr and Mrs B would have to meet the cost of the audit, albeit if errors were found that were 
to Mr and Mrs Bs detriment, we would then expect Paratus to reimburse any reasonable 
cost of the audit as well as taking any corrective action the audit revealed to be necessary. 
But as things stand, the evidence available to me to consider does not persuade me that 
Mr and Mrs B have been overcharged by Paratus, or that it is mis-calculating their monthly 
instalment.
Mr and Mrs Bs concerns about the tone of some of Paratus comments fall into a rather 
subjective area. Everyone perceives things differently and one persons condescension is 
anothers plain speaking. As I understand it, Mr and Mrs B took exception in particular to a 
suggestion that they might wish to seek debt advice. I think that was intended to be helpful 
rather than insulting. In any event, its the kind of suggestion that the FCA encourages 
lenders to provide to people in difficulties and potentially at risk of losing their home.
Mr and Mrs B dont have to accept my conclusions, and if they dont, then neither they nor 
Paratus will be bound by my final decision. Subject to any time limits or other restrictions a 
court might impose, Mr and Mrs Bs right to take legal action against Paratus over the 
subject matter of this complaint wont have been prejudiced by our consideration of it. They 
wouldnt necessarily have to initiate court proceedings of their own to do that. 
In the event Paratus was to resume possession proceedings, Mr and Mrs B can, if they wish, 
ask the court to consider all of the arguments theyve presented here as part of their 
defence. 
For completeness, and to be clear, Im not saying Paratus should or will take legal action. Im 
merely reminding Mr and Mrs B that it can. However, there are new circumstances in play as 
a result of the unprecedented effects of the worldwide pandemic, and lenders have been 
given fresh guidance by the FCA on how to respond fairly to the current situations their 
borrowers present them with. 
Lenders presently cannot take repossession action, or further action, before 
31 October 2020. So this gives Mr and Mrs B some time to consider their options and see if 
a way forward can be found. I would urge them to maintain a productive dialogue with 
Paratus without recrimination over what has gone before.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint or make any award against 
Paratus AMC Limited. My final decision concludes this services consideration of this 
complaint, which means Ill not be engaging in any further consideration or discussion of the 
merits of it.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr and Mrs B to 
accept or reject my decision before 7 September 2020.
 
Jeff Parrington
Ombudsman