DRN-2442073
The complaint
Mr P is unhappy with the way that Lloyds Bank General Insurance Limited dealt with his 
home insurance claim for loss of personal items.
What happened
In February 2019 while visiting a hospital Mr P lost a bag containing a number of personal 
items such as a phone, wallet with cash and sunglasses.  He notified the hospital but the 
bag wasnt found. He made a claim to Lloyds. Because it had concerns that Mr P had made 
two previous claims including an identical one the year before, it appointed loss adjusters to 
investigate. They asked Mr P for receipts so as to validate the claim. Mr P is registered blind 
and advised that in his position he had found it difficult to keep receipts. He also said that 
Lloyds had paid out on previous claims without asking for receipts.
Mr P further advised that he had asked no less than eight times for an audio disk of the 
policy. As he hadnt had that he didnt know about his obligation to keep receipts. He 
explained that some of the items were gifts from people he was no longer in touch with. 
Lloyds said that as the items were less than a year old it shouldnt have been too difficult for 
Mr P to obtain evidence. 
On referral to this service our investigator asked Lloyds to decide whether or not it was going 
to pay or decline the claim. In the meantime Mr P had concerns with the way the loss 
adjusters were handing the claim. They had asked for information from his phone provider 
without getting his permission, and then asked him to give his consent to them asking for 
further information from the phone provider. He refused to give that consent.
Lloyds said that it was entitled under the terms of the policy to ask for information to validate 
a claim, and pointed out it had concerns that the same claim had been made the previous 
year. This was the third claim Mr P had made for a similar loss. Nevertheless it accepted that 
it hadnt provide the audio disk asked for despite the number of requests he had made for it. 
It agreed to pay him £200 compensation.
So far as the loss adjusters were concerned, there was an issue with Mr P calling from the 
number of the phone he had lost. He said he was able to do this as the phone was linked to 
his tablet and he was able to make calls from it. Nevertheless Lloyds said its loss adjusters 
had the right to ask for certain information without his consent and to ask him to give consent 
for other information. As he was unwilling to provide that consent Lloyds said it couldnt 
proceed any further. I understand that as a result Mr P has withdrawn the claim.
After further consideration our investigator said that Lloyds had acted reasonably.
The matter has been passed to me for further consideration. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I can understand that Mr P was upset that he should have been asked for receipts etc when 
Lloyds had paid previous claims without asking for them, and because of not having the 
audio disk, he didnt know the terms of the policy and that he might be required to keep 
them. But when a previous identical claim had been made I think that Lloyds acted 
reasonably in trying to establish that there was a genuine claim being made. It would have 
needed to establish that for example the items being claimed for had been bought after the 
previous claim. Here it appointed loss adjusters to carry out an investigation and they would 
have been able to advise on what sort of evidence they needed. If the items were less than a 
year old there should have been some sort of electronic record e.g. a mobile phone would 
usually have a contract. 
In any event Lloyds did agree to look further at the claim and it could possibly have explored 
further with Mr P the question of further evidence. But Mr P refused to co-operate further. I 
think the £200 compensation paid was appropriate but I dont think the lack of an audio disk 
meant Lloyds couldnt ask for further information.
The loss adjusters asked for information from Mr Ps phone provider without asking him first. 
I can understand that Mr P is upset that he was being treated with suspicion, but where an 
insurer has concerns it is entitled to follow them up. I cant say whether the request to the 
phone provider was within the data protection laws, as that is a matter Mr P would need to 
take up with the Information Commissioner. 
As for asking for Mr Ps consent to provide further information, I think thats reasonable. He 
was previously prepared to co-operate but refused to engage further with the loss adjusters 
as a point of principle. Whilst I can understand Mr Ps position, I dont think hes been treated 
unfairly. Its always up to the policyholder to show to the insurer that they have a valid claim 
My final decision
I dont uphold the complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision before 14 January 2021.
 
Ray Lawley
Ombudsman