DRN-2292830
The complaint
Mr B is unhappy that a car supplied to him under a fixed sum loan agreement with 
Santander Consumer (UK) Plc was of an unsatisfactory quality.
What happened
On 11 February 2019, Mr B was supplied with a used BMW car through a fixed sum loan 
agreement with Santander. Mr B paid a £5,000 deposit and the agreement was for £21,500 
over 36 months, with monthly repayments of £651. At the time, the car was almost six years 
old and had done 35,799 miles. 
Mr B was unhappy with the quality of the car because the Pedestrian Protection System 
warning light was on, the air conditioning and cigarette lighter didnt work, and there was a 
problem with the wheels and tyres which Mr B said was causing the car to wander around 
the motorway in an unsafe manner. And he said hed been told the car had been fitted with 
new BMW alloy wheels and tyres. This was important to him and he said it was the reason 
why hed chosen this particular car  hed travelled further to get the car rather than buy a 
more local and cheaper car because of these alloys. 
But instead of being genuine BMW wheels advertised, Mr B said the wheels were cheap 
imports. And a BMW dealership confirmed in June 2019 that the car wasnt fitted with 
correctly rated tyres and the incorrect size had been fitted.
Mr B complained to the supplying dealership about the problems with the car on 25 February 
2019. But the dealership wouldnt repair the car under warranty. And they werent willing to 
replace the wheels and tyres because they were the wheels and tyres on the car when Mr B 
test drove it. So Mr B wanted to reject the car as it was unfit for purpose.
Mr B had a minor collision in the car in April 2019 and, when it went in for repair, the air 
conditioning and a leaking radiator were fixed at no cost to Mr B.
On 6 June 2019, Mr B complained to Santander that the air conditioning unit was faulty, the 
wrong tyres had been fitted, the car was pulling to one side, and there were issues with the 
gearbox. But Santander said theyd been unable to investigate the complaint because Mr B 
had already started legal proceedings against them and the dealership. Mr B wasnt happy 
with Santanders response, and he brought his complaint to us for investigation. He also put 
the court action on hold so we could investigate matters.
While the investigation into Mr Bs complaint was ongoing, the dealership agreed to buy 
back the car from him. In January 2020 they paid him £29,000 - £15,484 to clear the 
outstanding balance with Santander, and the remainder to cover the instalments Mr B had 
paid, his deposit, and his court fees.
But Mr B also wanted Santander to pay him £772 a week for breach of contract and loss of 
use of the car, £100 for him having to attend a pre-trial hearing, £731 for his car insurance, 
£225 for a garage bill and £20 a day storage costs for the time the car was at his property 
but wasnt being used. Mr B additionally wanted Santander to pay him £972 interest on the 
deposit and instalments hed paid them. This all totalled £41,438.
Our investigator said the problem with the Pedestrian Protection System warning light being 
on was an advisory on the MOT of 29 November 2018 - before Mr B was supplied with the 
car - and he complained to the dealership about this within a few weeks after supply. So she 
was satisfied this fault existed when the car was supplied. And shed seen no evidence that 
itd been repaired.
The investigator also said that the air conditioning and radiator were both fixed, at no cost to 
Mr B, in April 2019. But, because Mr B hadnt raised these issues within 30 days of supply, 
the investigator said that the repair was a fair remedy, and nothing else needed to be done.
The investigator thought that the description of the wheels on the supplying dealerships 
advert would likely make anyone think that the wheels were genuine BMW wheels. And this 
was an important factor in Mr B buying this particular car. But the wheels werent genuine 
BMW wheels, and werent fitted with the correctly rated and sized tyres. 
Because of this, she thought the car had been misrepresented, and that Mr B wouldnt have 
had this particular car had he known the wheels werent genuine. So she thought the wheels 
shouldve either been replaced with genuine BMW wheels  which didnt happen  or that Mr 
B shouldve been allowed to reject the car.
Because Mr B had used the car for around 3-months, and travelled about 3,000 miles, 
before he stopped using it; the investigator said itd be fair to allow Santander to retain three 
monthly payments and refund the remaining eight to Mr B. Along with his deposit. And pay 
him interest on the amount refunded. 
She said shed also expect Santander to pay Mr B £250 to compensate him for the distress 
and inconvenience hed been caused, as well as paying his court costs and giving him a pro-
rata refund on his car insurance  from late May 2019 (when he stopped using the car) to 
late January 2020 (when the dealership brought it back from him).
However, because Mr B had already received more from the dealership than shed 
recommend Santander pay him, the investigator didnt think Santander needed to do 
anything more.
Mr B didnt agree with the investigator. He said that he believed the distress and 
inconvenience hed suffered was extreme  he was without the use of the car from late May 
2019 to late January 2020, during which time he still had to pay £651 a month, causing him 
hardship - so the award should be at least £5,000, not the £250 recommended. He also said 
he had to store the car at his property during this period, so Santander should compensate 
him for the at least £6,000 - £25 a day  theyd saved in storage costs. So Mr B asked for an 
ombudsman to make a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In considering this complaint Ive had regard to the relevant law and regulations; any 
regulators rules, guidance and standards, codes of practice, and (if appropriate) what I 
consider was good industry practice at the time. Mr B was supplied with a car under a fixed 
sum loan agreement. This is a regulated consumer credit agreement which means were 
able to look into complaints about it. The relevant law  the Consumer Rights Act 2015 (CRA) - says, amongst other things, that 
the car shouldve been of a satisfactory quality when supplied. And if it wasnt, as the 
supplier of goods, Santander are responsible.  Whats satisfactory is determined by what a 
reasonable person would consider satisfactory given the price, description other relevant 
circumstances. In a case like this, this would include things like the age and mileage at the 
time of sale; and the vehicles history. 
The CRA also says that, where a fault is identified within the first six months, its assumed 
that the fault was present when the car was supplied. So, if I thought the car was faulty when 
Mr B took possession of it, and this made the car not of a satisfactory quality, itd be fair and 
reasonable to ask Santander to put this right.
The basic facts of this case arent in dispute. Mr B was supplied with a car that had a pre-
existing fault  the Pedestrian Protection System warning light was on - and this fault was 
recorded on the MOT that took place 3-months before Mr B took possession of the car. Mr B 
complained about this within a few weeks of having the car. The car spent a month with a 
BMW dealership having other repairs done, but this wasnt fixed. So, Im satisfied that, under 
the CRA, this made the car of an unsatisfactory quality.
The car was advertised with 20 Light Alloy M Double-spoke Wheels. And the wheels had a 
BMW logo on them. So Mr B believed them to be genuine BMW wheels. He was later told by 
a BMW dealership that these werent genuine BMW wheels, but a cheaper wheel made to 
look like a genuine BMW one. And the wrong tyres were fitted, which resulted in the car 
having handling problems.
Misrepresentation occurs when a false statement of fact is made, and that false statement of 
fact induces someone to enter into a contract they otherwise wouldnt have done. Mr B has 
explained that he travelled further, and paid more, to buy this particular car because of the 
wheels. Im satisfied that both the advert and the look of the wheels led Mr B to believe they 
were genuine BMW wheels. And Im satisfied he took the car for this reason. So, regardless 
of whether the incorrect tyres also made the car of an unsatisfactory quality or not, Im also 
satisfied that misrepresentation took place.
Because of both the unsatisfactory quality of the car at the point of supply, and the 
misrepresentation over the wheels, Im in agreement that Mr B should be allowed to reject 
the car, and the finance agreement unwound. And this is what happened in January 2020. 
So the only point I need to consider is whether the compensation Mr B received was 
sufficient. And I believe it was, for the following reasons.
Mr B had the car from 11 February 2019 to 27 January 2020  a period of almost a year. 
During this period he paid Santander 11 instalment payments, totalling £7,167. He also paid 
an initial deposit of £5,000. Which means he paid a total of £12,167.
Mr B had problems with the car from the outset, so his use of the car was impaired. But he 
did travel around 3,000 miles in the time he had possession of the car. And its only fair that 
a deduction is made for this. Mr B has said that he drove his car from 11 February to 24 April 
2019, when it went in for repair. He then had a courtesy car from 24 April to 28 May 2019. 
After which point the courtesy car went back, and the supplied car wasnt used again.
The investigator recommended three monthly payments be deducted and, given the time Mr 
B actually used the car (or the courtesy car), I dont think this is unreasonable. So Id expect 
Mr B to receive a refund of the £5,000 deposit he paid, and £5,208 of the payments he paid. 
Id also expect interest to be paid on the refunded amount  8% simple interest from the date 
of each payment to the date of the refund. And I calculate this to be approx. £500.Its not disputed that Mr B didnt use the car from late May 2019 until late January 2020  a 
period of around 8-months. During which time he was insuring the car. So itd be reasonable 
for him to receive a pro-rata refund on his car insurance for this. Mr B paid £731 for his 
annual car insurance, so he should receive a refund of £548.
Mr B also took Santander and the supplying dealership to court for supplying a car that 
wasnt fit for purpose. Although he withdrew his claim through the courts so that we could 
consider the complaint, Ive seen that he still paid £410 in court costs. And had he been 
allowed to reject the car when he first asked to do so, as I think shouldve happened, this 
wouldnt have needed to be paid. So I agree that this should also be refunded to him.
Mr B thinks that Santander should pay him storage costs for the time he had the car and 
wasnt using it. Had Mr B left the car at the dealership, and been charged storage for this, 
them Id agree that Santander should cover this. But this didnt happen. And Mr B had an 
obligation to mitigate his losses  by taking the car back and storing it at home. And Ive not 
seen that Mr B had any direct financial losses as a result of storing the car at home. So I 
dont think Santander should pay him his requested storage costs. But I will consider the 
inconvenience of Mr B having to store the car at his home as part of my overall remedy.
Mr B also believes that Santander should also pay him for their breach of contract and for 
the loss of use of the car. I consider breach of contract to be a legal matter, and this is 
something best dealt with by the courts. But Mr B chose to withdraw his claim from court so 
that we could consider his complaint. 
So, when looking at whats the most appropriate remedy in the circumstances, Im only 
considering Mr Bs direct financial losses and the distress and inconvenience he 
experienced. And I havent seen anything to show me that Mr B had any additional transport 
or other costs as a result of him not being able to use the car. So I wont be recommending 
anything for loss of use.
Based on the above, Id expect Mr B to have received a total refund of £11,666. But Id also 
expect Mr B to be compensated for the distress and inconvenience he was caused by the 
problems he had with the car, and because he had to store it at home, unused, for a number 
of months. The investigator recommended £250 for this, but Mr B thought it should be more.
Ive seen that the dealership bought the car back from Mr B for £29,000. And £15,484 of this 
was used to repay the loan with Santander. Which left Mr B with £13,516. For the reasons 
stated, Id have expected Mr B to have been refunded £11,666. Which means that he 
actually received £1,850 more than the expected refund. Im satisfied that £1,850 is more 
that Id have directed for the distress and inconvenience Mr B suffered; even if the £225 he 
says he contributed towards a garage diagnostic fee is deducted. So, for these reasons, I 
wont be asking Santander to pay anything more.
My final decision
For the reasons explained above I dont uphold Mr Bs complaint about Santander 
Consumer (UK) Plc.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 22 March 2021.
 
Andrew Burford
Ombudsman