DRN-2640544
The complaint
 Mr T complains that Hub Financial Solutions Limited (company number 05125701) (Hub) 
(represented by its appointed representative, Corinthian Pension Consulting Ltd, later 
renamed Hub Pension Consulting Ltd company number 08212953) caused unnecessary
delay in setting up his annuity and he lost out.
What happened
Mr T said he wanted to take an enhanced transfer value from his occupational pension 
scheme and use it to purchase an annuity. He started to take steps towards this in late 2018 
but the annuity wasnt put in place until summer 2019. In the meantime, the amount the 
annuity would pay reduced. He thought he had lost out due to Hubs delays.
Hub didnt agree and didnt think there had been any unreasonable delay. It accepted that it
hadnt kept Mr T up to date and offered to pay £250 for the upset and worry. 
I issued a provisional decision in this case. In short, I said the following.
It seemed much of the time delay from early contact with Hub in late 2018 was due to the
need to wait for the transfer details from the occupational pension scheme and the health 
information from Mr Ts GP. Mr T supplied the missing medical information on 21 February 
2019 and had a phone consultation with Hub on 4 March 2019 and on 27 March it issued its
recommendation to Mr T which showed an expected annual income of £6,742.44. I thought
these were reasonable time periods for Hub to do what was needed.
Mr T said there were some errors in the way the medical information had been recorded and 
corrected them. Hub submitted the corrected information and a new recommendation was 
issued on 29 March 2019, but the expected income was now £6,458.40. HUB said annuity 
quotes were only available for a limited period and so requotes were needed between the 27 
and 29 March. Its final report highlighted the date to which the annuity was guaranteed and 
that delays in paperwork would mean that a new quote was needed. It said the delay from 
27 to 29 March didnt impact the annuity rate but the medical information meant the quote 
was lower.
I had sight of the annuity quotes from 27 and 29 March. I could see that the quotes from 27 
March showed no difference in the highest annuity on offer between an enhanced and non-
enhanced rate. Similarly, when a requote was completed on 29 March there was again no 
difference between the enhanced and non-enhanced rate, but the highest quote was now 
lower than it was on 27 March and was from a different provider.
It seemed to me that the delay between the two quotes resulted in a lower quote, but it didnt 
seem the lower quote was due to the change in medical information as Hub suggested. I 
said that because there was again no difference between the enhanced and nonenhanced 
rate quoted, so it wasnt the change in information that made the quote lower. It seemed 
instead the need to resubmit the quote in the light of corrected information had caused a 
delay that has resulted in a lower quote.
It seemed that it was Hub that incorrectly completed the health information and caused the 
need to correct and resubmit the quote and hence caused the delay and the lower annuity 
rate which was finally accepted.
Even if I was wrong in that conclusion, I noted that the highest non enhanced quote from 27 
March said that it was valid until 10 April 2019. So, it seemed that by 29 March Mr T could 
still have accepted the higher non enhanced quote from 27 March.
Either way Hubs actions have resulted in Mr T suffering as his annuity was now lower than it 
couldve been. I therefore considered whether to make an award for financial loss and 
distress and inconvenience.
In measuring loss, the law would seek to put Mr T back in the position he wouldve been in 
but for that mistake. That would mean that Mr T would receive an annuity income at the 
higher rate quoted on 27 March 2019 and subject to the same terms for the remainder of his 
life. I thought Mr T had lost out in the following ways.
Past loss
Mr T has been receiving a lower income than wouldve been the case with the higher 
annuity. I thought that his past loss was the difference between the amount he had been 
paid net of tax and the amount he wouldve been paid net of tax from the higher annuity 
which offered £6,742.44 per annum. As Mr T lost the use of that money such amounts 
should have interest added at the rate of 8% per annum simple from the date each payment 
shouldve been paid to the date of payment to Mr T.
Future loss
Going forward Mr T was continuing to receive a lower income. In order to put Mr T back in 
the position he wouldve been in Hub would need to provide him with an additional annuity 
income on the same terms as his existing annuity in terms of guarantee period, spouses 
pension etc, that makes up the difference between the amount he is currently entitled to and 
the amount he shouldve been entitled to under the higher annuity. I had in mind that Hub 
would pay the current insurer such amount as it requires to increase his annuity to the level it 
shouldve been.
I considered an award for distress and inconvenience. Such an award was intended to 
reflect the impact on Mr T. I could see he suffered from lack of update communication, errors 
in application forms and some delay to the time he could make a final decision and the 
disappointment of a lower income. On balance I thought an award of £500 was fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances. I noted however that Hub had already paid an amount of 
£250 so only a further £250 needed to be paid.
I didnt think my proposed direction affected the amount of tax-free cash that was paid to Mr 
T nor the amount of the lifetime allowance used at the time. But I invited HUB to comment 
before I issued any final decision if they thought my conclusion was wrong.
I proposed to uphold this complaint and direct that Hub Financial Solutions Limited should 
pay Mr T compensation for past and future loss of income on the basis outlined above and a 
further £250 for distress and inconvenience which was in addition to the amount of £250
already paid.
Mr T accepted my provisional decision.Hub said it had identified that its internal procedures had led to the position for Mr T. It had 
done a thorough investigation and was changing its processes to make sure this didnt 
happen again. It noted that it needed to make a payment of £250 for distress and 
inconvenience and would calculate the loss due to the lower annuity.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so I note that both parties have accepted my view and I have not changed my 
mind.
Hub didnt comment on whether this change had an impact on Mr Ts tax-free cash and 
lifetime allowance. Should it subsequently come to light that it wouldve made a difference to 
this award Mr T may need to raise a further complaint in relation to that.
Putting things right  
In order to put things right, Hub needs to implement my award set out below.
My final decision
I uphold this compliant.
I direct that Hub Financial Solutions Limited should: -
1.arrange to pay Mr Ts existing annuity provider such amount as it says is required to 
increase Mr Ts current annuity for the future, to the level that he should be receiving i.e. at 
the level of the higher quote provided on 27 March (which offered £6,742.44 per annum). 
In the unlikely event the existing annuity provider cant extend Mr Ts current annuity to the 
higher level, Hub Financial Solutions Limited will need to put in place alternative provision to 
make up the shortfall in Mr Ts income for the future. This should ideally be with another 
annuity provider on the same terms as his current annuity with respect to guarantee periods, 
any increases and spouses pension. 
2. pay Mr T the difference between the amount Mr T has been paid net of tax from his 
current annuity and the amount he wouldve been paid net of tax from the higher annuity 
(which offered £6,742.44 per annum) from the date his annuity started to the date of the 
increased future payments commencing under 1. above. As Mr T lost the use of that money 
such amounts should have interest added at the rate of 8% per annum simple from the date 
each payment shouldve been paid to the date of payment to Mr T.
3. pay Mr T a further £250 for distress and inconvenience which is in addition to the amount 
of £250 already paid.
If Hub Financial Solutions Limited deducts any income tax from the interest payment under 2 
above it should provide Mr T with such certificates as he requires to confirm that such 
deduction has been made.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr T to accept or 
reject my decision before 4 April 2021.
 
Colette Bewley
Ombudsman