DRN-4422830
The complaint
Mr A complains that HSBC UK Bank Plc (HSBC) wont refund £4,690 he lost to an 
employment scam in March 2023.
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat everything 
again here.
In brief summary, Mr A fell victim to a job-task scam after he was contacted by a recruiter 
(the scammer) offering a remote employment opportunity. He was told he would have to 
log in everyday and complete two tasks, for which he would be paid $500USD every five 
days. However, Mr A was told that he would need to temporarily top up his work account 
with his own money whenever it fell into deficit following completion of a task, which he could 
do by sending cryptocurrency via Binance.  
He was instructed to open a crypto wallet with Binance and made the following payments to 
purchase and send cryptocurrency whenever his job account fell into deficit:
Date Payee Payment method Amount
31/03/2023 Binance Debit card £20
03/04/2023 Binance Debit card £40
04/04/2023 Binance Debit card £330
04/04/2023 Binance Debit card £1,000
04/04/2023 Binance Debit card £1,800
05/04/2023 Binance Debit card £1,500
Total: £4,690
Mr A later realised he had been scammed and asked HSBC to consider refunding the 
money he lost. However, it said it wouldnt reimburse the payments as he had authorised 
them. Mr A thought that HSBC should have done more to protect him from the scam so he 
referred the matter to this service.
Our investigator upheld the complaint. She thought HSBC ought to have intervened from the 
£1,800 payment he made on 4 April 2023. Had it done so, she thought the scam would have 
been revealed and any further loss prevented. The investigator therefore recommended that 
HSBC refund the money Mr A lost from this point onwards, albeit with a deduction of 50% in 
recognition of Mr As own contribution towards his loss. 
HSBC agreed to settle the complaint on this basis and paid the settlement in line with the 
investigators recommendations. But Mr A disagreed, as he didnt think it was fair that his 
compensation was being reduced by 50%. As he didnt agree, the matter has been 
escalated to me to determine.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the conclusions reached by the investigator as Im satisfied the 
settlement HSBC has since paid to Mr A is fair for the following reasons:
It isnt in dispute that Mr A has fallen victim to a scam here, nor that he authorised the 
payments he made to his Binance wallet using his HSBC debit card. The payments were 
requested by him using his legitimate security credentials provided by HSBC, and the 
starting position is that banks ought to follow the instructions given by their customers in 
order for legitimate payments to be made as instructed.
However, as the investigator has explained, there are some situations in which a bank 
should reasonably have had a closer look at the circumstances surrounding a particular 
transfer. For example, if it was particularly out of character. Im satisfied that there was 
not enough cause for HSBC to be concerned about the payments Mr A was making prior 
to the £1,800 payment he made on 4 April 2023. The amounts were not unusual, and 
neither would they be considered a significant deviation from Mr As normal level of 
spending. I appreciate they were identifiably going to a cryptocurrency platform, which 
carries its own heightened risk of fraud. But as Ive explained, the first four payments 
were low in value, so there wouldnt have been reasonable cause for HSBC to think that 
Mr A was at risk of financial harm. 
However, by the time he came to make the payment of £1,800, this was then the third 
payment made to the same merchant in the same day. Payments like this made in quick 
succession can often be indicative of fraud, and HSBC has accepted that it ought to 
have questioned Mr A about this payment before processing it. It has also accepted that 
it wouldve likely revealed the scam and prevented any further loss if it had intervened, 
so I dont consider it necessary to explore this point any further given its no longer in 
dispute. Im therefore satisfied HSBC is liable to refund payments five and six listed in 
the table above.
What remains in dispute in this case is whether Mr A should share responsibility for his 
loss, which Ive thought about carefully. In doing so, Ive considered what the law says 
about contributory negligence, as well as what I consider to be fair and reasonable in all 
of the circumstances of this complaint. 
I can see Mr A was told that the tasks were very simple and could be completed in one 
hour, for which he would receive an income of $500USD every five days. I think this level 
of remuneration ought to have seemed highly unrealistic for very quick and simple tasks. 
I note that Mr A also told HSBC that it had not been explained to him why a negative 
balance kept appearing on his account, but was just told that it was part of the terms and 
conditions that he would need to pay his own money to bring the account back into 
surplus in order to be paid. This ought reasonably to have given Mr A significant cause 
for concern, yet he continued to make payments despite not fully understanding the 
reason why. Mr A also doesnt appear to have a contract of employment with the 
company he thought he was working for. Mr A says he saw positive reviews about the 
company on Trustpilot, but Im not satisfied this was enough for him to be sure that his job was legitimate. 
Based on all of these factors, Im satisfied Mr A should reasonably have been concerned 
by the repeated and seemingly unexpected requests for him to make increasingly large 
payments as part of his job. But it doesnt appear that he made reasonable enquiries into 
the legitimacy of his employment or what he was being asked to do. So, I think Mr A did 
have a role to play in what happened and I think that the amount HSBC should pay to 
him in compensation should fairly and reasonably be reduced to reflect that role. Given 
how serious I think Mr As concerns about the legitimacy of his employment ought 
reasonably to have been, I think that a fair deduction is 50%.
Putting things right
In line with my findings above, I would have directed HSBC to:
Refund 50% of the final two payments listed in the payment table above (totalling 
£1,650).
Pay 8% simple interest per year on this amount from the date of loss until the date of 
settlement.
However, Im aware that HSBC has already settled the complaint in line with this direction 
following the investigators recommendations. As a result, it does not need to take any 
further action in response to this decision.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I uphold this complaint. But as Ive already explained, HSBC 
does not need to take any further action given it has already paid the settlement to Mr A.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision before 27 December 2023.
 
Jack Ferris
Ombudsman