DRN-4102982
The complaint
Mr C complains that Financial Administration Services Limited (referred to as FASL, or the 
business), failed to inform him about diversification before he incurred losses on his 
investment ISA.  
To put things right, hed like the business to refund the financial losses incurred. 
What happened
The investment ISA, originally with a different business, was transferred to FASL in 
September 2021. Mr C says that since then the investment has performed poorly, and hes 
lost approximately 17% of its original value. 
He says that after 14 months, FASL sent him a letter, asking if the investment was diverse 
enough  as it only held one or two funds. It went on to explain the benefits of 
diversification. 
Although Mr C accepts that FASL doesnt offer advice, he feels that had he been made 
aware (sooner) that his investment wasnt diverse enough, he couldve taken action to 
prevent the loss. 
The business didnt uphold the complaint. In summary, it said: 
It was for its customers, following the move from the previous business, to familiarize 
themselves with its offerings. It offered an execution only service and not advice. 
The marketing material was only there to raise awareness. 
The investment proposition didnt offer advice. It was for the investors to do their own 
research. 
The investment performance is linked to the financial markets and not something that 
the business can predict or control, therefore its not responsible for any financial 
losses claimed. 
One of our investigators considered the complaint but didnt think it should be upheld. In 
summary, he said:
FASL provided an execution only service, therefore it wasnt obliged to provide any 
advice. 
It was Mr Cs responsibility to familiarise himself with the new platform and its terms 
and conditions. 
In a response dated August 2022, the business made clear that investments can be 
affected by market volatility. Furthermore, in this instance, whilst Mr Cs investment 
was held on a FASL platform, it was still managed by the previous business. 
Mr C was offered an adviser linked service, but to date hasnt taken up the offer. 
Its fair to say that the investment performance was down to market conditions and 
nothing to do with the business. Its not something that the business could predict or 
control and therefore not something it should be held responsible for.  
On page eight of the terms and conditions, under the heading What risks are there 
when I invest my money? it states:
oTheir value: The value of any investment you make  and any income you 
receive from it  can go down as well as up. This means you could get back 
less than the amount you invest.  
It also states:
oYou should regularly review your account to check it is meeting your needs 
both now and for the future.  
The onus is on the consumer (investor) to review the investment and make sure its 
right for them. In other words, the decision about the funds and how the investment 
should operate was for Mr C. 
Mr C disagreed with the investigators view and asked for an ombudsmans decision. In 
summary, he made the following observations:
The business correctly alerted him about the risk of lack of diversification and only 
did so under its obligations under the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA) Customer 
Duty provisions  namely duties at 1.9, 5.20 and 5.24.  
However, it failed to alert him when this was reasonably foreseeable - when it took 
over. 
The businesss actions caused him foreseeable harm through its late alert. 
It failed to engage with him to enable him to make effective, timely and properly 
informed decisions, thus preventing him from doing so himself.  
As no agreement has been reached, the matter has been passed to me for review.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the investigators conclusion for much the same reasons. Im 
not going to uphold this complaint. 
On the face of the evidence, and on balance, despite what Mr C says, I cant safely say that 
the business behaved unreasonably  by not sending him a letter notifying him about 
diversification sooner  such that this complaint should be upheld. 
Before I explain why this is the case, I think its important for me to note I very much 
recognise Mr Cs strength of feeling about this matter. He has provided submissions to 
support the complaint, which Ive read and considered carefully. However, I hope he wont 
take the fact my findings focus on what I consider to be the central issues, and not in as 
much detail, as a discourtesy. 
The purpose of my decision isnt to address every single point raised under a separate 
subject heading, its not what Im required to do in order to reach a decision in this case. My 
role is to consider the evidence presented by him and the business, and reach what I think is 
an independent, fair and reasonable decision based on the facts of the case. 
In deciding whats fair and reasonable, I must consider the relevant law, regulation, and best 
industry practice, but unlike a court or tribunal Im not bound by this. Its for me to decide, 
based on the information Ive been given, whats more likely than not to have happened.
I dont uphold this complaint, in brief, for the following reasons:I note Mr C accepts that FASL doesnt offer advice, however, still feels that it 
shouldve notified him about the diversification issue (sooner)  but in the 
circumstances, and on balance, I dont agree that it should have or that it has done 
anything wrong by not doing so. 
FASL provided an execution only service, which meant it didnt offer advice but only 
acted upon instructions provided by investors. It also isnt responsible for any 
management, fund strategy or asset allocation, so Mr C would need to discuss this 
with the previous business which was managing the fund(s). 
It was for Mr C to decide whether (or not) a particular course of action was suitable 
for him as the business wasnt obliged to provide any advice. 
On balance, I agree that it was a matter for him how he dealt with his investment(s) 
and was up to him to familiarise himself with the new platform, and its terms and 
conditions.  
Because the business doesnt offer advice, it wasnt under an obligation to notify Mr 
C of any issue with diversification, therefore it hasnt done anything wrong by not 
doing so sooner. 
Despite what Mr C says, even if it had informed him about diversification 14 months 
ago, I still cant safely say that he wouldnt have lost money. I note the business says 
that diversification can, but not always will, help to smooth out some of the turbulence 
 but its no guarantee that the value of the investment wont still go down.  
On balance, Im satisfied that on this occasion the business notified Mr C of the 
diversification issue and it did so for marketing reasons and to raise awareness about 
whats on offer. Thats why the information provided in relation to the issue doesnt 
count as advice. I note the letter to Mr C was a standard letter that probably went 
out to all its customers in a similar position, and not one that was specifically drafted 
for him. I note the third and final bullet point  on page one of two  made clear that if 
he was looking for a personal recommendation, he might like to speak to one of its 
personal advisers which he could do so by calling the number or visiting its website. 
Im satisfied that it was for Mr C to do his own research (get financial advice if 
necessary) before deciding what to do.   
In this instance, and on balance, I cant blame the business for any financial losses 
Mr C might have incurred, because it isnt responsible for them. 
Ive seen nothing to suggest that the investment wasnt moved to FASL correctly. I 
note the transfer was in-specie, therefore Mr Cs money remained invested 
throughout this process.   
I appreciate what Mr C says about the FCA Customer Duty principles, but that 
came into force on 31 July 2023, and the actions he refers to pre-date this scenario 
and therefore dont apply  because the provisions dont apply retrospectively. In any 
event, even if they did, on balance I cant say that the business did anything wrong 
because this was an execution only service therefore it wasnt obliged to offer any 
kind of advice in terms of the investment and what should happen to it.
I appreciate that Mr C will be thoroughly unhappy that Ive reached the same conclusion as 
the investigator. Furthermore, I realise my decision isnt what he wants to hear. Whilst I 
appreciate his frustration, Im not persuaded to require the business to do anything. 
In other words, on the face of the available evidence, and on balance, Im unable to uphold 
this complaint and give him what he wants.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I dont uphold this complaint. Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 17 October 2023.
 
Dara Islam
Ombudsman