DRN-4414268
The complaint
Miss V has complained that Great Lakes Insurance SE unfairly declined a claim on her pet 
insurance policy and that it gave her incorrect advice.
What happened
Miss V took out a pet insurance policy with Great Lakes to cover her dog. Miss V was 
advised by her vet to have her dog spayed due to the dogs recurring phantom pregnancies. 
She phoned Great Lakes and asked whether the procedure would be covered by her policy. 
She was told it would be covered if her vet recommended it to prevent further phantom 
pregnancies.
 
The operation was carried out in February 2022 and Miss V put in a claim to Great Lakes 
shortly after. In May 2022 Great Lakes l declined the claim saying that the policy didnt cover 
routine or preventative treatment. It said as a gesture of goodwill and apology it would pay 
Miss V £40.
Miss V said the spaying wasnt routine or preventative but was instead prescribed treatment.  
As Great Lakes didnt change its decision, Miss V brought a complaint to this service. Our 
Investigator thought Great Lakes had acted fairly in declining the claim in line with the policy 
terms. But she recommended that Great Lakes should increase its compensation to £150 for 
the trouble and upset caused by it giving her incorrect information.
As Miss V didnt agree, the matter has been referred to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
To decide whether Great Lakes acted fairly, Ive looked at the policy terms and conditions. 
Under the heading Routine treatments or treatments that have not been prescribed the 
policy says:
We will not pay for any routine or preventative healthcare, for example, vaccinations, tick, 
worming and flea treatments, grooming and nailcare, spaying and neutering.
So it is clear that under the policy terms spaying is excluded from cover if it is done for 
reasons of routine or preventative healthcare.
Ive looked at the dogs clinical history. In 2021 the dog first showed signs of a false 
pregnancy. She had a mild temperature and displayed hormonal changes. The vet 
prescribed an anti-inflammatory injection and said:
If ongoing issue then can consider starting on galastop. 
In May 2022 the vet noted:
Has had a false pregnancy in the past. Some mammary development/sagging but O says 
this is from previous false pregnancy.
Discussed spay  book in 2 months time but advise for nurse to check just before op to 
check she is not false pregnant.
In November 2022 the vet noted that the dog was having another phantom pregnancy. The 
notes say:
Advised to give galastop and then to book for spay once the symptoms have resolved. Spay 
is required to prevent future pyometra and also to take away the behavioural and anatomical 
symptoms of false pregnancy.
Order in galastop Book recheck in 2-3 weeks to check false preg has subsided and then 
book spay in late Dec or early Jan.
By mid December there was still modest amount of fluid on mammary glands, clearish, they 
have shrunk up in size considerably, spaying advised in -3mnths.
The dog was spayed in February 2023.
Miss Vs vet said The reason to spay was to stop these repeated heavy false pregnancies 
and prevent pyometra in later life which is a high risk factor in dogs that have false 
pregnancies and also for welfare reasons as she was getting false pregnancies after every 
season.
I dont think the spaying was treatment for the phantom pregnancy, I say that because the 
vet referred to spaying once the symptoms of the false pregnancy had subsided. Im 
satisfied this is a future event the vet was seeking to prevent.  So it seems to me spaying 
wasnt done to treat a phantom pregnancy  that had been treated by Galastop  spaying 
was to prevent further phantom pregnancies in future. 
It follows I think it was fair for Great Lakes to rely on the policy exclusion for preventative 
healthcare to decline this claim.
Ive also looked at whether Great Lakes misled Miss V in the phone call when she queried 
whether spaying would be covered by the policy. During the call Great Lakes call handler 
advised that spaying would be covered provided Miss Vs vet recommended the operation to 
prevent further phantom pregnancies. Great Lakes did provide incorrect information which 
created an expectation in Miss Vs mind that her claim would be paid. Understandably it 
would have been very disappointing for Miss V to find that this was not the case. I agree that 
Great Lakes should compensate Miss V for this and agree that a total of £150 is appropriate 
in the circumstances.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I uphold this complaint in part and require Great Lakes 
Insurance SE to pay Miss V a further £110 compensation for the trouble and upset it caused 
her. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss V to accept 
or reject my decision before 29 November 2023.
 
Elizabeth GrantOmbudsman