DRN-1726708
 
The complaint
Mr B complained to TSB Bank Plc (TSB) that during September 2018 he was unable to 
access historical bank statements online due to an IT issue. Mr B contacted TSB about this 
problem, and they said that they would post a copy of Mr Bs statement to him. This never 
happened. Mr B is not happy that he spent many hours on the telephone trying to get access 
to historical statements. Specifically, Mr B wanted to check a payment transfer from 2015. 
Mr B had experienced similar issues in April 2018 but says TSB have resolved that 
complaint.  
What happened
In September Mr B attempted to access his historical bank statements online but was unable 
to do so; he confirms that he had been able to do this previously. Mr B had wanted to check 
a specific transaction that was for £20,000 which was a transfer between his accounts; he 
wanted to check that the money had gone to the right account.
Mr B tried accessing his online statement for a week but was not able to do so. Mr B then 
contacted TSB by telephone. TSB said that they would post Mr Bs statement to him but it 
was never received. 
Mr B called TSB a further five times to chase up the statement spending around five hours 
on calls in total. 
After a period of a month Mr B was able to access the historical statements again. 
Mr B contacted TSB to complain about the service that he had received. Mr B received 
compensation of £150 to reflect the failure in service for both his April and September 
complaints. TSB say that £50 was to reflect any costs incurred as a result of the failure in 
service and £100 was for the impact that the matter had on Mr B.
Mr B has explained that not being able to access his bank account and check the 
whereabouts of his money was extremely distressing for him since he was worried that he 
had lost his life savings. Mr B said this was compounded by not receiving the bank 
statement in the post as promised by TSB. 
Mr B referred his complaint to this service. He believes that it is not fair that TSB grouped his 
April and September complaints together and that both complaints should receive separate 
compensation. 
Our investigator explained that when considering Mr Bs complaint he would be looking at 
what financial loss has been incurred, what the impact has been, and if there were any other 
issues caused by the IT issues. 
Our investigator found that the service provided by TSB had caused some issues for Mr B 
but the compensation was fair and reflected those issues. Mr B disagreed with our 
investigators opinion, saying that he was caused distress and felt that the September 
complaint had been overlooked. Mr Bs complaint has been passed to me to consider. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so I have reached the same conclusion as the investigator.
Mr B says that he was caused distress by not being able to access his online bank accounts 
when he needed to. It is clear that the failure in service here did cause Mr B some distress. 
The IT issues resolved within the month and so whilst I empathise with Mr Bs position the 
matter was resolved in a relatively short period of time.
TSB confirmed that they would send a statement in the post in order to try to assist Mr B but 
that statement was not received. Mr B attempted to contact TSB to chase up the missing 
statements and was unable to get through to someone. The service here has fallen short of 
what I would have expected.
TSB had some major IT issues in April 2018 and this is the reason that there was some 
delay in looking into Mr Bs complaint. It appears that TSB looked at both the April and 
September complaints at the same time. I feel that it was reasonable for TSB to look at both 
complaints at the same time since both related to IT issues with online banking. I can see no 
evidence that either complaint was prejudiced as a result of the combined investigation into 
the complaint. 
Mr B was offered and received £150 in compensation to reflect the failure in service and 
partially to compensate Mr B for the cost of making the telephone calls to TSB. Given my 
comments above I believe that the offer is fair and reasonable in the circumstances and 
therefore I am not able to ask them to offer anything further. 
 
My final decision
My final decision is that TSB Bank Plc has already paid Mr B fair compensation of £150. I do 
not require the bank to take any further steps to resolve this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 11 August 2020.
 
Kiran Clair
Ombudsman