DRN-2499223
The complaint
Mrs M complains about the handling of a subsidence claim under a property insurance 
policy by U K Insurance Limited (UKI).
Mrs M is represented in this complaint by Mr O.
What happened
In 2017, Mrs M notified UKI that there was crack damage in her property. She later 
provided evidence which supported there had been subsidence, and so she made a claim 
under her policy.
After carrying out site investigations and monitoring, UKI thought the subsidence was 
being caused by nearby trees. As the trees were subject to a Tree Preservation Order 
(TPO), UYKI applied for them to be pruned, as it thought this would resolve the 
subsidence.
Mr O didnt agree with UKIs proposed solution, and pointed out that another 
arboriculturist had said pruning wouldnt work. He thought the property required 
underpinning. He was also unhappy with how long UKI had taken to assess the claim, 
and so brought a complaint to this service on behalf of Mrs M.
Our investigator mediated with UKI on the matter. Given that there were conflicting 
opinions from two arboriculturists, it was agreed that UKI would arrange for a third 
arboriculturist to inspect the property and provide an opinion on the matter. She also 
thought UKI should pay Mrs M £500 compensation for its handling of the claim.
I issued my provisional decision on 17 December 2020. Heres what I said:
Mrs M arranged for a structural report to take place in December 2017. This found that 
the crack damage in the property had occurred due to subsidence. The report said the 
nature of the soils was uncertain, but subject to site investigation, the damage may be 
due to leaking drains and/or clay shrinkage on cohesive soils as there were large trees 
nearby. It was recommended that site investigations take place, as well as monitoring, 
and recommendations obtained from an arboriculturist.
UKIs subsidence specialist issued a report on 8 January 2018. The report was issued 
before monitoring took place. They thought there had been slight damage caused by 
subsidence, and were of the view that the damage had been caused by shrinkage of the 
clay subsoils due to the influence of some nearby trees (located on a third partys 
property). They didnt think all of the cracks in the property were caused by subsidence, 
but confirmed this would be reviewed once the monitoring results had been concluded.
The 8 January 2018 report also included the findings of an arboculturist (Mr B). His 
report was based on the understanding that the subsidence specialist was satisfied that 
the damage was attributable to clay shrinkage subsidence exacerbated by vegetation. 
The report said the footings of the property fell within the anticipated root range of a 
quantity of vegetation located nearby, and that site investigations had revealed the 
presence of roots below foundation level, and the roots were identified as being those 
of lime trees.
Mr B said there were two lime trees and, given their position relative to the damage, it was 
his opinion that the roots identified originated from those two trees. He thought they were 
the principal cause of the subsidence, and recommended that the trees be removed and 
then receive appropriate stump treatment. He said that pruning should not be considered 
as representing an effective or reliable long-term alternative solution, given the size and 
proximity of the trees.
Monitoring then took place, and this showed there was cyclical movement taking place at 
the property.
UKI then changed to a new subsidence specialist. They carried out a further review of the 
claim in June 2019 and were in agreement that there had been subsidence caused by 
the nearby lime trees. It was noted there was a nearby drain, however this had been 
inspected and found to be in satisfactory condition. As they hadnt been provided with 
paperwork from the previous subsidence specialist, that meant they had to start from the 
beginning in terms of dialogue with the third party whose land the trees were on. The 
third partys insurers had confirmed that they had been in contact with the previous 
subsidence specialist in 2018, but had closed their file in October 2018 in the absence of 
any further correspondence.
UKIs subsidence specialist noted the third partys insurer wanted further monitoring to 
take place, but thought they had sufficient information at that time to apply for the 
removal of the TPO from the Local Authority. Though they acknowledged that even if this 
were granted, they would still need agreement from the third partys insurers to remove 
the trees. The subsidence specialist told UKI that it could either pursue the third party to 
remove the two trees, which would take time. Alternatively, they could abandon 
discussions with the third party and stabilise the property without further delay.
UKI arranged for a second arboriculturist (Mr P) to assess the site and provide a report. Mr 
P thought that for both lime trees, 70% of the volume of the crown should be reduced, and 
pruning should take place every other year. He said this would reduce the impact of the 
vegetation on soil moisture levels, thereby potentially stabilising foundations of the 
building.
UKI decided to go ahead with the TPO application, on the basis that the lime trees should 
be pruned rather than removed. The Local Authority approved UKIs application to have 
the trees reduced. In July 2020, UKI advised this service that the third partys insurer had 
also agreed to the reduction of the trees, and the matter at that time was with the third 
party to decide upon.
I asked UKI for an update and, as of the end of November 2020, a decision had still not 
been made by the third party about whether to prune the trees.
Mr O has pointed out that when the Local Authority agreed to the TPO removal, it 
only agreed to have the lime trees reduced and didnt agree to the two-yearly 
pruning of the trees.
Ive looked at the Local Authoritys notice. This says the proposal was to reduce the trees 
with subsequent biennial pruning, and that consent for the work was given. However, it 
then says the consent related only to the reduction of the trees, and doesnt say anything 
about the two-yearly pruning. Mr O is therefore correct to say that the Local Authority hadnt agreed to the two-yearly pruning.
Weve asked UKI about this, and it contacted the Local Authority directly about the 
matter. It says it was advised by the Local Authority that they didnt want to approve the 
ongoing two- yearly pruning because of the open-ended nature of the request. However, 
they could see no issue with approval if its applied for every two years.
Given that Mr Ps recommendations werent fully agreed to by the Local Authority, Im 
surprised that UKI continued down this avenue. Whilst I appreciate the Local Authority 
has recently advised UKI that it can see no issue with approval every two years to prune 
back the trees, its approval in this respect isnt guaranteed.
Its also the case that the third party still hasnt agreed to carry out the first pruning, 
even though this has been agreed to by the Local Authority, as well as the third partys 
insurer. We dont know that it will ever agree to this, or even if it does, whether it will 
agree to have the trees pruned every two years. Mrs M would then be back in the same 
position she is currently in.
UKI has recently provided some new evidence to this service. Its understood that the 
third party obtained its own arboriculturists report earlier this year, and then applied to 
the Local Authority to reduce some of the trees on its property, including the lime trees 
impacting Mrs Ms property. UKI thinks this indicates that the trees are impacting other 
nearby properties, and that to remedy this, a reduction in the size of the trees has 
recommended by a second arboriculturist (as well as Mr P).
UKI doesnt have a copy of the arboriculturists report apparently obtained by the third 
party, and so I cant be sure what recommendations may have been made in that report.
Mrs M has already been waiting a significant length of time for action to be taken in 
respect of the trees that are causing ongoing damage to her property. Taking this into 
account, and because she has no assurance that the third party will agree to the initial 
pruning of the trees or any subsequent pruning (and that the Local Authority also hasnt 
given its formal consent to the two-yearly pruning), I think UKI ought to abandon the 
current course of action and pursue other means of stabilising the property.
I note that the site hasnt been inspected for some time. Mr O says the crack damage 
has become worse, which is hardly surprising given the delays involved with this claim. I 
therefore intend to require UKI to arrange for a suitable expert to assess the site in order 
to decide what other action can be taken to stabilise the property, other than control of 
the vegetation. UKI should then comply with those recommendations.
I think Mrs M has been caused a great deal of inconvenience by the delays involved in 
this case. Our investigator recommended UKI pay £500 compensation, which also took 
into account some other issues caused by UKI through its handling of the claim. I intend 
to increase this by a further £500, to reflect the level of inconvenience caused to Mrs M 
by the delays.
UKI agreed to reimburse Mrs M for the cost of her structural report. I think that was fair, 
since UKI ought to have arranged for the initial inspection to take place rather than Mrs 
M. Though I understand UKI hasnt yet reimbursed her and intends to deduct the cost of 
the report from the excess, when this is charged. I dont think thats reasonable, as Mrs M 
has been out of pocket for some time. UKI should therefore reimburse Mrs M for the cost 
of the report, and add interest to this.
I asked both parties to provide me with any further comments they wished to make before I 
made my final decision. Mrs M accepted my provisional decision, but asked if a particular expert could carry out the 
inspection. 
UKI accepted my provisional decision, but didnt think it was reasonable for me to require it 
to pay interest on the structural report fee.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Both parties have accepted my provisional findings in respect of what UKI needs to do next, 
and the compensation. 
Mrs M asked if a particular expert could carry out the inspection. We checked with UKI about 
this, and it has agreed to that request.
UKI says it had always agreed to reimburse Mrs M for the structural report she obtained, and 
doesnt think its fair that it pay interest on this. However, as I said in my provisional decision, 
UKI ought to have arranged that report rather than Mrs M. Whilst I appreciate UKI has 
always said that it would reimburse Mrs M for the report, its still the case that Mrs M hasnt 
had the use of that money since she paid for the report, and so I remain satisfied that its 
appropriate for interest to be paid by UKI.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint. I require U K Insurance Limited 
to do the following:
Arrange for an expert (as set out above) to assess the current damage 
to Mrs Ms property, and recommend a way to stabilise the property 
(other than controlling the nearby vegetation). It should then comply with 
those recommendations.
Pay total compensation of £1,000 (it can deduct any amount already paid 
in this respect).
Reimburse Mrs M for the cost of her expert report. Interest should be added 
at the rate of 8% simple per annum from the date she paid the invoice to the 
date of settlement. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs M to accept or 
reject my decision before 9 February 2021. 
Chantelle Hurn-Ryan
Ombudsman