DRN-3390445
The complaint
Mr C complains that Zopa Bank Limited (Zopa)  made errors at the end of his payment
holiday.
What happened
Mr C took out a loan of £12,000 from Zopa in October 2019, repayable over 48 months. 
Payments were £264.57. He was affected by the COVID-19 pandemic and applied for a 
payment holiday (PH) under the support measures introduced by all financial services 
firms. The PH ran from 11 June 2020 to 9 September 2020. But on 27 July 2020, the 
monthly payment of £264.57 was taken from his bank account. This caused Mr C some 
hardship and he complained to Zopa. Zopa said this was an error, apologised and paid 
compensation on one months payment - £264.58. This was applied to Mr Cs loan. Mr C 
accepted this outcome.
The PH was due to end on 9 September 2020. The next payment was due on 26 
September 2020. Zopa wrote to Mr C on 28 September 2020  to say the PH was coming 
to an end. The payment of £264.57 was taken on 29 September 2020.
Mr C complained. He said he shouldve been advised about the PH coming to an end much 
earlier than he was  it ended on 9 September 2020. This caused confusion about what 
was happening. When he messaged Zopa on 28 September 2020, he was told the 
payment was due to be taken that day  as 26 September 2020 was a weekend. He 
thought that the payment was only set up after he contacted Zopa, as they emailed him 
about that after the webchat. He thought hed been misled by the webchat handler, and he 
found her attitude to be poor.
Zopa couldnt explain why theyd not contacted Mr C earlier about the end of his PH  they 
shouldve done. When Mr C got in touch with them on 28 September 2020, the webchat 
handler was correct to say the payment was due to be taken on 28 September 2020  as 26 
September 2020 was a weekend. They apologised if Mr C found her attitude to be poor  but 
that was due the nature of written communications. Mr Cs credit record hadnt been affected 
 and the payment wasnt marked as late. Nor had he incurred any additional interest or 
charges. They offered Mr C compensation of £50  which he rejected.
Mr C brought his complaint to us. Our adjudicator said Zopa hadnt acted fairly. The email 
about the end of the PH shouldve been sent earlier than it had. And for that, Zopa should 
increase the compensation by £50 to £100. She said that while the payment to the loan 
hadnt been made on the contractual date, there hadnt been any adverse impact on his 
credit file, and there werent any additional interest or charges. She accepted Zopas 
apology for the online chat service  but said the information Mr C received was accurate.
Zopa didnt agree with the increased compensation. They said that £50 was appropriate for 
what happened. And they noted that the previous compensation paid in July 2020 (£264.58) 
was generous and should be considered. Zopa asked that an ombudsman look at Mr Cs
complaint.
I reached a provisional decision where I said:
In March 2020, The Financial Conduct Authority (FCA) announced guidance to lenders in 
response to the effects on customers of the COVID-19 pandemic. All lenders, including 
Zopa, agreed to put in place payment holidays on many credit agreements, including 
loans  to help customers who were affected. Customers could ask for a total of two 
payment holidays, each of three months  whereby payments could be suspended. 
Missed payments would not be reported to credit reference agencies, although interest 
would still be debited to the accounts. This support was provided by firms up to the end of 
October 2020.
In Mr Cs case, he had a payment holiday (PH) from June 2020 through to 9 September 
2020. In July 2020, Zopa took the payment to his loan, despite the PH. They apologised 
for this error and paid compensation of £264.58  the equivalent of one months instalment 
 and credited that amount to his loan account. Mr C accepted that outcome and the 
complaint was closed. And so  Ive not considered that as part of this complaint.
At the end of the PH, it was normal for Zopa to write to customers to advise that their PH 
was coming to an end, and what was going to happen. Ive seen that Zopa didnt do that 
when the PH was about to expire  on 9 September 2020. Zopa told us they cant explain 
why that didnt happen, as it should have. Mr C contacted Zopa by webchat on 28 
September 2020 to ask what was going on. He was told that the payment due on 26 
September 2020 was due to be made on 28 September  as the 26 was a weekend. I 
think that wouldve been normal  as its industry practice that direct debits that fall on a 
weekend are taken the following working day. And the webchat hander also said she 
could see on Zopas system that the payment was due to go through. So, all that seemed 
logical.
They then wrote to Mr C on 28 September 2020 to say the PH was coming to an end and 
asked for instructions as to what to do. Mr C says this was sent after the webchat took place
 so he was suspicious about what had happened. And therefore, he thought hed been 
misinformed by the webchat handler  he suspected the payment wasnt going to be made 
as she said. Mr C says it was only when he contacted Zopa that they realised the payment 
was not going to be made  and they set up the direct debit payment because of his 
contact.
That isnt what Zopa told us  which was that the payment was rejected on 26 September 
2020 and was requested by them again on 28 September 2020.
But  whatever the cause of what took place  I can see that the payment was made on 29 
September 2020 and Mr Cs loan was credited on 2 October 2020. Zopa confirmed to us 
that a late payment hadnt been marked on Mr Cs account. And no additional interest or 
charges were paid.
Mr C also complains that he found the attitude of the webchat handler offhand. I reviewed 
what was said and while it was short and to the point, I must say I didnt find it offhand. I 
think we must make allowance for the fact that it was written, real time communication  
which may, at the time, have felt that way.
So  while I agree that Zopa shouldve contacted Mr C earlier than they did about the end 
of the PH, and there was some inconvenience caused by that, Mr C didnt suffer any 
financial losses. And while he was inconvenienced by having to contact Zopa to sort things 
out  this only involved one webchat exchange before Mr C then lodged a formal complaint. 
And - the information given to Mr C by the webchat handler was correct, as Mr Cs payment 
was about to be made.So  my consideration of this complaint comes down to what is a reasonable level of 
compensation for what happened. Theres no doubt that there was a degree of confusion 
caused by the fact that Zopa didnt advise Mr C of the end of the PH earlier. And so, there 
was some distress and inconvenience. Our service has set out some criteria to consider 
the appropriate level of compensation. We say that typically an apology or small monetary 
award of less than £100 will fairly compensate a one-off incident or occurrence  such as 
a small administrative error or a short delay. And  I think that fairly describes what 
happened here. And I think that Zopas offer of £50 is reasonable in the circumstances of 
Mr Cs complaint.
Responses to the provisional decision:
Mr C agreed with the provisional decision. Zopa made no comments.
I now need to make a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As Mr C agreed with the provisional decision and Zopa made no comments, I wont be 
departing from it in making my final decision.
My final decision
Zopa has already made an offer of £50 to settle the complaint and I think this offer is fair
in all the circumstances.
So my decision is that Zopa should pay £50.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 26 April 2022.
 
Martin Lord
Ombudsman