DRN-2140690
The complaint
Mr A complains about the service he received when he visited a Nationwide Building Society 
(Nationwide) branch.
What happened
In March 2020, Mr A visited a Nationwide branch to withdraw some money. He says he was 
rudely approached by a member of staff, who asked him to wait before coming in, and the 
purpose of his visit. When Mr A explained he had come to withdraw money, the member of 
staff asked why he needed the money. Mr A says he didnt think he needed to explain this. 
So, he said that it was his money and he just wanted to withdraw it. 
The member of staff explained that money could only be withdrawn from inside the branch in 
emergencies, due to the COVID-19 pandemic. Mr A was unhappy with this, and has said 
that he made a comment, which he didnt intend to be offensive, to the member of staff. Mr A 
has said he was highlighting his frustration at how the situation was being handled. But the 
member of staff accused him of making a discriminatory comment. So, Mr A was asked to 
leave, otherwise the police would be called. Mr A says the member of staff used offensive 
language at this point, which made him feel intimidated.
Mr A complained about what happened. He was unhappy that he wasnt able to withdraw his 
money and had to do so elsewhere. He also felt his comment had been misunderstood and 
was unhappy that he was accused of using discriminatory language. Nationwide reviewed 
what happened and, following its investigation, said it hadnt done anything wrong. It 
explained that its staff were taking more precautions due to the COVID-19 pandemic and 
wanted to limit the number of people in the branch. So this is why Mr A was asked the 
reason for his cash withdrawal. 
Nationwide said that, according to the statement from the branch staff, it was Mr A who 
became aggressive in the branch. It also said Mr A had used discriminatory language 
towards the member of staff helping him. So this is why he was asked to leave. Mr A 
disputed Nationwides version of events and brought his complaint to our service.
 
One of our investigators considered Mr As complaint and thought it shouldnt be upheld. He 
said it was difficult to say what had happened on the day. But, based on the evidence, he 
thought it was more likely that it was Mr A who acted inappropriately. This is because the 
investigator considered it to be more likely that the member of staff wouldve asked the 
purpose of Mr As visit to help him, but Mr A didnt co-operate. Nationwide didnt challenge 
our investigators opinion, but Mr A did, and repeated his earlier points.
As an agreement couldnt be reached, the case has been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided not to uphold Mr As complaint. Ill explain my reasons why. 
Where theres a dispute about what happened, Ive based my decision on what I think is 
most likely to have happened in light of the evidence.
Mr A says he was approached rudely when he entered the branch and asked the nature of 
his visit. It might be helpful for me to explain that in light of the COVID-19 pandemic, banks 
were only assisting those customers who had essential requirements. This means that what 
they needed could only be done in the branch and couldnt be done in any other way. Mr A 
said that he needed £200, and was told by the member of staff that this wasnt an essential 
requirement, meaning that this could be done in another way other than in the branch. Mr A 
didnt accept this and said its his money and he should be allowed to withdraw it without 
having to explain why. While I understand Mr As point of view, I think asking why he needed 
the money was reasonable in the circumstances. And, I think the member of staff was just 
trying to help Mr A with his visit to the branch.
Both Nationwide and Mr A accept that things escalated at this point. Mr A says he referred to 
branch staff as you people, which he says he didnt intend to be offensive. The statement 
from the branch staff says Mr A said people like you, which was then followed by a 
discriminatory comment. Its unclear exactly what was said, but what isnt in doubt is that the 
branch staff felt insulted by Mr A. And, I can see how the words Mr A says he used could be 
interpreted in a derogatory manner.
Additionally, both Nationwide and Mr A are consistent about the fact that he was asked to 
leave, and that the police would be called if he didnt. I dont think this is a decision 
Nationwide wouldve taken lightly and, in my view, shows how seriously it took the matter. 
And I think its unlikely this would have happened unless the branch staff reasonably 
believed that Mr A was behaving inappropriately. So, I think its more likely that Mr A 
displayed behaviour that the branch staff interpreted as aggressive towards them. 
Ive considered that Mr A told us he went into branch to withdraw money because he is a 
wheelchair user, and so finds using ATMs difficult. Generally, I would expect Nationwide to 
ask all its customers how best it can assist them with their visit to branch. This is something 
the branch staff did do on the day but, as outlined above, Mr A didnt give a specific reason 
for his visit when he was asked. So, on balance, I dont think Nationwide has done anything 
wrong here.
Im pleased to see Mr A was able to withdraw money from a nearby ATM and this 
unfortunate matter didnt result in his account being closed. 
I know Mr A will be disappointed with this outcome. But, overall, I dont think Nationwides 
branch staff treated him unfairly. 
My final decision
My final decision is I dont think Nationwide needs to do anything to resolve this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision before 4 February 2021.
 
Hana Yousef
Ombudsman