DRN-3792424
The complaint
Ms M has complained about Phoenix Life Limiteds decision that she isnt entitled to any 
benefits from her late ex-husbands pension following his death in 2020.
What happened
One of our investigators considered Ms Ms complaint. He issued his assessment of its 
merits to both parties on 3 November 2022. The background and circumstances to the 
complaint were set out in that assessment.
In brief, Ms M was named as the beneficiary of her late ex-husbands pension on an 
expression of wish form. Following his death in 2020, Ms M made a claim to Phoenix Life. 
Phoenix Life decided not to pay Ms M any part of the pension; it paid it to other beneficiaries. 
Ms M complained to Phoenix Life, and subsequently referred the matter to us.
Our investigator didnt think that the complaint should be upheld. He said it was for Phoenix 
Life, as the administrators of the plan, to decide who the benefits should be paid to. He said 
this was a pension policy and not an insurance policy; it wasnt specifically designed to cover 
funeral costs. He said although the expression of wish form provided for Ms Ms ex-husband 
to choose who hed prefer the money to go to in the event of his death, and in what 
proportions, Phoenix Life wasnt bound to follow his preferences. He said that Phoenix Life 
just needed to take it into account when making its decision as to whom it was going to pay 
the benefits. 
The investigator referred to the explanation Phoenix Life had provided to Ms M about its 
decision making. It said the proceeds from the pension didnt form part of the late Mr Ms 
estate on his death. And that as scheme administrators, Phoenix Life had discretion over the 
final choice of beneficiary(s). It said it had to take the late Mr Ms wishes as set out in the 
expression of wish form into account. And that in making its decision it had to ask the right 
questions, and take into account all relevant factors and disregard irrelevant factors. 
Phoenix Life obtained information from Ms M and the other potential beneficiaries. The 
investigator said he was satisfied that Phoenix Life had considered all the relevant 
circumstances, including the wishes expressed by Ms Ms late ex-husband and the evidence 
provided by Ms M and the other potential beneficiaries. So he didnt think that Phoenix Life 
had done anything wrong in not paying the pension benefits to Ms M.
Ms M didnt agree with the investigators assessment. She said she had a court judgement 
that said she was entitled to any money that her ex-husband came into, and she felt if he 
had accessed his pension before hed died she would have had access to it. So she didnt 
understand why this wasnt the case after hed died. Ms M said she believed that as she was 
listed as a beneficiary she should be entitled to the pension.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive come to the same conclusions as the investigator, and largely for the 
same reasons. 
I think the key point to note here is that essentially it was for Phoenix Life as the scheme 
administrator to decide how the pension fund should be distributed following Mr Ms death. 
The payment of benefits was at the discretion of Phoenix Life, taking into account, amongst 
other things, the rules of the scheme.  Where, as here, a decision involves the exercise of  
discretion, then it can only usually be challenged on certain somewhat limited grounds. 
As has been said, generally speaking, when exercising its discretion Phoenix Life needed to 
take into account all relevant factors and disregard irrelevant factors. And it needed to ask 
the right questions. It also had to construe the legal position correctly, and not come to a 
decision which was perverse.
Sometimes the decision as to whom payment should be made will be straightforward. In 
other cases the situation will be more complex, and the decision maker will have to weigh 
the facts and in some cases competing interests. Although the decision maker must, as I 
have said, take into account all relevant factors (and ignore irrelevant factors), it is for the 
decision maker to determine what weight to attach to a particular factor.
In this case its clear that Phoenix Life contacted the potential beneficiaries and obtained 
information from them. It gave Ms M the opportunity to provide information about her claim,  
including details about the Judgement for Claim. All the information supplied was to help 
assist the administrators in making their decision  they werent bound by it  for example by 
the expression of wish form. Phoenix Life took the content of the expression of wish form, 
Judgement for Claim, and the information provided by the other potential beneficiaries into 
account when making its decision. 
Ive seen no persuasive evidence to suggest that Phoenix Life asked the wrong questions or 
that it interpreted the legal position incorrectly. The proceeds from the pension fell outside of 
Ms Ms late husbands estate. It appears that there were competing interests, and Phoenix 
Life, having made appropriate enquiries, didnt decide in Ms Ms favour.
Ms M has told us about her relationship with her late ex-husband, and about her very difficult 
current circumstances. Im obviously sorry to hear that, and I understand why she thinks the 
pension should be paid to her in all the circumstances. I realise that my decision will be very 
disappointing for Ms M.  However, taking all the above into account, Im satisfied that 
Phoenix Life did what it needed to do when making its decision.  Ive seen no persuasive 
evidence that its decision was perverse, or a decision no reasonable decision maker could 
have reached. Accordingly, Im not persuaded its appropriate for me to intervene in the 
reasonable exercise of its discretion.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold Ms Ms complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms M to accept or 
reject my decision before 11 January 2023.
 
David Ashley
Ombudsman