DRN-3489187
The complaint
Mr M, on behalf of the estate of his mother, Mrs M, complains that Partnership Life 
Assurance Company Limited trading as Just failed to fully explain the risks associated with 
an Immediate Care Plan annuity (the plan) purchased for her. Further, it didnt extend the 
plans money back guarantee in light of the Covid pandemic, as it did with other similar plans 
taken out later.  
What happened
In early 2020 Mr M, acting at that point as Mrs Ms attorney, arranged for the plan to be 
taken out. A premium of just over £180,000 was paid and the plan commenced on 14 
February 2020 with the arrangement being that £3,666 would then be paid monthly toward 
care home fees on an ongoing basis. 
Sadly, Mrs M passed away later that year, on 21 September 2020. The plan featured a 
money back guarantee that provided for a partial refund of the premium if the insured 
passed away during the first six months of the plan being in place. Unfortunately, Mrs Ms 
passing occurred just over seven months after the plan commenced, so Just didnt pay any 
refund. 
Mr M, now in his capacity as executor of Mrs Ms estate, complained to Just. He explained 
that the principle cause of Mrs Ms passing had been an illness that some straightforward 
investigations carried out prior to the plan starting would likely have detected. He felt the 
risks associated with such pre-existing but undiagnosed conditions hadnt been fully 
explained, which was a failing on the part of Just, particularly given the disparity of 
knowledge between those taking out such plans and its medical underwriters.   
Mr M also noted that Just had extended the money back guarantee feature of the plans for 
new customers from April 2020, when the full impact of the Covid pandemic had become 
apparent. He explained that Mrs M had contracted Covid and been further affected by the 
related conditions imposed on care home residents. As such, he felt it would be fair for a 
similar dispensation to be made in Mrs Ms case and, overall, for the matter to be resolved 
by a reasonable partial refund of the premium. 
However, Just didnt uphold the complaint. It said, in brief, that once the application process 
had been completed and the plans cancellation period had passed, no changes could be 
made.  
The complaint was then referred to this service, but our investigator also felt the complaint 
shouldnt be upheld. He said, in brief:
The underwriting process included a review of Mrs Ms GP records but couldnt take 
into account undiagnosed conditions.
Additional tests might have helped to determine or limit risk but ultimately it was for 
the business who had advised Mr M and Mrs M to take out the plan to explain the 
risks. 
In respect of the change made to the money back guarantee, this wouldve been a 
commercial decision on the part of Just and there was no requirement it be made, or 
plan conditions changed retrospectively.
Thered also been an option to take out capital protection to run concurrently with the 
plan, which wouldve helped mitigate the risks.  
There was no provision in the terms of the plan for Covid to have been considered a 
force majeure.
Just had accepted the risk it could end up paying out more than the premium 
received balanced against what had actually occurred, which was in the nature of 
insurance. 
Mr M didnt accept the investigators view. He said, in brief:
The investigator hadnt sufficiently considered the fact that Mrs Ms illness wouldve 
been diagnosed via simple testing. He felt Just should have such tests as part of the 
application process. 
Not doing so unfairly weighed the arrangement against the applicant, who was reliant 
upon the actuarial assessment, which couldve been made much more accurate by 
using testing.
The product literature and application process did not fully appraise of the risks.
The nature of the plan was such that it was taken out towards the end of life. So, it 
was vital for the insured to be able to get the best information possible regarding 
likely life expectancy. 
By failing to have tests carried out Just had not fairly assessed the risks.
The money back guarantee shouldve been extended for Mrs Ms plan. It seemed the 
extension in respect of Covid had been applied retrospectively to some plans started 
in March 2020, and it should similarly have been applied to Mrs Ms plan because of 
the impact of the pandemic on her.
The investigator wasnt persuaded to change his opinion, so the matters been referred to 
me to review.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided not to uphold the complaint. But before I explain why, Id like to 
offer my condolences to Mr M for his loss and say that I appreciate how frustrating this 
situation must have been and also how it wouldve exacerbated an already difficult and 
upsetting time.
But in considering the actions of Just I find Im unable to conclude it acted incorrectly or 
unfairly in its handling of the application process and subsequent administration of Mrs Ms 
annuity.
Given the very specific circumstances of Mrs Ms case I can entirely see why Mr M would 
feel that general diagnostic tests should form part of the application process. I accept it 
seems likely that had they been carried out he and Mrs M wouldve been in a more informed 
position and may not have proceeded with the plan. Or if they had done, it wouldve been on 
different, potentially more favourable terms.
But such testing wasnt part of the application process and there was no requirement on the 
part of Just that it should be. In respect of considering Mrs Ms health, the process required 
that a questionnaire be completed regarding her history and a report obtained from her GP, 
which was in keeping with standard industry practice. Im satisfied Just was entitled to offer the product in the way it did and Ive seen that it set out 
the risks in its Key Features document, highlighting at the first bullet the potential 
consequences of the insured passing away early on during the annuity. It also explained 
clearly how the money back guarantee worked, that an optional capital protection feature 
was available, and that cancellation would not be possible after 30 days had passed.
Mr M has raised concerns about the imbalance between knowledge and expertise of the 
plan providers and actuaries tasked with determining the premium and the layperson taking 
out the plan. But, as noted, the process didnt deviate in any way from what Id expect to 
see, and I dont think there was anything in it that created an unfair or unusual imbalance. 
The general risks were noted and although the specific risk of an undiagnosed condition 
potentially being present wasnt highlighted, I dont think this was unusual. The 
documentation could have noted this possibility, but there was no requirement it should. Im 
also conscious this was an advised sale, with an opportunity for the advising party to provide 
further clarity around the operation of the plan and its risks.
Ive also thought about what Mr M has said concerning the changes Just made to its 
provision of similar plans once the full impact of Covid became apparent. But it was entitled 
to make such changes as a commercial decision if it felt they were required. And it was also 
entitled to apply them retrospectively if it felt that was appropriate. 
I appreciate why Mr M feels the changes shouldve also extended to cover Mrs Ms plan 
given the impact the pandemic had on her. But it was a decision for Just as to how far back 
any retrospective change should go and I can understand why it would limit this to plans 
taken out once the impact had become clear, and that was after February 2020. Again, I feel 
this is a case of what it could have done balanced against what it should have done. 
As Ive said, I do recognise this was an unfortunate situation and understand Mr Ms strength 
of feeling on the matter. But in considering the actions of Just in its provision of the plan I 
find Im unable to conclude it acted incorrectly or unfairly.  
My final decision
For the reasons given, my final decision is that I dont uphold the complaint.  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask the estate of Mrs 
M to accept or reject my decision before 23 December 2022.
 
James Harris
Ombudsman