DRN-3191248
Complaint
Ms G is unhappy that Barclays Bank UK PLC (Barclays) didnt do more to protect her when 
she was the victim of a scam.
Background
Ms G has an account with Barclays. In May 2020, she was looking into potential investment 
opportunities. She had seen several references to cryptocurrency, including on television 
and social media. These promised generous returns and so she was interested in finding out 
more. She carried out some online research and found the website of an investment 
company. She made contact and was put in touch with a broker who was said theyd be 
responsible for managing investments on her behalf. The broker kept in contact with Ms G 
using a popular messaging platform. Unfortunately, Ms G hadnt made contact with a 
genuine investment firm but with a scammer. Over the next few months, she was persuaded 
to transfer around £93,000 in the belief that she was paying into high-yielding investments in 
Bitcoin.
Ms G made a small initial investment of £200 to test the waters.  She was provided with 
updates about the performance of her investments and was able to make a withdrawal of 
around £500. Ms G was then persuaded to invest even larger sums with the promise of yet 
greater returns. She was told that an investment of £50,000 would yield a return of nearly 
£85,000 over twelve months.
Ms G found the scammer to be quite a plausible broker who seemed to have a good level of 
technical knowledge about how these investments worked. They persuaded Ms G to set up 
an account with a crypto platform to allow her to buy and sell cryptoassets and continued to 
make transfers.
The messages between Ms G and the scammer show that in June 2020, she queried 
whether she could be earning such generous returns on her investment in Bitcoin when 
shed read in the press that its value had declined. Around the same time, she also queried 
the level of risk she was taking with her money and was reassured by the scammer that her 
investment positions were insured and so there was little risk involved.
It was only in August when Ms G wanted to withdraw her money that she became 
suspicious. She was told that it had been transferred to an escrow account and that it 
couldnt be accessed until she paid associated fees and charges. She was sent an email 
that purported to be from a bank that was handling her money, but Ms G thought its content 
looked suspicious. She declined to make any further transfers.
She contacted Barclays to report that shed been the victim of a scam. Barclays investigated 
her complaint and said it would pay her a partial refund. It agreed that it couldve done more 
to protect her from the scam (for example, by displaying more effective warnings when she 
was authorising the payments) but it thought that she shouldve been more cautious and 
carried out further research before agreeing to make these transfers. 
Ms G wasnt happy with the response she received from Barclays so she referred a 
complaint to this service. It was allocated to one of our Investigators. The Investigator noted 
that Barclays had looked at her complaint under the terms of the Lending Standards Boards 
Contingent Reimbursement Model (CRM) code and it was on that basis that it had agreed 
to reimburse her for half of her losses.
The Investigator explained that, as these transactions were made by Ms G to her own 
account with the crypto platform, they werent covered by the CRM code. However, he 
considered whether Barclays shouldve done more to protect her from the scam. He 
accepted that these payments were unusual and out of character and so they shouldve 
been questioned before Barclays processed them.
However, he also considered that Ms G had been contributorily negligent. He thought that 
the communications from the scammers lacked the sort of professionalism one might expect 
from an employee of a legitimate investment firm. Furthermore, he thought that the return 
that Ms G had been promised was unrealistic and she shouldve recognised the likelihood 
that this investment wasnt genuine.
Ms G disagreed with the Investigators opinion. She questioned why Barclays wasnt 
expected to pay her a full refund when the Investigator had clearly said that it was at fault for 
failing to prevent the scam. Because Ms G disagreed with the Investigators opinion, the 
complaint has been passed to me to consider and issue a final decision. 
Findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Its accepted that Ms G authorised these scam payments, albeit she only did so because she 
was duped by the scammers into thinking she was paying into a genuine investment. This 
was, therefore, an authorised payment so under the Payment Services Regulations 2017 
and the terms and conditions of her account with Barclays, she is presumed liable for the 
loss in the first instance.
Unfortunately, the Investigator was right that these transactions arent covered by the CRM 
code. The code sets out circumstances under which a bank should pay a refund to its 
customer who has fallen victim to a scam, but it only applies where the customer has 
transferred funds to another person. In this case, Ms Gs payments out of her Barclays 
account were made to an account she had with a separate business.
However, taking into account the law, regulators rules and guidance, relevant codes of 
practice and what I consider to have been good industry practice at the time, I consider 
Barclays should fairly and reasonably:
Have been monitoring accounts and any payments made or received to counter 
various risks, including anti-money laundering, countering the financing of terrorism, 
and preventing fraud and scams.
Have had systems in place to look out for unusual transactions or other signs that 
might indicate that its customers were at risk of fraud (among other things). This is 
particularly so given the increase in sophisticated fraud and scams in recent years, 
which banks are generally more familiar with than the average customer.  
In some circumstances, irrespective of the payment channel used, have taken 
additional steps, or made additional checks, before processing a payment, or in 
some cases declined to make a payment altogether, to help protect customers from 
the possibility of financial harm from fraud. In short, Barclays needed to be on the lookout for unusual or out of character transactions or 
account activity that might have suggested Ms G was at risk of financial harm. The early 
payments she made in connection with the scam wouldnt have elicited any suspicion on the 
part of the bank. They werent particularly large payments and didnt represent a significant 
change in the way the account was being used.
However, on 22 June, Ms G instructed her bank to make a payment of £10,000 to her 
account with the third-party. This payment was significantly larger than other payments shed 
made in recent months, so I think Barclays ought to have recognised that there was a 
significant chance that shed been targeted by fraudsters. If it had done so, I think its likely 
that theyd have been able to identify some of the commonly occurring features of 
investment scams of this kind and helped Ms G take steps to protect herself. As a result, its 
possible that the subsequent payments couldve been prevented.
However, Ive also considered whether Ms G can fairly and reasonably be considered partly 
responsible for her losses. Ive borne in mind the relevant law on contributory negligence but 
also the requirement that I decide this case based on what I consider to be fair and 
reasonable in all the circumstances of the case. Having done so, I do find it reasonable for 
Ms G to be considered partly responsible for her losses here. 
The expected return Ms G was promised by the scammer was plainly too good to be true. At 
the time of the £10,000 payment mentioned above, Ms G was assured that this investment 
would be worth £15,000 within two or three weeks. In later messages with the scammer, she 
was encouraged to invest £40,000 and quickly make £80,000. The scammer referred to 
another client with similar circumstances to her that was earning over £100,000 a month. 
The fact that shed received modest returns earlier in the process had lulled Ms G into a 
false sense of security, but I dont think it was reasonable for her to risk such large sums of 
money based on being paid those small returns.
Ms G has also said that she was reassured by the fact that the scammers used legitimate 
terminology from the banking and investment world  for example, they referred to use of 
escrow accounts and stop-loss orders. Both are legitimate concepts and so gave Ms G the 
false confidence that she was dealing with a genuine firm. But I dont think the use of the 
correct terminology meant she shouldve disregarded some of the clearer warning signs 
here.
I dont say any of this to diminish or downplay the fact that Ms G has been the victim of a 
cruel and cynical scam. I sympathise with her for that and I know she will be hugely 
disappointed by this decision. Barclays has made an offer to settle this complaint of 50% of 
her losses and I wouldnt make a more generous award than that. I therefore find its offer to 
be a fair and reasonable one.
Final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, I dont uphold this complaint. Ms G is free to accept the offer 
from Barclays Bank UK PLC if she wishes to do so.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms G to accept or 
reject my decision before 9 March 2022.
 James Kimmitt
Ombudsman