DRN-3836000
The complaint
Mr and Mrs C complain that Shawbrook Bank Limited (Shawbrook) has rejected the claim 
they made under sections 56, 75 and 140A of the Consumer Credit Act 1974 (the Act) in 
relation to a solar panel system they say was misrepresented to them by the supplier.
Mr and Mrs C are represented by a claims management company (the CMC).
Background
In or around April 2016, Mr and Mrs C were contacted by a representative of a company Ill 
call P to talk about purchasing a solar panel system (the system) to be installed at their 
home. After being visited by a representative of P, Mr and Mrs C decided to purchase the 
system and finance it through a 15 year fixed sum loan agreement with Shawbrook. The 
system was subsequently installed.
In December 2021 the CMC made a claim to Shawbrook on Mr and Mrs Cs behalf under 
section 75 of the Act. The CMC said that, following a cold call, P had made a number of 
representations about the system that had turned out not to be true, and it was these 
misrepresentations that had induced Mr and Mrs C to enter into the contract with P. The 
CMC said the following misrepresentations had been made:
the system would generate free electricity which they could sell to the national grid;
the system would be self-funding; and
the feed in tariff (FIT) and savings on their electricity bills would provide enough 
income to cover the monthly loan payments.
Shawbrook issued a final response and explained that it didnt agree that the claim should 
be upheld.
One of our adjudicators looked into what had happened. Having considered all the 
information and evidence provided, our adjudicator didnt think that P had misrepresented 
the system to Mr and Mrs C and found no reason to uphold the complaint.
The CMC didnt agree with the adjudicators view. It said:
the solar quote had a table showing the estimated benefits that Mr and Mrs C could 
expect to receive from the system over 30 years, but this was misleading as the 
lifespan of the panels is only 20 years;
another table showed the estimated payback time (when the system would break 
even) based on the cash price of the system, without taking into account the cost of 
the finance;
the quote had calculated the electricity savings based on a current unit price of 
electricity of 15.57 p/kWh, when Mr and Mrs Cs bills showed they had actually been 
paying 10.985 p/kWh in 2015;
that calculation had significantly inflated the estimated benefits from the system by 
thousands of pounds;
the system would not actually pay for itself within its lifespan;
the quote did not go into enough depth to compare the cost of the system with its 
benefits;
P pays its sales representatives commission for each sale (£500 to £750), creating 
an incentive for its salesmen to lie; and
P had never told Mr and Mrs C that they needed to register for FIT payments, and so 
they had never received any FIT income.
As an agreement couldnt be reached, the case has been passed to me for review.
My findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I do not uphold it. I will explain why.
Relevant considerations
When considering whats fair and reasonable, Im required to take into account relevant law 
and regulations, relevant regulatory rules, guidance and standards and codes of practice, 
and, where appropriate, what I consider to have been good industry practice at the relevant 
time. In this case the relevant law includes sections 56, 75 and 140A of the Act.
Section 75 provides protection for consumers for goods or services bought using credit. As 
Mr and Mrs C paid for the system with a fixed sum loan agreement, Shawbrook agrees that 
section 75 applies to this transaction. This means that Mr and Mrs C could claim against 
Shawbrook (the creditor) for any misrepresentation or breach of contract by P in the same 
way they could have claimed against P (the supplier). So Ive taken section 75 into account 
when deciding what is fair in the circumstances of this case.
Section 56 is also relevant. This is because it says that any negotiations between Mr and 
Mrs C and P, as the supplier, are deemed to have been conducted by P as an agent of 
Shawbrook.
Section 140A is about unequal relationships between the parties to a credit agreement. In 
this case, the CMC relies on the alleged misrepresentation of the system. The CMC has also 
alleged that P paid Shawbrook commission or gave Shawbrook some other financial 
remuneration. Shawbrook denies that this happened in this case, and I have seen no 
evidence that it did, and so I do not accept it. The CMC also says that P only paid its 
salesmen for sales, and not for sales meetings where there was no sale. However, I dont 
think that would give rise to an unfair relationship, unless this actually led to the system 
being misrepresented.
For the purpose of this decision Ive used the definition of a misrepresentation as an untrue 
statement of fact or law made by one party (or his agent) to a second party which induces 
that second party to enter the contract, thereby causing them loss.
What happened?
If there is a dispute about what happened, I must decide on the balance of probabilities  
that is, what I consider to have been most likely to have happened, given the evidence that 
is available and the wider surrounding circumstances.
Mr and Mrs C say that during a sales meeting they were told that the system would be 
entirely self-financing and come at no additional cost.There are several documents that have been provided by both parties. These include the 
credit agreement and solar quote, titled Your Personal Solar Quotation. Ive considered 
these, along with Mr and Mrs Cs testimony and recollection of the sales meeting, to decide 
on balance what is most likely to have happened.
The quote is a detailed document that sets out key information about the system, the 
expected performance, financial benefits and technical information. P, via Shawbrook, has 
told this service that this formed a central part of the sales process and the representative of 
P would have discussed this in detail with Mr and Mrs C, explaining any benefits of the 
system, prior to them agreeing to enter into the contract. They both signed it on page 24.
Having thought carefully about the available evidence, Im satisfied that on balance the 
quote did form a central part of the sales process and therefore accept that the salesperson 
went through it during the meeting. So, Ive taken this into account, along with Mr and 
Mrs Cs version of events, when considering if there have been any untrue statements of 
fact.
The credit agreement sets out the amount being borrowed (i.e. the cash price of the system), 
the interest to be charged, the total amount payable, the term of the loan and the contractual 
monthly repayments.
FIT registration
On pages 16 and 17 of the quote, under the heading Feed in Tariff (FIT), it explains that 
although P provides the registration paperwork, fills in the information that Mr and Mrs C 
would need P to provide, and offers to help them with the process, it is the customers 
responsibility to submit the application. It states:
It is the customers responsibility to provide their personal details and bank details 
to the energy company.
That was standard industry practice. On balance, I think it is unlikely that Ps salesman told 
them that P would complete the whole process for them. So I do not uphold this complaint 
point.
FIT payments and savings
Mr and Mrs C have said that they were told their monthly loan repayments would be 
covered, or self-funded by the FIT payments and the savings on their energy bills. Ive 
considered the quote that was provided by P as well as Mr and Mrs Cs recollections of their 
meeting with Ps representative to decide what is most likely to have been said.
The system analysis page of the quote sets out the estimated income Mr and Mrs C could 
expect to receive by way of FIT payments from the system. This is split out into the expected 
FIT payments in the first year and the expected average income over 20 years. The FIT 
scheme only provides payments for a 20-year period.I think that the first of these tables is clear that Mr and Mrs C could expect to receive a total 
FIT income in year one of £123.94. The quote goes on to look at the electricity savings Mr 
and Mrs C could expect from the system. The expected year one electricity savings are 
£213.63 and, when taking into account the optional extras chosen by Mr and Mrs C, the 
combined income and savings in year one are shown as £580.83. This is shown in a table 
titled Putting it all together.
This results in an average monthly income of £48.40. Im satisfied that the same document 
set out that there would be a monthly loan repayment due of £81.63. As a result, Im not able 
to conclude that Mr and Mrs C were told that the monthly loan repayments would be covered 
by the FIT payments and savings.
Theres a section headed Repayments with three tables showing repayments over 60 
months, 120 months and 180 months. Ive focused on the table for 180 months as this is the 
length of the loan that Mr and Mrs C entered into with Shawbrook. This table shows the loan 
as repayable in 180 monthly payments of £81.63. For each year of the 15 year loan it shows 
the expected grand total return from the system. It then averages that figure over 12 months, 
and subtracts the monthly loan repayment, to give an average difference between the 
monthly return from the system and the monthly loan repayment in each year. This gives a 
negative figure for the first nine years of the loan, meaning that the system would not begin 
to make enough money to cover the loan payments until year ten.
I think the quote clearly sets out the income Mr and Mrs C could expect to receive from the 
system, by way of FIT payments and savings, as well as their expected contractual monthly 
loan repayments. Whilst I accept that the table doesnt simply compare the FIT income and 
savings to the monthly loan repayments, it does clearly set out that the overall income they 
could expect to receive by way of FIT income and any additional savings would not be 
immediately sufficient to cover the monthly loan repayments. Ive carefully thought about Mr 
and Mrs Cs version of events. However, as Ive found that the quote did form a central part 
of the sales process which the salesperson went through at the meeting, I dont think I can 
reasonably find that they were told that the monthly loan repayments would be covered by 
the FIT income and savings.
I am reinforced in my view by this graph in the quote, which plainly showed that the system 
would not be enough to cover the loan payments. (This graph includes the cost of the loan.)
Self-funding
Ill now consider whether P told Mr and Mrs C that the system would be self-funding from the 
outset. In doing so Ill again weigh all the available evidence to decide what is most likely to 
have happened.
Bearing in mind my finding on the central role the quote played in the sales meeting, Ive 
considered the table above which sets out the estimated average monthly income from the 
system, and the effect on that income of subtracting the monthly loan repayment. Im 
satisfied that the table is clear and easy to understand. On balance Im also satisfied that the 
salesperson referred to the table at the meeting.
As a result, I consider the salesperson did not make a representation that the system would 
be self-funding from the outset. Rather, I find that the salesperson went through the quote at 
the meeting which sets out that there would be a difference between the expected income 
and the monthly loan repayments.
That said, I do accept that Mr and Mrs C were told by P that the system would be self-
funding over a certain period of time.
The Key Facts page of the quote states in large font that it would take 11 years for the 
overall benefits that Mr and Mrs C could expect to receive to match the cash price of the 
system.
I think the 11-year estimated payback time is clear and prominent, being in large print on 
page 2. The CMC has criticised this part of the quote because the payback time only refers 
to the cash price and not the total cost including the loan interest, and the small print under 
the green graphic which explains this is very small. It says this small print could easily be 
overlooked, making the 11-year timescale misleading. However, this same figure also 
appears in the Putting it all together section, immediately below two other figures which are 
prominently labelled (does not include finance charge). So I think that would have made it 
clear that the payback time was based on the cash price.
(Even if I took a different view about that, 11 years is still longer than the loan term, so this 
reinforces my view in the previous section that the salesman did not say that the system 
would pay for itself during the ten years of the loan.)
A later page of the quote has a table detailing the estimated performance of the system over 
30 years. This too shows that it would take 11 years for the overall benefits that Mr and 
Mrs C could expect to receive to reach the cash price of the system, and 16 years to reach 
the total amount payable under the loan agreement (£14,793.40). These figures are not 
affected by the figures for subsequent years, so even if the system would not have lasted for 
30 years these payback figures would not be affected.1 (I have here reproduced only the 
rows for years 1, 10, 11, 15 and 16.)
The MCS certificate and quote set out that the system was expected to produce 1,829 kWh 
a year. That didnt translate into the expected financial returns because the system was not 
registered for FIT payments. But I have seen no evidence to suggest that the system is not 
performing properly, or that the expected financial returns would not have materialised if the 
system had been registered. So I cannot say that the payback timescales set out above 
were untrue.
1 I think that Mr and Mrs C are more likely to have been influenced by the expected benefit in the first 
two decades than by what they stood to get in the third.
Benefit calculation
The CMC has pointed out that the estimated savings on Mr and Mrs Cs electricity bills were 
calculated based on a unit price of electricity of 15.57 p/kWh, when Mr and Mrs Cs bills 
showed they had actually been paying 10.985 p/kWh in the year before the sale. It argues 
that P should have ascertained the correct rate from their utility bills.
Although I think that is a reasonable point, it appears to have been the industry standard at 
the time to take an average rate based on data from the Office of National Statistics (ONS) 
and to use that, instead of asking consumers for their rates on a case by case basis; ONS 
figures were also used to predict the likely inflation rate and increases in electricity prices 
over the coming years. (This meant that unpredictable changes in fixed rates for individual 
customers could be eliminated and the predictions about income in later years would be 
based on national averages.) Under our rules, I am supposed to take into account good 
industry practice at the relevant time,2 and I think that P followed that, and showed its 
working in the quote.
Summary
Having carefully considered the evidence provided by all parties in this complaint, Im
satisfied that there were no untrue statements of fact made by P that induced Mr and Mrs C 
to enter into the contract for the system, and I have found no other reason to uphold this 
complaint.
My final decision
My decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs C and Mr C to 
accept or reject my decision before 19 January 2023.
 
Richard Wood
Ombudsman
2 DISP 3.6.4R(2) in the FCA Handbook.