DRN-4255298
The complaint
Mr L complains about the service he received from AA Underwriting Insurance Company 
Limited (the AA) following a claim he made on his roadside assistance policy following an 
accident. 
What happened
Mr L holds a roadside assistance policy with the AA. When he was involved in an accident 
on the side of a motorway, he called the AA for assistance.
Mr L complains about the service he received after making that claim. He says it took the AA 
over eight hours to get to him. Hes said the updates were unreliable, and he had to call the 
AAs agent directly to get reliable ones. Hes said he was hurt after the accident and the 
lengthy call out added to this pain, as well as causing him distress and inconvenience.
The AA acknowledged it could have provided a better service and provided £75 
compensation. It acknowledged it took too long to assist Mr L but says that because he was 
moved to a safe location, other call outs took priority.
Mr L remained unhappy and brought his complaint to us, but our Investigator didnt 
recommend it be upheld. He thought that the AAs offer of compensation was fair in the 
circumstances.
Mr L disagreed and asked for an Ombudsmans decision, so, the case has come to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im not upholding it. I understand this will be disappointing for Mr L. But I 
too feel that the compensation awarded is fair and reasonable considering all the 
circumstances. Ill explain why.
The roughly eight hour wait Mr L experienced is longer than usual. And I can 
appreciate why he feels let down by the AA.
But, because Mr L was moved from the side of the motorway (an unsafe location) to 
a much safer location where he could purchase food and drink if necessary, I think 
its reasonable that the AA prioritised other call outs over his.
I understand the frustration felt after receiving unreliable and ever-changing updates. 
But, because of the everchanging needs of the patrol units, this is a very realistic 
possibility in any breakdown assistance call out. I agree Mr L shouldnt have had to 
call the recovery agent directly, but in doing so, he was provided with more accurate 
updates. So I cant fairly say he wasnt aware of what was happening  thought I do 
acknowledge that information would have been better had it come from the AA.
I understand Mr L has said he was in physical pain while waiting, but I cant see that 
the AA were made aware of this. From what Ive seen he told the AA he was OK to 
wait for assistance  albeit I understand he didnt realise hed be waiting as long as 
he was.
All things considered, I can understand why Mr L wasnt pleased with the service hes 
provided. But Im satisfied the AAs offer of £75 compensation is fair and reasonable 
in the circumstances.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr L to accept or 
reject my decision before 15 December 2023.
 
Joe Thornley
Ombudsman