DRN-2127479
The complaint
Mr and Mrs C say that The Prudential Assurance Company Limited mis-sold them a 
mortgage endowment policy.
What happened
Mr and Mrs C took out a mortgage endowment policy alongside their mortgage in 1999. 
They were first-time buyers and say that they believed this was the only way of getting a 
mortgage. They surrendered the policy in 2006.
In 2020, Mr and Mrs C complained to Prudential and said it had mis-sold the endowment to 
them. They said they werent offered a repayment mortgage and had they been told there 
was a risk-free option, they wouldve taken that instead. They also complained about the 
policy not meeting the target sum.
Prudential looked into the complaint but didnt uphold it. It said that the recommendation 
made to Mr and Mrs C for this policy was suitable, so this meant other repayment options 
didnt need to be discussed. It said that no guarantee was provided for the target sum, as 
explained on their paperwork. And that their attitude towards risk was established, also 
shown in their paperwork.
Mr and Mrs C brought their complaint to our service, through a representative. Our 
investigator didnt uphold the complaint as she agreed the policy seemed suitable for Mr and 
Mrs C at the time. She said theyd declined other products recommended to them in the 
meeting, so she felt they couldve declined to take out this mortgage if it didnt fit what they 
wanted. And she said Prudential had met the standards required in 1999.
Mr and Mrs Cs representative disagreed on their behalf. They stated that principles that 
were published in 2004 did apply to the review of this sale. And that these required the 
business to make sure the client had enough information to make a balanced and informed 
decision before proceeding. They said it wasnt possible for this requirement to have been 
satisfied if Mr and Mrs C werent made aware of the option of a repayment mortgage. And 
they deemed the advice unsuitable if it wasnt made clear there were other ways to get a 
mortgage. So the complaint has been passed to me for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr and Mrs Cs representative has put forward that it isnt possible for Prudential to have 
made a suitable recommendation to Mr and Mrs C without discussing a repayment mortgage 
with them. But I dont agree thats correct.
I havent been provided with anything which shows the advisor was required to discuss 
every option with Mr and Mrs C. Instead, they were required to provide a suitable 
recommendation. I accept that this meant the advisor had to consider what was right for 
Mr and Mrs C, part of which likely included considering the options available, such as a 
repayment mortgage. But that doesnt mean they then had to discuss all of this with their 
customer, as the representative has suggested. And ultimately, the advisor had to decide 
what was suitable and share this with Mr and Mrs C. Based on the evidence I hold, I cant 
say that the advisor was wrong to recommend this endowment in 1999, considering what 
Mr and Mrs C told them about their situation and their attitude to risk at this time. So Im not 
persuaded to uphold this complaint because theres no evidence a repayment mortgage was 
discussed.
I accept that Mr and Mrs C may not have had much knowledge about mortgages, as they 
were first-time buyers. So it is possible they didnt fully understand the different mortgage 
options available to them. But, as Ive already set out, Prudential was required to 
recommend them a suitable mortgage product. And then it was up to them to decide if they 
wanted to go ahead with what was recommended. Their paperwork shows they didnt accept 
everything that was recommended, so it seems they did understand their ability to make 
their own choices from the recommendation at the time.
Mr and Mrs Cs representative has said it wasnt possible for them to make a balanced and 
informed decision without being given all the options  and that this was something 
Prudential had to consider when reviewing this case. But again, I consider this to be the 
representatives interpretation; and theyre actually applying a higher test than is required. I 
havent seen anything which sets out that a balanced and informed decision can only have 
been made if a repayment mortgage was discussed. Im satisfied that Mr and Mrs C were 
given enough information for them to understand the mortgage product Prudential was 
recommending to them. For example I can see they were told it could exceed its target sum 
or could have a shortfall. And so this, alongside their other paperwork, meant they had 
enough information to decide if it was right for them. So their representatives points dont 
change my decision. 
I do also note that Mr and Mrs C have said that if they were offered a risk-free option they 
wouldve taken it  regardless of how little risk their endowment had. But I cant agree that 
this is supported by their paperwork. I can see that there was a scale for how much risk they 
were willing to take with the endowment and their life cover. This ranged from one to four; 
one being Capital Security and four being Adventurous. Mr and Mrs C have opted for level 
one for Mrs Cs life protection, but level two for their mortgage (Very Cautious). This 
suggests that at the time, they were willing to take some risk  despite having a lower risk 
option available to them. Id have expected them to select level one for both areas if they 
really were trying to take out the lowest risk option available to them, but they have signed 
the paperwork with a level two risk and gone ahead with the endowment accordingly.
Im satisfied that Prudential did what was required of it in 1999 and also in its review of this 
sale. I think Mr and Mrs C were given clear information about the risk their policy had and 
that they had enough information to decide if they wanted to accept the suitable 
recommendation the advisor made.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I dont uphold Mr and Mrs Cs complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C and Mrs C to 
accept or reject my decision before 7 November 2020.
 
Amy Osborne
Ombudsman