Complaint
Ms C and Mr C say Lloyds Bank PLC (Lloyds) mis-sold them a mortgage payment 
protection insurance (MPPI) policy.
Ms C and Mr C bought the MPPI policy alongside a mortgage in 1988 to help them with their 
mortgage repayments if they were unable to work because of accident, sickness or 
unemployment. 
My findings
I have considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding Ms C and Mr Cs case.
Ive decided the policy wasnt mis-sold and Ill explain why.
Neither Lloyds nor Ms C and Mr C have given me any paperwork from the time of sale. I 
dont think thats unreasonable given how long ago the policy was sold. Ms C and Mr C say 
that Lloyds told them they needed to have the MPPI to help them secure the mortgage. But 
Lloyds says the optional nature of the PPI wouldve been made clear.  
Where I have limited information about a sale, I have to decide what I think is more likely 
based on everything I have seen. While I appreciate Ms C and Mr Cs strength of feeling 
regarding this, and have thought carefully about their testimony, given the complete lack of 
any evidence available other than both Lloyds and Ms C and Mr Cs testimony, Im afraid I 
dont have enough to say that its more likely the policy wasnt presented as optional to Ms C 
and Mr C or that they didnt agree to take it. 
As explained above, given how long ago this policy was sold, there are limited documents 
available to help me decide this case. The policy documents from 1988 are no longer 
available  but I have looked at the nearest available document to help me decide what their 
policy is likely to have said. 
Lloyds recommended the MPPI to Ms C and Mr C so it had to check that it was right for 
them  and based on what Ive seen of their circumstances at the time, I think that it was. 
For example, they were likely eligible for the policy and werent affected by any of the likely 
exclusions to or limits on the MPPI cover. They also seem to have had a need for the cover. 
Ms C and Mr C were both employed and mightve had some employee benefits. Mr C said 
he had good sick pay for example provided by his employer. But this policy wouldve paid 
out on top of his sick pay and any other employee benefits they mightve had, and for up to 
12 months so, I still think they couldve found it useful. 
DRN-1854847Its possible the information Lloyds gave Ms C and Mr C about the MPPI wasnt as clear as it 
shouldve been. But I think its likely they chose to take it out - so it looks like they wanted 
this type of cover. And it seems like it would have been useful for them if something went 
wrong. It also looks like it was affordable. So, I dont think better information about the MPPI 
would have put them off taking out the cover. 
Overall, I think they wouldve found the cover useful to protect their mortgage, which was a 
long term and significant commitment secured on their home  so the effects of not keeping 
up with the repayments couldve been very serious. 
Ive thought about everything Mr C and Ms C have said including their concerns that the 
monthly benefit amount wasnt enough to cover the full mortgage payments. Based on what 
Ive seen, the benefit was enough to cover the original mortgage repayment. It was only the 
further advances they took out later that meant it wasnt. From the closest policy terms, 
weve got, which I think likely reflected what their terms wouldve said, the benefit is linked to 
the mortgage repayment, rather than being a fixed amount. So, this isnt an issue.
Mr C and Ms C have also indicated they tried to make some claims and they are unhappy 
these were not paid. There may be legitimate reasons why a claim is not paid, and again 
doesnt necessarily mean the policy was mis-sold  the policy could still be useful under 
different circumstances. 
My final decision
For the reasons set out above I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms C and Mr C to 
accept or reject my decision before 29 July 2020.
Asma Begum
Ombudsman