DRN-3860622
The complaint
Mr L complains that The National Farmers' Union Mutual Insurance Society Limited (NFU) 
has poorly handled his claim for storm damage. Also, that it wouldnt deal with a claim for 
missing jewellery and contents allegedly left outside by its contractors.
What happened
Mr L made a claim to NFU following a severe storm around about 30 January 2021. This 
damaged his house and workshop, and contents. Some emergency repairs were carried out 
to prevent water ingress. NFU appointed contractors to assess the damage. Mr L obtained 
some quotations for repairing the damage, but had difficulty in getting other estimates. NFU 
agreed to appoint its panel contractors. In March 2021 NFU advised that drying could 
proceed. 
Mr L then advised that there had been problems with squirrels getting into the property, and 
stealing various items of jewellery, which he asserted wouldnt have happened had NFU 
acted more quickly. Scaffolding was erected around the end of March 2021. Following 
discussions on 20 April 2021, Mr L was advised that he could appoint his own contractors. 
NFU advised there was no cover for the loss of the jewellery items as there was no evidence 
this had taken place and there was an exclusion for damage (including loss) caused by 
vermin. Mr L decided to proceed with NFUs contractors and NFU instructed them to 
proceed. A provisional start date was set for 28/29 June 2021. The contractors attended but 
decided to leave and not return as they felt theyd been made to feel uncomfortable 
It was agreed that Mr L would be paid a cash settlement to enable his contractors to carry 
out the repairs. An interim payment of just over £30,000 was agreed.  On 18 October it was 
subsequently arranged, in respect of the workshop contents that specialist contractors would 
come and inspect. In November, Mr L advised that the scaffolding had been removed but it 
had damaged the driveway.
A full review was carried out by the loss adjusters on 24 November. After that Mr L was 
asked repeatedly for invoices but didnt provide them. Mr L advised that a number of 
expensive pieces of equipment had been left outside the workshop after inspection. His 
understanding was that these were said to be damaged beyond economical repair. But the 
contractors denied having left them outside. NFU wouldnt pay for the items under the storm 
claim but invited Mr L to make a claim for accidental damage.
Mr L made a complaint to the Financial Ombudsman Service in February 2022. It was 
referred back to NFU for it to issue a final response, which it issued on 15 August 2022. It 
maintained its position concerning the alleged theft of the jewellery items. With regard to the 
workshop contents it said that Mr L could make a claim for accidental damage but denied 
that its contractors had put those items outside. 
In respect of the progress of the claim, NFU agreed that there had been avoidable delays on 
its part, both with regard to its investigation into the claim and in dealing with his complaint. It 
arranged for a cheque for £850 compensation to be sent to Mr L.
On referral back to the Financial Ombudsman Service, our investigator said that NFUs 
position regarding the claim was reasonable, and the payment of the £850 compensation 
was fair.
Mr L didnt agree and the matter has been passed to me for further consideration.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
loss of jewellery
Mr L advise that some items of jewellery, notably a gold watch and ring and a diamond ring 
had gone missing. He believes that because of the delays on NFUs part the property was 
left open to squirrels getting in. He has CCTV evidence of them damaging carpets and 
eating Easter eggs. NFU said it would not pay for the loss of the items. It disputed that the 
loss was caused by squirrels and in any event said that the policy had an exclusion for 
damage or loss caused by vermin, and squirrels are regarded as vermin.
I dont think its likely that the jewellery items which together were said to be worth over 
£17,000, were taken by squirrels. My view is that is just speculation. But even if it did happen 
that way then the exclusion for loss or damage caused by vermin applies. Mr L subsequently 
suggested to our investigator that the contractors could have taken the items. But no loss 
was reported to the Police and as far as I know, the contractors werent challenged about 
this at the time. I dont think that Mr L has put forward sufficient evidence to show that NFU 
or its contractors were responsible for the loss or that the loss was covered under the policy.
loss of contents left outside
There is a dispute between Mr L and NFUs specialist contractors as to as to how this 
happened. Mr L is insistent that the contents were taken out of the workshop by those 
contractors after assessing them. The contractors said the items were already outside when 
they visited. I have no means of assessing who is right, so I think that NFUs approach to 
this part of the claim is reasonable. That is, that Mr L should make a claim for accidental 
damage and NFU will consider it. However without his putting in such a claim I cant require, 
in this decision, NFU to consider it. I note that Mr L has had a substantial pay-out for the 
other contents damaged.
delays
There were delays in arranging contractors to visit, and in them starting to do the repairs. I 
am unclear why NFUs contractors left the site and wouldnt return. But I think they did miss 
appointments. Having said that, this was a large claim which required a full and detailed 
inspection. I also note that invoices were requested on a number of occasions and Mr L 
failed to provide them. But I do note that it took several months for NFU to issue its final 
response. Without that our investigator couldnt start investigation of the complaint, and that 
must have been frustrating for Mr L.
NFU has (I believe) paid £850 compensation, and I have to say that if the matter had come 
to me and I had to decide what compensation to award, its unlikely that I would have 
awarded as much as NFU has paid. So I think NFUs payment of compensation was fair and 
reasonable.
I dont know if there are any outstanding invoices still to be paid, but Mr L will have to submit those in the normal way.
overall
I think that NFU has dealt fairly with the claim for damage to the workshop contents and the 
loss of jewellery. I further think the compensation payment made was fair and reasonable. 
As this payment was made after the complaint was referred to this service, its fair that I 
record it in this decision.
My final decision
I uphold the complaint in part, and require The National Farmers' Union Mutual Insurance 
Society Limited to pay £850 compensation to Mr L. If it has already done so, it doesnt need 
to pay any further compensation.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr L to accept or 
reject my decision before 27 February 2023.
 
Ray Lawley
Ombudsman