DRN-3457316
The Complaint
Mr and Mrs N say that GE Money Consumer Lending Limited (GE Money) didnt fairly or
reasonably deal with their claims under Sections 75 and 140A of the Consumer Credit Act
1974 (the CCA)  as amended by the Consumer Credit Act 2006  in relation to a
timeshare they say they were sold on 15 August 2006 (the Time of Sale).
Background to the Complaint
It looks like Mr and Mrs N bought a points-based timeshare (the Timeshare) from a
timeshare provider (the Supplier) at the Time of Sale. They paid for it using finance from
GE Money  having entered into a 182-month Fixed Sum Loan Agreement (the Credit
Agreement). The amount lent to Mr and Mrs N was £30,407.47. £13,999 was for the
Timeshare and £16,408.47 was for refinancing. The total amount payable after interest of
£53,438.33 and an acceptance fee of £65 was £83,910.80.
Unhappy with what had happened at the Time of Sale, Mr and Mrs N  using a
representative (LF)  wrote to GE Money on 29 October 2018 (the Letter of Claim) to
make claims under:
(1) Section 75 of the CCA for misrepresentation; and
(2) Section 140A of the CCA for an unfair debtor-creditor relationship.
The Letter of Claim made these claims for a number of reasons  which it isnt practical to
list here. But the upshot of the Letter of Claim was that Mr and Mrs N would not have made 
their purchase at the Time of Sale but for the mistakes and misrepresentations at that time.
As it doesnt look like GE Money responded to Mr and Mrs Ns claims, a complaint was
referred to the Financial Ombudsman Service.
GE Money could not find any record of Mr and Mrs Ns account and made a request for
some more information. That request was passed on to Mr and Mrs N, who were now
represented by a different third-party (M). In response, they provided a First National
Consumer Finance Limited1 loan application form dated 26 May 2005 (the May 2005
Loan Application Form). And it looks like that form was used to apply for credit of
£15,987.92  which was made up of £9,288 for a points-based timeshare and £6,699.92
for Other Credit.
The complaint was then looked at by an adjudicator. She thought that Mr and Mrs Ns 
Section 75 claim had been made too late. And she didnt think Section 140A applied as the 
Credit Agreement wasnt caught by that section of the CCA given the dates it was likely to 
have started and ended. So, she shared her answer with both sides on 1 March 2022.
M disagreed and asked for an ombudsmans decision without giving the adjudicator any
reasons why. The adjudicator started that process and gave both sides until 8 March to
submit new evidence and/or arguments.
1 This was one of GE Money Consumer Lending Limiteds previous company names.
In response, M asked for three weeks in order to give Mr and Mrs N time to provide it with
their instructions. As three weeks had passed without any further word from them,
the complaint was passed to me for a decision.
I issued a Provisional Decision (PD) on 24 March 2022. And in summary, I thought that the 
Section 75 and 140A claims were likely to have been made out of time under the Limitation 
Act 1980 (the LA)  such GE Money had a defence to both claims under that Act.
I followed up on my PD a few days later with an email to both sides to clarify that, while the 
assertion in the Letter of Claim that GE Money lent to Mr and Mrs N irresponsibly was 
framed as giving rise to an unfair debtor-creditor relationship under Section 140A, lending 
money under a regulated credit agreement of the kind in question wasnt an activity covered 
by the Financial Ombudsman Services jurisdiction at the Time of Sale. And for that reason, 
while I thought it was an issue I could consider in the context of the Section 140A claim if it 
happened to be made in time under the LA, I didnt think I could consider GE Moneys 
decision to lend beyond that.
GE Money responded to my PD, not to disagree, but to say that it wanted to issue 
Mr and Mrs N with a final response to this complaint. So, it did that by sending them a letter 
directly on 21 April. And, in summary, it said the following in relation to this complaint:
1. Mr and Mrs Ns loan agreement shows that their account was opened on or around 15 
August 2005.
2. Any claim under Section 75 of the CCA is out of time under the LA.
3. Allegations that relate to the information exchanged at the Time of Sale cant be 
investigated fully and fairly as GE Money didnt sell the Timeshare and wasnt present 
at the sale. So, concerns of that nature are better dealt with by the Supplier.
4. Any complaint in relation to irresponsible lending by GE Money is out of time under the 
LA. 
5. Allegations that relate to maintenance fees, the standard of accommodation and the 
availability of holidays dont fall within the scope of Section 75 of the CCA as they 
dont amount to a breach of contract or misrepresentation.
6. Any complaint in relation to GE Moneys standard of commercial conduct at the Time of 
Sale is out of time under the LA.
7. The assertion that the Supplier and, in turn, GE Money breached its fiduciary duty is out 
of time under the LA.
8. The assertion that the Supplier failed to disclose the commission paid in relation to the 
Credit Agreement, which gave rise to an unfair relationship under Section 140A, is out of 
time under the LA.
GE Money went on to give referral rights to the Financial Ombudsman Service. But it only 
did that, it seems, in relation to point five above.
Instead, GE Money referred Mr and Mrs N to the Citizens Advice Bureau as it thought that 
most if not all of the other points it sought to address in its final response fell outside of the 
Financial Ombudsman Services jurisdiction  whether that was because the Credit 
Agreement was entered into at a time when entering into a credit agreement of the kind in 
question wasnt an activity covered by the Services jurisdiction or because some of the acts 
and/or omissions that led to Mr and Mrs Ns claims occurred outside of the United Kingdom.
Mr and Mrs N and their representative didnt respond to my PD by the deadline I set  nor 
have they responded since.
So, as neither side has disagreed with what I had to say in my PD or introduced arguments and/or evidence in response to it that forces me to depart from what I said in my provisional 
findings, Im now ready to consider this complaint again for a Final Decision.
My Findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
When doing that, Im required by DISP 3.6.4 R of the Financial Conduct Authoritys (FCA) 
Handbook to take into account the:
(1) relevant:
(a) law and regulations;
(b) regulators rules, guidance and standards;
(c) codes of practice; and
(2) ([when] appropriate) what [I consider] to have been good industry practice at the relevant
time.
When evidence is incomplete, inconclusive, incongruent or contradictory, Ive made my
decision on the balance of probabilities  which, in other words, means Ive based it on what
I think is most likely to have happened given the available evidence and the wider
circumstances.
And having done all of that, I still dont think this complaint should be upheld.
As I said to both sides shortly after my PD, lending money under a regulated credit 
agreement of the kind in question wasnt an activity covered by the Financial Ombudsman 
Services jurisdiction at the Time of Sale. And I still think thats the case now. So, for that 
reason, I still dont think I can consider, in its own right, GE Moneys decision to lend to 
Mr and Mrs N.
GE Money hasnt, in response to my PD, expressly challenged the Financial Ombudsman 
Services jurisdiction to consider its handling of Mr and Mrs Ns Section 140A claim. And as 
GE Money is no doubt aware, when a complainant makes a complaint about the way in 
which a business dealt with a claim under Section 75 of the CCA, the event complained 
about for the purpose of the Financial Ombudsman Services jurisdiction is the business 
handling of that claim  rather than the event(s) that the claim was made in relation to.
However, for reasons I get onto below, I still think that Mr and Mrs Ns claims under Sections 
75 and 140A were likely to have been made out of time under the LA  thus giving GE 
Money a defence to them.
The Section 75 Claim for Misrepresentation
As Ive said before, the Credit Agreement was for £30,407.47. And as the May 2005 Loan
Application Form suggests that Mr and Mrs N were existing timeshare owners and may have
traded in an existing product for the Timeshare, its possible the cash price of the Timeshare 
was more than £30,000  which might mean that Section 75 doesnt apply to this particular
claim.
But, as I said in my PD, I dont need to formerly decide this point because I still think this 
claim was made out of time under the LA anyway.A claim for misrepresentation against the Supplier would ordinarily be brought under Section 
2(1) of the Misrepresentation Act 1967. It was held in Laws v The Society of Lloyds [2003] 
that this type of claim is an action in tort and covered by Section 2 of the Limitation Act 1980 
(the LA) or an action brought for a sum recoverable by statute under Section 9 of the LA. 
And under both of those provisions, a claimant has a period of six years to make a claim 
from the date on which the cause of action accrued.
As Mr and Mrs N made a like claim against GE Money under Section 75 of the CCA, it was
covered by Section 9 of the LA  which means they had six years from the date on which
the cause of action accrued to make their claim.
The date on which a cause of action accrued is the point at which Mr and Mrs N had
everything they needed to make a legal claim. And in this case, thats when they could have
made a claim for misrepresentation against the Supplier or a like claim against GE Money.
As Mr and Mrs N look like they entered into an agreement to purchase the Timeshare at
The Time of Sale, or at some point in August 2006 if it wasnt on the 15th when they signed 
the Credit Agreement2, thats when I think the cause of action accrued. After all, the Letter of 
Claim says that they entered into the agreement to purchase the Timeshare because of 
misrepresentations. And as the upshot of that Letter was that they would not have made 
their purchase but for the Suppliers misrepresentations during the sale, it was at that time 
that they suffered a loss as they entered into the Credit Agreement as a result.
It follows, therefore, that I think the cause of action accrued at the latest at the Time of Sale 
 which means Mr and Mrs N had six years from that date to make their claim. But
as they didnt do that until 29 October 2018, it looks like they fell outside of the time limits
set out in the LA. 
To be clear, Im not saying that any right that Mr and Mrs N may have to make this claim has 
expired under the LA. Thats a matter for the courts. But I do think GE Money is entitled to 
rely on the LA as a defence to the claim. And for that reason, I see no reason to now ask 
GE Money to do anything further.
The Section 140A Claim
Only a court has the power to decide whether the relationship between Mr and Mrs N
and GE Money was unfair for the purpose of Section 140A. But, as its relevant law, I
do have to consider it.
Schedule 3 of the Consumer Credit Act 2006 sets out the credit agreements to which
Section 140A applies. And in short, if a credit agreement started before 6 April 2007 and
ended before 6 April 2008, it isnt possible to make a claim under Section 140A in relation
to that credit agreement.
As Mr and Mrs N entered into the Credit Agreement just over a year after applying for
finance from First National Consumer Finance Limited in May 2005, its possible the Credit
Agreement did end before 6 April 2008 as they appear to have refinanced early fairly 
regularly.
However, as I said in my PD, I dont need to formerly decide this point either. GE Money 
cant identify an account in Mr and Mrs Ns names and in an email on 31 May 2021, it said 
that, in line with its retention policy, any records in relation to the Credit Agreement may 
2 I know GE Money said in its final response that the Credit Agreement was entered into on 15 August 2005. I read the various 
dates on the Credit Agreement to be in 2006  which is also the year Mr and Mrs N gave in their Complaint Form. But whether 
it was entered into in 2005 or 2006, I still think that both of their claims were likely to have been late under the LA.have been destroyed because it ended more than six years ago  which is a point it 
repeated in its final response.
As the Credit Agreement was entered into at the Time of Sale and set to run for 182 months, 
I continue to acknowledge that its possible it was in place after 6 April 2008. But, even if it 
was, based on how long businesses tend to keep records for, and in the absence of 
evidence to the contrary, I still think its more likely than not that the Credit Agreement ended 
at least six years prior to the point at which Mr and Mrs N made their claim given the fact that 
GE Money cant trace the Credit Agreement.
And with that being said, Ive considered the provisions under the LA as it also applies to 
claims under Section 140A. It was held in Patel v. Patel [2009] that the time for limitation 
purposes ran from the date the credit agreement ended if it was not still running at the time 
the claim was made. As the limitation period is six years, and as Mr and Mrs N only made 
their claim on 29 October 2018, I still think GE Money is entitled to rely on the LA as a 
defence to this claim as well. And for that reason, I continue to see no reason to ask 
GE Money to do anything in relation to this claim either.
Commission
Ive reconsidered what the Letter of Claim says about the amount of commission that 
might have been paid by GE Money to the Supplier for arranging the loan in question. But 
as I said in my PD, had such a payment been made, I still havent seen anything to 
suggest GE Money would have breached a duty by making it  nor have I seen anything 
to suggest it was under a regulatory duty to disclose the amount of commission paid in 
these circumstances. And from what Ive seen across the timeshare industry, if 
commission was ever paid it tended to be low. So, for that reason, and in the absence of 
evidence to contrary, I still think its unlikely that the levels of commission normally paid in 
situations like the one in question were high enough to put GE Money on notice that not 
disclosing commission to Mr and Mrs N risked making their debtor-creditor relationship 
unfair under Section 140A.
Unaffordable Lending
As Ive said before, the assertion in the Letter of Claim that GE Money lent to 
Mr and Mrs N irresponsibly was framed as giving rise to an unfair debtor-creditor 
relationship under Section 140A. And as Ive already explained why the claim under that 
provision was likely to have been made out of time under the LA, I dont need to say 
anything more here as Ive explained why I cant consider GE Moneys decision to lend 
beyond that.
Conclusion
Ultimately, as Ive said before, its for the courts to decide whether or not the relevant 
claims against the Supplier or GE Money have expired under the LA. But, as far as I can 
see from the information available, any claim that might exist against GE Money is likely to 
have been made outside the time limits set out in the LA. And for that reason, Im not 
persuaded that GE Money needs to do anything to put things right in this complaint.
My Final Decision
For the reasons set out above, I dont uphold Mr and Mrs Ns complaint against GE Money 
Consumer Lending Limited.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr and Mrs N to 
accept or reject my decision before 27 May 2022.
 
Morgan Rees
Ombudsman