DRN-3426374
The complaint
Mr S complains about the service he received from eToro (UK) Ltd. He says eToro 
threatened to close his account even though hed provided it with the information it said it 
needed.
What happened
When Mr S opened his dealing account with eToro he provided it with a UK address. eToro 
noticed that Mr S was consistently logging into his account from abroad and said it required 
him to provide proof of address where he was living. 
Mr S said he provided the information eToro had asked for, but it didnt accept it and 
threatened to close his account  which would have meant closing his open positions at a 
loss.
Eventually, eToro accepted the document Mr S had provided. It apologised that, due to 
human error, it hadnt accepted what hed provided at an earlier stage. It credited his 
account with US$150 as a gesture of goodwill.
Our investigator didnt recommend the complaint should be upheld. He thought eToro had 
made a mistake, but that it had fairly compensated Mr S.
Mr S didnt agree, so the complaint has been referred to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Firstly, Im aware that Ive summarised this complaint in far less detail than the parties and in 
my own words. There is a considerable amount of information here but Im not going to 
respond to every single point made. No discourtesy is intended by this. Instead, Ive 
focussed on what I think are the key issues here. Our rules allow me to do this. This simply 
reflects the informal nature of our service as a free alternative to the courts. If theres 
something Ive not mentioned, it isnt because Ive ignored it. I havent. Im satisfied I dont 
need to comment on every individual argument to be able to reach what I think is the right 
outcome.
eToro explained, in response to Mr Ss complaint, why it needed, and was able to ask for, a 
document to evidence his address. I think it would have been helpful if it could have made 
this clearer when it first asked Mr S for the information.
When Mr S provided an identity card, eToro didnt accept it, even though it was on its list of 
accepted documents. eToro explained this was due to human error.
I dont find that eToros mistake led to a financial loss for which Mr S should be 
compensated. He told us he didnt feel able to trade on his account because he was worried 
eToro would close his positions. And, whilst I understand that, eToro didnt prevent Mr S 
from trading, and I cant order it to compensate him for something that he might have done 
and chose not to.
eToros mistake did cause Mr S unnecessary stress and inconvenience. Mr S had to contact 
eToro several times and he had to provide it with a copy of its own list to prove that the 
document he had sent in was on its list. A simple process which should have taken a few 
days, took several weeks to resolve. And during this time, eToro said it would close Mr Ss 
account if he didnt provide the correct document  when hed already provided it. I can 
understand how worrying this must have been for Mr S and hes told us that it caused him 
sleepless nights. Ive thought about this very carefully. But I need to be fair to both parties 
and my role is not to punish or fine a business for something it does wrong. eToro credited 
Mr Ss account with US$150 which I think is fair and reasonable compensation for the 
distress and inconvenience he was caused.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, my final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 11 August 2022.
 
Elizabeth Dawes
Ombudsman