DRN-3034305
The complaint
Mr W complains that Bastion Insurance Co. Ltd failed to provide a refund in a timely manner 
after he cancelled a mobile phone insurance policy with them.  
What happened
Mr W bought a mobile phone insurance policy with Bastion via an on-line website on 19 
November 2018. 
After he received the policy details, he realised that the policy wasnt adequate for his needs, 
so he asked to cancel it. This was well within the 14-day cooling off period.
In short, Mr W was due a refund of the £55.99 hed paid for the policy minus a £4.99 
administration fee that Bastion were entitled to charge.
Mr W didnt receive the refund. So, he chased Bastion several times  and complained to 
them. And when he still hadnt received his refund by February 2020, he complained to us.
Whilst we were looking into it, Mr W finally received his refund  on 1 June 2020. Bastion 
also waived the administration fee and refunded the full £55.99.
Our investigator thought Bastion should also pay interest at 8% simple on the money Mr W 
should have received back in November 2018.
Bastion disagreed and asked for a final decision from an ombudsman.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Bastion say they tried to refund Mr W in November 2018. Theyve suggested at different 
times that the problem may have been with a third party gateway they use to issue payments 
or that it may have been with Mr Ws account. They said he may have had a block on his 
account which stopped the payment from them going in.
Mr Ws bank have told us there was no problem at their end and that they put the money in 
Mr Ws account  in June 2020 - as soon as they received it.
So, Im satisfied that whatever stopped the money getting back to Mr W was a problem with 
Bastion or with the third party gateway they choose to use to issue payments. It certainly 
wasnt Mr Ws  or his banks  fault.
In any case, Mr W got in touch with Bastion soon after he realised theyd failed to refund his 
money. And he chased them on several occasions. If their systems  or the gateway they 
used  hadnt delivered the refund, they had ample opportunity to get the money to Mr W by 
some other means.
Putting things right
Mr W cancelled his policy in November 2018. He was entitled to a refund  of £51 - at that 
point. He didnt get that money until 1 June 2020  18 months later.
I appreciate that Bastion have waived the small administration fee for the cancellation. But 
they have deprived Mr W of the £51 for 18 months. And I agree with our investigator that 
they should pay Mr W interest at 8% simple, on that £51, for a period of 18 months.
Im slightly surprised to be asked to make a final decision on this complaint, given the small 
amount extra that Bastion will have to pay Mr W on the basis of the calculation set out 
above.
I assume Bastion asked for a decision because they felt a matter of principle was at stake. If 
so, the only principle I can see here is that when you owe someone money, they shouldnt 
have to chase you for 18 months  and complain to our service  before you return it to 
them.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I uphold Mr Ws complaint.
Bastion Insurance Co. Ltd must pay Mr W 8% simple interest on £51 for a period of 18 
months.  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision before 14 October 2021.
 
Neil Marshall
Ombudsman