DRN-3693196
The complaint
This complaints about a mortgage that Mr J and Miss M applied for, and eventually 
obtained, from Barclays Bank UK PLC. The essence of the complaint is that errors and 
omissions on Barclays part resulted in the mortgage funds being released a day late, 
holding up completion. Mr J and Miss M are seeking reimbursement of what they say are 
their financial losses, plus substantial compensation for the stress they experienced.
What happened
The broad circumstances of this complaint are known to Mr J and Miss M and Barclays. Im 
also aware that the investigator issued a comprehensive response to the complaint, which 
has been shared with all parties, and so I dont need to repeat the details here. 
Our decisions are published, and its important that I dont include any information that might 
result in Mr J and Miss M being identified. Instead Ill focus on giving the reasons for my 
decision. If I dont mention something, it wont be because Ive ignored it. Itll be because I 
didnt think it was material to the outcome of the complaint. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ill start with some general observations. Were not the regulator of financial businesses, and 
we dont police their internal processes or how they operate generally. Thats the job of the 
Financial Conduct Authority (FCA). We deal with individual disputes between businesses 
and their customers. In doing that, we dont replicate the work of the courts. 
Were impartial, and we dont take either sides instructions on how we investigate a 
complaint. We conduct our investigations and reach our conclusions without interference 
from anyone else. But in doing so, we have to work within the rules of the ombudsman 
service, and the remit those rules give us.
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The case itself is simpler to decide than it might appear at first glance. Thats because I dont 
have to decide fault. The main facts of what happened arent in dispute, and Barclays has 
already admitted to shortcomings in how it handled matters. It has apologised and offered 
compensation of £400, which Mr J and Miss M have rejected. Theyve said theyre seeking 
around £11,800, but despite a specific request from us, that figure hasnt been particularised 
to any great degree, and it hasnt been evidenced in any way at all. What that leaves for me 
to decide is whether the redress Barclays has offered Mr J and Miss M is fair, or whether 
there is more it needs to do to put things right for them.
Ill start with a technical point, to address something Mr J and Miss M have said about 
Barclays having breached its contract with them by not releasing the mortgage funds on 
time. I have no power to decide if a contract has been breached; only a court can decide 
that. That said, its my understanding that the contract between Barclays and Mr J and 
Miss M only commenced at the point the funds were released. In that context, its hard to 
see how a delay in starting the contract would amount to a breach of it; although it was 
undoubtedly a failure of service. Its in the context of the latter that I have approached this.
Mortgage underwriting isnt an exact science; nor is it a mechanical process. Lenders 
generally have anticipated timescales for how long an application might take, but 
occasionally things take longer than expected. If Im to order Barclays to pay Mr J and 
Miss M the compensation theyre seeking, I have to be satisfied that Barclays unduly and 
excessively delayed the mortgage application by way of specific errors or omissions, and 
that the delay was the sole or over-riding cause of loss, financial or non-financial, to Mr J and 
Miss M.
As Ive already indicated, the first test has already been passed, and isnt being contested by 
Barclays. Its on the second test that things arent so clear. I say that because in the absence 
of anything to corroborate Mr J and Miss Ms claim for financial loss, direct or indirect, theres 
no reasonable basis for me to make any award in their favour. I appreciate this may come as 
a shock to Mr J and Miss M but it should not come as a surprise. We explained to them at an 
early stage in our consideration of the case that their claim required corroboration, but that 
has not been forthcoming. Its up to the parties making a claim to corroborate their case; its 
not our role to help them do that or do it for them. 
That brings me to compensation for time, trouble and upset. We dont generally compensate 
people for their time by reference to an hourly rate, or annual leave taken from work. We 
also take the view that even in the best ordered situation, some things can or will go wrong 
in such a complex transaction as a house move, and some degree of stress and 
inconvenience is to be expected. Taking into consideration everything that both parties have 
said and provided, and mindful of our general approach. I consider that £400 represents fair 
and reasonable compensation for what Ive no doubt was a deeply unpleasant experience 
for Mr J and Miss M.
I said at the outset that I wouldnt be commenting on every single point, and I havent. I have, 
as I said I would, confined myself to those matters that I consider have a material effect on 
the outcome. I can see from their submissions how important this is to Mr J and Miss M. 
Thats a natural reaction, and entirely understandable when youre as close to a situation as 
they have been here. This is very much a subjective area; everyone reacts to and perceives 
things differently, especially in the moment, when subject to the stresses that are inherent 
in a house transaction. 
But I have a different remit. I have to be objective, and impartial, and sometimes that means 
stepping back from the fine detail, taking an overview and deciding what is fair, reasonable 
and pragmatic in all the overall circumstances of the case. It also means that Im not 
required to provide answers to every specific question that comes up if I dont consider doing 
so will affect the overall outcome. Having done that, and having considered everything that 
both parties have said and provided, I think that the compensation of £400, already offered is 
fair redress for the impact of Barclays accepted failures.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. Ill leave it to Mr J and Miss M to decide 
if they want to accept the settlement offer Barclays Bank UK PLC made to them. If they do, 
they can contact Barclays directly.  My final decision concludes this services consideration 
of this complaint, which means Ill not be engaging in any further consideration or discussion 
of the merits of it.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr J and Miss M to 
accept or reject my decision before 11 October 2022. Jeff Parrington
Ombudsman