DRN-3249785
The complaint
 Mr G complains about the suitability of the advice he was given by Bob Espie Limited (Bob 
Espie) to transfer his Occupational Pension Scheme (OPS) benefits to a section 32 pension 
plan in 1988.
 
What happened
  Mr G held deferred benefits from an OPS. In 1988 he met with a firm I will call L to discuss 
his options with regards to the OPS benefits. It was agreed he would transfer the benefits to 
a section 32 plan. During the transfer process firm L ceased to trade. One of Ls employees 
then set up a new firm, Bob Espie Limited (Bob Espie) and was asked by Mr G if it would 
complete the transfer. 
Bob Espie says it agreed to complete the transfer but said it didnt give any advice. It sent 
the necessary forms and paperwork to the new pension provider in late 1988. The OPS 
trustees sent a cheque for the transfer value to the provider in May 1989. 
In 2000, as a result of the industry-wide pensions review of certain pension transactions 
between April 1988 and June 1994, Bob Espie carried out a review of Mr Gs transfer. It said 
it held a meeting with Mr G, which concluded with him stating that hed been happy to 
transfer  and this was confirmed in a letter soon afterwards. 
In 2018, Mr G said he met with Pension Wise to discuss his retirement options and became 
aware that the transfer advice hed received in 1988 may not have been in his best interests. 
So, he complained to Bob Espie. He said he believed he was worse off as a result of the 
advice to transfer. 
Bob Espie spoke with Mr G and explained that it had reviewed the 1988 advice under a 
thematic review in 2000. It explained that Mr G had said he had no concerns with the 
transfer. Bob Espie also confirmed that it hadnt given Mr G the original advice and said Mr 
G now accepted that it was another firm that had given him that advice. So, it didnt uphold 
the complaint. 
Mr G wasnt happy with that outcome, so he brought his complaint to this service.
Bob Espie didnt give its consent for this service to look into matters as it said it had been 
brought out of time. An investigator initially looked into Mr Gs complaint and considered 
whether it had been brought in time. She said that Bob Espies review of Mr Gs pension in 
1999/2000 didnt seem to look into whether the transfer was suitable  and didnt provide a 
loss assessment of the type we would have expected to see. So, she thought the outcome of 
the review wouldnt have given Mr G a cause to complain and therefore he had brought his 
complaint in time.
Bob Espie disagreed and asked for an ombudsman review.
An ombudsman looked at all the information again to determine if the complaint fell within 
this services jurisdiction. In summary, he agreed with the investigators view and didnt find 
any evidence to suggest Mr G was aware or ought reasonably to have been aware that he 
had cause to complain. He found Mr Gs testimony regarding his meeting with Pension Wise 
in 2018, a reasonable explanation as to the event that gave rise to Mr Gs concerns about 
whether the advice, he had been given was suitable. As Mr G brought his complaint within 3 
years of that meeting, he considered the complaint to have been brought in time.
The ombudsman said the investigator could go on to look at the merits of the complaint.
The investigator was of the view that a loss calculation should have been carried out at the 
time of the pension review and as it wasnt, she recommended a re-run of the calculation 
using the correct information but at the original calculation date. If the calculation shows that 
redress is now due, Mr G should be sent an offer letter and redress implemented in 
accordance with the regulatory guidance. She said if there is an actual loss, the appropriate 
annuity should be purchased, and a cash sum paid in respect of the redress payments (plus 
8% interest) missed to date.
Bob Espie disagreed. It said it didnt give Mr G any advice, it merely facilitated the transfer 
and as such is not responsible for any financial loss. It says it offered advice to Mr G, which 
he declined, and he also declined to complete a fact find. As such Mr G was treated as an 
insistent customer. It also points out it is no longer an authorised firm. It asked for an 
ombudsman review.
I set out my findings in my first provisional decision.
I explained Id taken into account the law, any relevant regulatory rules and good industry 
practice at the time. I also carefully considered the submissions made by Mr G and by Bob 
Espie. 
In cases such as this where the evidence is incomplete, inconclusive, or contradictory (as 
some of it is here), I explained I reach my decision on the balance of probabilities  in other 
words, what I consider is most likely to have happened in light of all the available evidence 
and the wider circumstances. 
Sometimes, particularly if theres no contemporaneous documentary evidence and its just a 
question of which partys recollection is more likely to be accurate, it may not be possible to 
reach any firm conclusions. And Ill only decide issues that I consider are relevant  that is 
material to the outcome of the complaint.
I explained the role of this service isnt to regulate or punish businesses for their conduct  
that is the role of the Financial Conduct Authority. Instead this service looks to resolve 
individual complaints between a consumer and a business. Should we decide that 
something has gone wrong we would ask the business to put things right by placing the 
consumer, as far as is possible, in the position they would have been if the problem hadnt 
occurred.
I said that, inevitably, trying to unpick events that happened over 30 years ago without the 
aid of complete records is difficult. This case was further complicated by the involvement of 
the individual which became the representative of Bob Espie Limited formerly being an 
employee of L, whom Bob Espie Limited says was responsible for the advice given to Mr G 
to transfer his pension, which collapsed half way through, as L went into liquidation around 
October 1988. Bob Espie Limited, took on the liabilities of Bob Espie & Co who was a 
separate entity and became regulated on 1 November 1988 and says it was not involved in 
the advice provided by L. 
At the time of the transfer the Financial Intermediaries, Manager and Brokers Regulatory 
Association (FIMBRA) determined the rules regarding insistent and execution only clients. Its 
role was eventually subsumed by the Personal Investment Authority (PIA) from 1994 
onwards. And in turn its remit was taken over by the Financial Services Authority in 2001, 
now the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA). Despite these developments, many of the requirements on businesses in terms of how they conducted business have been consistent 
through the years. The regulators acquired their authority from the Financial Services Act 
1986. The rules drawn up under these provisions can be viewed as a series of layers. At its 
broadest, three core obligations were imposed on a financial adviser: to know the client, to 
make suitable recommendations; and to provide best advice.
The Financial Intermediaries, Manager and Brokers Regulatory Association (FIMBRA) rules 
at the time stated that an execution only client was: 
A client with or for whom a transaction is effected in circumstances in which the member 
can reasonably assume that he is not relying upon the member to advise him on or exercise 
any judgement on his behalf as to the merits of or the suitability for him of that transaction. 
I looked closely at the available documentation within the file and, despite Bob Espies 
arguments to the contrary, I didnt find any evidence to suggest the transfer was carried out 
as an execution-only transaction. There isnt a signed document or statement from Mr G to 
say he understood at the time to be undertaking the transfer on an execution only basis. 
The letter provided by the OPS clearly indicates that it had received three transfer requests. 
One from firm L, one from Bob Espie and one from another financial provider. I noted that 
there was no dispute here that Bob Espie facilitated the transfer for Mr G.
Bob Espie had said that it offered advice, which was refused, and the firm proceeded to 
facilitate the transfer on an instruction only basis. But I noted in its email of 9 April 2021, it 
referred to Mr G as an insistent client.
I said there is a clear difference between an insistent client and a transaction carried out on 
an execution only basis. The former being a client who has received advice and acted 
against that advice and the latter a client who hasnt received any advice at all. 
Either way, as I had already said, I hadnt seen clear or credible evidence that the sale was 
execution only or conducted on an insistent customer basis. 
When Bob Espie agreed to carry out the transfer it was obliged to give Mr G suitable advice 
or document the reasons why it wasnt providing advice, and I said I hadnt seen evidence 
for either. Given whats been said, and in the circumstances, I wasnt persuaded Bob Espie 
followed the appropriate advice process in place at that time. But, I added, the compliance 
process itself is a means to an end. Ultimately, its in place to ensures the suitability of a 
transaction. 
I accepted that the former firm L may well have started the process and completed a fact 
find, but I said that doesnt mean Bob Espie could simply facilitate the transaction without 
any responsibility. If it agreed to complete the transfer, in my view, it had a responsibility to 
ensure it was suitable. This is whats key. And effectively what the regulators pension review 
sought to determine. 
The sale of Mr Gs pension policy fell within the dates set by the regulator at the time for 
inclusion in the industry wide pension review. On 16 August 2000, Bob Espie issued its 
pension review outcome to Mr G, and the first paragraph read:
In accordance with regulatory guidelines first announced in October 1994, we have now 
carried out a review of the sale of your personal pension plan. We have found that the 
advice we gave you was compliant with the Financial Services Act 1986 (the 
legislation which governs standards of investment advice). We do not therefore propose to review your case further unless you inform us of a concern, which you would like 
examined.
I appreciated that Bob Espie now says it made an error in even conducting the pension 
review in 2000 and it was in fact checking that L had advised Mr G correctly, but this 
seemed to me to be a retrospective position as there is no evidence of this prior to the 
complaint being raised with this service. As I had said earlier in the provisional decision 
because these events happened so long ago, Im required to look at the contemporaneous 
documentary evidence thats available. 
So, this letter persuaded me that, in August 2000, Bob Espie accepted responsibility for the 
advice to transfer Mr Gs pension away from his occupational scheme. 
The Pension Review and updated guidance 
I said that the Pension Review was designed to be a one-off exercise and was implemented 
to rectify widespread mis-selling of personal pension policies and to put customers back as 
much as possible into the position they would have been in had they not received unsuitable 
advice. 
In general terms, if a consumer had the opportunity of joining, or remaining in (even on a 
deferred basis), an OPS, but was advised to establish a PPP instead to either begin regular 
contributions or receive a lump sum transfer of deferred benefits, as was the case here, the 
regulator required businesses to determine whether financial loss was likely to have been 
caused. 
The methodology for putting things right was set by the regulator of the time. The financial 
business firstly had to determine whether it was possible for the customer to be reinstated 
into their previous defined benefit scheme. If that wasnt possible, the financial business 
needed to put the consumer back, as closely as possible, into the position they would have 
been in by way of a lump sum pension contribution. 
I further noted that several assumptions, based on what the regulator thought were fair at the 
time, were used in the redress calculations  including the expected future growth rate of the 
pension funds to produce the required benefits at retirement. Most reviews were completed 
between 1994 and 2003 and the assumptions were revised regularly during that time. In 
general, the assumptions to be used for the calculation were those relevant to the time that 
the calculation was done, and compensation paid. This included where mistakes were 
discovered in the original calculations  a re-calculation would usually be done using the 
same assumptions that applied at the date of the original calculation.
In 2017 the Financial Conduct Authority issued new guidance  known as FG17/9. This 
was designed for complaints upheld about occupational pension scheme transfers received 
after 3 August 2016 or for complaints received before this date that hadnt been settled in full 
and final settlement already. 
I said that it was initially envisaged that any case that fell within the Pension Review period 
would be excluded from the updated guidance. But after the consultation period, FG17/9 
said some cases could be included  where the financial business didnt review the relevant 
pension transaction in accordance with the regulatory standards at the time and/or where the 
particular circumstances of the case werent addressed by those standards.
I therefore considered the Pension Review letter issued by Bob Espie carefully and I found 
there to be several inconsistencies.I said that, in Section 1 of the review there are handwritten notes which suggest Mr G did not 
want to proceed with a full fact find but rather on a limited basis only. The question Section 
1 asks is:
Was the following information about the client gathered at the time of the sale (this will 
probably have been done on a fact find)
The section then lists a number of material areas  age, sex, occupation, marital status, 
eligibility for rights and expectations under the OPS, investors attitude to risk, the investors 
intended retirement age  all of which have been answered Yes by the reviewer. But the 
question regarding Health had been answered as not applicable.
I noted that it goes on to ask about the whether the reasons for the transfer were discussed 
and recorded, were the risks explained to the client and all of these have been answered 
Yes.
Section 3 asks if a comparison of benefits on ill health retirement was made and if so, did it 
show to be worse off under a personal pension that the OPS and was this explained to the 
investor  the response show Bob Espie says it did carry out the comparison and Mr G was 
not worse off.
I said in my view, there are inconsistencies within the review that suggest it may not have 
been carried out fairly and as the review indicates loss calculations were carried out, but 
they are not evident, I cant say the review was carried out in line with the regulatory 
requirements. I also cant say, from the information available that Mr G was able to decide if 
the transfer away from his occupational scheme was the best option for him.
So, I said I didnt have enough evidence here on a balance of probability to say Bob Espie 
did carry out the review in line with the regulatory standards of the time. I thought a fair 
outcome would be to run the loss calculations again using the correct information at the date 
of the original calculation.
I said if the recalculation shows that redress is now due, Mr G should be sent an offer letter 
and redress implemented in accordance with the regulatory guidance. If there is an actual 
loss, the appropriate annuity should be purchased, and a cash sum paid in respect of the 
redress payments (plus 8% interest) missed to date.
I was  also in agreement with the investigator that Bob Espie should pay Mr G £250 
compensation for the trouble and upset caused, as he could have made a potential change 
to his pension in 2000 but because he was never made aware of this, he lost that option.
I noted Bob Espie Limited is no longer an authorised firm. It suggested that this service 
should refer the matter to the FSCS. I explained that this is not the remit of this service. My 
role here is to consider whether Bob Espie Limited has acted fairly and reasonably in the 
circumstances of this complaint and Im not persuaded it has, for the reasons I have given.
Both parties responded to my provisional decision.
Mr G accepted my findings.
Bob Espie did not. In its response it said it was disappointed by my findings and re-iterated 
its position as a transfer facilitator and nothing more. It said no advice had been given and, in its view, it was clear Mr G met the definition of an 
execution only client as he had confirmed L had given the advice and his firm had not 
assessed the merits of the underlying advice for the transfer. It had merely ensured the 
transfer of his employer benefits to a S32 arrangement.
Further, the Bob Espie feels I have overlooked a vital factor, that being the issue of ill-health 
retirement options. It said these were unavailable in the OPS as Mr G had less than 10 
years service and presumably this being testimony to a suitable transfer.
It also re-iterated the thematic review was carried out in error by Bob Espie in this case.
Following the submissions made by Bob Espie, I issued a second provisional decision.
I revisited the whole file and considered the further submissions made by Bob Espie, which I 
read and considered in their entirety. Having done so, I wasnt presented with any new 
evidence from that available to me when I issued my first provisional decision. But I noted 
some additional points which I consider to be relevant to the outcome of the complaint and 
have set these out in a second provisional decision to provide both parties with the 
opportunity to respond. 
I said I understood Bob Espie feels very strongly that it transacted an occupational pension 
transfer after advice had already been given by the third-party firm L before it went into 
administration. But there remains no evidence in the case file provided by Bob Espie to 
support that assertion. I pointed out when Bob Espie agreed to transfer the pension, it had a 
responsibility to ensure suitability of advice and accepted responsibility for that when it 
carried out the transaction. Further, it confirmed in writing, following the thematic review in 
2000, that the advice it gave was suitable. 
I said, on the matter of the transaction having been undertaken on an execution only basis, 
my conclusions remained the same as those set out in the first provisional decision. But I 
further noted that the flow chart followed by Bob Espie (and initialled BE in June 1998) 
relating to the pension review process also indicated that the case had not been processed 
as an execution only piece of advice.
I explained, I remained of the view that its not reasonable to say, retrospectively, that it was 
an error on its part to carry out the review. In my view, its unlikely that a company would 
take responsibility for conducting a review on behalf of a different company which it 
considered to be responsible for the transfer, given the magnitude of the possible 
consequences of deeming the transaction to be non-compliant. The company would more 
likely than not have simply said at the time that it didnt consider itself to be responsible and 
referred the consumer to the right business.
I said I remained satisfied that Bob Espie was responsible for ensuring that the transfer 
advice was suitable. And on the basis of the other available evidence, not least that it 
submitted a transfer request from the OPS and then processed the transfer on Mr Gs 
behalf, Im satisfied that it was right to do so. Before submitting the transfer request, and 
even if it was working on the basis of information gathered by a previous business, Bob 
Espie itself needed to be satisfied that the transfer was suitable for Mr G
As I have already said, the thematic review required certain actions and investigations to be 
carried out. I pointed out the response from Bob Espie remains contradictory and 
inconsistent. For ease I addressed these as they arose in the review document.Section 2 - Early retirement  the pension review form said not available to Mr G as he had 
fewer than ten years service? But in the accompanying questionnaire, it says a 
proportionate amount would be payable under the OPS. 
Section 3 asks if a comparison of benefits on ill health retirement was made and if so, did it 
show that the individual would be worse off under a personal pension than in the OPS and 
was this explained to the investor  the response suggests that Bob Espie says it did carry 
out the comparison and Mr G was not worse off. 
Im unsure of the point Bob Espie is making. This is because it is another inconsistency 
within the thematic review questionnaire. On one part it says:
Was the following information gathered at the time of the sale (this will probably have been 
done on a fact find)
Health. N/A
And then further on:
Was a comparison of ill health benefits made  Yes
Did this comparison show the situation of ill health under the personal pension to be worse  
NO
Was this explained and understood by the investor  YES
Bob Espie drew my attention to this, But I cant see any evidence a comparison was made 
and so I said this would also not be compliant with the terms of the pensions review. It says, 
Mr G would be worse off but doesnt show how it reached this outcome
Section 4  again I saw no evidence of a comparison being made
For policies effected before January 1993, has an attempt been made at least in a rough and 
ready fashion, whether given the transfer value on offer, the investor was likely to be better 
off in retirement?
Bob Espie answered YES, but there are no calculations to demonstrate this.
Section 5  theres no evidence to support the comparison of benefits, other that the DBS 
and the projection for the S32 policy at 11.3% pa.
But section (ii) also says the following: 
Was the result of the comparison calculation/calculated breakeven yield
consistent with the LAUTRO projection rates, SlBs view of achievable
investment returns and the investors risk profile?
Mr G was recorded as being cautious at the time and wanting to retain guarantees  this is 
why a with-profits plan was deemed appropriate for him. I dont find this was consistent with 
a year on year return of 11.3%. even the mid band at the time of the advice was lower than 
this  at 10.75% pa? The lower rate of growth assumed achievable was 8.5%. So, I dont 
agree this was a compliant review on part (ii) in any case.I said for these reasons I cant see how Bob Espie, let alone Mr G, would have been able to 
assess if the transfer of his occupational pension scheme to a S32 policy was suitable for 
him.
So, I concluded, given the lack of supporting documentation for comparisons, the evident 
inconsistencies in what was recorded and failure to meet key requirements (such as the 
illustrated/required growth compared against the OPS benefits being suited to Mr Gs 
attitude to risk) my view is that the evidence doesnt support the position that Bob Espie did 
carry out the review in line with the regulatory standards of the time. 
I said on the basis of what should have been the answers to several of the questions 
contained in the pension review form, I think a fair outcome would be to assume non-
compliance, as ought to have been the case at the time.
Putting things right
I said my aim to is put Mr G, as closely as possible, into the position hed be but for Bob 
Espie Limiteds unsuitable advice. Reinstatement of Mr Gs deferred benefits isnt possible. 
No loss calculation was undertaken at the time of the pension review  but for the reasons 
given above, my view is that it should have been. Therefore, Bob Espie Limited should 
undertake a redress calculation in line with the pension review guidance as updated by the 
Financial Conduct Authority in its Finalised Guidance 17/9: Guidance for firms on how to 
calculate redress for unsuitable DB pension transfers.
The calculation should be carried out using the most recent financial assumptions at the date 
of any final decision. Bob Espie Limited may wish to contact the Department for Work and 
Pensions (DWP) to obtain Mr Gs contribution history to the State Earnings Related Pension 
Scheme (SERPS or S2P).
These details should then be used to include a SERPS adjustment in the calculation, which 
will take into account the impact of leaving the occupational scheme on Mr Gs SERPS/S2P 
entitlement.
If the redress calculation demonstrates a loss, the compensation in respect of any future loss 
should if possible be paid into Mr Gs pension plan. The payment should allow for the effect 
of charges and any available tax relief. The compensation shouldnt be paid into the pension 
plan if it would conflict with any existing protection or allowance.
If a payment into the pension isnt possible or has protection or allowance implications, it 
should be paid directly to Mr G as a lump sum after making a notional deduction to allow for 
future income tax that would otherwise have been paid.
Typically, 25% of the loss could have been taken as tax free cash and 75% would have been 
taxed according to Mr Gs likely income tax rate in retirement  presumed to be 20%. So, 
making a notional deduction of 15% overall from the future loss adequately reflects this.
The compensation amount must where possible be paid to Mr G within 90 days of the date 
Bob Espie Limited receives notification of his acceptance of any final decision.
Further interest must be added to the compensation amount at the rate of 8% per year 
simple from the date of any final decision to the date of settlement for any time, in excess of 
that 90-day period, that it takes Bob Espie Limited to pay Mr G.Its possible that data gathering for a SERPS adjustment may mean that the actual time 
taken to settle goes beyond the 90 day period allowed for settlement above  and so any 
period of time where the only outstanding item required to undertake the calculation is data 
from DWP may be added to the 90 day period in which interest wont apply.
Where I uphold a complaint, I can award fair compensation of up to £160,000, plus any 
interest and/or costs that I consider are appropriate. Where I consider that fair compensation 
requires payment of an amount that might exceed £160,000, I may recommend that the 
business pays the balance.
Determination and money award: In the event that I uphold this complaint, I would require 
Bob Espie Limited to pay Mr G the compensation amount as set out in the steps above, up 
to a maximum of £160,000.
Where the compensation amount does not exceed £160,000, I would additionally require 
Bob Espie Limited to pay Mr G any interest on that amount in full, as set out above.
Where the compensation amount already exceeds £160,000, I would only require Bob Espie 
Limited to pay Mr G any interest as set out above on the sum of £160,000.
Recommendation: If the compensation amount exceeds £160,000, I would also 
recommend that Bob Espie Limited pays Mr G the balance. I would additionally recommend 
any interest calculated as set out above on this balance to be paid to Mr G.
If Mr G were to accept a final decision on the above basis, the money award would be 
binding on Bob Espie Limited. Further, its unlikely that Mr G could accept my decision and 
go to court to ask for the balance. In the event that the complaint is ultimately upheld, Mr G 
may want to consider getting independent legal advice before deciding whether to accept 
any final decision.
Pay Mr G £250 compensation for the trouble and upset caused, as he could have made a 
potential change to his pension in 2000 but because he was never made aware of this, he 
lost that option.
I said I remained of the view I intended to uphold this complaint and ask Bob Espie Limited 
to take the actions detailed above. I gave both parties the opportunity to make any further 
submissions before I make my final decision. 
Mr G responded accepting my second provisional decision.
Bob Espie responded with further points which in essence re-iterated all the points it had 
previously made but specifically contested the transfer itself and said:
Mr G did not ask Bob Espie to complete the transfer, this was carried out by firm L
The request Mr G made to Bob Espie was to write to the Trustees and ask them to 
confirm to Bob Espie on behalf of Mr G when the transfer was completed and to 
ensure documents were issued accordingly
Bob Espie did not submit any application forms to the new provider he only contacted 
them by way of his client mandating him to do so, when the transfer of funds was 
complete.What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
 I have again considered all the information in respect of this complaint and I have reached 
the same conclusion as I did in both my provisional decisions.
I appreciate Bob Espie feels very strongly about its position here. But I have to say it has 
been inconsistent in the information provided and it seems unaware of its regulatory 
responsibilitys when he it agreed to carry out the transfer.
In its response to my second provisional decision, I considered most of the points to be 
those already made, but the additional points regarding its exact role in the transfer of the 
pension continues to be contested by Bob Espie.
I can only refer it to the points I have already made. Bob Espie confirms in earlier 
submissions it concluded the transfer of Mr Gs pension from his occupational scheme to the 
personal pension provider. Whether or not the process was started by Firm L is immaterial 
in so far as, once Bob Espie agreed to conclude the transfer it assumed responsibility for all 
the advice given. It says it offered advice, but this was declined but has provided no 
evidence to this effect. 
It also assumed responsibility for the thematic review and stated the advice was suitable and 
having looked carefully at that review, I have pointed out the lack of supporting 
documentation for comparisons, the evident inconsistencies in what was recorded and 
failure to meet key requirements (such as the illustrated/required growth compared against 
the OPS benefits being suited to Mr Gs attitude to risk) so in my view the evidence doesnt 
support the position that Bob Espie did carry out the review in line with the regulatory 
standards of the time.
As such I remain of the view, Bob Espie hasnt acted fairly and should put things right and 
this starts by putting Mr G back in the position he would have been in as far as this is 
possible.
 
Putting things right
As I have already indicated reinstatement of Mr Gs deferred benefits isnt possible. No loss 
calculation was undertaken at the time of the pension review  but for the reasons given 
above, my view is that it should have been. Therefore, Bob Espie Limited should undertake 
a redress calculation in line with the pension review guidance as updated by the Financial 
Conduct Authority in its Finalised Guidance 17/9: Guidance for firms on how to calculate 
redress for unsuitable DB pension transfers.
The calculation should be carried out using the most recent financial assumptions at the date 
of any final decision. Bob Espie Limited may wish to contact the Department for Work and 
Pensions (DWP) to obtain Mr Gs contribution history to the State Earnings Related Pension 
Scheme (SERPS or S2P).
These details should then be used to include a SERPS adjustment in the calculation, which 
will take into account the impact of leaving the occupational scheme on Mr Gs SERPS/S2P 
entitlement.If the redress calculation demonstrates a loss, the compensation in respect of any future loss 
should if possible be paid into Mr Gs pension plan. The payment should allow for the effect 
of charges and any available tax relief. The compensation shouldnt be paid into the pension 
plan if it would conflict with any existing protection or allowance.
If a payment into the pension isnt possible or has protection or allowance implications, it 
should be paid directly to Mr G as a lump sum after making a notional deduction to allow for 
future income tax that would otherwise have been paid.
Typically, 25% of the loss could have been taken as tax free cash and 75% would have been 
taxed according to Mr Gs likely income tax rate in retirement  presumed to be 20%. So, 
making a notional deduction of 15% overall from the future loss adequately reflects this.
The compensation amount must where possible be paid to Mr G within 90 days of the date 
Bob Espie Limited receives notification of his acceptance of any final decision.
Further interest must be added to the compensation amount at the rate of 8% per year 
simple from the date of any final decision to the date of settlement for any time, in excess of 
that 90-day period, that it takes Bob Espie Limited to pay Mr G.
Its possible that data gathering for a SERPS adjustment may mean that the actual time 
taken to settle goes beyond the 90 day period allowed for settlement above  and so any 
period of time where the only outstanding item required to undertake the calculation is data 
from DWP may be added to the 90 day period in which interest wont apply.
Where I uphold a complaint, I can award fair compensation of up to £160,000, plus any 
interest and/or costs that I consider are appropriate. Where I consider that fair compensation 
requires payment of an amount that might exceed £160,000, I may recommend that the 
business pays the balance.
Determination and money award: In the event that I uphold this complaint, I would require 
Bob Espie Limited to pay Mr G the compensation amount as set out in the steps above, up 
to a maximum of £160,000.
Where the compensation amount does not exceed £160,000, I would additionally require 
Bob Espie Limited to pay Mr G any interest on that amount in full, as set out above.
Where the compensation amount already exceeds £160,000, I would only require Bob Espie 
Limited to pay Mr G any interest as set out above on the sum of £160,000.
Recommendation: If the compensation amount exceeds £160,000, I would also 
recommend that Bob Espie Limited pays Mr G the balance. I would additionally recommend 
any interest calculated as set out above on this balance to be paid to Mr G.
If Mr G were to accept a final decision on the above basis, the money award would be 
binding on Bob Espie Limited. Further, its unlikely that Mr G could accept my decision and 
go to court to ask for the balance. In the event that the complaint is ultimately upheld, Mr G 
may want to consider getting independent legal advice before deciding whether to accept 
any final decision.
Pay Mr G £250 compensation for the trouble and upset caused, as he could have made a 
potential change to his pension in 2000 but because he was never made aware of this, he 
lost that option.
  My final decision
 For the reasons I have given I uphold this complaint and I direct Bob Espie Limited to 
undertake the redress as specified above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision before 9 February 2022.
 
Wendy Steele
Ombudsman