DRN-2739392
The complaint
Mr H has complained that EQUIFAX LIMITED wont change information from his credit file 
which he says is incorrect.
What happened
This complaint surrounds entries on Mr Hs Equifax credit file made by a telecommunications 
company which Ill call T. Mr H says the information provided by T is incorrect. This is 
based on an in-depth dispute between Mr H and T which goes back some years.
Mr H complained to Equifax. There was some delay in their response, so Equifax offered 
him £60 compensation for the delay. They explained how a dispute could be raised with T. 
Mr H wanted Equifax to dispute things, so Equifax raised one on his behalf. But T said the 
data theyd given was correct and did not agree for it to be changed. And Equifax explained 
that the information T put on Mr Hs file belonged to T and they couldnt change it without Ts 
permission.
Mr H came to our service. Our investigator looked into things independently and didnt 
uphold the complaint. They explained that we could only look at Equifaxs actions, not Ts. 
And it was T who supplied the data in question, not Equifax. They explained Equifax had 
done what wed expect them to do by raising a query and checking they hadnt made any 
errors in the way theyd recorded the information they were given.
Mr H didnt agree. He reiterated his dissatisfaction with Ts actions, and felt Equifax should 
have investigated Ts actions in more depth. The complaints been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done that, Ive come to the same conclusions as our investigator, and for much the 
same reasons.
I do understand that Mr H has great strength of feeling about his dispute with T. But this 
complaint is about Equifax, not T. I cannot make any findings on Ts actions, or on Mr Hs 
dispute with them  which I can see he has pursued elsewhere and is planning to continue. 
I also understand that Mr H may disagree with some of the findings that other dispute 
resolution services made regarding his complaint against T  but again, I can only make 
findings on what Equifax did here, not on those other dispute resolution services or on his 
dispute with T. Further, Ive read and taken on board Mr Hs broader comments about credit 
referencing, and I understand he may be dissatisfied with the way it works generally. But 
were not the regulator  were here to resolve individual complaints. So Im not best placed 
to comment on those points, either. Instead, I will focus my decision on what I can make 
findings on  which is Equifaxs actions here.
I appreciate that Mr H wouldve liked Equifax to have taken a much more active role in his 
dispute with T, such as conducting an in-depth investigation into what happened with his T 
account. But that wasnt Equifaxs role, and I would not have expected them to do that. 
Indeed, it would not be possible for Equifax to check all the data they receive in the depth 
that Mr H has suggested. Broadly speaking, theyre there to report the information that data 
suppliers give them, and they generally have to rely on those data suppliers. In this case, it 
was T who supplied the information in question, so a complaint about that information would 
be best directed to T, rather than Equifax. And here, I understand that Mr H is indeed 
planning to continue pursuing T.
I would expect Equifax to query things with a data supplier if they were told the information 
might be wrong. And thats what Equifax did here. Mr H said he thought the information was 
wrong, so they raised a dispute on Mr Hs behalf  which only meant querying things with T. 
Again, they werent required to do an extensive investigation or weigh in on the underlying 
dispute between Mr H and T. That was best served by Mr H disputing things with T directly. 
T confirmed the information was correct, and Equifax explained to Mr H that they werent 
able to change it without Ts permission.
Id also expect Equifax to make sure that they were reflecting the data they were given 
correctly. For example, if a lender told them a balance was £10, and Equifax mis-recorded it 
as £5, then Id expect them to correct their mistake. But as far as I can see here, Equifax 
were reporting the information that T gave them without any such mistakes.
There was some delay in Equifax responding to Mr Hs complaint. But theyve already 
offered him £60 compensation for that, and I think thats fair. Otherwise, I have not found 
that Equifax did anything substantially wrong here.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, I dont uphold Mr Hs complaint in this case.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 14 June 2021. 
Adam Charles
Ombudsman