DRN-3775167
The complaint
Miss W complains about QIC Europe Ltds decision to decline a claim made under her home 
insurance policy.
What happened
Miss W has a home insurance policy underwritten by QIC which covers her property and its 
contents. She first bought the policy in July 2021.
In November 2021, Miss W made a claim after the noticed cracks in the walls of her 
property. She suspected the cause was subsidence. 
QIC sent a surveyor to inspect the property. Their report said the cracks werent caused by 
subsidence but by faulty workmanship and/or design. 
In essence, there were no lintels above the windows. And when the windows were replaced, 
lintels should have been put in place above them. Because they werent, the wall had moved 
and cracked.
On that basis, QIC declined the claim. Damaged caused by poor workmanship and/or design 
is specifically excluded from cover under the terms of the policy.
Miss W commissioned her own independent surveyor to inspect the property. Their report 
said the damage isnt due to faulty design or workmanship - and is caused by subsidence.
Miss W complained to QIC about their decision to decline her claim. They said their decision 
had been correct. And they pointed out the exclusions in the policy for damage caused by 
poor workmanship or design and for pre-existing damage. 
They said Miss W had first reported damage to her house in 2019, before she took out the 
policy with them. Miss W told them shed reported internal cracks in 2019, but the cracks 
reported in November 2021 were external.
Miss W wasnt happy with QICs response, so she brought her complaint to us. Our 
investigator looked into it and thought QIC hadnt acted fairly and reasonably in their 
handling of the claim.
She said that, in light of the disagreement between the two surveyors, QIC should pay for a 
third inspection, to be carried out by an independent surveyor. And if that surveyor decided 
that the damage was caused by subsidence, QIC should carry out any necessary repairs as 
soon as possible.
QIC disagreed. They said that, in response to our investigators view, theyd already 
commissioned a desktop review by a qualified independent surveyor and hed agreed that 
the damage wasnt caused by subsidence.
And they asked that the third surveyors comments be considered  and a final decision 
issued - by an ombudsman. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In this case, there was a dispute between two experts  one commissioned by Miss W and 
one who works for QIC. 
In cases like this, where both experts views are set out reasonably cogently and in some 
detail, we take the view that its often fair for a third, independent expert opinion to be 
commissioned.
In those circumstances, to ensure fairness to all parties and the demonstrable independence 
of the third expert, we think its usually appropriate for the insurer to nominate at least three 
surveyors who operate in the area and then to allow the policyholder to choose one of those 
to carry out the inspection.
We also think its usually fair for that third expert to see the previous reports  and/or to hear 
the arguments from both sides in support of their conclusions. And wed expect to see a 
written report from the third expert, setting out their opinion in some detail and explaining 
why they felt the previous expert opinions were right or wrong.
I agree with our investigator that the appropriate course here was for a third opinion to be 
sought. And whilst I can see that QIC have  in response to the investigators view  gone 
out to get an additional experts opinion, Im not convinced theyve done so in a way that 
ensures fairness to all parties. 
In short, QIC chose the expert. When we asked them, they confirmed he doesnt work for 
them. But theyve also said they know of him because hed carried out work for or with them 
before. So, I dont think we can be sure that the third expert is demonstrably independent.
QIC also asked the expert to carry out a desktop review. There are photographs of the 
damage to Miss Ws home, which might well allow for a comprehensive and detailed opinion 
to be formed. But I think that should have been a decision for the independent expert. In 
essence, they should determine whether its necessary to visit the site in person to inspect 
the damage.
Im also concerned that QIC have clearly discussed the case with the expert they appointed, 
but he may not have had the chance to consider the previous expert reports. And he 
certainly didnt have the opportunity to discuss the case with Miss W or her expert.
Taking all of that into account, I dont think QIC have obtained their third expert opinion in a 
way thats entirely fair to Miss W. And I agree with our investigators view that they should 
now commission a third expert opinion in line with the considerations set out above.
Putting things right
To be absolutely clear, QIC must now commission and pay for a report from a properly 
qualified expert to determine the cause of the damage to Miss Ws home. They should do 
that by providing Miss W with a list of at least three experts and allowing her to choose one. 
They should also ensure that the chosen expert has access to both previous expert reports 
(their own original surveyors and the one commissioned by Miss W). And that the expert 
fully takes into account Miss Ws views.They must also ensure that the expert presents their report in writing. And that the expert 
determines whether its necessary to visit the property to conduct their assessment.
As our investigator said, if the conclusion of that report is that the damage is caused by 
subsidence rather than poor workmanship or design, QIC should progress the claim as soon 
as possible and carry out any necessary repairs to the property.
I should note here that if the damage is caused by subsidence, that may have been on-going 
for some time (and possibly before the inception of the policy). But QIC will be aware that 
there is an Association of British Insurers (ABI) agreement on subsidence claims, which sets 
out how such claims should be handled. 
As I understand it, in line with the terms of that agreement, QIC may be able to recoup some 
of the costs associated with the claim from the previous insurer, given that the claim was 
made within one year of the inception of the policy.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I uphold Miss Ws complaint.
QIC Europe Ltd must:
pay for a further expert inspection and assessment of the damage to Miss Ws home 
(in line with the process set out above); and
if that assessment concludes that the damage is due to subsidence, progress the 
claim and carry out the necessary repairs as soon as reasonably possible.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss W to accept 
or reject my decision before 14 December 2022.
 
Neil Marshall
Ombudsman