DRN-2094078
The complaint
Mrs Ts complained that UK Insurance Limited trading as Direct Line Pet Insurance (UKI) 
treated the claim she made for treatment under her pet insurance policy as part of her dogs 
existing condition  not a separate one. So she couldnt claim for the full cost of the 
treatment.
What happened
In late 2019, Mrs Ts dog needed treatment for an ulcer. Her vets decided it was necessary 
to operate. And they did this outside their usual hours. Mrs T had a pet insurance policy with 
UKI, which provided cover for vets fees up to a maximum of £8,000 for each condition. The 
cost of treatment for the ulcer was £3,867.68. So Mrs T expected the cost (less the £100 
policy excess) to be covered by the policy. She submitted a claim to UKI.
UKI considered Mrs Ts claim.  They settled it. But they deducted £1,499.47 from the 
settlement because Mrs Ts dog had also received treatment for an ongoing elbow condition 
for which he was prescribed anti-inflammatory medication. Ulcers can be a side effect of the 
medication. So UKI said that the two conditions were related.  And treating them this way 
meant that the £8,000 limit was exceeded by £1,499.47.
Mrs T complained to UKI about their decision. She didnt think there was a link between her 
dogs elbow condition and the ulcer  so she thought UKI should treat them as separate 
conditions. And her vet to wrote to UKI supporting her position.
UKI considered Mrs Ts complaint. They said theyd reviewed the dogs medical notes. 
Based on that, UKI thought the most likely cause of the ulcer was the medication prescribed 
for the dogs elbow condition. They noted that ulcers are a recognised side effect  albeit a 
rare one. And thered been no definitive diagnosis of the cause of the ulcer. So UKI didnt 
change their decision.  
Mrs T brought her complaint to us. Our investigator considered it, but thought that UKI had 
handled Mrs Ts claim in line with the terms and conditions of her policy  and theyd done 
that fairly. So he concluded they shouldnt have done anything differently
Mrs T didnt agree with the investigators view. So Ive been asked to make a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done that, Im not upholding Mrs Ts complaint.  Ill explain why.
To decide whether UKI acted fairly, Ive looked at the policy terms and conditions to decide 
whether UKI applied them  and that doing so was reasonable.
The relevant policy term is clear.  It provides up to £8,000 cover for each separate condition. 
And under the heading Whats not covered the policy says:
We wont pay for:


any more costs when your vet fee limit has been reached. This can be either your 
monetary limit or time limit depending on the cover you have chosen. Once the vet 
fee limit for a condition has been used up there will no longer be any cover for:
 the condition originally claimed for;
 any recurrence of that condition; or
 anything related to or arising from that condition.
I cant decide whether the conditions are related. The issue for me to look at is whether it 
was reasonable for UKI to decide Mrs Ts dogs ulcer was related to its elbow condition.
Ive looked at the letter provided to UKI by Mrs Ts vet. That hasnt given a definitive cause 
for the ulcer. But it does say that ulcers can be a side effect of the medication the dog was 
given  even though its rare. So I dont think it was unreasonable of UKI to conclude this 
was the most likely cause. 
I know Mrs T doesnt agree with UKIs assessment. Shes pointed out that her dog became 
ill very quickly after the medication was prescribed - so she didnt think it was likely that had 
caused the ulcer. Ive thought about this. Im not an expert. But Ive seen from the 
documents provided that ulcers are a known side-effect of taking the type of medicine Mrs 
Ts dog was prescribed.  Mrs Ts dog was treated for an ulcer shortly being given the 
medication. So I dont think it was unfair for UKI to decide the two things were linked. 
Ive seen that UKI did review the claim when Mrs T complained. And the veterinary nurse 
who reviewed it did speak to Mrs Ts vets. The vet didnt offer any information that suggested 
another cause of the dogs ulcer.  She said shed not done tests which might have 
suggested an alternative cause.  And the vet agreed that, as Mrs Ts dog had shown 
symptoms soon after being given the medication, and had improved with no other side 
effects, it was likely the drugs were the cause.  
Im satisfied from this that UKI took steps to investigate thoroughly. Theyve explained their 
decision to Mrs T. And Ive seen UKI said theyll reassess the claim if evidence suggesting 
another cause comes to light. I dont think they need to do any more. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given Im not upholding Mrs Ts complaint about UK Insurance Limited 
trading as Direct Line Pet Insurance.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs T to accept or 
reject my decision before 3 November 2020.
 
Helen Stacey
Ombudsman