DRN-3541254
The complaint
Mr L has complained National Westminster Bank plc only gave him £13,600 when he 
intended to withdraw £14,000.
What happened
Mr L wanted to withdraw £14,000 to pay for some home improvement works. Because of the 
amount Mr K wished to withdraw, he was told to return to branch in 30 minutes or so to allow 
branch staff to access the safe. Staff asked whether Mr L wished £15,000 as this would have 
been a straightforward transaction of providing three unbroken bundles of £5,000 (made up 
of £50 notes). Mr L, after some hesitation, confirmed he only needed to withdraw £14,000.
Mr L returned to the branch. He was given an envelope which contained two bundles of 
£5,000 and one of £4,000. No money was counted in front of him.
Mr L counted the money after hed got home. The bundle of £4,000 was £400 short: eight 
£50 notes were missing. He returned to the branch with the money. Branch staff confirmed 
Mr Ls envelope only contained £13,600.
After further investigation NatWest confirmed thered been no indication that any till within 
the branch had not tallied at the end of day. They wouldnt be providing him the missing 
£400 as they were satisfied this had been in the original bundles given to Mr L.
Mr L brought his complaint to the ombudsman service. Our investigator reviewed what had 
happened, including branch procedures when someone withdraws this amount of money. 
Overall he felt Mr L had been given £14,000 based on the evidence there was no 
discrepancy within the branch.
Mr L remained unhappy with this outcome and felt he was being called a liar. Hes asked an 
ombudsman to consider his complaint.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive reached the same outcome as our investigator. Ill explain why.
Where there is a dispute about what happened, I have based my decision on the balance of 
probabilities. In other words, on what I consider is most likely to have happened in the light 
of the evidence. 
Theres no disagreement from the evidence given to us by Mr L, NatWest and the two 
branch staff involved about the different stages of what occurred when Mr L went to 
withdraw £14,000. I also dont dispute that Mr L only had £13,600 when he returned to the 
branch.
This branch had only received a cash delivery that morning. £50 notes come packed in 
£5,000 bundles which have been checked before delivery to branch. Staff removed and 
counted £1,000 (20 £50 notes) from a third bundle. The money was checked by two 
members of staff. The remaining £4,000 wasnt counted  and nobody disputes this  until 
Mr L counted this bundle and discovered only £3,600.
I have reviewed the branch records. These confirm £14,000 being withdraw by a customer 
(Mr L). They show £1,000 was added to a specific till. At the end of day the evidence shows 
that till balanced (actually it was 20p over). If £1,400 had been added to the till in error, this 
would have shown at the end of day  it didnt.
Throughout the process of withdrawing cash in these amounts, branch processes ensure 
there is dual control by branch staff. I have seen testimony from both staff members. I have 
no reason to doubt whats said there. This also matches the records Ive seen about 
balances within the branch. I can find no evidence of branch error.
Im aware I cant explain whats happened here. I appreciate Mr L believes hes being 
accused of lying whilst hes convinced hes £400 out of pocket. However on the balance of 
probabilities I wont be asking NatWest to do anything further.
My final decision
For the reasons given, my final decision is not to uphold Mr Ls complaint against National 
Westminster Bank plc.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr L to accept or 
reject my decision before 19 December 2022.
 
Sandra Quinn
Ombudsman