DRN-3205578
The complaint
Ms F has complained that Barclays Bank UK PLC has not paid her enough compensation in 
relation to mis-sold PPI and consequential loss for a declined claim.
What happened
Mrs F took out the PPI with a loan in 1999. In 2013 she made a complaint that the policy had 
been mis-sold. Barclays upheld the complaint and made a full refund of premiums plus 
interest, totalling £286.04.
In 2019 Barclays carried out a project where it re-looked at cases where the consumer had 
made a claim on the policy that had been declined. Barclays had decided to step into the 
shoes of the insurer and pay claims where a consumer would have had a reasonable 
expectation of it being accepted. It therefore paid Ms F a further £914.58 at that time.
Therefore, in total, Ms F has received £1,200.62 in compensation.
Our adjudicator felt that Barclays offer was fair, so he did not uphold the complaint. Ms F 
disagrees with the adjudicators view and the complaint has therefore been passed to me for 
a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ms F made a claim for accident and sickness in March 2000 that was declined. Barclays 
says that the average period for such a claim is 7.1 months. Therefore, it had used this in 
2019 when calculating the further compensation amount. However, Barclays invited Ms F to 
make contact with details if her claim would have been for a longer period.
In discussion with our adjudicator, Ms F could not remember how long she was off work for 
in 2000. She said that she finished working for good in February 2001, which indicates that 
she did return to work after March 2000. Ms F agrees that she may have gone back to work 
between March 2000 and February 2001. 
As Ms F hasnt been able to provide any evidence that she was off work for more than 7.1 
months, Barclays offer to pay the claim amount for that period is reasonable.
Ms F says that, because the claim was declined in March 2000, she had to take out a further 
loan (called a Resolve loan) in June 2000 for £1,500 that created further ongoing financial 
hardship. Therefore, as I understand it, Ms F thinks that Barclays should pay her the loan 
amount of £1,500 plus interest. This was a long time ago and so it is difficult to know exactly 
what happened. On balance, and based on the available evidence, Im unable to conclude 
that the position that Ms F found herself in was entirely due to the claim being declined. Ms F 
says she recalls being in employment at the time of taking out the Resolve loan, so its likely 
there were other factors at play in addition to the claim declination. Therefore, I am not 
persuaded that Barclays should make an increased compensation offer.
It follows that I do not uphold Ms Fs complaint.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, my final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint and 
make no award against Barclays Bank UK PLC.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms F to accept or 
reject my decision before 7 March 2022. 
Carole Clark
Ombudsman