DRN-2951349
The complaint
Mrs L has complained that Bamboo Limited trading as Bamboo Loans irresponsibly lent to 
her.  
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, in summary, Bamboo lent Mrs L 
two loans between September 2018 and March 2021. Both loans have now been repaid.
Our investigator upheld Mrs Ls complaint, but Bamboo disagreed, it said it didnt do 
anything wrong when it decided to lend.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about unaffordable/irresponsible lending -
including the key rules, guidance and good industry practice - on our website. And Ive 
referred to this when deciding Mrs Ls complaint
Having carefully thought about all the relevant factors in this case, I agree with the 
conclusions reached by the adjudicator for these reasons:
At the time of loan 1, Bamboos checks suggested that Mrs L had sufficient 
disposable income to repay the loan over the 24-month term. However, while the 
loan may have looked affordable to Bamboo based on income and expenditure 
calculations, Mrs Ls credit file results were concerning.
The credit file showed that Mrs L had a number of defaulted and delinquent accounts 
and while these were historic, most of these accounts still had outstanding balances 
which Mrs L was in arrangements to repay. Mrs L hadnt been able to free herself 
from her historic debts and had continued to borrow from other lenders while still 
having these historic debts.
I can also see from the credit file that Mrs L had recently satisfied a CCJ and was 
borrowing from other lenders, in the run up to this loan, her credit file shows that she 
just took out a new loan less than two weeks before she requested this loan from 
Bamboo. Also, Mrs L had at least three outstanding loans from other lenders. I 
appreciate that Mrs L has said she was borrowing this loan to consolidate her other 
loans, but I think there were wider problems here that needed to be considered.
While one of the factors on its own may not have been enough for Bamboo to have 
been concerned about Mrs Ls ability to repay the loan over the term without 
difficulty, I think all these factors taken together should have alerted Bamboo to the 
fact that Mrs L was likely to struggle. 
Ive thought about Bamboos point that Mrs L repaid the loan but the fact she repaid 
the loan doesnt mean the loan was correctly lent to her.
Turning to loan 2, Mrs L declared a higher income amount and a lower mortgage 
repayment amount compared to loan 1. Mrs Ls credit file showed that she continued 
to borrow from other short-term lenders and had borrowed at least two loans 
between repaying loan 1 and taking out loan 2.
Mrs L also still had outstanding balances on her historic defaulted and delinquent 
accounts which she was still in payment arrangements for. Again, she hadnt been 
able to free herself from historic debts.
While the monthly repayment of this loan was less than loan 1, this loan had a longer 
loan term of 36 months. In the circumstances, it would have been reasonable for 
Bamboo to have taken its checks further and not just relied on the verification tools it 
used but asked Mrs L for evidence of her actual income and expenses.
Ive reviewed Mrs Ls bank statement from the time as it is the closest evidence of 
her financial circumstances from the time. I can see that her income was less that 
she had declared, in the month before the loan, Mrs Ls income was around £1,916, 
her credit commitments that I can make out were around £440 that doesnt include 
her credit card repayment or the repayment for this loan. Also, Mrs Ls expenses 
were around £800, this doesnt take into account her food and travel. From what I 
can see, all her expenses figures are significantly higher than the figures Bamboo 
used in its lending decision here and her income was much lower too. On average 
over the two months before the loan Mrs L spent more than £500 each month on 
food.
Also, just two days before this loan, Mrs L took out another loan of around £200 with 
a different lender.
Overall, I think further checks would have shown Bamboo that Mrs L was likely to 
struggle to repay this loan without needing to borrow further and the fact that she 
repaid it doesnt mean automatically mean that it was responsibly lent.
In my opinion neither loan 1 nor loan 2 should have been lent to Mrs L in the 
circumstances and Bamboo needs to put things right.  
Putting things right - what Bamboo needs to do:
refund all interest and charges Mrs L paid on loans 1 and 2;
pay interest of 8% simple a year on any refunded interest and charges from the date 
they were paid (if they were) to the date of settlement*;
remove any negative information about the loans from Mrs Ls credit file.
*HM Revenue & Customs requires you to deduct tax from this interest. Bamboo Limited should give 
Mrs L a certificate showing how much tax youve deducted, if they ask for one.  
My final decision
My final decision is that this complaint should be upheld.   
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs L to accept or 
reject my decision before 7 December 2021.
 
Oyetola Oduola
Ombudsman