DRN-1905596
The complaint
Mr S complains that TSB Bank plc incorrectly declined his repayment holiday on his loan.
What happened
Mr S says the terms of his loan allows two repayment holidays in a 12-month period. He 
explained he usually takes advantage of this in May and September each year. He took a 
repayment holiday in May 2018, September 2018 and May 2019. However, in August 2019 
he asked for his repayment holiday for September 2019 and this was declined. TSB said this 
was because hed had two repayment holidays within the last 12 months. 
Mr S disagreed and said that September 2018 would have counted as month one and 
August 2019 would be month 12, which would mean September 2019 is month 13 and 
therefore his repayment holiday should be approved as he wouldnt have exceeded the 
criteria. He feels TSB have breached the loan agreement and wants his debt to be written off 
completely.
Mr S is also unhappy that TSB provided inaccurate information in one of its letters. TSB 
incorrectly said Mr S was unable to apply for a repayment holiday in May 2018 due to their 
system update. TSB provided compensation of £75 for this. 
Our investigator didnt uphold this complaint. She acknowledged Mr S had previously been 
able to take repayment holidays in May and September but thought it was likely TSB 
changed how they agree repayment holidays given that Mr S request in August 2019 was 
rejected. She said if TSB changes its process its a commercial decision and the loan 
agreement gives TSB the ability use their discretion. She didnt think TSB had breached the 
loan agreement so wouldnt be asking them to write off the debt. She said TSB had provided 
conflicting information about the repayment holiday in May 2018 but the compensation 
already paid was a fair resolution to the complaint.
Mr S didnt agree with our investigator. He re-iterated he applied for his repayment holiday to 
take place on month 13 so they had breached his contract. He questioned a number of 
things our investigator said and said he wanted assurances his future repayment holidays 
wouldnt be rejected.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr S maintains that his repayment holiday in September 2018 should be counted as month 
one and that a 12 month period would end on 1 August 2019. Therefore the holiday he 
requested in August 2019 for September 2019 should have been approved. 
TSB have said Mr S application was correctly rejected because when he applied in August 
2019 they could see hed already had two repayment holidays in the last 12 months 
(September 2018 and May 2019). And as his repayments are on the first of every month 
TSB have said he could ask for a repayment holiday on 2 September which would then give 
him a repayment holiday in October 2019.
In order to help me decide whether or not TSB were wrong to decline Mr S application, Ive 
taken into consideration the terms of Mr S loan agreement. Although this doesnt state the 
terms of the repayment holiday or how this would be calculated it does say we may in future 
tell you that you can take a payment holiday and how long it will be. So I think it is at TSBs 
discretion as to whether or not they agree to the repayment holiday. And just because they 
rejected Mr S request, I dont think this means theyve breached the loan agreement they 
have with Mr S. 
I do acknowledge that prior to 2019 Mr S was taking his repayment holidays in May and 
September and TSB allowed this to happen. Whilst Mr S may have thought this was 
guaranteed, it was always within TSBs discretion as to whether or not they would approve 
his application. 
TSB have explained customers cant apply for more than two repayment holidays within a 
12-month period. Prior to the system update Mr S could apply for a repayment holiday during 
month 12, even though he already had two repayment holidays within the last 12 months. 
TSB have said after it changed its systems this meant customers are no longer able to apply 
for a repayment holiday until the 12-month period has expired.
I appreciate that it would have been frustrating for Mr S to have his repayment holiday for 
September 2019 declined but as Ive explained, the repayment holidays were always at 
TSBs discretion and just because they declined it on this occasion, I dont think this means 
theyve done anything wrong.
Mr S has provided us with a screenshot taken from TSBs website which says you can ask 
us for up to two repayment holidays every 12 months. However, this doesnt provide any 
further details, for example it doesnt stipulate when he can apply for the repayment 
holidays. So I still dont think TSB were wrong to decline Mr S repayment holiday in 2019.
Mr S has said he was unable to pay other debts due to his repayment holiday being 
declined. He didnt have any evidence he could provide but he explained he had to borrow 
money from friends and family to make the shortfall. Whilst I acknowledge Mr S was 
inconvenienced as a result of the repayment holiday being declined in August 2019, I dont 
think TSB were wrong to decline it. And theres nothing within his loan agreement that 
guarantees this facility so I dont think TSB gave any assurances that he could have the 
payment holiday  and so I wont be asking TSB to provide any further compensation to Mr 
S or write off his debt. 
In TSBs letter of 22 August 2019, they said Mr S wasnt able to take a repayment holiday in 
May 2018 and provided him with £75 for this inconvenience. However, this statement was 
incorrect as Mr S was able to take a payment holiday at this time. Although this mustve 
been frustrating, Mr S knew this statement was incorrect. So for this reason, I think this is a 
fair level of compensation and I dont think TSB need to do anything further. 
I know Mr S wants assurances about any future repayment holidays he applies for but these 
will be subject to the criteria TSB have at the time and may be at their discretion. So I cant 
provide Mr S with any assurances and for the reasons Ive explained I dont think TSB were 
wrong to reject his application in August 2019.
My final decisionMy final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint, TSB Bank Plc do not need to do 
anything.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 26 February 2021.
 
Marie Camenzuli
Ombudsman