DRN-3001764
The complaint
Mr K complains about the quality of a used car that was supplied to him through a 
conditional sale agreement with Close Brothers Limited trading as Close Brothers Motor 
Finance (CBL). 
What happened
On 10 October 2020 Mr K acquired a used car through a conditional sale agreement with 
CBL. The car was registered in January 2014, which means it was six years and ten months 
old and had travelled around 111,129 miles at the time of supply. This mileage was recorded 
on an MOT report which was carried out the day prior to supply. The purchase price of the 
car was £16,995. Mr K says he part exchanged two vehicles to the value of £6,200 which 
meant that the total amount financed on this agreement was £10,795 payable over 60 
months.
Mr K explained that soon after acquiring the car he felt the brakes werent engaging properly 
as the brake pedal would nearly touch the floor before theyd work.
Mr K said he took the car to a garage, who advised him that the car needed new calipers. Mr 
K said he contacted the dealer where he acquired the car but was told that they wouldnt 
look into the issues until he repaid an outstanding debt of around £800. The dealer said Mr K 
owed that amount in relation to one of the vehicles that he part exchanged with them. This is 
confirmed in CBLs system notes.
Mr K says he stopped driving the car and contacted CBL to raise a complaint. CBL have 
confirmed to us that Mr K complained to them on 13 November 2020 about the issues with 
the car. 
CBL arranged for an independent inspection to be carried out on the car to see whether the 
issues were present at the point of supply, which would also determine whether theyd 
instruct the dealer to repair any issues. The inspection was carried out on 1 December 2020. 
The inspection report concluded that the issues with the braking system, along with an oil 
leak from the engine were present at the point of supply.
On 9 December 2020, following their review of the inspection report, CBL advised that Mr K 
was entitled to a repair of the car and advised the dealer to carry out the repairs. 
On 18 December 2020 CBLs system notes confirm that Mr K told them he was going to 
have a third-party garage carry out the repairs to the car. CBLs system notes confirm that 
they explained to Mr K that should he do so the repairs would be considered unauthorised. 
On 22 December 2020 CBL advised that they contacted Mr K to let him know that the dealer 
was willing to do the repairs. However, Mr K said that the repairs had already been carried 
out by a third-party garage, which Ill refer to as B. CBL requested that Mr K send them a 
copy of the invoice from B so they could consider making a contribution towards the repairs.
Mr K explained that despite the repairs carried out by B, the braking system failed on two 
further occasions, which Mr K brought back to B to repair. On the final occasion Mr K said 
that B told him, in order to have a complete repair of the braking system, hed need to have a 
manufacturers dealer carry out a full diagnostic of the system.
CBL refunded Mr Ks January 2021s repayment as a gesture of goodwill. They said that the 
dealer would refund 50% of the initial repairs to the car carried out by B. Mr K explained that 
to date, hes not received the payment for the repairs.
On 9 February 2021 Mr K brought his complaint to us. In May 2021 Mr K said that while he 
was driving the braking system had failed completely. Mr K says he was quoted £3,000 from 
another garage to repair it. Mr K said that hed lost faith in the car so decided not to pay for 
the repairs, and instead declare it SORN and leave it on his driveway. Mr K also asked our 
investigator if in the circumstances he could reject the car given all the issues with the 
braking system. 
One of our investigators looked into Mr Ks complaint and felt that it should be upheld. The 
investigator felt that the car wasnt of satisfactory quality when it was supplied to Mr K. They 
also recommended that CBL allow a rejection of the car. 
CBL disagreed with our investigators view. They said that Mr K had unauthorised repairs 
carried out on the car and so hadnt given the dealer an opportunity to repair it. They also 
said that Bs repairs on the car had been ineffective and that they shouldnt be responsible 
for this.  
CBL asked that the complaint be referred to an ombudsman for a final decision.
Following my review of this complaint, I initially considered asking CBL to do something 
different to put things right. So, I wrote to both parties to share my initial thoughts on what 
the outcome and redress of this complaint should be. I also invited both parties to provide 
any further comments prior to my final decision being issued. Whilst Mr K was happy with my 
initial thoughts, CBL responded with some considerations which Ive summarised below:
Mr K is free to deny the dealer their rights under the CRA to fix the car and choose 
any repairer he wishes and CBL will be liable for the repair
The ombudsman service has no jurisdiction over the complaint relating to the latest 
breakdown in May 2021, as CBL havent had an opportunity to look into the issues 
surrounding this
I responded to CBL in relation to their comments, however Ive also addressed them in this 
decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In considering what is fair and reasonable, Ive thought about all the evidence and 
information provided afresh and the relevant law and regulations, regulators rules, guidance 
and standards, codes of practice and (where appropriate) what I consider to have been good 
industry practice at the relevant time. 
The agreement in this case is a regulated consumer credit agreement. As such, this service 
is able to consider complaints relating to it. CBL is also the supplier of the goods under this 
type of agreement, and responsible for a complaint about their quality.
The Consumer Rights Act 2015 (CRA) is relevant in this case. It says that under a contract 
to supply goods, there is an implied term that the quality of the goods is satisfactory, fit for 
purpose and as described. To be considered as satisfactory, the CRA says the goods would 
need to meet the standard that a reasonable person would consider satisfactory, considering 
any description of the goods, the price and all the other relevant circumstances. 
So, it seems likely that in a case involving a car, the other relevant circumstances a court 
would consider might include things like the age and mileage at the time of sale and the 
vehicles history. 
My starting point is that CBL supplied Mr K with a used car that had travelled 111,129 miles. 
With this in mind, I think its fair to say that a reasonable person would expect the level of 
quality to be less than that of a brand-new car with lower mileage; and that there may be 
signs of wear and tear due to its usage. Having said that, the car was priced at £16,995 
which isnt insignificant. So, I think it is fair to say that a reasonable person would expect it 
could be used free from any major issues for a reasonable period of time.
It isnt in dispute that there was a fault with the cars braking system. This is apparent from 
the independent inspection report, which confirmed that the issues were present or 
developing at the point of supply. The fault with the braking system is also evident from the 
invoices provided by B, detailing the repairs it carried out. 
It seems here that all parties also accept that the fault meant the car wasnt of satisfactory 
quality when supplied. But, I think its worth commenting briefly on this myself. The 
independent report concluded we would consider this fault to have been developing at the 
point of sale. Im satisfied an issue with the cars brakes could be a serious safety issue. So, 
it follows Im also satisfied the car was not of satisfactory quality when supplied. 
So, what I need to consider here is what would be fair and reasonable to put this right. As 
part of this, I need to consider if Mr K acted fairly and reasonably by getting the car repaired 
by B. I also need to consider if it was reasonable for Mr K to continue to use B for the later 
repairs the car required.
CBL doesnt believe the repairs carried about by B were successful which led to the later 
problems. And, it says theres no evidence the later problems are linked to the original fault. 
So, Ill consider if this was the case.
CBL have also raised other concerns with the latest issue the car has. It says these should 
be considered as a separate complaint and so our service does not have the power to 
investigate it. So, Ill consider if this is the case or not.
was it reasonable for B to carry out repairs?CBL have said they didnt give their approval or consent for Mr K to have the car repaired by 
B, and as a result were unable to mitigate any costs. In deciding what is fair I have thought 
about whether Mr K acted reasonably in taking his car to B for the initial and subsequent 
repairs. 
Mr K explained that when he initially reported the issues to the dealer, they refused to look 
into them due to an ongoing dispute regarding a vehicle that Mr K had part exchanged with 
them. CBL confirmed this in their system notes. When CBL confirmed that Mr K was entitled 
to a repair it liaised with the dealer to confirm that theyd be willing to carry out the repairs. 
When they came back to Mr K he confirmed the works had already been carried out. Mr K 
says that he was fed up waiting and didnt trust the dealer to do the works. 
In the circumstances, I think a reasonable person would have wanted their car repaired as 
soon as possible; and considering there was an unrelated, ongoing dispute with the dealer 
which prompted their initial refusal to look into or carryout the repairs, I think its likely this 
would have contributed to any lack of trust between Mr K and the dealer. 
Ive also considered that it took CBL around a month to confirm the dealer would repair the 
car.
Given the breakdown in the relationship and the possibility for further delays, I think it was 
reasonable for Mr K to initially use the services of B, a professional garage and servicing 
centre. Ive also no reason to doubt Bs ability to correctly diagnose and carry out 
appropriate repairs. 
Ive then gone onto consider whether it was reasonable for Mr K to continue to use B for 
further repairs.
Considering the breakdown of trust between Mr K and the dealer, I dont think its 
unreasonable that Mr K had gone back to B on more than one occasion for further repairs. 
On each occasion different components of the braking system were attended to, so theres 
no compelling evidence, like a detailed report, to support CBLs view that the repairs carried 
out by B were ineffective. In addition, CBL had appeared to support the repairs carried out 
by B when they requested a copy of the invoice, so they could consider an appropriate 
contribution towards the costs.
CBL have said that by taking the car to B Mr K had effectively taken away their right to repair 
the car. Under the CRA if goods are not of satisfactory quality they do not conform to the 
contract. Section 19 of the CRA sets out certain remedies available to the consumer for 
goods that do not conform. One of those remedies is the consumers right to repair or 
replacement. So, in effect the right to a repair is the consumers entitlement as opposed to 
CBL in this case. 
I think its worth clarifying that in these particular circumstances, Im persuaded that Mr K 
was sufficiently prevented from using the dealer to have his car repaired in the first instance. 
And further supports Mr Ks decision to use B for the repairs to his car.  This is not only 
supported by what Mr K has said but has also been confirmed on CBLs system notes, dated 
16 November 2020, where they advised that the dealer is not looking to help until the 
customer pays them. 
The series of contacts between Mr K and CBL over the course of a month satisfies me that 
the dealer was reluctant to help Mr K, and would probably only do so through CBLs 
enforcement. It also persuades me that Mr K was justified in continuing to take his car to B 
for repairs as at various points it was uncertain if the dealer would help him. Ive gone on to consider whether our service has jurisdiction to look into the issues surround 
the breakdown of Mr Ks car in May 2021. 
CBL have pointed out that they havent had an opportunity to consider the circumstances of 
the car breaking down in May 2021. And so, they believe this falls outside of our jurisdiction 
to investigate this element of the complaint. Mr K has provided an invoice dated 12 June 
2021 outlining the work carried out on the car. Our investigator shared the invoice with CBL 
which confirmed the car had issues with the braking system. The invoice says that the car 
was recovered with no resistance on the brake pedal. The previous issues noted on the 
invoices include the master cylinder and calipers, which together with the lack of resistance 
on the brake pedal, Im satisfied, are all related to the cars braking system
Im satisfied the issues that caused Mr Ks car to breakdown were a continuation of the 
earlier problems experienced from the failure of the braking system, which all parties agreed 
werent of satisfactory quality at the point of supply. Im satisfied that this is part of Mr Ks 
original complaint which is within our jurisdiction to consider and an issue that CBL needs to 
also put right for Mr K. 
Putting things right
Given that Ive found the car was not of satisfactory quality when it was supplied to Mr K, I 
think its fair that CBL put things right for him. 
Mr K has asked that he be able to reject the car. Under the CRA Mr K would have the final 
right to reject, given that a problem still exists with the braking system despite previous 
attempts to fix it. So, In the circumstances Ill be instructing CBL to cancel the agreement 
and arrange with Mr K to collect the car from him. CBL will need to refund the deposit paid 
which is the value of the part exchanged vehicles of £6,200.
Mr Ks car broke down and became undriveable at the end of May 2021. This was confirmed 
by Mr K to our investigator in an email. So, Ive considered that Mr K had use of the car for 
the majority May 2021. In the circumstances Ill be instructing CBL to refund all payments 
made by Mr K towards the agreement from June 2021 to date.  Ill also be instructing CBL to 
reimburse to Mr K the recovery costs of £120, as per the invoice provided by Mr K, for the 
breakdown in May 2021. 
I acknowledge CBL advised in their system notes from January 20021 that theyd arrange 
with the dealer to cover 50% of the initial invoice. However, as Ive no evidence that this has 
been repaid to Mr K, Im satisfied that they should repay the full amount as described below.
CBL must also reimburse to Mr K the cost of the related repairs and checks carried out on 
the braking system, as per the invoices provided. The total amount paid for repairs to the 
braking system as per the invoices are as below: Mr K provided two further invoices relating to a change of tyres and a replacement 
alternator. I havent considered that these works are related to the braking system, so I wont 
be asking CBL to do anything in relation to them.
To recognise the inconvenience that has been caused to Mr K, for example in having to take 
the car to the garage for repairs, and the worry of driving with a braking system that was 
faulty, I think some compensation would be reasonable in the circumstances. When I shared 
my initial thoughts with both parties on this complaint, I recommended around £200 as 
compensation, however as CBL has already paid Mr K £233.89 in the form of a refund in 
January 2021, I wont be asking them to pay any further compensation as I think this is fair 
and reasonable in the circumstances. 
My final decision
Having thought about everything above, along with what is fair and reasonable in the 
circumstances I uphold this complaint and instruct Close Brothers Limited trading as Close 
Brothers Motor Finance to:
collect the car at no additional cost to Mr K
refund to Mr K the deposit of £6,200
refund to Mr K all monthly payments made by Mr K from June 2021, from when the 
car became undriveable, to date
reimburse to Mr K £1,690.92 for the repairs carried out to the braking system as 
detailed above 
end the agreement and remove it from Mr Ks credit file
pay 8% yearly simple interest on all refunds and reimbursements calculated from 
the date of payment to the date of settlement
If Close Brothers Limited trading as Close Brothers Motor Finance considers that its 
required by HM Revenue & Customs to withhold income tax from the interest part of my 
award, it should tell Mr K how much its taken off. It should also give Mr K a tax deduction 
certificate if he asks for one, so he can reclaim the tax from HM Revenue & Customs if 
appropriate.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr K to accept or 
reject my decision before 30 April 2022.
 
OmbudsmanInvoice date Description QuantityTotal 
Price
19-Dec-20 special caliper 3 £722.80
brake fluid 1 £39.95
24-Dec-20 brake master cylinder 1 £450.00
29-Jan-21 special hose 4 £318.22
brake fluid 1 £39.95
12-Jun-21 check and bleed brakes 2 £120.00
Total £1,690.92