DRN-4002870
The complaint
Mr S complains that Royal & Sun Alliance Insurance Limited (RSA) voided his home 
insurance policy following a claim for storm damage.
What happened
In November 2021 Mr S made a claim on his home insurance for damage to his roof at the
gable end of his house. He told RSA that the damage had been pointed out by a neighbour
that day and he didnt know why it had occurred.
RSA sent a surveyor to assess the damage. He said that the gable end wall was leaning
outwards which was pulling the roof tiles from the roof and causing gaps in the end ridge
tiles. He said the problem was structural and was due to a failure, or lack, of wall ties. This
was not something that was covered under the policy and had been ongoing for some time.
Mr S made two previous claims for storm damage to his roof in October 2020 and April
2021. The damage on these occasions were slipped tiles and damage to a roof valley
resulting in water ingress to a bedroom. Both these claims were declined as there was no
evidence of a storm and the damage was believed to be a result of natural breakdown of
materials. No repairs had been carried out since the claim in October 2020.
Due to concerns about the previous claims, RSA appointed investigators who interviewed Mr
S about the new claim. Following the interview RSA wrote to Mr S setting out its concerns. It
highlighted the two previous claims and discrepancies with Mr Ss account of when hed first
noticed the damage to the gable end and how the damage had occurred. It said there were
no storm conditions around the time of the claim. It also noted that no repairs had been
carried out following the earlier claims and that Mr S had declined to provide contact details
for his neighbour. It asked Mr S for his response to the issues it had raised within 14 days.
Mr S responded saying that he denied his claim was false. He said that the issue with the
gable end was different to the earlier claims, and he couldnt be sure exactly when the
damage was caused.
In January 2022 RSA sent a letter to Mr S confirming that it didnt believe the claim was
honestly presented. It said the policy was being voided from the date of the claim with no
refund of any premiums paid. Mr S wasnt happy with this and complained to RSA. He didnt
think there was any evidence of dishonesty and that hed not been given a reasonable
opportunity to challenge RSAs findings.
RSA didnt uphold Mr Ss complaint. It said that it had been correct to void the policy as it
had not been honestly presented and this had been clearly set out in its letters in November
2021 and January 2022. It also said Mr S was in breach of the loss and damage condition in
his policy as he hadnt properly maintained the roof.
Mr S brought his complaint to this service. He thought RSA had unfairly concluded that his
claim wasnt honestly presented and had unreasonably voided his policy. He believed that
RSA came to their decision in an arbitrary manner and didnt give him a proper opportunity
to challenge it. He also said that if his policy was cancelled for breach of the maintenance
condition that he should be given the opportunity of cancelling it first to avoid an enforced
cancellation on his record.
Our investigator looked into the complaint but didnt think it was unreasonable for RSA to
void the policy. Mr S didnt agree and asked for the matter to be considered by an
ombudsman.
My provisional decision
I issued a provisional decision on 20 February 2023. I said:
Mr Ss complaint is not that his claim was declined, but that his policy was voided. Mr S
refers to his policy being voided for fraud  and this is hinted at by RSA. However, its not
clear to me exactly why the policy was voided as reasons given by RSA and their
investigator are unclear and inconsistent.
Ive listened to the investigation interview with Mr S. Although there is reference to RSA
taking matters of fraud seriously, there is no specific mention of Mr S being investigated for
fraud. The letter dated 30 November 2021 following the interview says that the investigator
holds serious concerns regarding the claim and outlines the consequences should a
fraudulent claim be submitted - but doesnt say that is what is being investigated.
RSA then wrote to Mr S on 7 January 2022 saying the policy was being voided. It said that
the claim had not been honestly presented and As the misrepresentation is considered
deliberate you are not entitled to any refund of premiums paid in connection with this policy.
Theres no mention of how the claim was dishonest, what the misrepresentation was or
whether RSA was relying on a condition of the policy to void it. If RSA was voiding a policy
for fraud, I think its reasonable to expect it to make this clear. I dont think that saying a
claim was not honestly presented is the same as saying its fraudulent.
Following Mr Ss complaint, RSA sent a letter dated 3 February 2022. This letter suggests
that the policy was voided for breach of the maintenance condition in the policy as Mr S
failed to carry out any repairs following the earlier claims. I havent seen this condition
mentioned in any of the earlier correspondence with Mr S. The letter then goes on to say
that it also agrees with the reasons given previously by their investigator for voiding the
policy  namely that it wasnt honestly presented. So, its not clear whether RSA are now
saying the policy was voided for breach of the maintenance condition, dishonesty, or both.
In order to determine this complaint, Ive looked at whether it was reasonable for RSA to
conclude that the claim wasnt honestly presented. This was the reason given to Mr S for
voiding his policy in the letter of 7 January 2022. Ive not considered whether Mr S breached
the maintenance condition as this wasnt given as a reason for voiding the policy. If RSA was
relying on this, Mr S should have been clearly told in the letter of 7 January 2022. Mr S has
said that he wasnt given the opportunity to clarify issues so if RSA has now decided to rely
on this it ought to allow Mr S the right to respond and then consider any response he
provides.
Voiding a policy is a serious matter  whether RSA are saying this is fraud or not. So, RSA
should state the relevant condition within the policy that it is relying on to void it. It hasnt
done that here. RSA must also be able to show strong evidence that its likely that Mr S was
dishonest before I can say that its action was reasonable. This is not a criminal matter, so
RSA doesnt have to prove beyond reasonable doubt that Mr S was dishonest; it only has to
show this on the balance of probabilities.RSA say that Mr S was aware that his roof was in a poor state of repair and knew of the
problem with the gable end roof well before he reported it in November 2021. It relies on the
investigators report, Mr Ss interview and the information and photos from the surveyors to
support this. Ive looked at all these documents carefully  and listened to the recording of
the interview.
RSA say that their surveyors reports and photos clearly show damage to Mr Ss roof in
October 2020 and April 2021, namely slipped and cracked tiles around the lead valley and
water ingress into the bedroom. I can see this damage from the photos. Mr S was informed
of the damage found and his claims were declined due to wear and tear. Mr S accepts that
he didnt carry out any repairs following these claims. RSA say therefore that Mr S must
have been aware in November 2021 that the roof was in a poor state of repair. I agree as Mr
S was aware there was previous damage and no repairs had been carried out.
The damage that was reported in November 2021 was different  and RSA accept this as
confirmed in their investigators report. RSA do say, however, that it was clear from its
surveyors report in April 2021 that there was damage to the front gable end. The report
refers to a section of the front gable end where the verge tiles are starting to move away
from the roof, and this can be seen in the photos attached to the report. These photos show
very similar damage to the photos taken later in November 2021 and I therefore agree with
RSA that the damage to the front gable end was present in April 2021.
Its not enough to show the damage was present before November 2021, Mr S must be
aware of it and present his claim dishonestly. Ive not seen any evidence that Mr S was
provided with a copy of the April 2021 report or the photos. However, RSA say that its
surveyor told Mr S about the issue with the gable end in April 2021 whilst he was present at
the house.
Mr S was asked about this in the interview and accepted that the surveyor may have told
him, but he couldnt remember. Mr S explained that in 2020 there was a sudden family
bereavement which had a traumatic impact on both him and his wife. His main focus was not
therefore on the house or the repairs. I dont know exactly what the surveyor said to Mr S,
but as the gable end was not the focus of the complaint at that time, I think it unlikely that the
surveyor went into any detail. Mr S said that if the damage was there in April 2021, he wasnt
fully aware of the extent of it until his neighbour pointed it out in November 2021.
Mr S initially said in his interview that he didnt know how the damage was caused. This is
also what he told RSA when he first reported the claim. Later in the interview he suggested
that the damage was caused by a storm, not necessarily on a particular day but that there
were recent storms that had caused damage locally. RSA said there were no storms around
the time of the claim and that the damage was structural. This may demonstrate that Mr S
was wrong about the damage and its cause, but I dont think it shows that he was dishonest.
During the interview, RSA asked Mr S for his neighbours contact details so it could verify
that they alerted Mr S to the damage in November 2021. Mr S declined to provide this
information as he didnt wish to involve his neighbour. Whilst this wasnt helpful, I dont think
its enough to show Mr S wasnt being honest.
Bearing all the above in mind, I dont think RSA has provided enough evidence to support its
decision that Mr Ss claim was dishonest, or shown where in the policy it says it can void the
policy for this reason. I therefore think the decision to void the policy was unfair.
Mr S also complained that he wasnt given the opportunity to challenge RSAs findings of
dishonesty before it made its decision. However, Mr S was sent a letter on 30 November
2021 setting out RSAs concerns and asking him for his full written explanation andsupporting evidence within 14 days. Mr S responded saying that he refutes any suggestion
that he has made a false claim. Im satisfied that Mr S knew there was a suggestion of
dishonesty and was given the opportunity to answer the specific concerns raised by RSA
before it made its decision.
In order to put things right, I intend to require RSA to reinstate the policy and remove all
record of the policy being voided, including any mention in internal and external databases.
RSA should then reconsider the claim subject to the policy terms and conditions. Mr S
should be aware that Im not making any decision about the merits of his claim or about the
application of the terms and conditions in the policy, including the maintenance condition.
Im also aware that Mr S has taken out home insurance with another insurer. If he can
provide evidence from his current insurer that he has paid more for his insurance having had
his previous policy voided by RSA, I will consider asking RSA to refund the difference, plus
interest.
Ive also considered compensation for distress and inconvenience. Mr S says that the
allegations of dishonesty left him extremely upset as they have questioned his credibility and
damaged his reputation. I understand this although I think that any damage to reputation is
limited as the matter was not referred to police and was recorded only on insurance
databases. I think compensation of £200 would be fair.
Responses to my provisional decision
RSA didnt accept my provisional decision and provided more information to support its view 
that Mr S was aware of the damage to the gable end in April 2021. It said that this damage 
had been communicated to Mr S during the surveyors attendance and in a subsequent 
letter. Mr S was also provided with the photos. RSA also said that Mr Ss reluctance to share 
the details of his neighbour supports its argument that he was aware of the damage.
RSA accepted that its policy doesnt say that if the maintenance condition is breached it will 
void the policy. It also accepted that its letters to Mr S regarding the reason for voiding the 
policy could have been clearer. However, it believes its done enough to demonstrate that Mr 
S didnt present his claim honestly and that it was reasonable to void the policy. 
Mr S accepted my provisional decision regarding the voiding of his policy but didnt agree 
with the level of compensation for distress and inconvenience. He said that he found the 
allegation of dishonesty very distressing and that his reputation was of paramount 
importance to him. He said he had also spent considerable time and effort obtaining 
alternative insurance and thought that compensation of £1,000 would be more appropriate. 
Mr S provided some details of the increase in his insurance premiums following his policy 
being voided. He says for his home insurance he paid £458.78 more in 2022/23 and £167.17 
more in 2023/24. Mr S also has insurance on another property which he says has increased 
from £280.60 for 2021/22 to £724.55 for 2022/23.
Mr S said that RSA should also refund his home insurance premium for the year 2021/22 
which RSA retained after it voided the policy.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
RSA have provided me with a copy of a letter it sent to Mr S in April 2021. The letter briefly 
mentions damage to the gable end of the roof. Ive also seen confirmation that the photos were sent to Mr S. I think it likely therefore that Mr S was told of some gable end damage in 
April 2021, albeit not in any great detail. 
Accusing someone of fraud is a serious matter and the evidence needs to be strong for this 
service to uphold a finding of fraud. Mr S says that he doesnt recall RSA telling him about 
an issue with the gable end  but hes always accepted that it may have. I dealt with this in 
my provisional decision, and I dont think this new information changes anything. The gable 
end wasnt part of the April 2021 claim and, bearing in mind Mr Ss extremely difficult family 
circumstances, it wasnt the focus of his attention. Mr S maintains that he didnt appreciate 
the extent of any damage until it was pointed out to him by his neighbour in November 2021. 
In my provisional decision I said that Mr S would not only have to be aware of the previous 
damage to the gable end, but also to present his claim dishonestly. I havent seen anything 
new in relation to dishonesty and so I dont think RSAs decision to void the policy for fraud 
was fair. 
Bearing all the above in mind, I havent seen enough to change my provisional decision in 
relation to the voiding of Mr Ss policy. I think it reasonable for Mr Ss policy to be reinstated 
and for RSA to reconsider Mr Ss claim under the remaining terms and conditions of the 
policy. As the policy is to be reinstated, I dont think it reasonable to expect RSA to refund 
the premium for the remainder of that policy year.
Mr S has provided copy correspondence showing some of the cost of his property insurance 
since his policy was voided. Ive seen a home insurance policy renewal for 2023/24 at a cost 
of £463.79 but havent seen confirmation of the renewal for 2022/23 which Mr S says was 
£755.40. Ive also seen confirmation of his other property insurance renewal for 2022/23 
which was £724.55 but havent seen confirmation of the previous years premium. I also 
understand that this policy is due to renew shortly, and I dont have any details for this. 
I accept that Mr Ss insurance premiums are likely to have risen as a result of his policy 
being voided. In the circumstances I think it fair for RSA to refund to Mr S any extra amount 
he has had to pay for his home and other property insurance. Mr S will need to provide RSA 
with evidence of his premiums before and after the voidance, including for this current year if 
this has been paid. I also think it fair that RSA pay interest at 8% pa from the date Mr S 
made payment for his insurance to the date the money is refunded to him by RSA. I say this 
because Mr S has been without the benefit of this money during this time.
Ive considered carefully what Mr S says about compensation for distress and inconvenience 
and I accept that the allegation of fraud was distressing. However, I havent seen anything 
new that makes me change my mind and I think that an award of £200 compensation is fair 
for the reasons stated above.
 
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint and require Royal & Sun Alliance Insurance 
Limited to:
reinstate Mr Ss policy and reconsider his claim under the remaining policy terms and 
conditions;
remove all record of the policy being voided on all internal and external databases;
subject to Mr S providing it with appropriate evidence, reimburse any extra amount 
he has had to pay for his home and other property insurance from the time it voided 
his policy;add interest to the above reimbursements at the annual simple rate of 8%, calculated 
from the date Mr S paid each of the premiums until the date of settlement; and
pay Mr S £200 compensation for distress and inconvenience.
If RSA considers that its required by HM Revenue & Customs to deduct income tax from 
that interest, it should tell Mr S how much its taken off. It should also give Mr S a certificate 
showing this if he asks for one, so he can reclaim the tax from HM Revenue & Customs if 
appropriate.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 5 July 2023.
 
Elizabeth Middleton
Ombudsman