DRN-2976255
The complaint
Mr S says Acromas Insurance Company Limited treated him unfairly in relation to a claim he 
made on his Parts and Garage insurance policy.
All reference in this decision to Acromas include its appointed administrative agents.
What happened
In March 2021, Mr S took out the policy which covered the cost of spare parts used during 
roadside repair or work done at a garage following breakdown. That same day, he was 
experiencing problems with his car and made a claim on his policy. Acromas arranged for 
someone to inspect the car and they reconnected a gearbox cable. Mr S arranged for the car 
to be checked as Acromas advised but was told by a third-party garage  F  that it could 
find no reason to carry out further repairs. 
Around four weeks later Mr S experienced further problems with his car and called Acromas. 
No fault was found with the cable that was previously reconnected so Acromas moved the 
car to F, who found an issue with the gearbox. 
Before Acromas could inspect the gearbox at F, and for reasons beyond Mr Ss control, he 
had to pay for a replacement gearbox out of his own pocket. The old gearbox was sent to a 
specialist transmissions firm for inspection. In May 2021, Acromass appointed engineers 
investigated what had happened and issued a report. The report indicated to Acromas that 
the problem with the gearbox was long-standing and it said, in line with the policy terms, it 
wouldnt pay for the new gearbox as it appeared the fault existed before the start of the 
policy. 
Acromas told Mr S that he could appoint an independent engineer to inspect the car in 
support of his claim falling within the scope of the cover. But that, if the report indicated to 
Acromas that the claim wasnt payable, it would be for Mr S to bear the cost of the 
engineers report.
Unhappy with Acromass decision, Mr S brought his complaint to us. He believed that the 
latest fault was unrelated to the first. Our investigator looked into the complaint and didnt 
recommend that it be upheld. They felt that Acromas had fairly declined the claim on the 
basis that the report of its appointed engineer  who it had been entitled to instruct  
showed, on balance, that the fault was long-standing and wasnt covered by the policy. The 
investigator said theyd spoken to the specialist transmission firm and found its additional 
comments to be consistent with the findings of the appointed engineer.
Mr S didnt agree with the investigators findings. As the investigator couldnt resolve the 
complaint informally, it was passed to me to review afresh.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided not to uphold this complaint. Ill explain why.
The starting point for me is to consider the policy terms, and especially those Acromas has 
relied on to decline the claim, to determine whether it acted fairly. The terms include:
Step 4. Agreeing on necessary repairs
Before any repairs are started you and the repairer must agree on what needs to be 
done and these repairs must then be authorised by the Parts and Garage claims 
handler In some circumstances it may be necessary to appoint an independent 
engineer to inspect the vehicle to assess whether the claim falls within the terms and 
conditions of your cover.

General Exclusions
(This policy will not cover):
1. Any costs for repairs following a Mechanical or Electrical Failure if:
a) The faults existed prior to the purchase of this cover 
These terms arent particularly unusual for a policy such as Mr Ss. I think the result of them 
is that Acromas was entitled to await the inspection and report of an independent engineer 
before committing to pay the claim despite Fs apparent findings. 
In terms of the report that was arranged, Im satisfied from the biography of the engineer that 
they were suitably qualified to comment on what had likely happened to Mr Ss car. The 
report itself indicated that the problems found with the gearbox were caused by materials 
wearing over time. It said wear increases the nearer total failure gets and that this was often 
mistaken as a sudden failure. The engineer said that, given the relatively short time that had 
passed between the start of the policy and the breakdown, and the relatively low mileage 
done in that period, the fault had probably already started to develop by March 2021. 
The engineer concluded that, although the fault wouldnt have become evident until the final 
failure of the gearbox, it was nevertheless long-term in nature.
Ive carefully considered the further comments from the specialist transmission firm obtained 
by the investigator. But I dont think they throw significant doubt on the engineers evidence 
Ive summarised above, primarily because it didnt produce a report at the time of its 
inspection and was instead commenting on the events in question several months later from 
what could be recalled. Nonetheless, it said parts within the gearbox would have broken one 
at a time and wouldnt have happened in a single instance. So, its arguable that its more 
recent conclusions were broadly consistent with the engineers findings from nearer the time. 
Taking everything into account, and in the absence of persuasive evidence to suggest 
otherwise, I think it was fair for Acromas to decline Mr Ss claim.
My final decision
For the reasons given, Ive decided not to uphold this complaint. Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 17 January 2022.
 
Nimish Patel
Ombudsman