DRN-3546010
The complaint
Mr M has complained that Calpe Insurance Company Limited avoided (treated it as if it 
never existed) his motor insurance policy and retained his premiums.
What happened
Mr M applied for a motor insurance policy with Calpe through an online comparison site and 
his representative completed the purchase in a phone call to a broker. When he was 
involved in an incident, he tried to claim on his policy. 
Calpe declined his claim, avoided his policy and kept the premiums hed already paid. It also 
said Mr M would be responsible for all costs of the claim. When Mr M complained, it said 
hed answered the question hed been asked about unspent criminal convictions incorrectly. 
And that it considered this to be a deliberate or reckless qualifying misrepresentation, which 
entitled it to avoid his policy and retain his premiums. 
Mr M brought his complaint to us and our Investigator didnt recommend it should be upheld. 
He agreed there had been a qualifying misrepresentation. And he thought this was 
deliberate or reckless. So he thought Calpe was entitled to avoid the policy and retain the 
premiums. 
Mr M doesnt agree with the Investigator and has asked for an Ombudsmans decision. Mr M 
thought allowance should be made for human error.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I can understand that Mr M feels frustrated that Calpe has avoided his policy but has 
retained his £5,000 premium. He has explained that this was paid by a family member. I can 
understand that this leaves him in a difficult situation. 
The relevant law in this case is The Consumer Insurance (Disclosure and Misrepresentation) 
Act 2012 (CIDRA). This requires consumers to take reasonable care not to make a 
misrepresentation when taking out a consumer insurance contract (a policy). The standard 
of care is that of a reasonable consumer. 
And if a consumer fails to do this, the insurer has certain remedies provided the 
misrepresentation is - what CIDRA describes - as a qualifying misrepresentation. For it to be 
a qualifying misrepresentation the insurer has to show it would have offered the policy on 
different terms or not at all if the consumer hadnt made the misrepresentation. 
CIDRA sets out a number of considerations for deciding whether the consumer failed to take 
reasonable care. One of these is how clear and specific the insurers questions were. And 
the remedy available to the insurer under CIDRA depends on whether the qualifying 
misrepresentation was deliberate or reckless or careless. 
If the misrepresentation was reckless or deliberate and an insurer can show it would have at 
least offered the policy on different terms, it is entitled to avoid the consumers policy. If the 
misrepresentation was careless, then to avoid the policy, the insurer must show it would not 
have offered the policy at all if it wasnt for the misrepresentation. 
If the insurer is entitled to avoid the policy, it means it will not have to deal with any claims 
under it. If the qualifying misrepresentation was careless and the insurer would have 
charged a higher premium if the consumer hadnt made the misrepresentation, it will have to 
consider the claim and settle it proportionately if it accepts it. 
Calpe thinks Mr M failed to take reasonable care not to make a misrepresentation when he 
stated in his application via a comparison site that he didnt have any unspent criminal 
convictions. 
And Ive looked at the question he was asked when he completed the application and I 
agree he failed to take reasonable care. This is because he was asked:
Do you have any unspent non-driving convictions?
A box told Mr M that it was important that he disclosed any unspent convictions, or his 
insurance may be invalid. And I think this was a clear question asked by Calpe through the 
comparison site Mr M used. Mr M answered No. Mr M then had to complete his purchase 
in a call with his broker. His authorised representative was then asked if Mr M had any 
unspent criminal convictions, and she answered, None at all. 
Policy documents were then sent to Mr M which included Driver Declarations that he was 
asked to check:
You or any person to be covered by the policy, have never been convicted of any offence, 
including any fixed penalty in connection with any motor vehicle or any criminal conviction 
and have no prosecution or Police enquiry pending AGREE
So, as confirmed by the policys Statement of Facts, no unspent criminal convictions were 
disclosed for any drivers on the policy. But this wasnt correct as Mr M had an ongoing court 
case with a deferred sentence. Mr M said he thought he need only disclose driving 
convictions. But I think he was clearly asked to disclose any unspent criminal convictions. 
And I think this means Mr M failed to take reasonable care not to make a misrepresentation 
when he said he didnt have any unspent criminal convictions.
Calpe has provided evidence from its underwriters which shows that if Mr M had not made 
this misrepresentation it wouldnt have offered cover at all. This means I am satisfied Mr Ms 
misrepresentation was a qualifying one under CIDRA.
I also think Mr Ms misrepresentation was a reckless or deliberate misrepresentation. This is 
because I think Mr M must have realised that he had an unspent criminal conviction, but he 
chose not to disclose it online or in the phone call, and he didnt correct it when asked to 
check his policy documents.  
Therefore, Im satisfied Calpe was entitled to avoid Mr Ms policy, and retain his premiums, 
in accordance with CIDRA. And, as this means that  in effect  his policy never existed, 
Calpe does not have to deal with his claim following the incident. And  as CIDRA reflects 
our long-established approach to misrepresentation cases, I think allowing Calpe to rely on it 
to avoid Mr Ms policy produces the fair and reasonable outcome in this complaint.
Mr M asked what would have happened if he had paid his premium by instalments rather 
than by lump sum. In that case, Calpe would be entitled to ask him to pay the full years 
premium and could pursue him to recover this. This is because insurance is an annual 
contract even though many consumers choose to pay for it in monthly instalments. 
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 20 July 2022.
 
Phillip Berechree
Ombudsman