DRN-2698824
The complaint
Mr S complains about the service provided by Aviva Insurance Limited (Aviva) under his 
motor insurance policy.
 
Aviva uses agents to administer and provide services under the policy, as well as to deal 
with claims and complaints. Any reference to Aviva in this decision includes those agents. 
What happened
In October 2019 a third party vehicle was parked in a designated parking space by the side 
of a road. When the third party returned to the vehicle, they found a note left by a witness 
stating that they had seen Mr Ss vehicle reverse into the vehicle and then leave the scene. 
The third party insurer subsequently contacted Aviva to lodge a claim for the damage to the 
vehicle, and that responsibility for the damage lay with Mr S. The third party insurer also 
provided an engineers report detailing damage to the vehicle. Mr S denied any involvement 
in the incident and stated that he had not collided with the third party vehicle.
 
Mr S received a letter from the police, stating that the third party had alleged that their 
vehicle had been damaged in a hit and run incident. Mr S gave a statement to the police 
saying that while he did park his car on the road in question on the date of the incident, he 
denied any collision with the third party vehicle. In November 2019 Mr S received a further 
letter from the police, stating that the incident had been assessed as to whether court 
proceedings should be instituted. The letter went on to state that while the available 
evidence could present a realistic prospect of a conviction if the matter were to be place 
before a court, after taking into consideration the wider implications of the case it had been 
decided to take no further action unless additional information came to light that could have 
a bearing on the decision. The letter noted that a record of the decision would be kept, but 
that it did not constitute a criminal offence.
Mr S also contacted Aviva and they subsequently sent an engineer in November 2019 to 
inspect Mr Ss vehicle for signs of any damage. The engineer reported that they only 
observed minor scuffs on the vehicle consistent with parking, rather than more substantial 
impact damage, although there was some indication of impact force (at the front) at some 
point in the past. Aviva initially denied any liability to the third party, but the third party insurer 
threatened to take the matter to court and the matter was taken to arbitration, where in 
January 2020 the decision was to apportion liability 100% against Mr S. 
 
Mr S was subsequently sent a renewal for his policy in April 2020, with the premium 
increasing from £1,673 to £2,132. Mr S contacted Aviva about the increased premium and 
was told that they had accepted liability for the incident and settled the third party claim.
Mr S complained to Aviva about their decision to accept liability in the incident, without telling 
him, and the subsequent impact on his policy premium at renewal. In their Final Response 
Letter of June 2020 Aviva concluded that their decision to accept liability was correct, but 
they also concluded that they hadnt met Mr Ss expectations about the impact of this 
decision and acknowledged a lack of communication with him. They offered Mr S £100 in 
compensation.
Mr S was unhappy at the outcome of his complaint and complained to this service in 
August 2020. The main points of his complaint were the higher premiums that he was 
being charged and that his no claims discount had been affected. Also that his name 
appeared in the accident database and that he was being penalised for an incident in 
which he maintains he was not involved. He asked for his name to be removed from 
the accident database, for his no claims discount to be restored and for the 
reimbursement of the higher premium that he was now paying. 
Our investigator did not uphold the complaint. He concluded overall that Aviva had 
acted fairly and in line with the terms of the policy. The investigator thought that Aviva 
hadnt communicated well with Mr S and hadnt given him clear reasons for why they 
agreed liability and settled the claim from the third party. But the investigator 
concluded that in offering Mr S £100 they had done enough to compensate for the 
lack of communication. 
Mr S disagreed with the investigators conclusions and requested an ombudsman review the 
complaint. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
My role here is to decide whether Aviva has acted fairly towards Mr S. Its not to question the 
decisions of the police about whether to pursue any case against Mr S.
Looking at the main elements of Mr Ss complaint, the key issue is his involvement in 
the incident that led to the third party claim and the subsequent decision by Aviva to 
accept liability and to settle the claim. That decision has led to Mr S being charged a 
significantly higher premium for insuring his vehicle, the loss of his no claims discount 
and details of the claim being recorded on the Claims Underwriting Exchange (CUE).
Mr S maintains that while he was in the road on the date that the incident occurred, 
he was not involved in any collision and therefore not responsible for damage to the 
third party vehicle. However, there was evidence in the form of a note from a witness 
left on the third party vehicle that Mr S was involved and (as the police subsequently 
confirmed to Mr S) reversed into the third party vehicle before leaving the scene. 
Ive also considered the reports from both engineers, one concerning Mr Ss vehicle 
and one concerning the third party vehicle. The former indicates some scuffing 
damage and an impact damage, although the latter wasnt to the rear of Mr Ss 
vehicle and neither was it clear how long the damage may have been present. The 
engineers report on the third party vehicle does clearly show damage to the front of 
the vehicle, consistent with an impact from another vehicle.
Mr S also maintains that the police took no action against him following the incident, 
and that he has been cleared of involvement in the incident. Ive looked at the letter 
sent by the police to Mr S in November 2020. Ive noted that the letter stated that:
 The evidence in respect of the above incident has been assessed with a 
view to consideration being given to instituting court proceedings for the 
offence of driving without due care and attention.
It is felt that the available evidence could present a realistic prospect of a 
conviction if the matter were to be place before a court. However, after taking into consideration the wider implications of the case it has been decided to 
take no further action unless additional information comes to light that could 
have a bearing on this decision. 
Ive noted the wording of the letter and concluded that it does not mean that Mr S was 
cleared, even though it noted that the decision did not constitute a criminal offence. 
Ive also considered that Aviva initially declined to accept liability for the incident and 
obtained an engineers report to establish whether any damage had been caused to 
Mr Ss vehicle. However, Ive also noted that they were subsequently facing the 
prospect of court proceedings from the third party insurer, which would have meant 
the risk of additional costs as well as the costs of losing any such proceedings. In 
those circumstances I think it was reasonable for them to seek arbitration to establish 
liability. Ive considered the arbitration report and noted that its conclusion as that, on 
the balance of probabilities, liability was concluded to be 100% against Mr S. In these 
circumstances I think it was reasonable for Aviva to decide to settle the third party 
claim. Ive also noted that the terms and conditions of Mr Ss policy give Aviva full 
discretion in the conduct of any proceedings or the settlement of any claim.
Having accepted liability and settled the third party claim, I think Aviva acted 
reasonably in reflecting the claim against Mr S, both in setting the premium at the 
subsequent renewal of his policy and in re-assessing his no claims discount in 
accordance with the terms and conditions set out in the policy document. 
For these reasons, Ive concluded that Aviva have acted fairly and reasonably in considering 
the incident and in arriving at the decision to accept liability. That being the case then Aviva 
have also acted in accordance with insurance industry practice in disclosing details of the 
claim settled to the CUE. I also think that theyve acted reasonably in reflecting the claim 
settled against Mr S in assessing his premium at the subsequent renewal of his policy. While 
they have acknowledged shortcomings in their communication of the settlement of the claim 
to Mr S, I think theyve been fair in offering him the level of compensation that they have. 
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, my final decision is that I do not uphold Mr Ss complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 16 June 2021.
 
Paul King
Ombudsman