DRN-3881861
The complaint
Mrs M and Mr M complain that Admiral Insurance (Gibraltar) Limited unfairly valued their 
claim.
Mr M is the main policy holder, so for ease Ill only refer to Mr M in my decision.
What happened
Mr M complained to Admiral because hes unhappy with the way Admiral handled a contents 
insurance claim. Mr M says Admiral didnt offer a settlement in line the correct value based 
on what he thinks the items were worth. Hes also unhappy with the overall claim handling, 
because of delays and communication failures.
In its response to the complaint, Admiral agreed it had handled the claim poorly at times and 
caused unnecessary delays. The insurer paid Mr M £200 compensation for the trouble and 
upset it caused him. Admiral referred to its terms as well as the specified items section of 
Mr Ms policy and said that it had decided the claim fairly.
After Mr M asked this service to get involved, one of our investigators concluded that Admiral 
had acted fairly in the way it had valued the claim. The investigator also concluded that the 
compensation Admiral had paid was fair. Mr M didnt agree and asked for a final decision  
so the complaint has been passed to me to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I wont be upholding this complaint. I know Mr M will be disappointed to 
hear this, so Ill explain why.
The terms of the policy set out that, for a contents claim, Admiral can either repair or restore 
the item; pay the cost of repairing the item; replace the item as new; or pay in cash or 
vouchers up to the amount Admiral could repair, restore or replace the item for. 
Admiral set out the different settlement options available to Mr M. This included the option of 
a cash settlement which Admiral capped at the amount the insurer wouldve paid for a repair 
or replacement. Insurers receive discounts from suppliers, and this is a typical feature of the 
insurance industry. Mr M is unhappy that this meant he received a lower amount overall. But 
the terms of the policy limit Admirals liability to what the insurer wouldve paid its own 
supplier, had the items been repaired or replaced. So I cant conclude that Admiral has acted 
unfairly here, given it has determined the value of the settlement in line with the terms of the 
policy. I acknowledge that Mr M is disappointed with the settlement figure, but I can only ask 
Admiral to review the settlement if I thought it had calculated this unfairly  which I dont find 
that it did.
Mr Ms policy also limits the settlement to £1,000 for unspecified items. Looking at the policy, 
it seems that Mr M didnt specify all the items that hes now claiming for. The policy 
information sets out that any high-risk items worth more than £1,000 need to be specified in 
order to be covered to the full value. Although I note that Mr M may have paid a higher 
amount for these items when he first purchased them, I think that Admiral has acted fairly by 
limiting its valuation in line with the policy terms. 
Admiral already accepts it caused unnecessary delays and that there were communication 
problems during the claim. So I wont set out these issues in detail here. Having reviewed 
the information available to me, Im satisfied that the £200 compensation Admiral has paid 
Mr M fairly puts right the claim handling problems he experienced. This amount is also within 
the region of what I wouldve awarded, had the insurer not offered anything at all. So I wont 
be asking Admiral to do anything differently in relation to this.
In summary, Admiral seems to have decided the claim in line with the terms of Mr Ms policy. 
And it has paid a reasonable compensation figure for the poor claim handling Mr M 
experienced. So I wont be asking the insurer to do anything more.
My final decision
Im not upholding this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs M and Mr M to 
accept or reject my decision before 9 February 2023.
 
Abdul Ali
Ombudsman