DRN-2747917
The complaint
This is a complaint that Lloyds Bank PLC mis-sold payment protection insurance (PPI) to 
Ms C. 
Lloyds didnt actually sell the PPI at the time, but it is now responsible for responding to the 
complaint, so Ill refer to it as the seller. 
What happened
This complaint is about two PPI policies, which started with two credit cards in 1994.  
Our adjudicator didnt recommend that the complaint be upheld. Ms C disagreed with the 
adjudicators opinion, so the complaint has been passed to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website, and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding this case. 
Ive considered what Ms C has said, but Ive decided I dont have strong enough evidence to 
fairly say the PPI was mis-sold. I will explain why.
The sale took place about 27 years ago and so, not surprisingly, there are no documents 
surviving about the sale of the PPI  Lloyds wouldnt be expected to keep documents going 
back that far for accounts that were closed several years ago. Also, I wouldnt expect 
someone to recall in detail everything that happened so long ago; so it can be difficult to 
know whether its fair to rely fully on everything they now remember. Ive borne in mind these 
difficulties in the evidence, when considering the case and trying to reach a fair decision. 
Ms C has said she didnt agree to the PPI. She says she didnt even agree to the credit 
cards and they were just sent to her when she took out a loan. 
The overall problem is that I dont have strong enough evidence to uphold Ms Cs complaint 
on this point. It wouldnt be fair to make Lloyds prove it didnt do something wrong, especially 
when it was so long ago  instead, fairly, I would need reasonable evidence to show that it 
probably did do something wrong. And I cant say that there is that kind of evidence. As it 
was so long ago, I also dont think it would be fair to rely only on what Ms C can now 
remember.
And, although we have no documents relating directly to Ms Cs account, we do have some 
evidence of the types of forms Lloyds used for these types of credit card and PPI 
applications at the time. These support a view that PPI would have been presented to Ms C 
as a choice, and that shed need to indicate on a form whether or not she wanted PPI.
But, overall, I just dont have strong enough evidence to support what Ms C now remembers. 
So I cant fairly conclude that the PPI was mis-sold in that way. 
Ive thought about whether there are other ways in the PPI could have been mis-sold. But, 
again, I cant fairly conclude that these apply in Ms Cs case:
Lloyds probably recommended the PPI to Ms C, but I cant say that it was an 
unsuitable recommendation, based on what Ive seen of Ms Cs circumstances at the 
time. The PPI could have helped pay the credit card bill for a period longer than 
Ms Cs full employment sick pay lasted. And it would have paid out at the same time 
as any such sick pay or redundancy pay, so leaving Ms C more financially secure for 
longer. It would have meant Ms C wouldnt need to fall back on other resources so 
soon.  So, the PPI was potentially useful. I also dont have evidence that the PPI was 
unaffordable. And I cant see any other reason why the recommendation was 
unsuitable.
Its difficult now to know how well Lloyds explained the PPI. Its possible the 
information Lloyds gave Ms C  about the PPI (if it gave her any) wasnt as clear as it 
should have been. But I cant say that full information about costs and benefits would 
have made the PPI seem less useful in her circumstances.
So, overall, Ive not been able to find reliable evidence to decide that the PPI was mis-sold. 
My final decision
For the reasons given, Im not upholding this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms C to accept or 
reject my decision before 22 June 2021.
 
Timothy Bailey
Ombudsman