DRN-3593360
The complaint
Mr M complains about the way Seedrs Limited presented an investment opportunity on its 
crowdfunding platform. He feels information about the company he invested in was 
inaccurate and Seedrs should have checked this.
What happened
Seedrs is an investment-based crowdfunding platform that promotes investment 
opportunities by way of campaigns. Prospective investors can view information about a 
business and the details of the investment in these campaigns on the platform before 
deciding whether to invest. In return for their investment they receive shares in the business. 
Mr M invested around £20,000 in a technology company I shall refer to as Company A 
through Seedrs platform in November 2020. Mr M says he invested in Company A as he 
believed in one of Company As products, which he subsequently pre-ordered. The 
crowdfunding raise was successful, and Mr M was issued shares in Company A. 
Following his investment, Mr M found that Company As updates on its progress were 
lacking and he became concerned that the product was actually not a finished product 
(emphasised by the fact that he had yet to receive his order). Mr M says he and other 
investors put pressure on the director of Company A to provide updates on when the product 
would be available, which led to a website marketing the product to be taken down. In June 
2021, Company A issued an update stating that it was primarily a software company as 
opposed to a hardware company, which compounded Mr Ms concerns. 
Mr M complained to Seedrs in June 2021 as he felt Company As campaign was misleading. 
He said the campaign led him to believe that the product was finished as it said the product 
had won several awards and had received positive reviews from users. He said the 
campaign included several pictures of the product and included the website where the 
product was being marketed. Mr M asked Company A to refund him the money hed 
invested and to also refund him the money hed paid for the product. 
Seedrs responded to Mr Ms complaint in August 2021 but didnt think it had acted unfairly. 
In summary, it said:
All campaigns on Seedrs are subject to a comprehensive due diligence process, as 
detailed and disclosed to investors in its Due Diligence Charter. This sets out the 
steps it takes and what Seedrs does not do when performing its due diligence. This 
enables investors to decide what further steps they may need to take to satisfy 
themselves when making an investment decision.
These checks include (but are not limited to) ensuring that the company is a 
legitimate registered business, conducting background checks on company directors, 
and verifying any financial information that the company wishes to include in the 
campaign. As stated throughout the website, Seedrs does not provide a view on 
whether something is a good investment or not. That decision ultimately lies with the 
investor. The Due Diligence Charter also states that potential investors should 
conduct additional independent due diligence on the company before making an 
investment decision, which is also reflected in the More Info section of each 
campaign page.
It subjects each campaign to a vigorous review which considers every statement 
made in the campaign to ensure that each of these are fair, clear and not misleading. 
Where the statement is factual, Seedrs requires the company to provide evidence to 
substantiate the claim or amend or remove statements where this evidence cannot 
be produced.
It independently reviewed the campaign and concluded that it was fair, clear and not 
misleading based on the factual evidence obtained. 
It enters into agreements with businesses which require them to provide periodic 
updates to their investors. To encourage businesses to provide these updates, 
Seedrs relies on an automated system that generates emails to businesses with 
reminders to provide these updates. However, Seedrs does not take any 
responsibility for the content of these updates, as these are treated as direct 
communications with the business. This is made clear to investors in the Important 
notice box at the top of the Updates section of each post on its website.
Mr M didnt accept Seedrs findings as he felt he wouldnt have invested in Company A had 
the campaign made it clear that the product wasnt finished. As such, he referred his 
complaint to this service for an independent review. 
One of our investigators considered Mr Ms complaint but also didnt think Seedrs had acted 
unfairly. In summary, he said:
It was clear to him that any investment in Company A was not in the success of the 
product specifically as the campaign made it clear what the raised funds would be 
used for - mainly to fund expanding the company in terms of marketing and strategy 
development.
At no point did the campaign explicitly state that the product was finished and ready 
for mass production.
From the evidence Mr M had provided, it was clear that Company A had misled him 
in later communications regarding the readiness of the product, but he had to focus 
his view on whether Seedrs had acted unfairly in the promotion of the investment and 
not Company As actions.
Seedrs had confirmed that the main issue for the production of the product was due 
to COVID-19 related hardware supply chain issues and he didnt think that it would 
have been possible for Seedrs to foresee or carry out any due diligence on this issue.
The campaign said that Company As three-year goal was to license its software 
intellectual property to other manufacturers and shift towards being a software-only 
company and so he felt Mr M was made aware the shift to focus away from 
hardware. 
Mr M didnt agree with the investigators opinion. In short, he said:
Seedrs would not be taking legal action against Company A if misleading information 
wasnt provided. And it wouldnt have offered him £5,000 to withdraw his complaint.
He maintains that he wouldnt have invested in Company A if he was presented with 
the correct information. 
He disagrees with the argument that the money was intended for other purposes. 
He sometimes invests directly in start-ups, in which case he takes full responsibility 
for his due diligence, however, it should not be the same as investing via a platform 
like Seedrs, which charges him fees and is expected to carry out basic due diligence. 
Seedrs either did not do this this time around or focused its attention on the money it 
expected to make by promoting Company A on its platform.As an agreement wasnt reached, the complaint has been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
At the time of promoting Company As investment opportunity, Seedrs was authorised and 
regulated by the FCA. The relevant rules and regulations FCA regulated firms are required 
to follow are set out in the FCAs Handbook of rules and guidance. 
The FCA Principles for Business (PRIN) set out the overarching requirements which all 
authorised firms are required to comply with. PRIN 1.1.1G, says The Principles apply in 
whole or in part to every firm. The Principles themselves are set out in PRIN 2.1.1R. The 
most relevant principles here are:
PRIN 2.1.1R (2) A firm must conduct its business with due skill, care and diligence.
PRIN 2.1.1R (6) A firm must pay due regard to the interests of its customers and 
treat them fairly.
PRIN 2.1.1R (7) A firm must pay due regard to the information needs of its clients, 
and communicate information to them in a way which is clear, fair and not 
misleading.
Seedrs was also required to act in accordance with the rules set out in the Conduct of 
Business Sourcebook (COBS). And the most relevant obligations here are:
COBS 2.1.1R (1) A firm must act honestly, fairly and professionally in accordance 
with the best interests of its client.
COBS 4.2.1R (1) A firm must ensure that a communication or a financial promotion 
is fair, clear and not misleading.
So before approving Company As campaign, Seedrs needed to satisfy itself that the 
information contained within it was fair, clear and not misleading. And it also needed to be 
satisfied that by approving the promotion and allowing its customers to invest in Company A, 
it would continue to be acting in its clients best interests.
In order to satisfy itself of the fair, clear and not misleading nature of the claims or assertions 
made in the campaign, Seedrs would need to carry out reasonable checks. What these 
reasonable checks involve, or indeed what they might be in any given case, is something 
which is very much left to each platform to determine and would vary according to the 
particular circumstances. Its clear that it wasnt the regulators intention to provide a set of 
tick boxes which needed to be completed for a promotion to be approved.
Ive also borne in mind that the FCA said the following in its July 2018 consultation paper on 
loan-based (peer-to-peer) and investment-based crowdfunding platforms: 
It is our view that it will be unlikely that a platform could argue that it has met its 
obligations under Principle 2, Principle 6 (PRIN 2.1.1R) and the clients best interests 
rule (COBS 2.1.1R), if it has not undertaken enough due diligence to satisfy itself on 
the essential information on which any communication or promotion is based.
The FCA also said that: 
In relation to statements about future commercial success, this should include at 
least a basic plausibility check. For example, if a borrower says it is going to build a block of flats within 6 months but it does not have the relevant construction 
permissions, it would seem reasonable for a platform to question the plausibility of 
the project. 
Ive also considered the FCAs guidance on approving financial promotions from November 
2019 which explained that firms should:
analyse, and carry out due diligence regarding, the substance of a promotion before 
approving its content for communication by an unauthorised person. The extent and 
substance of the analysis and diligence needed to be able confirm that a promotion is 
fair, clear and not misleading will vary from case-to-case and will depend on the form 
and content of the promotion. When assessing whether a promotion is fair, clear and not 
misleading, a firm may need to consider (among other things):
The authenticity of the proposition described in the relevant promotion.
Whilst I appreciate Mr M had invested prior to the publication of these consultation papers 
and guidance, I still feel they are relevant as they provide clarity as to the interpretation and 
application of the existing rules and guidance which were applicable to Seedrs at the time.
The FCAs website provides consumers with useful information on crowdfunding. This 
includes a section on how consumers should protect themselves before investing and says 
they should first understand what due diligence a platform performs on investee businesses. 
Looking at Seedrs website, it makes it clear what due diligence it performs in its Due 
Diligence Charter. The section on verification of the campaign explains: 
Each Campaign you see on Seedrs has been reviewed by our Investment Team. 
Where there are material statements of fact, we require the company to provide 
evidence to substantiate the claim or amend or remove statements to ensure the 
Campaign is fair, clear and not misleading in line with the FCA requirement.
Seedrs only reviews the text of the Campaign and the video (the Campaign Text).
Seedrs enables investors to communicate directly with a fundraising company via the 
platform, through the discussion forum and various document request features. This 
enables investors to ask for additional information relevant to their investment 
decision.
In verifying the Campaign Text, we ask the company to submit information and 
evidence from the companys own records, such as management or statutory 
accounts, internal database records, and existing loan and third party agreements. 
The Due Diligence Charter also explains what important exceptions and limitations apply:
We do not require evidence for aspirational statements or statements of intent or 
belief, although we will ensure that any such statements are phrased appropriately in 
light of their speculative nature. We may approve statements that convey ambitions 
of the company without taking a view on whether such ambitions are likely to be fully 
realised. 
Seedrs does not review the discussion forum or any additional documents (including 
the pitch decks or financial statements) that the company provides directly to 
investors on their request.  Investors must perform their own verification & diligence 
exercise on such materials.The evidence we review is provided by the company and we do not audit it, which 
means we may not identify forged or altered evidence.
Taking into account the above, its clear that Seedrs due diligence needed to be sufficient to 
satisfy itself on the material statements of fact on which the promotion of Company A was 
based. Its also clear that Seedrs would only conduct due diligence on the text of the 
campaign and video. And whilst it would allow investors to communicate with Company A 
through the discussion forum and by way of directly requesting further documentation, this 
information wouldnt be checked by Seedrs. 
The crux of Mr Ms complaint is that Company As campaign misled him into believing a 
product it had developed was finished and likely set to go to market. Mr M says the 
campaign said the product had won several awards and had received positive reviews from 
users. He also said the campaign included several pictures of the product and included the 
website where the product was being marketed. 
Having reviewed the campaign, its clear that photos of the product are used throughout, 
however, crucially, there is no statement of fact made about how ready the product is to go 
to market. If there had been, then I would have expected Seedrs to have conducted due 
diligence on this. Rather, the campaign says that features of the product are in development, 
the product will be sold under a subscription model, that Company A has different sales 
channels in the pipeline and that it had achieved $30,000 of revenue in its first month of pre-
orders. Whilst the purpose of my decision isnt to determine whether the product was 
finished and is rather to determine whether Seedrs conducted proper due diligence on the 
campaign before allowing Mr M to invest, I think these statements are a clear indication that 
the product wasnt finished. I understand Mr Ms believes the campaign suggests otherwise, 
however, as there is no statement of fact regarding this point, I dont think Seedrs needed to 
ensure there was a finished product before promoting the investment. 
Its important to note that the campaign didnt say that the proceeds of investment would 
enable Company A to manufacture and distribute a finalised product. Instead it explained 
that Company A intended to use the funds raised to:
Hire partnerships and business development team
Expand offering to other regions
Prototype and develop new features
Scale-up marketing and PR 
Recruit a senior CTO and Chair with relevant market sector experience
Ive also considered Mr Ms points regarding the campaigns mention of awards and user 
reviews. Regarding the former, there appears to be only one award which is in relation to the 
product itself. There is no mention in the campaign that this award is given to finished 
products only and so I cant agree that this is misleading  considering the award was 
received. In relation to the user reviews, I believe Mr M is referring to the campaigns 
mention of a community of 230 beta testers. Whilst Seedrs has provided evidence of this to 
ascertain that it did request evidence to support this statement of fact, I dont agree that this 
statement confirms there was a finished product. Rather, beta suggests that the product 
was still in development. 
As mentioned above, Seedrs Due Diligence Charter states that investors should conduct 
additional independent due diligence on the company before making an investment decision. 
This mirrors the advice given on the FCAs website which says investors should first 
understand what due diligence a platform performs on investee businesses. I appreciate Mr 
M had tried to make enquiries regarding when the product would be ready to go to market, 
but these appear to have been made post-investment. Seedrs had clearly explained what checks it would conduct in its Due Diligence Charter and so Mr M ought to have been aware 
of the extent of these checks. There were no factual statements made about the readiness 
of the product and so, if this was crucial to his decision to invest in Company A, then I would 
have expected him to have made enquiries regarding this before investing. On this basis, I 
dont think it would be fair to direct Seedrs to refund his investment. 
I note Mr M has also provided correspondence he received directly from Company A to 
demonstrate that he was misled, however, Im afraid I can only consider the actions of 
Seedrs. Furthermore, Seedrs makes it clear in its Due Diligence Charter than it wouldnt 
conduct any checks on direct communications between investors and investee businesses 
and so I cant hold Seedrs responsible for any misrepresentations made by Company A in 
these.
Ive also considered Mr Ms comments regarding the lack of updates he received. Whilst I 
appreciate Mr M expected more updates to be given, especially around the product going to 
market, I dont think Seedrs were expected to do this. Seedrs has explained that it 
encourages business to regularly update investors, but it cannot make any guarantees that 
investors will actually receive any update from the business with any particular frequency, if 
at all. I think this is fair considering the updates are coming from the businesses rather than 
from Seedrs. Seedrs Membership Agreement explains:
"[w]ith respect to any newsfeeds provided on the platform, such content is provided 
for informational purposes only. Seedrs undertakes no obligation to update the 
newsfeeds and can alter or delete the content at any time without notice." 
I also understand Mr M faced difficulty getting answers from Company A through the Seedrs 
discussion forum. But again, I dont think it would be fair to hold Seedrs responsible for this 
as questions are responded to by investee businesses rather than Seedrs. Seedrs has 
explained that it doesnt require businesses to answer all questions submitted to them on the 
discussion section or take any responsibility for questions left unanswered. Seedrs says this 
was all explained in the Membership Agreement:
"[t]he discussion forum and documents sections, and any additional documents 
made available for download do not constitute part of the campaign. Any responses 
to questions in the discussion forum and documents sections by the entrepreneur 
and any documents downloaded on request constitute "one-off communications'' and 
should be treated in the same way as if you had a one-on-one email conversation 
with the relevant entrepreneur without any involvement from us." 
So while I appreciate Mr Ms experience in communicating with Company A may have been 
frustrating, I think there is a limit to what Seedrs can reasonably do for its customers in this 
sense and I dont think it would be fair to hold it responsible for the lack of updates provided. 
Mr M says Seedrs offered him £5,000 during a phone call to withdraw the complaint  Ive 
not been able to listen to this call. Regardless, this doesnt change the fact that I dont find 
the campaign to be misleading or that Seedrs failed to conduct proper due diligence and so I 
dont think the offer is relevant to the outcome of my decision. Equally, Mr M has also 
mentioned potential court action between Seedrs and Company A and although Im not 
aware of any such action, I also dont think this affects my decision. 
On a final note, I understand Mr M has requested that Seedrs also refund him the money 
paid directly to Company A for the product he pre-ordered. Whilst Im not upholding this 
complaint and as such, not directing Seedrs to do anything further, Id like to make it clear 
that the transaction Mr M is seeking to be refunded is one between him and Company A. The purchase is completely independent of the Company As campaign on Seedrs and so 
this wouldnt be something which this service could comment on.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 2 February 2023.
 
Ben Waites
Ombudsman