DRN-4076985
The complaint
Miss M complains that HSBC UK Bank Plc caused her to lose money on international 
transfers and they delayed returning her money.
What happened
Miss M says she made three transfers for $55,000 each from her HSBC United States Dollar 
(USD) account to a third party USD account, but these were all rejected by the third party 
company because of a lack of a Society for Worldwide Interbank Financial 
Telecommunications (SWIFT) code on the HSBC online payments form. Miss M says she 
intended to use the funds to reduce her monthly mortgage payments, as soon as she had 
managed to convert the funds through a third party to British Pounds Sterling (GBP). Miss M 
says she discussed this with HSBC, but they could not provide her with an explanation why 
she wasnt asked for a SWIFT code, or why the payment was rejected. Miss M says that the 
third party returned the funds to HSBC, but it took them 1-2 months to return the money. 
Miss M says she was ringing HSBC almost daily trying to get the return of the funds, where 
she was reassured that the funds would be with her soon, but she didnt receive the funds 
until late November 2022. She says by the time she received the money and it was 
converted to GBP, she lost a lot of money on the exchange rate, compared to if the funds 
were returned straight away. Miss M made a complaint to HSBC.
HSBC partially upheld Miss Ms complaint. They said although the online form didnt ask her 
to input a SWIFT code, the third party she was trying to transfer to dont use a SWIFT code, 
so they used the routing code Miss M provided them. They said they hadnt identified an 
error on their part with the payment being cancelled, but they were disappointed with the 
length of time it took them to return the money to her. So they offered her £400 
compensation to support their apology. Miss M brought her complaint to our service. 
Our investigator said the £400 offer was fair. She said it was clear there was a delay in 
HSBC in returning the funds to Miss M, but they had only acted on the payment information 
Miss M provided originally. She said the payments were made from Miss Ms USD currency 
in USD and the funds were also returned to Miss M to her USD account in USD. So there 
was no foreign exchange loss. Miss M asked for an ombudsman to review her complaint. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Firstly, Im aware that Ive only summarised Miss Ms complaint points. And Im not going to 
respond to every single point made by her. No discourtesy is intended by this. Our rules 
allow me to take this approach. It simply reflects the informal nature of our service as a free 
alternative to the courts. If theres something I havent mentioned, it isnt because Ive 
ignored it. I havent. Im satisfied I dont need to comment on every individual point to be able 
to reach what I think is a fair outcome.
Id like to explain to Miss M that it is not within this services remit to tell a business how to 
run their processes or procedures such as what information they should ask for on their 
online international payments screen. It would be the role of the regulator  the Financial 
Conduct Authority, who have the power to instruct HSBC to make changes to their policies 
and procedures, if necessary. 
Ive considered what Miss M has said about how the error resulted from HSBCs online form 
not asking for a SWIFT code. And while Miss M has proved she had a SWIFT code for the 
recipient account she wanted to pay, Im not persuaded that the SWIFT code had to be 
entered on the form. I say this because there are other ways that money could be sent to the 
account she wanted to pay. Miss M has provided a screenshot from HSBCs systems. This 
shows there were different ways in which the recipient bank could be found, for example by 
searching by the routing number, bank name or address. 
Ultimately, Miss M submitted three international payments for $55,000 each without ensuring 
the details were correct  in this case the routing number was incorrect, which caused the 
payments to not be credited to the intended account. As these were not payments made by 
HSBC inputting incorrect information, then I cant hold HSBC responsible for Miss M 
confirming the information in the transfers were correct when she submitted the payments. 
The terms and conditions show for payments that You need to make sure you give us the 
right details, as well make the payment using only the information you give us. Its up to you 
to check the details are correct. 
So if Miss M was in any doubt about a need for a SWIFT code, or whether the routing 
number was correct prior to the transfer, then it would have been proportionate for her to 
check with HSBC prior to the transfers to ensure she was inputting the correct details if she 
had any doubt. But Ive seen no evidence that she did this. Ive listened to a call on 17 
October 2022, as two of the payments were subjected to fraud checks. Miss M said that she 
had checked the details and she had talked them over with a family member. She was 
offered more time to check the details of the payments, but she told the fraud call handler 
she was satisfied with the payments. She then asked whether it was a specific third party 
account she was sending the money to, and the call handler told Miss M he didnt have the 
facility to check this and Miss M told him everything was fine and approved the payment.
Miss M was given another call by HSBCs fraud department for the third payment also, which 
Ive listened to. She confirms again that the account details were emailed to her and she had 
spoken about these in person with the account holder. She tells the call handler she is 
confident with the details so this should be fine. The call handler tells Miss M that in the 
event of any subsequent loss then HSBC wouldnt be liable for it and asks if Miss M would 
be okay with this and she replies yes, yes.
Unfortunately, as the details submitted were incorrect, this did not reach the intended 
account and the recipient bank contacted HSBC to let them know that the account wasnt 
held at that bank, so they returned the funds to HSBC. The funds were returned in the same 
currency as they were sent, which meant there was no exchange rate loss (or gain). 
But there were delays in returning the transfer payments back to Miss Ms account. The time 
varied between the three transfers. This ranged from around two weeks (keeping in mind the 
funds werent returned on the days Miss M submitted the transfers as it took time to reach 
the recipient bank and time for them to send the money back to HSBC), to around four 
weeks. While HSBC didnt have the funds for all of this time, I am persuaded they were 
responsible for delays in Miss M receiving the funds back to her account. 
I say this as it appears the international transfer payments were returned to HSBC earlier 
than when they credited her actual USD account. As such Miss M was constantly calling HSBC to find out where her money was. And because the payments werent credit to her 
account, then it would be unlikely that the call handlers would have been able to locate the 
funds so they escalated her concerns. 
Ive considered what would be a fair outcome for this complaint. I know Miss M feels she 
should be paid the foreign exchange losses for when the funds were later transferred from 
USD to GBP as the exchange rates had changed from when she originally intended to 
transfer the funds from USD to GBP. But it would not be proportionate for me to ask HSBC 
to cover these losses for a number of reasons. 
I say this as Miss M had confirmed that HSBC wouldnt be liable for any errors with the 
transfers on the second fraud call. As Miss M had submitted incorrect details, HSBC did not 
make an error with the actual transfers submitted. And there would always have been a 
delay in the funds being returned to her (although they should have been returned to her 
account earlier than when they were). It appears from Miss Ms statement that when she 
received the first $55,000 back, no money debited her account until 8 November, so she 
may have been able to have a more beneficial exchange rate if she hadnt delayed the 
transfer herself also. I know Miss M has told us that any foreign exchange service takes a 
significant fee for exchanging money so it made sense to make the exchange in one go, and 
so she waited to receive all of the money before making the exchange, but I cant hold 
HSBC responsible for Miss M making this decision to potentially save on a fee.
Once Miss M received the funds back, she would have been able to check the exchange 
rate and decide whether it was beneficial to exchange the funds to GBP. Although I 
understand she wanted to reduce her mortgage payments, if the exchange rate was not 
beneficial for her to do so, she could have possibly revised her plans, but she (or her family 
member) still decided to have the funds exchanged despite the foreign exchange rate at the 
time. HSBC did not convert the funds themselves and would not be responsible for another 
companies exchange rate (or the general change in exchange rates) as this would be out of 
their control. And it appears that it was a family member who exchanged the funds, so HSBC 
would not be required to cover losses for a family member of Miss Ms anyway. HSBC sent 
$55,000 each time and credited this amount back to Miss Ms account, so they didnt cause 
a foreign exchange loss that they would be responsible for. And I cant see that HSBC 
advised her to arrange for the funds to be exchanged from USD to GBP, so it would not be 
proportionate for these reasons to ask HSBC to cover any exchange rate loss that Miss M or 
a family member had as a result of converting the currency from USD to GBP.
So I do think the £400 that HSBC offered Miss M is fair. I say this because it is in line with 
our guidance for compensation. Im satisfied it recognises the impact of the frequent calls 
Miss M made to HSBC to chase up the return of the transfers, and the impression they gave 
her that the money would be returned sooner than when it was returned. While Im satisfied 
the call handlers did escalate her concerns, HSBC did not act upon these in a timely 
manner. So it follows Ill be asking HSBC to pay Miss M the £400 that they offered her. But I 
dont require them to do anything further. 
My final decision
HSBC UK Bank Plc has already made an offer to pay Miss M £400 to settle the complaint 
and I think this offer is fair in all the circumstances.
So my decision is that HSBC UK Bank Plc should pay £400 to Miss M. But I dont require 
them to do anything else. Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss M to accept 
or reject my decision before 5 September 2023.
 
Gregory Sloanes
Ombudsman