DRN-3392289
The complaint
Mr B complains that Madison CF UK Limited (trading as 118 118 Money) lent to him in an 
irresponsible manner.
What happened
Mr B has been assisted in making his complaint by a claims management company
(CMC). But, for ease, in this decision I will generally refer to all communication as having
been with, and from, Mr B himself.
Mr B was given a loan by 118 118 Money in January 2017. He borrowed £1000 and agreed 
to repay this over 24 months. Mr B has repaid his loan.
Mr Bs complaint has been assessed by one of our investigators. After reviewing all of the 
documentation sent by both parties, they felt 118 118 Money had not done anything wrong 
when it agreed to give Mr B the loan. 
Mr B didnt agree with our investigator. So, as the complaint hasnt been resolved informally, 
it has been passed to me, an ombudsman, to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Our approach to irresponsible lending complaints is set out on our website and Ive followed 
it here.
Before agreeing to lend, lenders must work out if a borrower can afford the loan repayments
alongside other reasonable expenses the borrower also has to pay. This should include
more than just checking that the loan payments look affordable on a strict pounds and pence
calculation. A lender must take reasonable steps to satisfy itself that the borrower can
sustainably repay the loan  in other words, without needing to borrow elsewhere.
The rules dont say what a lender should look at before agreeing to lend. But reasonable and
proportionate checks should be carried out. For example, when thinking about what a
borrower has left to spend on a new loan after paying other expenses, as well as taking into
account the loan amount, the cost of the repayments and how long the loan is for, a
proportionate check might mean a lender should also find out the borrowers credit history
and/or take further steps to verify the borrowers overall financial situation.
If reasonable and proportionate checks werent carried out, I need to consider if a loan
wouldve been approved if the checks had been done. If proportionate checks were done 
and a loan looks affordable, a lender still needs to think about whether theres any other 
reason why it would be irresponsible or unfair to lend. For example, if the lender shouldve 
realised that the loan was likely to lead to more money problems for a borrower who is 
already struggling with debt that cant be repaid in a sustainable way.
Ive kept all these things in mind, and Ive thought carefully about the information 118 118 
Money relied on when it decided to lend to Mr B.
118 118 Money gathered some information from Mr B before it agreed to lend. It asked Mr B 
about his income and expenditure. It says it verified his income using an online tool. It 
carried out a credit check. Those checks suggested Mr B had enough disposable income 
each month to afford the loan repayments. 
Mr B was entering into a fairly significant commitment with 118 118 Money. He was agreeing 
to make monthly repayments for a period of 2 years. So, I think it is right that 118 118 Money 
wanted to gather, and independently check, some detailed information about Mr Bs financial 
circumstances before it agreed to lend to him. I think that the checks it did were sufficient to 
achieve that aim. I think 118 118 Moneys checks were proportionate. 
But simply performing proportionate checks isnt always enough. A lender also needs to
react appropriately to the information those checks show. Those results might sometimes 
lead a lender to undertake further enquiries into a consumers financial situation. Or, in some 
cases, the results might lead a lender to decline a loan application outright. So, Ive looked at 
what 118 118 Money gathered to see whether it needed to ask for more or whether it made 
a fair lending decision. 
I have looked at the credit search that 118 118 Money conducted. The search showed that 
Mr B had only 1 active account listed, his bank account. So, I dont think 118 118 Money 
would have had any concerns by what its search showed it.
Mr B told 118 118 Money he was living at home and told 118 118 Money that his 
expenditure was £120. Although this is a low amount, when 118 118 Money is told by Mr B 
that he is living at home and the credit search shows no credit commitments at all, then I 
dont think it is an unrealistic amount for Mr B to declare. I think when I consider how much 
Mr Bs verified monthly income was, and how little he declared to 118 118 Money he had in 
essential spend, I think the credit he had taken out was easily affordable for him.
I appreciate that Mr Bs financial situation could have been worse than my assessment 
above might suggest. But I think that the checks 118 118 Money performed were 
proportionate and didnt suggest that Mr B was facing any current problems in managing his 
finances. I think 118 118 Money was entitled to rely on what Mr B said about his finances, 
and his circumstances at the time. And that information suggested that he would be able to 
sustainably afford the repayments on the loan. So, I dont currently think 118 118 Money was 
wrong to give the loan to Mr B. 
My final decision
My decision is that I do not uphold Mr Bs complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 14 May 2022.
 
Mark Richardson
Ombudsman