DRN-1423716
 
The complaint
This complaint is about a payment protection insurance (PPI) policy taken out in 
connection with a store card account. AXA France IARD (AXA) didnt actually sell the PPI, 
but its accepted responsibility for this complaint. So Ill refer to AXA as the seller to keep 
things simple.
Mrs R says AXA mis-sold her the PPI.
 
What happened
Mrs R took out the PPI policy when she opened a store card account in a shop in 1999.
The policy covered Mrs Rs monthly payments under the credit agreement if she was unable 
to work because of injury or sickness, or if she lost her job. It also included some purchase 
protection cover and life cover.
Our adjudicator didnt uphold the complaint. Mrs R disagreed with the adjudicators opinion 
so the complaint has been passed to me.
 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Weve set out our general approach to 
complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding 
Mrs Rs case.
I've decided not to uphold Mrs R's complaint. I'll explain why.
Mrs R has given a detailed account of the occasion on which she applied for the 
store card. She's explained that she decided to apply in order to get a discount on 
her purchase. She says there was no mention of PPI, and that the store assistant 
simply told her to sign the form in the places marked with a cross.
 
I don't doubt that Mrs R is certain about what she's told us. But what she says isn't 
enough on its own for me to be able to uphold this complaint. 
 
I've seen a copy of Mrs Rs application for the store card. It includes a short section 
on Account Cover (a form of PPI), with instructions only to sign if the applicant 
required the cover. It says Yes, I would like to protect my Account with Account 
Cover, and it continues Please debit my Account with the relevant monthly premiums until further notice. Theres a space to sign. Mrs R signed specifically to 
indicate that she wished to take the cover, in addition to signing the application form 
overall. 
 
I can't know what, if anything, was discussed at the time of the application. But I think 
the form made it clear that the PPI was optional. And I think it would have been 
reasonable to expect Mrs R to check over the document she was signing. The 
section about PPI was relatively brief. And there was a reasonably prominent section 
outlining the purpose of "Account Cover" at the top of the form. If Mrs R had any 
questions, or was in any doubt as to whether she wanted to take the cover, she could 
have asked.
 
Taking everything into account, Im satisfied that AXA made it clear that the PPI 
wasnt compulsory. And it was added to Mrs R's account because she chose to take 
it out. 
 
AXA didn't advise Mrs R to take out the policy. This means it didnt have to check if it 
was suitable for her. But it did need to make sure it gave Mrs R enough information 
to enable her to decide for herself if she wanted PPI, knowing what alternative means 
shed have had of making her monthly repayments if she was unable to work, or if 
she lost her job.
 
I've borne in mind that Mrs R's told us that she'd have been entitled to between three 
and six months' pay from her employer if she'd been off sick. She says she also had 
savings of around £1,000 at the time.
 
But if Mrs R had made a successful claim on the policy for accident, sickness or 
unemployment, it would have paid a monthly benefit 15% of what she owed on her 
store card. And it would have done this each month until her credit agreement ended, 
or she returned to work, or the outstanding balance at time of her claim had been 
repaid - whichever was the earliest. So it would potentially have covered her for 
longer than shed have been entitled to sick pay for. Whats more, it would have paid 
out in addition to any payments Mrs R received from her employer, allowing her to 
use those to cover other day-to-day expenses. And she wouldn't have had to use her 
savings to make her monthly store card repayments. So taking everything into 
account, I think the PPI could have been useful for Mrs R.
 
It's possible the information AXA gave Mrs R about the PPI wasn't as clear as it 
should have been. But Im satisfied that she chose to take out the PPI - so it looks as 
if she wanted this type of cover, even if shes understandably forgotten that now. She 
was eligible for the policy, and she doesnt appear to have been affected by any of 
the main things it didnt cover (for example, provisions regarding unusual working 
arrangements or existing medical conditions). 
 
The store card application form made it clear that monthly premiums would be 
payable for the PPI. And Ive seen nothing to suggest that the policy was 
unaffordable for Mrs R. So taking everything into account, Im not convinced that 
better information about the PPI would have put her off taking it out. And the premiums for the PPI would have been visible on Mrs R's monthly statements. So if 
she decided she didn't want the policy, or if her circumstances change, she could 
have cancelled it at any time.
 
I'm sorry to disappoint Mrs R, but for the reasons I've set out, I don't find that she has 
lost out as a result of anything that AXA did wrong, so there's nothing it needs to do 
to put things right.
 
I've taken account of all Mrs R's comments, including what she's said about having been 
young when she applied for the card. But this doesn't change my conclusion. 
 
My final decision
For the reasons I've set out, my decision is that I do not uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs R to accept or 
reject my decision before 13 March 2020.
Juliet Collins
Ombudsman