DRN-3415429
The complaint
Miss S complains that a car that was supplied to her under a conditional sale agreement with 
Moneybarn No. 1 Limited wasnt of satisfactory quality.
What happened
A used car was supplied to Miss S under a conditional sale agreement with Moneybarn that 
she electronically signed in September 2021. There were some issues with the car knocking 
and overheating within a few days of it being supplied to her so she returned it to the dealer. 
A wishbone was replaced by the dealer but it couldnt identify an overheating fault. Miss S 
left the car with the dealer and complained to Moneybarn. She said in November 2021 that 
she wanted it to unwind the agreement. 
Moneybarn arranged for the car to be inspected by an independent expert and then asked 
her to collect the repaired car, but it also offered to pay for another independent inspection of 
the car to reassure her. It asked her to contact it about the arrears on her account and said 
that the arrears could affect her credit file. It also paid her £150 for the distress and 
inconvenience caused due to the delay in resolving her complaint. Miss S wasnt satisfied 
with its response so complained to this service. 
Our investigator recommended that her complaint should be upheld in part. He thought that 
the car wasnt of satisfactory quality when supplied, but repairs had taken place which had 
resolved the issue which was a fair remedy so he didnt think that rejection was a fair 
outcome. He said that the distress and inconvenience that Miss S had experienced justified 
a further £100 compensation.
Moneybarn has accepted that recommendation but Miss S has asked for her complaint to be 
considered by an ombudsman. She says that shes had a bad experience and wont take the 
car back. She says that shes been paying to use another car so hasnt paid for this car as 
she hasnt had it or used it and that her circumstances have changed and she cant afford 
the car.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the outcome recommended by our investigator for these 
reasons:
Moneybarn, as the supplier of the car, was responsible for ensuring that it was of 
satisfactory quality when it was supplied to Miss S - whether or not it was of 
satisfactory quality at that time will depend on a number of factors, including the age 
and mileage of the car and the price that was paid for it;
the car that was supplied to Miss S was about seven years old, had been driven for 
nearly 39,000 miles and had a price of £8,610;
satisfactory quality also covers durability which means that the components within 
the car must be durable and last a reasonable amount of time  but exactly how long 
that time is will also depend on a number of factors;
the car had passed an MOT test in September 2021, before it was supplied to 
Miss S, and its mileage was recorded as 38,911;
Miss S had some issues with the car knocking and overheating within a few days of it 
being supplied to her so she returned it to the dealer  it replaced a wishbone but 
couldnt identify an overheating fault;
Miss S has provided a photo showing an engine failure hazard warning on the car 
which she says was caused by the overheating issue so she left the car with the 
dealer and complained to Moneybarn and she asked it to unwind the agreement in 
November 2021;
Moneybarn arranged for the car to be inspected by an independent expert later that 
month  the inspection report shows the cars mileage as 40,289 and concluded:
At the time of inspection the vehicles overall general condition was in line 
the vehicles age and reported mileage, with no major issues noted at the 
time of inspection with only one minor issue being the TPMS warning light 
displayed on the drivers panel. The vehicle had no evidence of overheating, 
and the engine and transmission performance was as expected and there 
was no evidence of coolant or oil leakage in and around the engine bay or on 
the underside of the vehicle;
TPMS is the tyre pressure monitoring system and a tyre pressure issue isnt likely 
to cause the car to overheat or be an engine failure hazard;
Moneybarn then asked Miss S to collect the repaired car, but it also offered to pay for 
another independent inspection of the car to reassure her  she didnt collect the car 
and no further inspection has taken place;
Im not persuaded that theres enough evidence to show that theres an issue with 
the car overheating and Im satisfied that the replacement wishbone has remedied 
the knocking issue  so although I consider it to be likely that the car wasnt of 
satisfactory quality when it was supplied to Miss S, the issue with it has been 
repaired and the independent expert found no major issues with the car;
Miss S made an advance payment of £1,100 and signed the conditional sale 
agreement in which she agreed to make 59 monthly payments of £263.69 for the car 
to be supplied to her;
I sympathise with Miss S for the issues that shes had with the car, but I dont 
consider that she has a right to reject the car and Im not persuaded that it would be 
fair or reasonable in these circumstances for Miss S to be able to reject the car;
I understand that the car remains available for Miss S to collect from the dealer  she 
says that she wont take the car back or pay for it and would rather go to court  but 
that is likely to have significant adverse consequences for her so I suggest that she 
now collects the car from the dealer; and 
Miss Ss account is in arrears and I sympathise with her for the financial difficulties 
that shes experiencing but I suggest that she contacts Moneybarn to discuss those 
difficulties and the arrears on her account  its required to respond to her financial 
difficulties positively and sympathetically.Putting things right
Moneybarn has paid £150 compensation to Miss S for the distress and inconvenience that 
she was caused. Our investigator recommended that it should pay her a further £100 
compensation for her distress and inconvenience and it has agreed to do so. I find that it 
would be fair and reasonable for it pay her the £100 compensation recommended by our 
investigator. Im not persuaded that it would be fair or reasonable for me to require it to pay 
her any other compensation or to take any other action in response to her complaint.
My final decision
My decision is that I uphold Miss Ss complaint in part and I order Moneybarn No. 1 Limited 
to pay her a further £100 to compensate her for the distress and inconvenience that shes 
been caused.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss S to accept 
or reject my decision before 16 June 2022.
 
Jarrod Hastings
Ombudsman