DRN-2247071
The complaint
Mr L has complained that Barclays Bank UK PLC trading as Barclaycard (Barclaycard) didnt 
change his credit file as they promised.
What happened
Mr L had debts with various lenders. He came to agreements with most of them to write off 
his borrowing with them on medical grounds. He asked Barclaycard to do the same. He 
obtained a letter from his doctor and in September 2019, Barclaycard agreed to write off the 
debt and update Mr Ls credit file as partially settled. They didnt do this until May 2020.
Mr L complained to Barclaycard. In January 2020, he tried to rent property, but he was 
declined. He said that this was because his credit file had not been changed as Barclaycard 
had promised. It was still showing a debt. He said that the agencies told him that it was the 
Barclaycard debt on his credit file that was causing this problem. This meant he had to go 
into more expensive temporary lodgings.
Barclaycard responded in May 2020. They said that they hadnt changed his credit file due to 
an error. They agreed to update the file to show the debt at nil and that it had been partially 
settled. They apologised and paid £150 for the distress and inconvenience caused.
Mr L brought his complaint to this service in June 2020. Our investigator responded in 
September 2020. He said that he felt that Barclaycards error was probably a factor that the 
agencies wouldnt give Mr L a rented home. But it was also possible that other lenders had 
reported information on Mr Ls credit file which would have the same effect. He felt that 
Barclaycards response and their offer of £150 compensation was reasonable in the 
circumstances.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I have reviewed all the correspondence and listened to the calls between Mr L and 
Barclaycard. Mr L was going through a very difficult time indeed. He was doing all the right 
things to get his life back in order, which must have been difficult with the debts he had and 
the circumstances he was in.
The issue here is  did Barclaycards error clearly cause Mr L to be declined for rented 
property? We asked Mr L for any evidence of this, for example any letters from rental 
agencies. Unfortunately, he couldnt help with this. He could only say that agencies told him 
verbally that was the case. I have looked at screenshots of data held at the credit reference 
agencies. These show entries from four other lenders with a nil balance. However, two of 
them still record payments missed. And these stay on the credit file for six years. It is up to 
businesses to interpret credit data as they want to. But these entries could still be read as 
adverse data and could have caused the agencies to decline Mr Ls applications. So, I 
cannot be certain that Barclaycard were solely responsible for the problems Mr L faced here.
But Barclaycard did take too long to update Mr Ls credit file. This would have been 
frustrating and upsetting for him at what was already a difficult time. Barclaycard have 
admitted their error and apologised - offering compensation of £150. This seems fair and 
reasonable and so I wont be asking them to do anymore.
I know this is not the outcome Mr L is looking for and he will be disappointed. But I hope he 
understands why I cant tell Barclaycard to do anymore here. 
My final decision
I do not uphold this complaint. Barclays Bank UK PLC trading as Barclaycard has already 
made an offer to pay £150 to settle the complaint and I think this offer is fair in all the 
circumstances.
So my decision is that Barclays Bank UK PLC trading as Barclaycard should pay £150.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr L to accept or 
reject my decision before 4 February 2021.
 
Martin Lord
Ombudsman