DRN-3219788
The complaint
Mr M complains that QIC Europe Limited (QIC) declined his two flood damage claims under 
his buildings insurance policy.
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them here. 
Instead Ill summarise the key points and focus on giving the reasons for my decision.
Briefly, in February 2021 Mr M made a claim under his home insurance policy for flood 
damage. After looking into the circumstances, QIC declined his claim because it didnt think 
the flood was caused by an insured event. Mr M complained and QIC issued its final 
response letter.
In July 2021, Mr Ms home suffered further flood damage. Three weeks later he claimed 
under his policy again. QIC declined the claim because there was no evidence that Mr Ms 
home was damaged by a second flood. Mr M complained to QIC and it issued its second 
final response letter.
Our investigator didnt uphold Mr Ms complaint. He agreed that the policy didnt provide 
cover for the first flood and there was no evidence of damage caused by a second flood.
Mr M disagreed so the complaint was passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
While I realise Mr M will be disappointed, Ive decided not to uphold his complaint. Ill explain 
why.
Mr M provided a lot of information to support his complaint, and more recently he asked for a 
response to each of his numbered questions and comments. I wont be commenting on 
every piece of evidence or question  and our rules dont require me to. Instead Ill consider 
the complaint as a whole and give the reasons for my decision. 
When making a claim under their policy, its the policyholders responsibility to show that an 
insured event has happened. The insurer will, then, either pay the claim or explain why the 
policy doesnt cover the event. My role is to look at the overall circumstances to decide 
whether QIC declined Mr Ms claims fairly for the reasons it gave and in line with the policy. 
Its not for me to determine what caused the damage and I must rely on expert opinion 
provided in the evidence. 
For ease, Ive broken the complaint down into the two separate claims and looked at the 
relevant parts of the policy under which QIC considered them.
February claim
Mr M claimed under his policy when the basement of his home flooded. He believed it was 
caused by surface water flooding. QIC considered the claim under three sections of the 
policy. Ill address them here in the same order as QIC responded to them.
4. Escape of water or oil
We will cover loss or damage caused by:
a.   escape of water from any:
i. fixed domestic water installation;
ii. heating system;
iii.  washing machine; or
b. water freezing in tanks, apparatus and pipes at your property
QIC declined Mr Ms claim under this policy term because the appointed leak detection 
specialist, which Ill call Company S, did not find any internal leak source. Company S 
concluded it was foul water from an external source, possibly the underground drainage.
In the absence of any evidence to show that the leak was from an internal source - and I 
dont believe Mr M thinks it was anyway - Im satisfied that QIC fairly stated this term didnt 
provide cover. 
QIC appointed a drainage specialist, which Ill call Company C. Company C didnt find any 
damage to the drains, but nor did it think an internal leak wouldve created the volume of 
water reported. Company C said it was, possible something has failed and saturated the 
ground next to the house. 
QIC considered the claim under the following:
13. Accidental damage to mains services
We will pay the costs of repairing accidental damage to underground pipes, tanks, 
cables and services (including their inspection covers) that reach from the buildings 
to the public supply and septic tanks, which you are legally responsible for.
Given that Company C didnt identify any accidental damage to the drains, and I cant see 
that Mr M thought it was a damaged drain problem, Im satisfied that QIC fairly concluded 
the policy didnt provide cover under this term.
The water supplier, Company A, attended. It found the sewers were clear and flowing, and 
tests revealed it wasnt foul water in Mr Ms home. Company A concluded that the water 
didnt originate from the sewer and believed it to be due to high groundwater/surface water 
levels following the heavy and persistent rainfall. 
So, QIC considered the claim under the following term:
2. Flood
We will cover loss or damage caused by flood.
A flood is a substantial and abnormal build-up of water from an external source. It 
does not include water which has escaped from pipes, tanks and other fixed water 
apparatus at your property.
We dont cover
d. loss or damage caused by rising water table levels (the level below which the 
ground is completely saturated with water); and
e. anything that happens gradually.QIC appointed Company T to investigate the cause of the water damage. Company T 
concluded that, The most likely cause of the water ingress if all other sources have been 
investigated including blocked/broken drains, silted soakaways, plumbing leaks etc is a 
failure of the internal waterproofing system due to increased ground water pressure.
Mr M appointed a specialist waterproofing company, Company Q, to investigate the damage. 
Company Q reported that there was no evidence of water ingress through the walls or floor, 
or of a high water table. It concluded, We believe that the water ingress has occurred due 
to flooding experienced to the road, pavement and surrounding areas during the unusually 
high rainfall period that occurred and that the flood entered the basement at ground level.
QIC looked into the weather conditions at the time and confirmed that weather data didnt 
show evidence of heavy rainfall, despite what Company Q and Company As reports said. 
So, in the absence of any other explanation for the water ingress, QIC declined Mr Ms claim 
under the flood term. In line with Company Ts conclusion, QIC considered it likely that the 
internal waterproofing system had failed. As that would be gradually occurring - not a one-off 
event - QIC declined the claim relying on the policy exclusion quoted above. 
Ive thought carefully about QICs decision to decline the claim based on the reasons given 
here. In respect of the escape of water term and the accidental damage term, I dont think 
QIC did anything wrong. Thats because its experts didnt find a cause for the water damage 
covered under those two terms.
The position is less clear looking at the information provided in respect of the flood clause. 
Company A believed the water ingress was due to high groundwater/surface water levels 
following heavy rainfall. Company Q also thought heavy rainfall was the cause. But, as Ive 
said, QIC didnt find any evidence of heavy rainfall within historical weather data. Ive looked 
at a reputable online weather data source and I agree with QIC. Around the time of Mr Ms 
claim, there was minimal rainfall. 
To put the weather data into perspective, the heaviest rainfall recorded for February 2021 
was 5.6mm per hour during one day a week before Mr M says his basement flooded. Most 
days around that time there was none or up to 2mm of rainfall per hour. This is not classed 
as unusually heavy rain. Comparing that to the day in July when the road outside Mr Ms 
home flooded, the rainfall was recorded as 8.6mm per hour. I cant conclude that QIC 
unfairly declined the claim based on the weather data alone.
Turning again to the expert reports, I note Company A believed the flood was due to high 
groundwater/surface water levels. Groundwater is the water table. The report was brief and 
mentioned both the water table level and surface water, so I cant reasonably say Company 
A firmly concluded that surface water was the cause of the damage.
While Company Q commented on unusually high rainfall and recent flooding, I note its 
email was sent in July, four months after its March visit, which was also around three weeks 
after Mr M made his claim. After the flooding, there was some heavy rainfall, so I find it 
difficult to rely on the accuracy of a brief report commenting on weather from several months 
earlier. 
Considering the brief and late reports provided by Companies A and Q, Im persuaded to 
place greater weight on the detailed reports provided by Companies S, C and T, and the 
independent weather data. 
Company T concluded that the only other explanation for the water ingress was increased 
ground water pressure leading to a failed waterproofing system. Company As report also referred to high groundwater levels (water table). So, the issue of rainfall becomes irrelevant 
here because both Company T and Company A, which is independent of both QIC and Mr 
M, conclude that a high water table was the most likely cause of the water damage. 
Looking again at the policy, it specifically excludes cover for damage caused by rising water 
table levels and anything that happens gradually. Here, thats failed waterproofing likely due 
to the pressure of the groundwater. I understand Mr M doesnt agree that there was a 
problem with the waterproofing. However, as I said at the beginning, its Mr Ms responsibility 
to show what caused the damage. QIC has investigated and tried to find the cause of the 
damage, ultimately concluding the cause is most likely an ongoing problem. That was after it 
ruled out any covered loss. Looking at the evidence, I havent seen anything in Mr Ms 
submission which provides clear evidence of flooding caused by a one-off, insured event. 
Therefore, Im satisfied that QIC declined Mr Ms February claim fairly for the reason it gave 
and in line with the policy.
August claim 
The following August, Mr M reported further flood damage to QIC. He said the damage 
happened around two weeks before, but he delayed making a claim because of his previous 
experience. QIC declined his second claim because it didnt think the evidence supported Mr 
Ms claim that his ground floor had been damaged by water.
Theres no dispute that there was a flood. Mr M provided photos, social media footage, a 
report from the fire service, and a newspaper article confirming that the road outside his 
home flooded three weeks before he made the claim to QIC. So, Ive accepted this point and 
moved on to look at why QIC declined the claim.
QIC appointed a surveyor to investigate the claim. Although Mr M reported that his ground 
floor was damaged by standing water, the surveyor didnt identify any evidence of damage to 
the skirting boards, doors, carpet, or laminate flooring. The surveyor explained that standing 
water wouldve caused damage to all of these areas. While water damage was evident in the 
basement, the surveyor concluded that it was due to a rising water table. The report 
explained that the damage was from rising water rather than water running through from the 
ground floor above, therefore the damage wasn't consistent with flood damage.
While the evidence shows without doubt that the road outside Mr Ms home flooded, it 
doesnt go as far as showing water running into Mr Ms home. And the surveyor didnt 
identify any evidence of water running down the basement walls, which wouldve happened 
if the water entered Mr Ms home at ground level.
Looking again at the policy terms, cover is available for flood damage but excludes:
d. loss or damage caused by rising water table levels (the level below which the 
ground is completely saturated with water); and
e. anything that happens gradually.
QIC declined the claim because the surveyor concluded that the rising water table and failed 
waterproofing was the reason the basement was damaged.
Considering this supports Company Ts conclusions for the February claim, Im satisfied that 
its reasonable to rely on the surveyors report. For that reason, Im satisfied QIC declined Mr 
Ms August claim fairly and in line with the policy terms.
Turning now to the additional comments and questions, Ill address, briefly, some of the 
points Mr M raised. He didnt want any personal issues discussed, so Ive respected that. Mr 
M also complained about the behaviour of one of QICs agents. Ive looked at the information 
he sent and QICs response, but its clear that the matter is not one for me to address. Thats because the matter doesnt relate specifically to regulated activity in relation to Mr Ms 
complaint about his declined claim. Mr M will need to approach the appropriate authorities if 
he still has concerns.
Ive watched the videos Mr M sent. While I agree they show the flood, and Ive accepted 
that, it doesnt change the fact that the overriding conclusion in the expert reports is that 
failed waterproofing was the main reason the basement was damaged.
Finally, Ive looked at the evidence Mr M provided more recently showing that the local 
council completed drainage work outside his home. I can see why hed consider that 
relevant, perhaps implying that the flood was caused by damage to the drains. However, it 
isnt clear what work was being done or why. If Mr M has evidence that there was damage to 
the drains which may have contributed to the water damage in his basement, then he may 
wish to send that to QIC for consideration. But, as QIC didnt have any other information 
when it considered Mr Ms claim under the accidental drain damage term, Im satisfied it 
didnt do anything wrong.
In summary, theres no dispute that Mr Ms home flooded on two occasions, but the 
evidence persuades me that QIC fairly relied on the expert reports which concluded that the 
basement waterproofing system failed due to rising water table levels. As the policy doesnt 
cover gradual damage or rising water table levels, Im satisfied that QIC fairly declined both 
claims.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, my final decision is that I dont uphold the complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 23 May 2022.
 
Debra Vaughan
Ombudsman