DRN-2823240
The complaint
 Mr F is unhappy that a car supplied to him under a hire purchase agreement with MotoNovo 
Finance Limited was of an unsatisfactory quality.
What happened
 On 11 November 2020, Mr F was supplied with a used car through a hire purchase 
agreement with MotoNovo. He paid a £1,100 deposit and the agreement was for £6,634 
over 49 months; with monthly repayments of £183.11. At the time, the car was over eight 
years old and had done 71,358 miles.
Mr F said he started having problems with the car shortly after taking possession of it  he 
couldnt clear speed humps. He took the car to a manufacturer specialist garage on 25 
November 2020, and they told him the suspension was corroded, and the paint was peeling 
off the dampers. The garage also said there were problems with the ABS and timing chain.
Mr F contacted the supplying dealership on 28 November 2020 and asked to reject the car. 
The car was collected by the dealership on 2 December 2020 and, on 4 December 2020, 
they told him no repairs were needed. So he raised his issues with MotoNovo the same day.
MotoNovo arranged for an independent engineer to inspect the car. And the independent 
engineers report, dated 22 December 2020, said there were problems with the suspension 
which had been there from when the car had been supplied to Mr F. The supplying 
dealership disagreed, and, on 19 January 2021, the independent engineer said the car was 
in a serviceable state for its age. The car was returned to Mr F on 7 February 2021. And on 
9 February 2021, Mr F had repairs done to the car to fix the front suspension.
Because of the independent engineers comments on 19 January 2021, MotoNovo said Mr F 
couldnt reject the car. But they did offer him £100 for the service hed received, and £183.11 
for the time hed been without the car. Mr F wasnt happy with MotoNovos response, and he 
brought this matter to us for investigation.
Our investigator said, based on the reports from the garage and the independent engineer, 
he was satisfied there were faults with the car. And that these faults were present when it 
was supplied to Mr F. He didnt think the independent engineers report of 19 January 2021 
contradicted the original report, so he thought the car wasnt of a satisfactory quality when 
supplied. And MotoNovo needed to do something about this.
The investigator said that, as Mr F has asked to reject the car within the first 30 days, he 
should be allowed to do so. So MotoNovo should end the agreement and collect the car at 
no cost to Mr F. He said that, because Mr F has had use of the car, its only fair he should 
pay for this. So he didnt think MotoNovo needed to refund any further payments. But he did 
say they should refund the deposit Mr F paid, and the £480 Mr F paid to have the car 
repaired, plus interest. Finally the investigator said MotoNovo should remove any adverse 
information relating to the agreement, from Mr Fs credit file.
MotoNovo didnt agree with the investigator. They said the garage who inspected the car 
are mechanics, not qualified engineers [and the independent engineer] confirmed the 
vehicle is in a satisfactory condition, commensurate with its age and mileage. They also 
said we only accept the expertise of an impartial, professional and qualified automotive 
engineer. 
MotoNovo have also said that, because Mr F has had the car repaired, there is no longer 
any proof of faults, so its for Mr F to prove the car was faulty. So they didnt think that Mr F 
should be allowed to reject the car. Because MotoNovo didnt agree, this matter has been 
passed to me to make a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
 Having done so, I have reached the same overall conclusions as the investigator, and for 
broadly the same reasons. If I havent commented on any specific point, its because I dont 
believe its affected what I think is the right outcome.
In considering this complaint Ive had regard to the relevant law and regulations; any 
regulators rules, guidance and standards, codes of practice, and (if appropriate) what I 
consider was good industry practice at the time. Mr F was supplied with a car under a hire 
purchase agreement. This is a regulated consumer credit agreement which means were 
able to look into complaints about it. 
The Consumer Rights Act 2015 (CRA) says, amongst other things, that the car shouldve 
been of a satisfactory quality when supplied. And if it wasnt, as the supplier of goods, 
MotoNovo are responsible.  Whats satisfactory is determined by what a reasonable person 
would consider satisfactory given the price, description and other relevant circumstances. 
The CRA also says that goods must confirm to contract within the first six months. So, where 
a fault is identified within the first six months, its assumed that the fault was present when 
the car was supplied, unless MotoNovo can show otherwise. So, if I thought the car was 
faulty when Mr F took possession of it, and this made the car not of a satisfactory quality, itd 
be fair and reasonable to ask MotoNovo to put this right.
Ive seen details of the outcome of the inspection Mr F had done by a specialist garage on 
25 November 2020. This says that the timing chain is noisy due to a faulty hydraulic 
tensioner; the ABS pump was leaking brake fluid; a suspension spring was broken; 
aftermarket suspension had been fitted to the car; and a bush and rubber bump stop needed 
replacement. The garage said that only the bush and rubber bump stop were wear and tear 
items, and quoted over £3,000 for all of the repairs.
Ive noted that MotoNovo reject this report as it was done by a mechanic, and not a qualified 
independent engineer. They arranged for an independent engineer to inspect the car and, in 
an email dated 21 December 2020, told Mr F that the content of this report will determine 
the outcome of your complaint.
Ive also seen the independent engineers report dated 22 December 2020. This says in our 
opinion based on the visible evidence we would conclude that this vehicle has had ongoing 
faults since finance inception. This is in regards to the aftermarket coil overs and lowering 
springs that have been fitted which in our opinion are heavily corroded but still serviceable. The report concluded that taking into consideration the time and mileage since finance 
inception the faults would have been present at the time and the faults are the selling 
agents responsibility.
The dealership didnt agree with the independent engineers report and asked for 
clarification. And, on 19 January 2021 the independent engineer said at the time of the 
inspection the vehicle was found to be in a serviceable state and commensurate with its age 
and recorded mileage. The springs were showing signs of deterioration, Which will require 
attention at some point in the vehicles history. However, At the time of the inspection there 
was no evidence to suggest that the springs were in a defective state and would cause an 
mot failure.
The 22 December 2020 report says that there were issues with the coils and springs, but the 
springs are still serviceable. And the engineers comments of 19 January 2021 confirmed the 
springs are serviceable. But crucially, in these comments, the independent engineer didnt 
say that the coils were in a serviceable state or that the car wasnt faulty when supplied.
Based on the independent engineers reports, Im satisfied the car was faulty when it was 
supplied to Mr F, even though the lowering springs were still serviceable. The independent 
engineer was clear that the faults were present when the car was supplied. And, based on 
this and the independent engineers comments and the garages estimate of the cost of 
repair, Im satisfied that the car wasnt of a satisfactory quality when supplied.
Where goods arent of a satisfactory quality when supplied, the CRA allows a short-term 
right to reject. And, as Mr F asked to reject the car within the first 30 days of supply, he 
should be allowed to reject it. And I dont think the fact that, after the rejection was refused 
and the car returned to him, Mr F paid to have some of the repairs done changes that.
Putting things right
 Mr F has had use of the car, with the exception of a period of time in late 2020 and early 
2021, so I think its only fair that he pays for this usage. MotoNovo have already refunded a 
payment for the period of time Mr F didnt have use of the car, and he accepted this. So I 
dont think that any further payments should be reimbursed.
Mr F also had to pay to have the car repaired, and he wouldnt have needed to do this if hed 
been allowed to reject the car. So I also think MotoNovo should reimburse him for the cost of 
the suspension repair.
So, MotoNovo should now arrange to do the following:
end the agreement with nothing further to pay.
collect the car at no cost to Mr F.
remove all adverse information relating to the agreement from Mr Fs credit file.
refund the £1,100 deposit Mr F paid.
on receipt of evidence from Mr F, refund him the £480 for repairs to the car.
pay 8% simple yearly interest* on the above, to be calculated from when Mr F made 
the payments to the date of the refund.
* HM Revenue & Customs requires MotoNovo to deduct tax from the interest amount 
MotoNovo should give Mr F a certificate showing how much tax it has deducted If he asks 
for one. Mr F can reclaim the tax from HM Revenue & Customs if appropriate.
My final decision For the reasons explained, I uphold Mr Fs complaint. MotoNovo Finance Limited must 
follow my directions above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr F to accept or 
reject my decision before 29 July 2021.
 
Andrew Burford
Ombudsman