DRN-2207860
The complaint
Mr D complains that PDL Finance Limited, trading as Mr Lender, lent irresponsibly to him. 
What happened
Between April 2015 and June 2015, Mr D borrowed three loans from Mr Lender. The
borrowing history is set out below.
Loan Date Taken Date Repaid Instalments Amount Repayment
1 24/4/15 29/5/15 2 £500 £390
2 29/5/15 29/6/15 3 £500 £282.66
3 29/6/15 26/2/16 6 £750 £323
Our adjudicator didnt think the complaint should be upheld. Mr D disagreed with that view.
He said that the loans Mr Lender provided to him were back to back and showed he was in
financial difficulty. He said he applied to Mr Lender for loans before April 2015 and had been
declined.
I issued a provisional decision in this matter where I indicated I was minded to uphold the 
complaint in respect of loan 3. I said: 
Mr Lender needed to take reasonable steps to ensure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In
practice this means that it should have carried out proportionate checks to make sure Mr D
could repay the loans in a sustainable manner. These checks could take into account a
number of different things, such as how much was being lent, the repayment amounts and
the consumers income and expenditure. With this in mind, in the early stages of a lending
relationship, I think less thorough checks might be reasonable and proportionate.
But certain factors might point to the fact that Mr Lender should fairly and reasonably have
done more to establish that any lending was sustainable for the consumer. These factors
include:
the lower a consumers income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make
any loan repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income);
the higher the amount due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to
           meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income);
the greater the number and frequency of loans, and the longer the period of time
           during which a customer has been given loans (reflecting the risk that repeated
           refinancing may signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming,
           unsustainable).
Ive carefully considered all of the arguments, evidence and information provided in this
context and what this all means for the complaint. Having done so, I intend to uphold the
complaint in respect of loan 3.
As I said above, in the early stages of the lending relationship, I dont think it would have
been proportionate for Mr Lender to undertake a comprehensive review of Mr Ds finances.
For loans 1 and 2, I can see that Mr Lender made enquiries about Mr Ds income and
expenditure. It also undertook a fairly simple credit check, which showed that Mr D was not
insolvent and that he had some unsecured loans. The extent of that borrowing was not set
out on the credit report.
Taking all of that into account, I think the questions about Mr Ds income and expenditure,
along with the rudimentary credit check amounted to proportionate checks. And I can see
why loans 1 and 2 would have appeared to be sustainably affordable. I cant say that Mr
Lender was irresponsible to agree those loans.
However, by the time Mr D applied for loan 3, I think Mr Lender should have done more. By
this point, Mr Lender should have reasonably seen that Mr D was taking out a new loan to
repay his previous borrowing. This was the second loan hed taken out after repaying
another on the same day. And loan 3 was for quite a bit more than loans 1 and 2. I think Mr
Lender should have been on notice that Mr D may have been reliant on this type of
borrowing and it should have sought verification in respect of his other short-term debts.
Had such checks been undertaken, I think Mr Lender would have seen that Mr D was
considerably indebted to other short-term lenders and that he was paying a very significant
amount of his monthly income in repayments. I think if Mr Lender had asked more questions
about Mr Ds other short-term debts, it would have realised that Mr D could not sustainably
afford to repay loan 3. On that basis, I dont think the checks in respect of loan 3 were
proportionate and so I dont think Mr Lender should have provided that borrowing to Mr D.
Subject to any further information I receive from the parties in response to this provisional
decision, I intend to uphold the complaint in respect of loan 3. I intend to tell Mr Lender to put
things right as set out below.
Mr D replied to say he agreed with my provisional findings. 
Mr Lender did not agree with my provisional decision. It said that when it carried out a credit 
check for loan 3, it showed that Mr D had one advance against his income. It also said that 
this was consistent with the information it obtained from Mr D showed that he was paying 
£100 per month towards other loans. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about short-term lending - including all of
the relevant rules, guidance and good industry practice - on our website.
I am grateful to Mr Lender for its response to my provisional decision and for the additional 
points it raised. I have considered its argument with great care, but Im afraid it doesnt 
change my mind in this case. 
I appreciate that Mr Lender now says it did enquire as to Mr Ds short-term borrowing. 
However, for the reasons set out above in respect of loan 3, I still think it should have done 
more. From the evidence Ive seen, Mr D was reliant on high-cost short-term borrowing, 
which did not just constitute advances against income as shown by the credit check. 
As I set out above, I think from the pattern of his borrowing, Mr Lender should have been on 
notice that Mr D was likely reliant on this type of lending. I dont think it was enough from the 
credit check for Mr Lender to assume that Mr Ds declared loan repayments included this borrowing. I think it should have enquired further about his other short-term repayments and 
had it done so, it would have seen loan 3 was not sustainably affordable. 
I do appreciate the time Mr Lender has taken to provide its response. But Im afraid I dont 
accept its argument and I remain of the view that loan 3 should be upheld. So for the 
reasons set out above, I uphold this complaint in respect of loan 3. Mr Lender will need to 
take action to put things right. 
Putting things right
Mr Lender must: 
refund all interest and charges Mr D paid on loan 3;
pay interest of 8%* simple a year on any refunded interest and charges from the date 
they were paid (if they were) to the date of settlement; and 
remove any negative information about loan 3 from Mr Ds credit file. 
* HM Revenue & Customs requires Mr Lender to take off tax from this interest. Mr Lender 
must give Mr D a certificate showing how much tax it has taken off if he asks for one. 
My final decision
I have upheld this complaint in respect of loan 3. Mr Lender will need to take action to put 
things right for Mr D as set out above.  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision before 23 October 2020.
 
Nicola Bowes
Ombudsman