DRN-4196219
The complaint
Mr R complains about the standard of service provided by Admiral Insurance (Gibraltar) 
Limited (Admiral) following an accident claim, under his motor insurance policy.  
What happened
Mr R was involved in an accident whilst driving in 2018. Following a court case, the claim 
was declined, and his policy was cancelled. Mr R doesnt dispute that hes liable for the 
costs incurred by Admiral in settling the third parties claim. But he says the costs hes being 
asked to pay arent proportionate to the loss. He asks that Admiral treats him fairly and 
removes the costs relating to car hire, recovery, and storage amounting to £2,500.
Mr R says Admiral didnt communicate with him whilst the claim was ongoing. He says an 
email was received to his junk mail folder in June 2022. This informed him he owed Admiral 
£10,561. Mr R says no breakdown was provided. He says there was minimal damage 
caused by the accident. And he queried why storage and car hire charges were included 
when the third-party vehicle was deemed a total loss. 
In its final response to Mr Rs complaint Admiral upheld the points relating to a lack of 
communication and updates. Also, that it failed to provide a breakdown of the costs it had 
claimed. It paid him £75 to acknowledge these points. However, it says it handled the matter 
effectively, which included a personal injury claim. It says it negotiated a reasonable 
settlement for hire car, as well as recovery and storage costs. 
Admiral says it was unable to reach an agreement with the third partys insurer regarding the 
personal injury. It says a reasonable offer was made. However, the matter was referred to 
court. It says Mr R wasnt required to attend as this was about the amount of compensation 
only. Admiral says the judge awarded £4,000 for the injury claim and agreed its offer for 
storage, car hire, and recovery was reasonable. Solicitor costs and court fees were also 
awarded. 
Admiral says Mr R agreed that he would receive contact via email in relation to the claim. It 
says the request for payment was sent to his correct email address. Admiral says it cant 
control which folder this is allocated to within Mr Rs email account. 
Mr R didnt think Admiral had treated him fairly and referred the matter to our service. Our 
investigator didnt uphold his complaint. She says under the Financial Conduct Authority 
(FCA) DISP rules, our service isnt able to consider the merits of a complaint where this 
relates to the findings of a court. However, the matter of poor customer service could be 
considered. 
Our investigator thought Admirals payment of £75 was fair in relation to delays in it 
communicating with Mr R and the lack of a costing breakdown. She says the delay in the 
matter progressing was due to the time needed to settle the third-partys claim, including a 
court hearing. She didnt think the evidence showed Admiral had handled the claim poorly.  
Mr R disagreed with this outcome. He says the matter has caused him considerable distress 
and he asked for an ombudsman to consider his complaint. 
It has been passed to me to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so Ive decided not to uphold Mr Rs complaint. Im sorry to disappoint him but I 
will explain why I think my decision is fair. 
Admiral is obligated under the Road Traffic Act (1988) to settle the third partys claim from 
the incident involving Mr R. But the Act allows it to seek to recover its costs from its insured 
(Mr R) due to his breach of its policy terms. The value of the claim doesnt form part of my 
considerations. My focus here is whether Admiral treated Mr R fairly in the standard of 
customer service it provided. 
As our investigator pointed out, the DISP rules we must abide by prevents our service 
considering the merits of a complaint where a court has already ruled on the matter. Ive 
seen the court order from March 2022. This sets out the amount Mr R must pay. A 
breakdown of this is set out in Admirals final complaint response dated in September. It 
confirms the following: Injury £4,000; Total loss £1,650; Hire £1,700, Recovery & Storage 
£1,230; Third party solicitors fees £1,200; Medical report fees £216; Admirals solicitor fee 
£300; Court fees £695. The total cost comes to £10,561.
I can understand that it must have been very distressing for Mr R to be told he had to pay 
such a large amount. Particularly as Admiral hadnt communicated with him for some time 
prior to this. This must have come as a shock. 
Ive looked at the claim records to see how the matter was communicated with Mr R. I can 
see a call took place on 21 January 2019. Admiral confirmed the claim had been repudiated 
and that Mr R would be responsible for the costs. It told him it would be in touch again when 
the costs were known and that a repudiation letter would be sent by email. 
From the records no further contact was made with Mr R, after this, until he was sent an 
email in June 2022 requesting payment for £10,561. This followed the court decision that 
was made toward the end of March. Mr R then called Admiral at the beginning of July when 
hed read its emailed letter. 
I acknowledge the claim had to be progressed in order for Admiral to know what costs it 
would be claiming from Mr R. But Mr R says he was distressed to receive this demand for 
payment with no prior communication. I can understand his distress and agree it wouldve 
been better to have provided updates whilst the claim was ongoing. I also acknowledge Mr 
Rs concern about the amount he was being asked to pay, and that no detail was provided 
by Admiral in its June 2022 email. 
In the circumstances I think it was reasonable for Admiral to pay Mr R compensation for its 
lack of communication and for not providing a cost breakdown. I think £75 is fair. 
I acknowledge Mr Rs comments that Admiral took the case to court without notifying him. I 
understand he thought he shouldve been made aware. But Admiral has explained the court 
date was to decide the amount of compensation, not to determine fault. This had already 
been agreed between Admiral and the third-party insurer. So, although I acknowledge Mr R 
felt he shouldve been kept informed, and Ive agreed with this to some extent in my comments above, I dont think the amount Mr R has to pay has been impacted by the lack of 
communication. 
Im sorry Mr R has been caused distress as a result of this matter. However, having 
considered the evidence and circumstances of the complaint, I think Admirals payment of 
£75 is fair to acknowledge the lack of communication and a cost breakdown. So, I cant 
reasonably ask it to do anymore.  
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision before 26 July 2023.
 
Mike Waldron
Ombudsman