DRN-4337581
The complaint
Mr R complains that shortly before planning to take his retirement benefits from his pension 
with Aviva Life and Pensions UK Limited, the value of his plan dropped by around 24%. 
Mr R would now like Aviva to compensate him for the loss to his pension fund, which he 
says is a consequence of their failure to manage it properly.
What happened
In 1989, Mr R took out a pension with UK Provident which was subsequently taken over by 
Aviva. The policy was originally set up to accept his SERPS benefits and included a 
guaranteed annuity rate (GAR). The plan was designed to pay Mr R an income from June 
2023 once he reached his 70th birthday.
In December 2022, Aviva sent Mr R a retirement pack ahead of his birthday. The pack 
provided information in readiness for his retirement in six months. At that point, Aviva 
explained that his pension had a fund value of £27,208. Three months later, Aviva sent Mr R 
some annuity quotes and by this time, the value of his plan had reduced to £20,700.
Shortly afterwards, Mr R contacted Aviva asking for further information on why there was a 
such a difference between the December and March figures. After not receiving a 
satisfactory response from Aviva, Mr R decided to formally complain to them. In summary, 
he said that hed asked for more information on the background for the fall in value but never 
received an explanation and in addition, he was unhappy about the fall itself. 
After reviewing Mr Rs complaint, Aviva concluded that they were satisfied that theyd done 
nothing wrong. They also said, in summary, that as Mr Rs plan was invested in their with-
profits fund, the values hed received were only estimates at those two points (December 
and March). They went on to say that the final value could likely be different because 
sometimes, although not always, a final bonus is added to the plan which could increase its 
value. Aviva said they werent able to provide any further information about the fund beyond 
what theyd already given and recommended Mr R visit an independent financial adviser if 
he needed further information.
Mr R was unhappy with Avivas response so he referred his complaint to this service. In 
summary, in addition to the points hed already made to Aviva, Mr R said he felt given that 
he was invested in a with-profits fund, Aviva must have mis-managed his monies to see 
such a fall between the two dates.
The complaint was then considered by one of our Investigators. During the assessment of 
the case, Aviva provided a breakdown of Mr Rs monies showing what had been allocated to 
his plan as regular bonuses and what the estimated final bonus could be. They explained 
that the reason for the £6,500 difference between the December and March figures was a 
consequence of underlying market conditions that were impacting the final bonus. Aviva 
went on to say that until Mr R confirms he wishes to retire, the final bonus isnt known. Aviva 
added that they shouldve explained this to Mr R earlier and in recognition of this, offered 
£50 for the inconvenience that theyd caused.
Mr R didnt want to accept Avivas offer of £50 because he said that theyd failed to provide 
an explanation of the composition of the with-profits fund. Mr R says that he needed that 
insight to be able to determine whether he should defer his retirement date.
Our Investigator subsequently concluded that Aviva had treated Mr R fairly and she also felt 
that the £50 that Aviva had offered in settlement of the complaint was fair. Mr R, however, 
disagreed with our Investigators findings. In summary, he felt having read further literature 
about Avivas with-profit fund, he was still unclear whether hed been treated fairly without 
further explanation. 
Our Investigator was not persuaded to change her view as she didnt believe Mr R had 
presented any new arguments shed not already considered or responded to. So, Mr R then 
asked the Investigator to pass the case to an Ombudsman to review that outcome because 
he was concerned that, if he did accept Avivas offer of £50, it could affect any future legal 
proceedings.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I have summarised this complaint in far less detail than Mr R has done and Ive done so 
using my own words. Im not going to respond to every single point made by all the parties 
involved. No discourtesy is intended by this; our rules allow me to do this. This simply 
reflects the informal nature of our service as a free alternative to the courts. If theres 
something Ive not mentioned, it isnt because Ive ignored it - I havent. Im satisfied that I 
dont need to comment on every individual argument to be able to reach what I think is the 
right outcome. Instead, I will focus on what I find to be the key issue here  and thats Mr Rs 
disappointment that his estimated retirement benefits reduced by £6,500 between two 
statements.
Having carefully considered the points that Mr R has made regarding Avivas failure to 
explain the background to the fund composition and why his fund had fallen in value so 
much, I agree with the Investigator and for broadly the same reasons. Whilst I am upholding 
Mr Rs complaint because Aviva could have provided him with the information about his 
bonus breakdown earlier than they did (July 2023), I should say that Im of the view that the 
offer Aviva have made to put things right is fair. Ill explain why below.
What appears to be at the heart of this complaint is that Aviva reduced the estimated final 
bonus on Mr Rs plan. Mr R believes Aviva did this because they mis-managed the 
underlying investments. Aviva say that they had to reduce the estimated final bonus on Mr 
Rs plan because of the investment returns in the interim. Whilst I can consider complaints 
about investment performance, in most instances, I would need to see evidence that Aviva 
had done something wrong, and I cant just rely on actual or perceived poor performance. 
Many consumers have seen the value of their pension funds fall over the last 18 months 
given the economic conditions not just across the UK, but wider financial markets too. So to 
be clear, this isnt just a Aviva issue, and its something many other consumers are having to 
face at other businesses too.Whilst I appreciate Mr R is likely to be disappointed by my decision, the level and nature of 
bonuses declared by Aviva on its with-profits fund is the result of a commercial decision 
taken by them acting on the advice of its Actuaries, which impacts all policyholders invested 
in that fund. As a result, it is not within the remit of this service to either sense check Avivas 
decisions or scrutinise their calculations. 
However, I think its worth explaining about with-profits funds and how they are regulated. 
With-profits funds have historically attracted criticism for their complexity and perceived lack 
of transparency  it can be very difficult for policyholders to understand often complex and 
lengthy documentation and to be satisfied that they are receiving their proper entitlement 
under the terms and conditions of that particular product. But those difficulties do not 
necessarily mean that Aviva has done something wrong or is not acting in accordance with 
its regulatory obligations. 
The industry regulator, the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA), recognises that with-profits 
fund providers have a considerable amount of discretion about how they operate those 
funds. So, the regulator has made providers accountable for the way in which these funds 
are managed. 
The regulators Principle 6 requires that regulated firms must pay due regard to the 
interests of its customers and treat them fairly. Furthermore, the Conduct of Business 
Sourcebook (COBS), and specifically COBS 20, contains specific rules and guidance for 
businesses on the operation of their with-profits funds. 
COBS 20.2.1 states: 
(1) With-profits business, by virtue of its nature and the extent of discretion applied by 
firms in its operation, involves numerous potential conflicts of interest that might give 
rise to the unfair treatment of policyholders. 
And COBS 20.2.3 states: 
A firm must have good reason to believe that its pay-outs on individual with-profits 
polices are fair.
Aviva is accountable to the regulator for the way in which it operates its with-profits fund and 
the regulator monitors the management of with-profits funds. Businesses are required to 
appoint a with-profits Actuary and the regulator provides rules and guidance on their duties. 
An independent with-profits committee is also required  its remit is to protect the interests of 
the with-profits policyholders and to ensure that they are treated fairly. I am not aware of the 
regulator having any concerns about the operation of Avivas with-profits fund at issue here. 
The amount of bonus paid, if any, is determined by Avivas investment objectives which are 
consistent with its regulatory obligations. Thats to allocate bonus amounts as fairly as 
possible to all of its investors in its with-profits fund with the aim of providing a competitive 
return at the end of the term. Aviva have explained that any decision to pay a bonus is 
proposed by their Actuary who then consults with their with-profit committee and then the 
final decision on whether to pay bonuses rests with Avivas board. So, it seems to me that 
Aviva has checks and measures in place to demonstrate to the regulator how they reached 
any decision to pay (or not pay) a bonus. Their decision-making approach appears to mirror 
that set out by the regulator that Ive already mentioned above. However, it is not the role of 
this service to audit those decisions and assess the level of any final bonus Aviva has 
awarded Mr R. The responsibility for auditing Aviva falls on the regulator.Its important to remember that bonus rates take into account various factors. These include 
not just current or recent investment performance (which Mr R has referred to in his 
complaint) but also how Aviva expect the fund to perform in the future, as well as the funds 
liabilities in respect of the guaranteed benefits applicable to all plans. Aviva have already 
acknowledged that the returns will vary every year and just because a low or no final bonus 
is paid in one year, it doesnt necessarily mean that will be the same in the following years. 
Ive looked at Avivas literature and website and from what Ive seen, Aviva doesnt provide 
any warranty that a final bonus would be applied to a consumers plan so such payments are 
at the discretion of Aviva.
Ive also looked at the various documents that Aviva have shared with Mr R. Aviva cant 
distribute all of the returns it makes. Thats because by their very nature, with-profits funds 
have to hold some monies back to smooth out the returns for policyholders when the 
markets may be depressed in the future.
This service doesnt have the same level of information thats available to the Actuaries who 
make bonus decisions and manage the with-profits fund. In addition, the customer service 
staff at Aviva wont have this level of information either  so they wont know what bonus 
decisions might be around the corner. Such information is also likely to be market-sensitive 
when you consider that Aviva is listed on the stock market and has shareholders. As such, 
its inappropriate for this service to direct Aviva to share that information with either 
ourselves or Mr R.
From 2004, the regulator has required all insurers to publish a Principles and Practices of 
Financial Management (PPFM) document. Ive checked and this is available on Avivas 
website. It explains the steps Aviva are taking in managing the returns and level of 
guarantees within Mr Rs fund. In addition, details of the asset allocation of the fund is 
covered along with a history of the returns and bonuses that Aviva have applied. 
Having carefully considered Avivas correspondence with Mr R, Im satisfied that Aviva has 
broadly explained the factors that have led to the situation he has complained about. But I 
am mindful of the opaque nature of these funds and the explanations that Aviva has given 
(or we cant give) doesnt always satisfy consumers.
I can very much sympathise how concerning it must have been for Mr R to see the value of 
his pension fall so close to retirement. And, I can well understand why he wishes to have 
sight of wider information to help him shape his retirement plans, but I cannot direct Aviva to 
disclose its calculations to Mr R as this could involve revealing commercially sensitive 
information and I dont consider that fair or reasonable. If Mr R has concerns about the 
management of Avivas with-profits fund he can approach the regulator directly.
My final decision
Aviva Life and Pensions UK Limited has already made an offer to pay Mr R £50 to settle the 
complaint and I think that this offer is fair in all of the circumstances.
So, my decision is that Aviva Life and Pensions UK Limited should pay Mr R £50 if they 
havent already done so.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision before 20 October 2023.
 
Simon Fox
Ombudsman