DRN-2723345
The complaint 
Ms F complains that Bank of Scotland, (BoS), trading as Halifax, mis-sold her a mortgage 
payment protection insurance, (MPPI), policy.
What happened
Ms F took out the policy during a meeting in 2001, at the same time as taking out a 
mortgage. 
Our adjudicator didnt recommend that the complaint should be upheld. Ms F didnt agree so 
the matter has come to me to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of payment protection 
insurance on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding Ms Fs case.
I realise that this will come as a disappointment to Ms F, but Ive decided not to uphold this 
complaint. I explain why below:
Ms F say that she thought the MPPI was a requirement for the mortgage. But overall I think 
that BoS made it clear that it was optional, and that Ms F chose to take it. I say this because 
Ive seen an extract of Ms Fs mortgage application. This has a section in it referring to BoS 
mortgage protection plan which was called Total Mortgage Protection Plan (TMPP). This 
says that We recommend that you consider our TMPP which can cover any planholder in 
the event of accident, sickness.. I find that this makes it clear that BoS was suggesting 
that the policy would be advantageous, without implying that it was a requirement if Ms F 
wanted the mortgage. I can see that Ms F has signed the box in this section to confirm she 
wanted to take advantage of the policy.
I further understand that Ms F would have had to sign separately for the policy from the 
mortgage. Which I find would have indicated that the MPPI was a separate product. 
In addition to MPPI, the TMPP could also have included cover for life and critical illness. I 
can see that the mortgage application records that these risks were discussed with Ms F. 
But that she declined being referred for advice on these because she was considering 
alternative arrangements for such risks. I conclude this reinforces the fact that Ms F would 
have realised that she had choice over the insurance she could take out. I can see that Ms F 
has also signed under this part of the application. 
Because of the time that has passed, I can understand why Ms F may no longer remembers 
the above detail;
BoS advised Ms F to take out the MPPI. This means that it needed to take reasonable steps 
to ensure that the policy was suitable for her. Because of the time that has passed, I dont 
know what steps BoS actually took. But, in any event, I find that the MPPI was suitable. I say 
this because knowing what I do about Ms Fs circumstances and the terms and conditions of 
the policy:
oMs F was eligible for the policy;
oMs F wasnt adversely affected by any of the policys main restrictions and limitations  
such as those affecting someone with a pre-existing medical condition; 
oMs F has told us that she was entitled to six months full sick pay and six months half. 
She has said that she was also entitled to a redundancy package. But, following a 
successful claim for accident, sickness or involuntary unemployment, the MPPI would 
initially have paid over £550 a month. These payments would have been made for up to 
24 months. And would have been paid in addition to any sick or redundancy payments 
from Ms F work, leaving those available to help with meeting her other expenses while 
she wasnt earning. So I find that the MPPI could have been of use to Ms F;
oThe cost of the policy was initially about £35 a month and was competitively priced by 
reference to other similar policies available in the market at the time. And I havent seen 
anything to suggest that the premiums were unaffordable for Ms F. In any event, as it 
was paid for monthly, had she later felt that she couldnt afford the policy, she could have 
cancelled it at any time without further cost.
BoS also had to give Ms F clear, fair, and not-misleading information about the main 
features of the MPPI, so that she could decide whether she wanted it or not. Its possible 
that the information BoS gave Ms F wasnt as clear as it should have been. But Ive 
found nothing on which to conclude that she didnt choose to take the policy and it 
seems that it would have been useful for her if something went wrong. It also looks like it 
was affordable. So I dont think better information about the MPPI would have put her off 
taking out the cover. I say this, particularly bearing in mind the serious consequences 
that could have arisen had Ms F been unable to make her monthly payments on her 
mortgage, which was secured on their home.
So I conclude that Ms F hasnt lost out because of anything that BoS may have done wrong 
during the sale. So theres nothing I require it to put right.
As Ive said, Ive considered all the information that the Ms F has given us. She has sent us 
a copy of her mortgage offer. This says that BoS will arrange buildings insurance. It was 
clearly essential to BoS that such cover was in place, because, if Ms F had defaulted on her 
repayments, BoS might have had to take possession and sell her home. And, had the 
property suffered uninsured physical damage it might not have been worth sufficient to pay 
off the loan. Because of this, I can see why BoS particularly reserved the right to approve the 
insurer under the building insurance, as mentioned in the mortgage conditions. This part of 
the offer later says that BoS strongly advises you to consider arranging [PPI]. I have 
already explained my interpretation of similar wording above.
Above the MPPI section in Ms Fs mortgage application, to which Ive referred earlier, there 
is a section about buildings and contents insurance. I can see that the boxes requesting 
cover for both of these have been marked with Y, presumably to show they are required. 
The Ys have been printed, But Im satisfied, on balance, that this was following a 
discussion with Ms F about her requirements, This section also includes a statement that if 
the applicant doesnt want BoS to arrange such insurance, they must arrange their own 
buildings insurance policy. The mortgage conditions say that BoS may pay for any insurance taken out by Ms F, or 
anybody else, in connection with the mortgage. (The italics are mine.) That means it has the 
right to do so if it wishes, not that it will. I dont agree with Ms F that this amounts to the 
MPPI being required or mandated, nor do I conclude from this that BoS considers MPPI 
essential.
Ms Fs mortgage quotation shows an overall monthly payment which includes the MPPI 
premium. But as she had asked for this type of insurance, as Ive explained above, I find its 
reasonable to include this so she could see the total amount she would need to find each 
month based of the product package she had asked for.
So these and Ms Fs other points dont affect my decision. 
In passing, I would note that Ms F took out a further advance on her mortgage in late 2004. 
And, in certain circumstances BoS, changed the nature of existing mortgages on such 
events to make them regulated mortgages. That is to say that they came under the 
mortgage regime regulated by, what is now, the Financial Conduct Authority, (FCA). This is 
what happened to Ms Fs mortgage and Ive seen BoS record showing that. Regulated 
mortgages are not subject to the rule introduced by the FCA relating to undisclosed 
commission. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive set out above, my decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms F to accept or 
reject my decision before 1 June 2021.
 
Ros Barnett
Ombudsman