DRN-1759992
 
The complaint
Miss F says Total Home Loans Direct Limited, trading as THL Direct (THL), irresponsibly 
lent to her. Miss F says the if THL had carried out proper checks on her financial 
circumstances at the time of the borrowing, it would have seen she was stretched beyond 
her means. 
What happened
This complaint is about four payday loans THL provided to Miss F between 
September 2012 and May 2014. There were two chains of lending  loan one and then loans 
two to four  Miss Fs borrowing history is as follows:
Loan Date Taken Date Repaid Instalments Amount
1 12/09/2012 18/10/2012 1 £175.00
Break 
2 27/01/2014 04/03/2014 1 £175.00
3 07/03/2014 01/05/2014 1 £145.00
4 06/05/2014 01/04/2015 1 £175.00
 
Our adjudicator didnt uphold Miss Fs complaint and thought that sufficient checks were 
carried out and the THL didnt need to do anything more than it did to verify the information it 
had about Miss Fs financial position. 
THL had previously offered £100 for not providing Miss F with the service she should have 
expected when she submitted a Data Subject Access Request (DSAR). Our adjudicator 
reiterated this offer to Miss F. 
Miss F disagreed with the adjudicators assessment. She said she was financially stretched 
and had further loans with other short-term credit providers.  
As the complaint remains unresolved it has been passed to me to decide in my role as 
ombudsman. 
What Ive decided  and whyIve considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Weve set out our general approach to 
complaints about short-term lending  including all of the relevant rules, guidance and good 
industry practice  on our website. 
THL needed to take reasonable steps to ensure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In practice 
this means that it should have carried out proportionate checks to make sure Miss F could 
repay the loans in a sustainable manner. These checks could take into account a number of 
different things, such as how much was being lent, the repayment amounts and the 
consumers income and expenditure. With this in mind, in the early stages of a lending 
relationship, I think less thorough checks might be reasonable and proportionate.  
But certain factors might point to the fact that THL should fairly and reasonably have done 
more to establish that any lending was sustainable for the consumer. These factors include:
the lower a consumers income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make any 
loan repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income);
the higher the amount due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income); 
the greater the number and frequency of loans, and the longer the period of time 
during which a customer has been given loans (reflecting the risk that repeated 
refinancing may signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, 
unsustainable).
 
There may even come a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly 
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable.
Ive carefully considered the arguments, evidence and information in this context and what 
this all means for Miss Fs complaint. Having done this, Im not upholding the complaint and 
Ill explain why.
First, I should say that I agree there were two chains of lending. Loan two was taken out 15 
months after loan one was repaid. I dont think its unreasonable for THL to have assumed 
that Miss F had overcome whatever financial circumstances had caused her to take high-
cost credit in the first instance. A break in a chain of lending in effect, starts the clock ticking 
again on what we would consider to be proportionate checks a business should carry out 
when taking into account the length of the borrowing relationship with a consumer. 
THL has told the service about the checks it carried out before approving the borrowing. 
Unfortunately, it hasnt been able to provide us with a record of Miss Fs income and 
expenditure for loans one and two because of the time since the borrowing was given. But it 
has been able to provide the income Miss F said she was earning for loans three and four 
and in the absence of the actual records, I have assumed that her income was similar for 
loans one and two  which is recorded as being £1,300 per month. Miss Fs expenditure at 
the application for loan three was reported as £990 and then £690 for loan four. So, this left 
Miss F with a disposable monthly income of between £310 and £610.
All four of the loans were to be repaid within a month and the amounts borrowed were 
between £145 and £175 (not including interest) so taking into account Miss Fs recorded 
monthly disposable income, all of the loans do look affordable on a pounds and pence basis. 
As Ive said above, in the early stages of a lending relationship, I think less thorough checks 
might be reasonable and proportionate.  But I dont think there was anything in the 
information that Miss F provided to THL which would have caused it to be concerned that she was having problems managing her finances. I do accept that Miss F did ask to defer 
the repayment of loans one and three  once in each case  but I dont think these instances 
were significant enough for THL to have reconsidered whether it should have lent to Miss F. 
Its possible that Miss Fs financial circumstances werent correctly reflected in either the 
information she provided, or any other information THL obtained. And if her circumstances 
were different, Miss Fs actual financial position may well have been more apparent if further 
information  such as bank statements or more in-depth credit checks  had been obtained.
But THL could only make a decision based on the information it had available at the time. 
And as it was still in the early stages of a lending relationship  taking into account how long 
each loan was to run, with Miss F, I dont think it had reached the stage where there was a 
greater risk of the loans being unsustainable for Miss F. In these circumstances, I dont think 
THL needed to take further steps to verify the information provided  such as asking Miss F 
for evidence of her income and outgoings which THL could have gathered from her bank 
statements or copies of any bills, as examples.
I have considered the information THL was provided with before it lent to Miss F. And there 
isnt anything in this information that may have led THL to conclude that it should decline 
Miss Fs application for these loans. And there isnt anything to have prompted it to ask for 
more information from Miss F. So, I dont think THL was wrong to have provided these loans, 
based solely on the information it had.
So overall, in these circumstances, I think the assessments THL did for these loans were 
proportionate. And I think its decision to lend to Miss F was reasonable. 
THL has offered Miss F £100 for the trouble and upset caused when it says it didnt provide 
the proper customer service is should have done when Miss F submitted a DSAR. As far as 
Im aware Miss F hasnt accepted the offer yet and it is still available to her. 
My final decision
My final decision is that Im not upholding Miss Fs complaint. 
Miss F needs to decide whether she wishes to accept THLs offer of £100 for the trouble and 
upset caused. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss F to accept or 
reject my decision before 19 June 2020.
Catherine Langley
Ombudsman