DRN-4147392
The complaint
Ms W complains about the way Legal and General Assurance Society Limited (L&G) has 
sold and administered her Over 50s Life Assurance Plan. She believes that, as a 
consequence of its multiple of errors, L&G ought to pay compensation equal to the policys 
sum assured, as well as providing a formal apology for the distress it has caused her.  
What happened
Ms W applied for her L&G policy online. It provides life assurance with a £5,036 sum 
assured. It has a monthly premium payable up to age 90. The initial premium was £23.00 
per month. The policy began on 29 May 2022.  
Ms W says her concerns with L&Gs practices arose around November/December 2022  in 
the first instance because the £50 gift voucher for customers taking out new policies had 
never been sent to her as promised. 
On 4 January 2023, Ms W spoke with an L&G call handler about the request to amend the 
name on her policy  as she had changed her name by deed poll. She also explained she 
still had not received the £50 gift voucher that should have been issued to her alongside 
taking out the policy. 
On 10 January 2023, L&G sent Ms W a letter summarising the call of 4 January 2023 and 
her concerns  which it treated as a complaint. It said Ms W had explained she either 
wanted L&G to make a public statement of it having fraudulently given incorrect claim 
processing times, or it should pay her the policys sum assured of £5,036 as compensation.  
Thereafter, L&G agreed to pay Ms W £50 for the upset she had been caused as a goodwill 
gesture. On 31 January 2023, it wrote to Ms W saying it was still considering her complaint. 
On 16 February 2023, Ms W complained again. She said, in summary:
she remained of the view that it was false and misleading to state that claims could 
be paid within one day;
to her mind, L&G has committed fraud;
the summaries of the two complaints (now being combined as one) dont truly reflect 
what was said during telephone calls  and Ms W recorded those calls;
the one combined complaint outcome is misleading and false;
to discuss death claims is traumatising for her, following the death of one of her 
parents some years ago;
she enclosed the paperwork to ask L&G yet again to action her name change. 
On 10 March 2023, L&G replied to both complaints, again as a combined complaint 
outcome. It upheld one aspect of the complaint, and rejected the rest. It said Ms Ws 
complaint was fivefold, concerning:
the timeliness of the gift card;   
the length of time L&G takes to pay out claims for over 50s policies;
the failure to update Ms Ws name change;   
lack of clarity during a telephone call of 4 January 2023; and    
that Ms W feels the policy was mis-sold.    
In respect of the gift card, L&G said that in promoting the policy, it made clear that the £50 
gift card offer became due after six months from the policys start date. That process was 
fulfilled by a third-party provider. L&G sends it details of eligible customers and the third 
party supplies the gift card to the customer within 60 days of notification. L&G understood 
that Ms W had received her gift card, and it didnt think it should do anything further.  
L&G also disagreed that it had unfairly set out the timescales in which claims were paid. It 
said that it asks for proof the policyholder has passed away for claim to be paid. Its claim 
process was straightforward; it merely requires a copy of the death certificate and a copy of 
a Will - if the policyholder had one. Once it has that information, it verifies that the 
policyholder was over 50 when the policy commenced and accepts a claim. L&G explained 
to Ms W that when it referred to claims paid out in full - most in one day, this meant it 
processes payment after receiving the documents. Since January 2023, it had paid more 
than 93% of claims within 24 hours of receipt.
L&G also disagreed that it had failed to change Ms Ws name as she had asked for. It told 
Ms W that the information she provided was not sufficient for it to change her name. It said it 
needed to see Ms Ws deed poll certificate, or a statutory declaration stamped by the court. 
It asked Ms W to supply the relevant documents so it could arrange this for her.
It was agreed by L&G that the call of 4 January 2023 was not as clear as it should have 
been  and for this reason it had already arranged to pay Ms W £50 compensation. L&G 
confirmed that it had sent the payment to Ms W at the time of writing.  
Finally, L&G disagreed that the policy was mis-sold. It explained how it does not provide any 
advice when selling over 50s policies. The terms and conditions for the cover were available 
through its website. It would have been Ms Ws responsibility to ensure the product was 
suitable for her needs. Timeliness for paying claims was not a term of the policy, and did not 
amount to any breach of contract such that the policy could be considered mis-sold.
Ms W still disagreed, and she sent further emails and made calls to L&G (such as those of 
20 March 2023) setting out her ongoing dissatisfaction.   
On 23 March 2023, L&G replied to Ms W again. It said that whilst it understood she 
disagreed with the outcome, it remained of the view that it had addressed all the relevant 
points in her complaints. It also said it hadnt received full deed poll document allowing it to 
change Ms Ws name on their systems  only a first page. Once it had received the full 
document, it would make the change Ms W had asked for. It declined to revisit the complaint 
further.  
Ms W then referred her complaint to this service. She explained how she was very unhappy 
with L&Gs outcome to her complaint, as it had failed to consider all of the material issues 
she had raised. She also explained that she had returned L&Gs £50 cheque, as she didnt 
want it. She said that she was going through particularly difficult family situation, and L&Gs 
handling of her complaint had exacerbated the upset she was suffering.  
In respect of the 10 March 2023 letter, Ms W also provided handwritten notes on the 
correspondence itself, setting out how she felt that L&G had continued to be unfair  it had 
wrongly addressed her by her former name, despite it having the evidence it needed to 
change her records. She also believed that L&Gs reply was fundamentally flawed; she 
remained of the view that it had a wilful intent to deceive customers.  Ms W also made a series of further comments by way of calls and emails. She said:
she has suffered with a number of traumatic life events and illnesses and therefore 
needed her complaints dealt with as a priority;
this includes her having recently been discharged from hospital;
she did not accept closure to the complaint and she does not agree that the £50 
cheque has satisfactorily resolved matters;
L&G are not fit for purpose;
the complaint handler she spoke with was rude, uncaring and misogynistic;
many older people dont have original birth certificates, so she questions how L&G 
can allege to verify claims within 24 or 48 hours;
it might be a breach of her data protection rights to not handle her name change 
request promptly  as it is storing old, unauthorised data.  
Ms W finally reiterated that she had twenty six specific unresolved concerns, which in 
summary, were:
1. L&G has committed an act of fraud by falsely advertising its over 50s policies;
2. it is wilfully misleading both the public and the Financial Ombudsman Service;
3. it does not follow reasonable complaint guidelines, it ignores genuine concerns and 
thereafter tried to cover its tracks;
4. it plays for time as a company  and sits on billions of pounds of customer money;
5. it falsifies records which go beyond any human error and are likely a breach of data 
protection rules;
6. L&G undertakes inadequate complaint handling;
7. though the case handler she spoke to about the first complaint was kind, he could not 
close the complaint as the goodwill gesture remained outstanding  this then led to it 
being combined with the second complaint but only after Ms W had raised breach of 
contract issues;
8. L&G provides ineffectual complaint handling, which led to combining the complaints;
9. it has insufficient and unfit for purpose record-keeping;
10. the complaint replies are not a reflection of the truth  this is done in order to 
circumvent scrutiny from the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA);
11. she was hospitalised many times from November 2022 to March 2023;
12. she was too traumatised to go home as she did not know what would arrive in the 
post from L&G;
13. the trend L&G undertakes for misleading stakeholders has been going on for 
generations;
14. L&G plays for time and merely hopes that complaints will be too late or forgotten;
15. it changes the subject as it sees fit regarding customers and their grounds for 
complaint;
16. it operates a blame culture and makes slanderous comments alleging customers are 
accountable for L&Gs errors;
17. it intentionally delays the undertaking of administrative processes  such as the 
change to Ms Ws name following her having gone via deed poll;
18. it uses standard computer-generated correspondence that flout the law and various 
legal terms to its own advantage;
19. it acts in a dishonest and underhand manner, by ignoring the factual substance of its 
customers complaints;
20. the complaint handler and his manager that both spoke with Ms W in March 2023 
had an unpleasant and prejudicial manner;21. Ms Ws husband was allowed to change a beneficiary name on his policy with L&G 
without sending written evidence, but she couldnt change her own name on her 
policy  she therefore believes it is accountable for bias and misogyny;
22. it has systematic failings  many years previously, Ms W had to pay for a parents 
funeral herself  and this process has triggered hurtful memories for her;
23. the offer to resolve the complaint (of £50) fell way short of the mark;
24. various operational standards have not been met;
25. the outcome letter of 10 March 2023 is farcical  L&G has made things up as it has 
gone along. Ms W is hyper-vigilant and she has taken significant time to analyse all 
of L&Gs falsehoods and inconsistencies;
26. in reiteration of points made previously, Ms W submits that L&G consistently blames 
others for its own errors  and it has done this throughout its existence. 
An investigator from this service reviewed the complaint, but she did not think it ought to 
succeed. She noted:
she hadnt seen any evidence that L&G hadnt intend to supply Ms Ws gift voucher;
she also didnt agree that it amounted to any breach of contract;
it was for Ms W to decide whether to cash L&Gs £50 compensation cheque or not;
but she felt this was a reasonable payment in the circumstances;
the policy was sold on a non-advised basis, and Ms W made her own choice as to 
whether to take it out;
she did not believe the policy was mis-sold or that the statement in relation to timing 
of claim payments with 24 hours made it so;
 L&Gs website statement wasnt unreasonable, given it had paid 93% of claims 
within 24 hours of receipt of required evidence that a policyholder had passed away;
in any event, Ms Ws family havent needed to claim on the policy  so the argument 
that there has been a breach of her policy with L&G does not follow;
there has been no delay in a claim process - because no claim has been made;
Ms Ws husbands policy change was not the same as Ms Ws;
Ms Ws change required additional verification and she did not think the request for 
appropriate evidence by L&G was unreasonable;
in her view, businesses will have different rules and requirements for changing a 
policyholders legal name  and that is for the business to determine;
Ms Ws policy provides life assurance and it was vital for L&G to have the right name 
so as not to cause issues with a future claim;
she hadnt seen confirmation that Ms W had supplied the full information that L&G 
required  so it hadnt been unreasonable in failing to make the name change 
request up to the point of the complaint response; 
she didnt think L&G answering the complaints collectively was unfair or 
unreasonable;
it had replied to the material issues raised in the series of communications by Ms W;
having listened to both calls with the complaint handler and his manager, she 
disagreed that either of them had been rude or misogynistic;
Ms Ws proposed financial resolution to the complaint was not something she would 
direct, even if the complaint was upheld;
the sum assured was the value for a valid claim in the event Ms W passed away. 
Ms W disagreed with the investigator. She said, in summary:
the investigator had entirely misunderstood her complaint; 
she feels that this service ought to disregard the cover story that L&G has supplied, 
and reinvestigate the complaint afresh;if only 93% of claims are paid within 24 hours, does this mean 7% of claims are not 
paid at all?;
the first issue about the voucher was completely ignored until the second complaint 
was then made;
in fact, the voucher issue is a tiny part of what has become a far larger complaint;
L&Gs customer service is abysmal, shambolic and grossly negligent.
Ms W then sent us a letter where she asked for the complaint to be referred to an 
ombudsman. She reiterated the points she had made previously, and told our investigator 
that L&G had continued lying to this service. She had only ever received £50 compensation 
 which she was fobbed off with and will not accept. 
Ms W supplied a separate letter of April 2023 from L&G that had a typographical error, which 
she said was an example of an ongoing theme; L&Gs unreasonable record keeping and 
handling of documentation was unfit for purpose. 
L&G had no additional comments to make.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive included a detailed chronology of the complaint in the what happened section of this 
decision. However, I wont be addressing every individual submission Ms W has made or 
giving my view on each incident within the extensive background. I have done so merely to 
assist Ms W and to recognise the depth of her ongoing concerns.
We are not a court; and though there are rules I may rely on in respect of complaint handling 
procedures, I am not required to comment on each point or make specific determinations on 
every submission put forward by the parties. 
I can see that this process has been deeply upsetting for Ms W. I was very sorry to learn that 
she remains unwell and has returned to hospital. I do not intend to make matters worse for 
her, but I am not going to uphold this complaint or make any award against L&G. 
The Financial Ombudsman Service provides informal dispute resolution. My remit is to make 
findings on what I believe to be fair and reasonable to both parties in the circumstances and 
this does not follow a prescribed format. Instead, I will set out my reasons for my findings on 
what I consider to be the central issues in this complaint, based on the evidence before me. 
I do not believe that L&G has acted unfairly or unreasonably in supplying the gift card to Ms 
W. This offer does not form part of the policy terms and conditions issued to Ms W along 
with her policy schedule in May 2022. I do not believe there is any objective evidence that 
L&G has unfairly operated the gift voucher promise for new customers. 
We are not a regulator; that role falls to the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA). I note that 
because Ms W also feels that the statement made by L&G about the payment timescale of 
most claims for Over 50s policies is misleading and fraudulent. I will not perform the role of 
the FCA and decide on the reasonableness of commercial decisions made by L&G, 
including what it decides to include on its website. Instead, I will look at how a complainant 
has been treated in the context of a complaint about a regulated activity  that being the 
administration and sale of Ms Ws policy.  
This was a non-advised sale; that means L&G had no influence in Ms Ws decision making. Even if she placed reliance on the stated timescale when taking out the cover, that was a 
matter for her to decide. In any event, L&G has verified the percentage of claims (93%) that 
it meets within 24 hours of receipt of verified documentation confirming the death of a 
policyholder. Ms W may continue to doubt the veracity of those numbers, but I do not agree 
that it has any bearing on the policy she currently holds with L&G. No claim has been made, 
as it would be pursued in the event of Ms W sadly passing away. 
I do not accept that the statement is fraudulent. Again  my role is not that of the regulator 
and it does not fall within the remit of impartial dispute resolution for me to test the strength 
of statistical claims statements contained within a particular insurers website. 
Similarly, I cannot conclude that the policy was mis-sold on this basis. I have seen no 
evidence by which I could safely conclude that L&G misled or deceived Ms W about the 
nature of the policy. To the contrary, it has sent her clear terms and conditions to explain its 
particular benefits and how it operates. It is up to Ms W whether she continues with this 
policy or not.  
I also realise that Ms W feels particularly strongly that L&G has thwarted her reasonable 
attempts to change the name on the policy to her new name, which has caused her 
considerable upset. 
However, I do not find L&G to have acted unfairly here. L&G has confirmed that to date (13 
June 2023), it has not received Ms Ws request to change her name in full.  
I believe that is because Ms W has in fact undergone a change of name via deed poll twice. 
In the evidence Ms W has supplied to this service, she sent us a full change of name deed 
dated 13 December 2022  this was from a former name to a second name; it is the second 
name she is unhappy for L&G to use, as she then had cause to change her name again to a 
third name. 
The second change of name deed (from the second to third name) is dated 17 March 2023. 
It appears that L&G did not have any copy of this second deed change at any time during 
the course of either complaint. In fact, it maintains it has not seen this second deed to date. 
If Ms W requires, our investigator can supply a copy of the evidence we have to L&G if she 
gives us consent to share that information; or she can supply it herself. However, I believe 
L&G continues to act reasonably in not changing the name on Ms Ws policy in light of the 
second deed poll change  because it has yet to receive the full document that it requires in 
order to authorise such a change.  
It appears that Ms W continues to feel that the use of her name and data is a matter of wider 
concern for her. However, I cannot make findings on whether this is a General Data 
Protection Regulations (GDPR) breach or not. That role falls to the Information 
Commissioners Office (ICO), and Ms W can contact that organisation about data protection 
issues, if she requires.  
I know Ms W is unhappy the complaints were combined, but I wont be issuing any findings 
on concerns about L&Gs the complaint handling process. As I already said above, we are 
not the regulator. And complaints to this service do need to be about specific regulated 
activities (e.g. the arranging or administering of insurance) or any ancillary activities, 
including advice carried out by a business in relation to regulated activities. Complaint 
handling is not a regulated activity in its own right and does not fall within our jurisdiction.  
L&G has accepted that it could have handled Ms Ws concerns better in relation to the gift 
voucher and its service fell short of usual standards  for that it offered her £50. I can see Ms 
W hasnt cashed that cheque. That is for her to decide, but I do not think that L&G should be required to do anything more to resolve the complaint. If Ms W changes her mind about the 
cheque, she remains free to cash it before 21 September 2023 (six months from its issue). 
For completeness, it is important for me to note that even if I concluded that L&G had done 
something wrong that it ought to put right (which I have not), the compensation would not be 
the redress sought by Ms W. She has asked that L&G pays her the policys sum assured. 
However, that £5,036 is the amount Ms Ws policy provides as insurance  if the policy is in 
place at the time she passes away, that sum is paid to her beneficiary/beneficiaries, in 
accordance with the policy terms and conditions she was issued in May 2022.  
If complaints about operating or administering a policy are upheld, then this service may 
consider an award for the consequence of any errors. We would not direct an insurer to pay 
out a policy as a means of compensation. Our awards are not punitive, but are instead made 
in reflection of any consequential financial losses, along with consideration for any upset, 
inconvenience, trouble or distress caused to an eligible complainant. 
My final decision
I realise that my decision will come as a great disappointment to Ms W. However, for the 
reasons I have set out above, I do not believe Legal and General Assurance Society Limited 
needs to do anything further to resolve the complaint. I therefore do not uphold it or make 
any other award. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms W to accept or 
reject my decision before 20 July 2023.
 
Jo Storey
Ombudsman