DRN-3040131
The complaint
Mr and Mrs C complain that Lloyds Bank Insurance Services Limited (Lloyds) mis-sold 
them a legal expenses insurance policy because it held an insufficient indemnity to pursue 
their legal claim. 
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I will not repeat everything 
again here. Instead, I will focus on giving the reasons for my decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the conclusions reached by the investigator and have decided 
not to uphold it. 
Mr and Mrs C took out their legal expenses insurance as part of their home insurance policy, 
which was an additional element of cover included at no extra cost. Based on the evidence 
Ive seen, Im satisfied that the policy was sold to them on a non-advised basis as I cant see 
that any recommendations were made. This means that Lloyds didnt need to make sure it 
was suitable for Mr and Mrs C, but they did need to provide enough information about the 
policy that was clear, fair and not misleading. 
Mr and Mrs C say they were not offered any choice with regards to the indemnity limit. But a 
£50,000 limit is a standard limit for legal expenses policies that come as a free addition to 
other insurances. And neither would I have expected Lloyds to have told Mr and Mrs C that 
they could purchase higher levels of cover elsewhere, as it was for them as policyholders to 
shop around for the best deal that met their needs. In any event, I can see that the policy 
schedule made it clear to Mr and Mrs C that the indemnity was set at £50,000, so I dont 
think this information was unclear in any event.
Mr and Mrs C also say that the policy document does not mention that a significant 
proportion of the indemnity limit will be ringfenced for covering the other sides costs. I 
appreciate they may be unhappy with how the insurer decided to manage the indemnity limit 
as part of their claim. However, the policy itself is not underwritten or administered by Lloyds, 
so I cannot comment on how the claim or indemnity limit has been managed within this 
decision. But generally speaking, matters such as how the indemnity is to be used is 
typically specific to the individual circumstances of the claim. 
It wouldnt be the case for every policyholder that such a large proportion of the indemnity 
would be reserved for costs (for example, many legal expenses claims with a £50,000 
indemnity are settled without the need for expensive court action, so there would be no need 
to apportion as much of the indemnity towards adverse costs). So, I dont consider it was 
incumbent on Lloyds to explain how the indemnity will be used, because this decision will 
ultimately be up to the insurer and/or lawyers handling the claim based on the specific 
circumstances of each case.  
In any event, even if I were to agree that clearer information could have been provided to Mr 
and Mrs C about the indemnity limit, this still wouldnt necessarily mean the policy was mis-
sold. I also have to consider whether clearer information would have likely caused them to 
act any differently. I understand that, with hindsight, Mr and Mrs C now say that they would 
have taken out a policy with a greater legal expenses indemnity limit if they had the chance. 
But Ive got to consider the position from the point of sale, and what action they wouldve 
likely taken without the benefit of the hindsight they hold now. 
As Ive set out above, the legal expenses insurance was an extra that was added on to the 
home insurance policy at no extra cost. When individuals are taking out home insurance, 
their main concern is usually with insuring their home and contents; legal expenses 
insurance is rarely the primary reason for taking out the cover. And Ive seen nothing 
persuasive that would lead me to believe it was the primary reason for Mr and Mrs C taking 
out their home insurance policy either. So, on balance, even if I were to agree that the 
information about the policy was unclear (which, for the avoidance of doubt, I do not) Im not 
persuaded that any clearer information about the indemnity limit of the legal expenses policy 
would have ultimately caused them not to take out their home insurance policy  given that it 
seemingly wasnt main reason they were taking out the insurance in the first place.
So, in summary, Im not persuaded that Lloyds have done anything wrong here. I appreciate 
this will come as a disappointment to Mr and Mrs C, but I will not be directing Lloyds to take 
any further action.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I do not uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr and Mrs C to 
accept or reject my decision before 15 November 2021.
 
Jack Ferris
Ombudsman