DRN-2866250
The complaint
Mr and Mrs N complain about the way in which DAS Legal Expenses Insurance Company 
Limited handled a claim they made for legal expenses. Ive only referred to Mr N from this 
point forward as he was the one who led the correspondence with DAS. 
This decision wont consider the actions of DASs panel solicitors, who were appointed to act 
on Mr Ns behalf and are accountable to different regulatory and complaints handling bodies. 
What happened
Mr N is a landlord. Last year, he told DAS his tenants had left his property without giving the 
correct notice, and therefore owed him unpaid rent. He said there were also dilapidations, 
and that he wanted to pursue the tenants for the cost of putting them right. 
DAS appointed a law firm to act for Mr N, but only to recover the unpaid rent. When Mr N 
asked why it hadnt instructed the law firm to recover the cost of rectifying the dilapidations, 
it said he would need to recover those costs from the tenancy deposit. And that cover would 
only apply if, after doing that, the shortfall was more than £1,000 (the policy minimum). 
Separately, the law firm told DAS it wasnt able to issue a claim in relation to the rent arrears 
or the dilapidation costs until Mr N had made attempts to use the deposit to offset his losses. 
It said this was because Mr N had a duty to mitigate his losses before taking court action. 
They highlighted though that an alternative dispute resolution service existed for such 
disputes which would have no cost implications. They said theyd review things further once 
Mr N had exhausted this process and the final amounts to be recovered through the courts 
became clear. 
Mr N wasnt prepared to follow this course of action and wanted to proceed straight to 
making a claim through the courts. Both DAS, and one of our investigators, reviewed his 
complaint but both thought DAS was entitled to expect Mr N to engage in adjudication first. 
Mr N disagrees, so I need to make a final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr N has made claims under two separate heads of cover. One falls under Debt recovery: 
Let property  recovery of money owed and the other falls under Property protection: Let 
property  dilapidations. Under the policy, rent arrears must exceed £500 and dilapidations 
must exceed £1,000 for cover to apply. By Mr Ns estimates, he was owed £1,200 in rent 
and he thought the dilapidations would cost around £1,100 to put right. 
There are also general conditions that apply to the policy as a whole. They require Mr N to 
co-operate fully with us (DAS) and the appointed representative. take reasonable steps to 
avoid and prevent claims and take reasonable steps to avoid incurring unnecessary costs.
These conditions are material in this case because Mr N had the option of deducting some 
of the losses he aimed to recover through court action from the tenancy deposit. Hes said 
the tenants didnt agree to any deductions. But the tenancy agreement sets out that, in that 
scenario, a dispute would be submitted for adjudication. 
From what I can tell, this process is free for disputes below a certain value, and doesnt 
require legal representation. Mr N would just have had to provide evidence to satisfy an 
independent adjudicator, on balance, that any deductions hed made were legitimate. 
Assuming hed been able to do that, he could have recovered around half of his losses 
without incurring any legal costs.
Mr N didnt wish to go through this process and wanted instead to recover all of his losses 
through the courts. But his legal representatives advised him this would be seen in court as 
a failure to mitigate his losses. They said it would increase the cost of issuing the claim, and 
make it more likely it could be defended, if he hadnt utilised the deposit to offset his losses. 
I havent seen any conflicting legal advice which contradicts that. 
In light of the above conditions, I think it was reasonable for DAS to expect Mr N to use the 
deposit to offset his losses in the first instance, bearing in mind the legal advice. He could 
have done that via adjudication, as explained above, or by seeking a court order. 
The outcome of adjudication would have been legally binding. And Mr N seems to have felt 
adjudication favours tenants. Given his views on this, he may have preferred to seek a court 
order relating to the repayment of the deposit instead. But given there was a free alternative, 
with impartiality written into its terms and conditions, and Mr N had a duty to avoid incurring 
unnecessary costs, I dont think DAS was obliged to pay for this.
Mr Ns legal representatives explained the situation would be broadly the same if he sought 
a court order anyway. They said it would still be for Mr N to prove the deductions were fair, 
and the tenants would still be able to dispute them. Furthermore, it seems both sides have to 
agree to adjudication. So, if Mr N had instigated it, but the tenants had refused to participate, 
he could likely have returned to DAS for support with court action in any event.  
I appreciate that, however successful Mr N was in making deductions from the deposit, a 
shortfall would have remained that he would likely have wanted to pursue through the courts. 
I can see he highlighted that it was surely better to include all of his losses in a claim against 
the deposit, in case any deductions for dilapidations were rejected, rather than just make 
deductions for the dilapidations (as DAS had suggested). I think this was a valid point.
Its also possible the adjudicator (or a court) might have allocated the deposit between the 
dilapidations and rent arrears in a way that left Mr N without cover to pursue the shortfall, 
given the minimum claim amounts. But unless he went through either process (I havent 
been notified that he did) theres no way of knowing if that risk would ever have materialised, 
or how DAS might have dealt with it. And this risk didnt negate the advice that a court would 
likely frown on the deposit not being utilised.
Mr N complains that DAS told him not to take any action without its authority, and that this 
hampered the recovery. But the time between DAS saying that and Mr N receiving the legal 
representatives advice was only around a month. And when he brought a complaint to us 
another month or so later, Mr N said by the time this complaint is heard the {adjudication} 
options would have timed out suggesting he still had recourse to adjudication at that point.  I appreciate this is likely to come as a disappointment to Mr N. But having weighed up the 
legal advice, the policy conditions and his arguments carefully, I havent found DAS is 
responsible for his outstanding losses, so I wont be asking it to do anything further. 
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I dont uphold this complaint.  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr and Mrs N to 
accept or reject my decision before 19 July 2021.
 
Mike Walker
Ombudsman