DRN-2866476
The complaint
Mrs S complains that Barclays Bank UK PLC trading as Barclaycard acted irresponsibly by 
increasing the credit limit on her account.
  
What happened
Mrs S had a credit card account with Barclaycard. The credit limit was increased in 
December 2013 (from £520 to £1,040) and again in April 2015 (from £1,040 to £2,540). Mrs 
S says that Barclaycard acted irresponsibly by making these increases. She made a 
complaint in 2019. 
Mrs S said she had always struggled to keep within the original credit limit and had never 
paid off the balance in full, so she couldnt understand why Barclaycard had increased the 
credit limit. She said that this debt, along with others, had a very damaging effect on her 
credit rating and that she couldnt get out of debt over a period of several years. She asked 
Barclaycard for an apology and a refund.
Barclaycard didnt think it had acted irresponsibly and didnt agree to make any refunds. It 
said that Mrs S was managing her account satisfactorily and there was no adverse 
information on her credit file at the time of each increase to the credit limit. It acknowledged 
that there were occasions before each increase where Mrs S had exceeded her existing 
credit limit. It said this had been taken into consideration before each increase, along with 
the fact that Mrs S had maintained her regular repayments, usually paying more than the 
minimum amount. Barclaycard also said that Mrs S could have opted out of the credit limit 
increases if shed wanted.
Mrs S wasnt happy with Barclaycards response, so she brought her complaint to this 
service. Our investigator didnt think Barclaycard had acted unreasonably by making the first 
increase, in December 2013. But he thought it shouldnt have increased the credit limit in 
April 2015. He recommended that Barclaycard put Mrs S in the position she would have 
been in if she hadnt paid any interest on any balance over £1,040. 
Mrs S accepted the investigators findings. But Barclaycard didnt agree. It says it considered 
Mrs Ss account history and carried out affordability checks, including an assessment of her 
external accounts, before each increase to the credit limit. It says these checks showed that 
Mrs S could afford the increases and it had no reason to think the increase in April 2015 
would be unmanageable for her. Barclaycard asked for the complaint to be reviewed by an 
ombudsman.
  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mrs S says that Barclaycard acted irresponsibly when it increased her credit limit. There are 
industry rules and best practice guidelines which apply to credit limit increases. In line with 
these, Id expect a business to assess a customers creditworthiness and consider how their 
financial situation may be adversely affected before significantly increasing their credit limit.
I need to consider whether Barclaycard completed reasonable and proportionate checks to 
satisfy itself that Mrs S would be able to repay the increased credit in a sustainable way. 
That means, did it obtain information which showed that she would be able to repay the 
credit within a reasonable period of time, without undue difficulty, while being able to meet 
other commitments and without having to borrow further? Ill consider each of the credit limit 
increases in turn.
The 2013 increase
Barclaycard says that, for the 2013 increase, it looked at the probability of Mrs S defaulting. 
It says that, in order to assess this, it used data of its own as well as information held by the 
credit reference agencies about Mrs Ss debt, income, expenditure and payment behaviour. 
It says it also looked at whether Mrs S had any accounts with other lenders which were in 
arrears. It says she didnt at the time. Based on this information, and the way Mrs S had 
managed her Barclaycard account up to that point, Barclaycard says it was happy to 
increase the credit limit in December 2013.
I think the checks Barclaycard carried out at the time were reasonable and proportionate to 
the amount of the credit limit increase. I havent seen anything which indicated at that time 
that Mrs S wouldnt be able to afford the new credit limit. And I havent seen anything which 
suggests that Barclaycards decision to increase the credit limit in December 2013 was 
unreasonable. So Im not going to ask Barclaycard to do anything about this.
 
The 2015 increase
Barclaycard says that, by the time of the increase in April 2015, its lending criteria had 
changed. This time, it says it carried out an affordability check with a credit reference 
agency. It has explained that the agency provides a score of Red, Amber or Green and that 
Barclaycard wont increase the credit limit for customers unless they achieve a Green score.
It says the check establishes the customers income based on current account data, housing 
costs, essential spend and disposable income. It says the new credit limit is calculated using 
this information. Barclaycard says that Mrs Ss score was Green, meaning it was confident 
that she could afford the increase. 
It also says that the credit reference agency data showed a high level of confidence in Mrs 
Ss income, based on data from her current account. It said this showed that Mrs S was able 
to maintain mortgage payments, loan payments and credit card payments. In light of the 
above, as well as how Mrs S had been managing her Barclaycard account, Barclaycard says 
it was happy to increase the credit limit in April 2015.
Im satisfied that Barclaycard carried out the checks outlined above. But Im not persuaded 
that its decision to increase the credit limit was reasonable, based on the results of those 
checks. 
I dont think Barclaycard had enough information to know whether the increased lending was 
affordable for Mrs S or that she could repay it in a sustainable way. The increase to the 
credit limit was sizeable and meant that the minimum repayments would significantly 
increase each month. In fact, Mrs Ss financial situation deteriorated after the increase. Of 
course, Barclaycard could only make the decision using information which was available at 
the time. But I dont think it knew enough about her income to be sure that increasing the 
credit limit wouldnt make her financial situation worse. Barclaycard has confirmed that it didnt see details of Mrs Ss income. It used the score 
produced by the credit reference agency to help make its decision. But the credit reference 
agency data doesnt state a value for Mrs Ss income. And some of the other relevant fields 
simply contain default values. I understand that the agency gave Mrs S a satisfactory score 
for income confidence. But, given the absence of detail about her income, I dont think that in 
itself was enough here to indicate that further credit would be affordable for Mrs S, bearing in 
mind other information available to Barclaycard at the time.
It knew that shed regularly exceeded her existing credit limit. And that the repayments she 
was making were often fairly small amounts as a percentage of the account balance. I note 
that, in the six months prior to the credit limit increase, Mrs S had made two large payments 
to her account, in December 2014 and January 2015. But these payments werent 
representative of the way she generally managed the account. The credit reference agency 
data doesnt include a figure for the average payment to Barclaycard over the 12 months 
preceding the credit limit increase. But Mrs Ss statements show that, other than the two 
exceptional payments Ive mentioned, Mrs Ss repayments were generally between 2.5% 
and 5% of the balance over that period, with the balance often exceeding the existing credit 
limit. 
In light of this, and the absence of detail about her income, I dont think Barclaycard could 
reasonably conclude that further credit would be affordable for Mrs S. So, I dont think it 
should have increased the credit limit in April 2015.
But Ive got to be impartial in reaching my decision. So Ive also taken into account the fact 
that Mrs S didnt have to accept or use the increased credit limit. The best practice 
guidelines say that a business should give the customer 30 days notice of a credit limit 
increase and give the customer the option of rejecting the increase. Im satisfied that 
happened here. 
Mrs S accepts that she didnt reject the increase. She says that, if someone is struggling with 
money and theyre offered more, of course they arent going to turn it down. I understand her 
point of view. But Mrs S had the benefit of the money which the increased credit limit 
provided. And, in light of all the information available to me, I think its fair that she should be 
expected to pay it back.
Putting things right
In the circumstances here, I think the fair outcome would be for Barclaycard to refund 
interest charged on any balance above £1,040 from 7 April 2015 (the date of the credit limit 
increase) onwards. It there is an outstanding balance on the account, Barclaycard can make 
the refund by adjusting the balance. If the balance has been cleared, Barclaycard can pay 
the interest back to Mrs S.
  
My final decision
For the reasons above, I uphold this complaint. Barclays Bank UK PLC trading as 
Barclaycard should refund interest charged on any balance above £1,040 on Mrs Ss 
account from 7 April 2015 onwards.
  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs S to accept or 
reject my decision before 21 July 2021.
 
Katy KiddOmbudsman