DRN-3768959
The complaint
Mr B complains that Pension Insurance Corporation plc (PIC) has incorrectly applied 
pension increases on his annuity and miscalculated loss redress calculations following an 
initial error in setting the annuity up. This resulted in less compensation being offered than 
there should have been and lower ongoing pension payments. 
What happened
Mr Bs annuity with PIC commenced in August 2018. It provides for increases each year in 
January based on the Retail Prices Index figure announced in the previous September or a 
fixed percentage if lower. Mr B originally brought a complaint to our service that his pension 
had been set up incorrectly and was being underpaid. An ombudsman issued a final 
decision upholding Mr Bs complaint and said PIC should recalculate the annuity and make 
up any shortfall. 
PIC calculated figures and provided these to Mr B, who didnt think they were correct. He 
said the figure was too low as the annual increase to the income hadnt been applied 
correctly since January 2019. This also meant the ongoing annuity income was being 
underpaid. PIC said the pension increases were correctly applied, but it had made an error 
in the calculations it sent to Mr B, which it corrected. It paid him £200 as a gesture of 
goodwill for the inconvenience. Mr B wasnt satisfied and referred his complaint to our 
service.
Our investigator looked into Mr Bs complaint, but he didnt uphold it. 
Our investigator said the revised redress calculations were correct and that PIC had applied 
increases to the annuity correctly and in keeping with standard industry practice. He said 
that pension increases were applied annually in arrears in January rather than on a rolling 
basis. So, there wouldnt be any increase before January 2019. And the amount of increase 
then was based on when the annuity had started in August 2018 rather than the whole year 
from January 2018. So, instead of rising by 3.3% the increase for Mr B was 1.4%, being 
5/12ths of the yearly figure. Our investigator said this was in keeping with the terms and 
conditions (T&Cs) of the arrangement set out in the policy document. He said PICs revised 
redress calculations were correct and the £200 paid for the inconvenience was fair. 
Mr B didnt agree. He said PICs interpretation of the clause about pension increases was 
irrational and plainly wrong. He said the condition was unchanged since the original 
pension scheme was set up in 1989. He said nowhere did the T&Cs say that a proportionate 
increase would be applied to a full pension year, in this instance January 2019 to January 
2020. He said more modern pension arrangements might have more specific wordings 
confirming this approach, but the clause in his arrangement did not. He said he hadnt 
argued that the pension should have been increased between August 2018 and January 
2019, only that the 3.3% uplift should be applied fully from January 2019.
Mr B said PIC had confirmed in a letter of 7 August 2018 that the increase rule was either 
4.5% per annum or the rise in RPI if less, from 6 January 2019 and the letter made no 
reference to this being proportionate. He said its letter of 13 December 2018 had confirmed 
the 3.3% increase from January 2019. And that PIC had provided no proof why his 
interpretation of the pension increase clause was wrong. He said it was merely being 
vindictive in not offering the promised increase because hed made a complaint.
As Mr B doesnt agree it has come to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so I am not upholding the complaint.
I can understand Mr Bs frustration about what has happened and that he is dubious about 
what PIC says given it has made several errors with his annuity. However, I disagree with 
his interpretation of the relevant clause and think that PICs is correct. That means I dont 
think it has treated him unfairly. I know that will disappoint Mr B, so Ill explain why. 
The relevant clause is as follows:
9. Increase date:9.1 6 January (with annuity increased proportionately for 
the first part of the year in payment).
Clause 8 also deals with increases to the pension and is headed, Increase of annuity after 
payment has commenced. This clause sets out the basis of any increases depending on the 
component part of the pension. Which included increases will be the lower of either the RPI 
figure announced the previous September or either 4.5 or 5% where relevant.
My reading of clause 8 and 9 is that there can be no increase to any pension in payment 
before the January following the September data, with which Mr B appears to agree. The 
increase is retrospective based on the RPI data between October 2017 to September 2018, 
coming into payment between January to December 2019. 
And I think if it was the intention that all existing annuities be increased on that basis then all 
that clause 9.1 would need to say would be: Increase Date: 6 January.
But it continues with annuity increased proportionately for the first part of the year in 
payment. Because it has this additional wording, I think its clear that the basis of the 
increase is different in the first year of increase, because there is no increase before then. 
With the increase applied to be based on the number of months that the pension was paid in 
the prior annuity year. There were five months of the year left when Mr Bs annuity started in 
August 2018 and as he is aware the increase made was 1.4% which is 5/12ths of the 
inflation figure of 3.3%. 
This type of clause is quite common in pension schemes, although some will offer the full 
increase to all pensions in payment. As Mr B has said some schemes will put this in plainer 
English in their T&Cs. But as he also says PIC adopted the existing rules of the original 
pension scheme from 1989. The reason for this was that Mr Bs policy arose from a bulk 
transfer of the original pension schemes liabilities made by its Trustees to PIC in 2009. 
PICs covering letter sent to Mr B with the policy schedule says:
I would like to reassure you that the Trustees, with our help and the help of their 
legal and actuarial advisers, have satisfied themselves that you (and your 
dependants) pension entitlements under the  Pension Scheme are properly reflected in the Individual Annuity Policy. The Trustees will be writing to you to 
confirm this point. 
Because PIC was taking on the liabilities of the Scheme, which the Trustees had a legal 
responsibility to ensure were provided for, as the above quotation confirms, considerable 
effort would have been undertaken to make sure that this was being done correctly. 
Therefore, I think it is highly unlikely that the interpretation being made by PIC about how 
pension increases be applied is incorrect and different from under the original Pension 
Scheme notwithstanding the arithmetical errors it has made.
And I think the information set out in the letter PIC sent to Mr B of 13 December 2018 about 
the increase from January 2019 is clear. In a table it sets out the existing annual pension 
(incorrect in itself and subject to Mr Bs previous complaint) and the post increase pension. 
The table does say the increase is 3.3%. However, the numerical increase in the pension 
payable from 6 January 2019 is only 1.4% and immediately below the table PIC says:
As your pension began after 6 January 2018, we have worked out the increase at a 
rate of one-twelfth of the yearly rate for each complete month between the date your 
pension began and 6 January 2019.
So, I dont think PIC has made an error with the increases or is treating Mr B vindictively or 
forcing its whims and fancies on him as he has also said. Because I havent seen any 
evidence that indicates it isnt consistently applying Clause 9.1 as set out in the policy 
schedule. 
And I think PIC has accepted and apologised for causing Mr B inconvenience with the error 
in the calculations and that its goodwill payment of £200 is fair in the circumstances. So, in 
respect of this complaint it neednt do anything further. 
 
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold the complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 16 March 2023.
 
Nigel Bracken
Ombudsman