DRN-1872624
 
The complaint
Mr and Mrs R say The Royal Bank of Scotland Plc, trading as NatWest, mis-sold them a 
mortgage payment protection insurance (PPI) policy. 
What happened
In 2002, NatWest sold Mr and Mrs R PPI to protect the monthly repayments on their 
mortgage should either of them have suffered disablement or become unemployed.
Our adjudicator recommended the complaint be upheld. They felt the PPI wasnt suitable for 
Mr and Mrs R since Mr R had a pre-existing medical condition (PEMC) that they couldnt 
have claimed for. The adjudicator asked NatWest to refund all the premiums theyd paid. 
NatWest didnt agree with the adjudicator. It agreed to refund part of the premiums, those in 
relation to Mr R, but maintained that the PPI was still suitable for Mrs R. 
As Mr and Mrs R didnt accept NatWests offer, the complaint was passed to me to review 
afresh.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Weve set out our general approach to 
complaints about the sale of PPI on our website. And Ive taken this into account in deciding 
Mr and Mrs Rs case.
Having done so, Ive decided the PPI was mis-sold. Ill explain why.
NatWest says it recommended the PPI to Mr and Mrs R, so it should have taken steps to 
ensure the PPI was right for them. It also had to give them information about the PPI that 
was clear, fair, and not misleading  so they could decide for themselves if it was right for 
them.
There are gaps in the information thats still available from the sale. And I havent seen 
enough to show NatWest gave Mr and Mrs R clear enough information about the policys 
exclusions regarding claims for chronic conditions and PEMCs.
I think this lack of information would have mattered to Mr and Mrs R when making their 
decision about the PPI. I say that because Mr R was suffering with diabetes  a condition 
that could be described as both chronic and a PEMC. Its impact meant, in reality, while it 
wasnt impossible that they might have been able to claim for another condition, it was 
nevertheless likely any claim would be related to his diabetes. Theoretically, the cover for 
Mrs R was unaffected but the scope of the policy overall was nevertheless effectively greatly 
reduced.
In my view, the above meant the PPI was unsuitable for Mr and Mrs R. And I think if theyd been given clear enough information about the PPIs limitations, then its likely they wouldnt 
have bought it. 
Ive thought carefully about NatWests offer, which Mr and Mrs R rejected. But because the 
policy, as a whole, wasnt right for Mr and Mrs R, I think it only fair that NatWest should 
compensate them in full for the mis-sale (as below) rather than in part as its proposed.
Putting things right
NatWest should put Mr and Mrs R in the position theyd be in now if they hadnt taken out 
PPI. The policy should be cancelled, if it hasnt been cancelled already, and NatWest should:
Pay Mr and Mrs R the amount they paid each month for the PPI.
Add simple interest to each payment from when they paid it until they get it back. The 
rate of interest is 8% a year.
If Mr and Mrs R made successful claims under the PPI policy, NatWest can take off 
what they got for them from the amount it owes them.  
 
 HM Revenue & Customs requires NatWest to take off tax from this interest. NatWest must 
give Mr and Mrs R a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if they ask for one.  
My final decision
For the reasons given, Ive decided to uphold the complaint. I require The Royal Bank of 
Scotland Plc to put things right for Mr and Mrs R as explained above.  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr and Mrs R to 
accept or reject my decision before 26 June 2020.
Nimish Patel
Ombudsman