DRN-4063250
The complaint
Mr D is complaining that Tesco Personal Finance PLC didnt refund an amount he paid for 
flights for his daughter on his credit card. He brings his claim under section 75 of the 
Consumer Credit Act 1974 (CCA). 
What happened
In December 2019 Mr D used his Tesco credit card to pay £682.23 for a return flight for his 
daughter, in July 2020. The airline cancelled the flights due to Covid 19. Mr D contacted the 
booking agent hed booked the flights with (Ill call O), but it failed to provide him with a 
refund.
In September 2021 Mr D took his dispute to Tesco to see if it could help. Tesco said it was 
too late to initiate a chargeback as the maximum 540 days since the transaction in 
December 2019 had already passed. It didnt think the required debtor-creditor-supplier 
(DCS) agreement was in place for a successful section 75 claim. As it said Mr D wasnt the 
contracting party for the supply of the flight, as his daughter was travelling, and she was 
named on the invoice. However, it did pay him £50 compensation for the delay in reviewing 
his claim.
Unhappy with this outcome, Mr D complained to Tesco, it didnt uphold his complaint. Mr D 
brought his complaint to our service. Our investigator didnt think Mr D was the contracting 
party, as his daughter was named on the booking confirmation and invoice. He later added 
that there was also another potential DCS issue because Mr D had paid O, a booking agent 
and not the airline (Ill call E) directly, who were supplying the flight. In the circumstances, he 
didnt think the necessary DCS agreement was in place for a valid section 75 claim, so he 
didnt think it was unreasonable for Tesco to decline Mr Ds section 75 claim.
Mr D disagreed, in summary he thought the DCS agreement was in place because he was 
due to meet his daughter abroad and spend time with her, so he thought it could be said he 
would have derived benefit from the contract if the flight hadnt been cancelled. The 
complaint was passed to me for a decision. 
I issued a provisional decision on 8 March 2023- setting out why I intended to uphold Mr Ds 
complaint. An extract of that provisional decision is below;
section 75
Mr D used a credit card to pay for the flights which means that Section 75 is relevant to this 
case. Section 75 allows Mr D to hold Tesco responsible for breach of contract or 
misrepresentation in respect of goods or services purchased using the credit afforded here. 
However, there are certain technical criteria that have to be met for a Section 75 claim to be 
valid. These criteria relate to the cost of the goods or services, the parties to the transaction, 
or the way the payment was made. One of those is for a DCS agreement between the 
parties to the transaction.
The key issue I need to decide here is whether Tescos decision to decline Mr Ds section 75 
claim was unfair. To decide this, I must first consider whether Mr Ds claim meets the 
requirements of section 75, as set out by the CCA. 
I think it best to start with the relevant legislation. Section 75 says: (1) If the debtor under a 
debtor-creditor-supplier agreement falling within section 12(b) or (c) has, in relation to a 
transaction financed by the agreement, any claim against the supplier in respect of a 
misrepresentation or breach of contract, he shall have a like claim against the creditor, who, 
with the supplier, shall accordingly be jointly and severally liable to the debtor. So, there 
must be an agreement linking the three parties. In this case the debtor is Mr D, the creditor is 
Tesco and there is a question here, about who the supplier is.
I can see from Mr Ds credit card statement that the payment was made directly to O. But O 
wasnt the party supplying the flights, that was E. 
Whilst I appreciate Mr D doesnt think it is fair for this service to consider the potential issue 
with the booking agents involvement, because Tesco didnt raise this, I would need to be 
satisfied that the necessary DCS agreement is in place to uphold the complaint, so Im 
satisfied this is something I should consider.
There are two possible suppliers of goods and services involved in the transaction Mr D is 
complaining about. Firstly O, who provided an online price comparison and booking service. 
And secondly E, the airline, supplying the flights. Given there are two suppliers in this case, 
it is first important to establish which one Mr D is complaining about, before going on to 
consider whether a valid DCS agreement is in place between Mr D, Tesco and the relevant 
supplier. 
Ive looked at Os archived terms and conditions which appear to have applied at the time of 
the booking, to see what its responsibilities were, these said is therefore not a party to the 
contractual relationship in relation to the products and services you order on our website. 
However, under the refund section it says that if a refund was due under the airlines 
provisions, O will submit a request for a refund from the airline and then return the payment 
in the original payment form or to the original card payment. But Mr D complains that O 
didnt return the funds. So, Im satisfied the supplier Mr D is complaining about is O.
I now need to consider whether Mr D has a contractual relationship with O. Tesco says Mr D 
isnt the contracting party, because Os invoice is addressed to his daughter and she is 
named in the booking confirmation, because she was the passenger. Mr D says that he 
made the booking, and he, not his daughter was in contact with O.
So, Ive looked at Os archived terms to see whether it gives any clarification on who the 
contracting party is. The terms and conditions said the user of the website is subject to the 
agreement and By using this website to book products and/or services, you authorise us to 
act as your representative during the process of comparison between Travel Suppliers and 
booking of products and services from the Travel Suppliers. Mr D tells us that he made the 
online booking for his daughter, and I think this is supported by the booking confirmation 
being sent to his email address. So, on balance Im satisfied that Mr D is the contracting 
party here, in respect of the agreement with O.
As Im persuaded that a valid debtor-creditor-supplier agreement is in place. I now need to 
consider whether there has been a breach of contract by O. Its clear from Os archived 
terms and conditions under the refund section, that O undertook to process a refund where 
one was due under the airlines terms and return the payment. Having looked at the archived 
airlines terms, which I think we can rely on as applying at the time of Mr Ds booking, I think 
a refund would have been due, because the flight was cancelled by the airline. Mr D has provided screenshots from manage my booking on Os website which shows it 
submitted a refund request on 12 August 2020 and confirms that on the 16 August 2020 a 
refund was processed, and the amount will be refunded back to the same payment method 
as in the original booking. But Mr D didnt receive the refund promised. In the 
circumstances, Im satisfied that Os failure to refund the payment of £682.23, amounts to a 
breach of contract. And having regard to section 75  it is fair and reasonable to require 
Tesco to pay that sum to him, he has been without this money for some time, so I think 
Tesco should add 8% simple interest per year to this sum, as outlined below. 
customer services
 
Tesco has already paid Mr D £50 compensation for how it managed his claim, but this has 
taken quite some time to resolve, and Mr D has told us how frustrating this has been. In the 
circumstances, I think Tesco should pay Mr D an additional £100 compensation to reflect 
this.
Both Mr D and Tesco were given the opportunity to respond to my provisional findings. 
Neither party had any further comments for my consideration.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Both parties responded to say they didnt have any further comments. Having thought 
carefully about the outcome on this case again, I dont see any reason to change the 
outcome reached in my provisional decision.
Putting things right
To put things right I think Tesco should;
1. Rework Mr Ds credit card account as if the £682.23 payment had not been made on 
16 December 2019, and if that puts the account into credit  to pay interest at the 
annual rate of 8% simple on the credit balance for the periods that the account was in 
credit  it should also refund the credit balance to Mr D
2. If Mr D has repaid the £682.23 (or any part of it) to Tesco Bank but doesnt have a 
credit balance, to pay interest on the amount that he has repaid at an annual rate of 
8% simple from the date of the payment until the date of settlement
3. Pay Mr D an additional £100 compensation to reflect the distress caused
If Tesco Bank deducts tax from the interest element of my award, it should send Mr D a tax 
deduction certificate when making payment. He can then use that certificate to reclaim the 
tax if he is entitled to do so.
My final decision
My final decision is I uphold this complaint and direct Tesco Personal Finance PLC to 
resolve this complaint as Ive set out above.  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision before 1 May 2023.
 Karen Dennis
Ombudsman