DRN-2005752
The complaint
Ms W complains about advice received from Liverpool Victoria Financial Services Limited 
(Liverpool Victoria) to take out a free standing additional voluntary contributions (FSAVC) 
plan. Ms W says she should have been advised to take out a suitable in-house plan from her 
occupational pension scheme. Ms W also disagrees with the redress proposed by Liverpool 
Victoria of a comparison between the FSAVC plan and the in-house AVC plan.  Ms W says 
she would have taken out the added years option. 
What happened
Ms W met with Liverpool Victorias financial adviser in 1990. She was recommended a 
FSAVC plan with a gross contribution of £66.67 per month. Ms W took out that plan and met 
with Liverpool Victorias adviser again in 1992, 1994 and 1996. She increased her 
contributions each time. 
Ms W continued to make contributions and made her last contribution to her FSAVC plan in 
2006. In the same year she took the benefits from the plan. 
In April 2019 a claims management company (CMC) complained on her behalf to Liverpool 
Victoria. It said the adviser failed to establish whether Ms Ws occupational scheme had an 
added years or other enhanced benefit AVC arrangement, that it said Ms W would have 
chosen, if properly advised. The CMC said the adviser should have referred Ms W to the 
company scheme for full details in order to make an informed choice. The CMC also said 
there was no evidence that the difference in charges between the FSAVC and in-house 
schemes had been explained to Ms W. It said if Ms W had been advised correctly she would 
have contributed to the most suitable in-house AVC arrangement.
Liverpool Victoria upheld Ms Ws complaint.  It accepted its adviser hadnt properly drawn 
Ms Ws attention to the alternative in-house schemes. It said over the relevant period her 
occupational pension scheme offered options of using her additional contributions towards 
the past added years scheme or a money purchase additional voluntary contributions plan. 
Liverpool Victoria noted Ms Ws attitude to risk had been recorded in 1996 as balanced.  It 
took into account the point of sale document which recorded Ms W had a small savings 
endowment, some other endowments and a personal equity plan (PEP) over the period. So 
overall it considered Ms W was willing to take at least a low level of risk with her savings. 
Liverpool Victoria concluded that if the options had been properly explained, Ms W would 
have most likely chosen the money purchase style AVC for her contributions. 
So, it said it would calculate redress based on a comparison with the in-house AVC plan. 
The CMC representing Ms W didnt agree and said Ms W would have opted for the added 
years option.
It said there wasnt any evidence within the file for the first sale to suggest   Ms W would 
have openly taken a risk with her retirement provision if she had been correctly advised. It 
said given the various increases in premiums over the years, it felt it was always Ms Ws intention to put as much as could be afforded into pension arrangements.  The CMC said 
with that in mind, she would have undoubtedly taken the more favourable added years route 
if correctly advised in 1990. It said Ms W wouldnt have then received further advice and 
would have just committed more to added years in later years. 
Ms Ws complaint was referred to our service. 
Our investigator considered Ms Ws complaint.  She felt that Ms W would have been open to 
some risk. She noted Ms W had taken out products with some (albeit small) risk. The 
investigator also considered that Mrs W had some time for the investment to grow as she 
was 20 years away from retirement.  The investigator initially concluded that Ms W would 
have chosen the added years option as she roughly estimated it would have cost about £10 
a month more based on the additional seven years available to Mrs W. 
Liverpool Victoria didnt agree. It provided costings for the added years based on the 
number of years Ms W could purchase. Those costings showed a significant increase in the 
initial contribution to around £97. Liverpool Victoria also pointed out that the contribution was 
calculated as a percentage of salary so it would have increased over time in line with salary 
increases.  
The investigator considered this new information. She felt Ms W had been very 
conscientious about her pension and noted shed sought advice about her contributions on 
multiple occasions.  The investigator thought it was likely therefore that Ms W had been 
paying an amount to her pension that she felt comfortable with and this was likely to be close 
to the maximum she could afford. She considered this increased cost wouldve had a 
significant impact on Ms Ws decision. So, the investigator concluded that Ms W would have 
in all likelihood opted for the AVC plan.
The CMC disagreed with the investigators conclusion. It reiterated that Ms W was aware of 
a potential shortfall in her pension as she had taken time out of teaching to raise a young 
family and she wanted to bridge that gap. The CMC said Ms W made some fairly
significant adhoc increases after further advice which needed to be taken into account. It 
said Ms W would have opted for some of the added years rather than the full seven years 
available.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ms W met with an adviser in 1990. She was employed full time as a teacher and 40 years 
old. She was married with children. Ms W had been a member of her occupational pension 
scheme for 13 years and her planned retirement age was 60. 
Ms Ws objectives were recorded in her personal financial summary. Pensions was recorded 
as an area where it was anticipated there would be future needs. In addition a retirement 
income calculation was carried out for Ms W which showed there was a shortfall.  So, I am 
satisfied Ms W was concerned about her pension income and looking to increase her 
pension pot. The adviser recommended that she take out a FSAVC plan paying a gross 
monthly contribution of £66.67. 
 
A personal illustration was produced which quoted a potential retirement fund of £54,600 on the higher rate of return illustration and £33,200 on the lower rate illustration.  
Further recommendations were made in 1992, 1996 and 1996 to increase those 
contributions.  It was recorded that Ms Ws salary increased in 1992 and 1996.
Liverpool Victoria has accepted in its final response that there was nothing recorded to show 
the in-house options from her occupational scheme had been discussed with Ms W in the 
earlier meetings. 
Although there was reference in the notes from the 1996 meeting to the AVC and added 
years options being discussed and compared this wasnt repeated in the summary report 
that was sent to Ms W after the sale. Overall, Liverpool Victoria accepted the adviser didnt 
appear to have properly explained the advantages of the in-house options in 1996.  This was 
significant because the regulatory obligations on advisers to explain the differences between 
the products  particularly the difference in costs- were more rigorous in 1996 than they had 
been previously.
As Liverpool Victoria has accepted it didnt do enough to properly explain the options to          
Ms W, the remaining issue for me to decide in this complaint is what would have happened if 
they had been properly discussed with her. Would Ms W have chosen an AVC plan which 
generally had lower charges than the FSAVC and the potential to build up a retirement fund? 
Or would she have elected to go for the added years option which tended to be more 
expensive but gave a more certain level of benefit?
The CMC representing Ms W says she would have opted for the certainty of the added 
years. It says there is nothing on Liverpool Victorias records to suggest Ms W was willing to 
take any risk with her contributions. The CMC also says Ms W having an endowment 
mortgage is not indicative of her being willing to take risk as many of those types of 
mortgages were mis-sold. It says given the cost of the added years option Ms W would have 
taken out some of the available added years.
Liverpool Victoria says it thinks Ms W was willing to take a small amount of risk with her 
contributions. It also says as the cost of the added years plan was significantly more, it was 
likely to have been unaffordable, or the cost was likely to have put Ms W off that type of plan.
It is difficult to look back some 30 years and say with certainty what Ms W would have done 
in 1990 if she'd been given additional information about her options.  I now know what 
contributions Ms W made over the years, but I must consider her complaint without the 
benefit of hindsight. I have to consider what Ms W is more likely than not to have done, given 
her circumstances and objectives in 1990, and without knowing exactly what her financial 
situation would be in the future.     
Ms W was looking to increase her pension pot by making contributions to top-up her existing 
occupational pension scheme. She had a number of years' service as a teacher, so in 1990 
it looked likely that Ms W would stay in that profession and have regular increases to her 
salary. Ms W was planning to retire at 60, so she had another 20 years to try and build up 
some additional pension to add to her existing occupational scheme pension.
 
 
I consider Ms W was serious about increasing her pension income as she went back to the 
adviser on a number of occasions to seek further advice about increasing her contributions. 
So, I think it is likely she arranged her contribution with a view to it being towards the top end of what she could afford. I also note she increased her contributions by way of a series of 
staggered increases which broadly occurred as her salary increased.
I think that starting in 1990 with a monthly contribution of £97 instead of around £68 would 
have seemed a significantly larger amount to Ms W. The CMC argues she could have taken 
out fewer years  so for around £69 she could have purchased five added years. But Im not 
persuaded on balance that would have seemed as attractive to Ms W as the prospect of 
building an investment return on her contributions. Particularly as investment returns at that 
time were generally expected to be at much higher levels than in more recent years. This 
can be seen from the personal illustrations provided to Ms W each time she decided to 
increase her contributions.   
I also take into account that added years were based on the assumption that the 
contributions would be paid until retirement age. Ms W stopped making contributions before 
her selected retirement age so that would have impacted what she received, as her benefits 
would have been reduced to reflect that earlier retirement. 
Also, generally there was less flexibility to stop and restart with added years. So, this may 
well have been less attractive to Ms W. If she had opted for a contribution of £97 (or 
something more than the £68 she took out) with increases linked to salary, there was the 
potential for her contributions to become unaffordable, particularly if her personal 
circumstances changed. 
I also note it was recorded in the 1994 personal financial summary that Ms W 
wanted flexibility and good returns compared to building societies. 
Although I think Ms Ws circumstances were fairly settled, I consider added years would 
have been more of a fixed commitment for Ms W with increasing contributions linked to her 
salary for a fixed term. Whereas with an AVC plan Ms W was able to make increases over 
time  when she felt ready to do so. So, I think that would have been appealing to Ms W.
I dont think Ms W was in a position to take a large amount of risk with her contributions. But 
I think there are some indications she was willing to take some investment risk. She held a 
savings endowment and a personal equity plan (PEP) over the relevant period. There was 
also some reference in 1994 to Ms W using endowments for her childs university costs and 
wedding. 
In 1996 it was recorded that Ms W was saving with a regular premium PEP and that she was 
intending to increase it soon. It was also recorded that Ms W had a PEP and was aware that 
the managed pension fund operates in a similar way as regards units etc and that she 
wanted to know how her existing FSAVC was performing and how much additional she 
could increase it by and what it may return. So, I consider that Ms W had some 
understanding that the product worked on the basis of investment returns and that there was 
some risk involved. I think she was content with that type of product.  
In addition, in the personal financial summary completed in 1996 it is recorded that Ms W 
had a balanced attitude to risk; which was the third highest out of the four levels of risk listed. 
Ms W signed the customer declaration at the end of that document which would suggest she 
was aware of that assessment.
 
 
I also take into account that Ms W was looking to take out a plan as a top-up to her main pension- which was more secure, and she was intending to pay these contributions over the 
long term. So, I consider she was able and willing to take a low level of risk to try and 
achieve a better return on those contributions.     
Overall, I consider it is more likely than not Ms W would have taken out the AVC plan rather 
than the added years option if both have been properly explained to her at the time, for the 
reasons I have set out.
Liverpool Victoria has agreed to pay compensation based on the difference between the 
FSAVC and AVC plans. I consider that to be a fair and reasonable way of calculating 
compensation in the circumstances.  It should therefore refund Ms W in line with the 
guidance the financial regulator has provided as it has already offered to do.
Liverpool Victoria should therefore undertake a redress calculation in accordance with the 
regulators FSAVC review guidance, incorporating the amendment below to take into 
account that data for the CAPS mixed with property index isnt available for periods after 1 
January 2005.
The FSAVC review guidance wasnt intended to compensate consumers for losses arising 
solely from poor investment returns in the FSAVC funds, which is why a benchmark index is 
used to calculate the difference in charges and (if applicable) any loss of employer matching 
contributions or subsidised benefits.
In our view the FTSE UK Private Investor Growth Total Return Index provides the closest 
correlation to the CAPS mixed with property index. So where the calculation requires 
ongoing charges in an investment-based FSAVC and AVC to be compared after 1 January 
2005, Liverpool Victoria should use the CAPS mixed with property index up to 1 January 
2005 and the FTSE UK Private Investor Growth Total Return Index thereafter.
If the calculation demonstrates a loss, the compensation amount should if possible be paid 
into Ms Ws pension plan. The payment should allow for the effect of charges and any 
available tax relief. The compensation shouldnt be paid into the pension plan if it would 
conflict with any existing protection or allowance.
If a payment into the pension isnt possible or has protection or allowance implications, it 
should be paid directly to Ms W as a lump sum after making a notional reduction to allow for 
future income tax that would otherwise have been paid.
If Ms W hasnt yet taken any tax-free cash from her plan, 25% of the loss would be tax-free 
and 75% would have been taxed according to her likely income tax rate in retirement  
presumed to be 20%. So, making a notional reduction of 15% overall from the loss 
adequately reflects this. 
 
 
 
 
 
My final decisionMy final decision is that Liverpool Victoria Financial Services Limiteds offer to compensate  
Ms W is fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of the complaint.  So, Ms Ws complaint 
against Liverpool Victoria Financial Services Limited is not upheld.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms W to accept or 
reject my decision before 20 September 2020.
 
Julia Chittenden
Ombudsman