DRN-3965876
The complaint
Mr B complains about the charges PSA Finance UK Limited (PSA) applied when he 
returned a car after the end of his hire agreement. He says PSAs communications were 
misleading, inconsistent, full of errors and contradictions, leaving him feeling harassed.
What happened
Mr B entered into a hire agreement in May 2019 for a term of 36 months. At the end of the 
term, Mr B says he returned the car and was told he owed £811 in charges. Mr B says PSA 
admitted making a number of errors and have now reduced the outstanding balance to £338, 
but he says this should now be reduced to zero. Mr B told us:
PSA admitted applying charges either in error or simply excessively and this 
validates the view that it applies charges incorrectly;
the single largest charge relates to services and a missing service book  something 
he never received at the initial handover, but PSA has routinely dismissed what hes 
told them about this;
although PSA has admitted making mistakes and has offered him a small amount of 
compensation - £150  its made further errors and prematurely closed his complaint; 
hes felt harassed due to the nature of PSAs correspondence and communications;
PSA has now added a marker to his credit file and instructed a debt collection 
agency to manage his account;
PSA should remove all outstanding charges and clear his credit file; and note that 
hes returned the car with significantly fewer miles on the odometer, which is worth 
significant value to PSA upon any resale of the car.
PSA rejected this complaint. It said under the terms of Mr Bs agreement, he needed to 
return the vehicle with no damage outside of fair wear and tear. And it explained that it had 
reviewed the photographs and the inspection report provided by its collection agent and it 
was satisfied that the identified damage was clearly evidenced and was outside fair wear 
and tear.
PSA also explained that under the terms of the hire agreement, missing items such as 
Service Book, Literature Pack and, in this instance Service History are deemed to be outside 
of fair wear and tear and affect the cars re-sale value, and accordingly it would levy a 
charge. It said it was Mr Bs responsibility to ensure that the car had a full service history and 
that the Service Book was stamped and available at the time of inspection. If the car were 
returned without the Service Book stamped or any items missing, then a charge would be 
applied.
PSA said it had noted what Mr B had said about the Service Book not being present at the 
point the car was handed over, but it said hed signed the delivery note in May 2019 to 
confirm hed taken receipt of it.
Following Mr Bs initial complaint, PSA reviewed the charges and agreed to remove some of 
them as a gesture of goodwill, and it reduced the total charge amount from £811.00 to 
£553.00.
The following month, after further correspondence between it and Mr B, PSA said one of the 
outstanding charges was a mistake and it removed a further £65.00 from the invoice. And its 
representative agreed that PSAs communications with Mr B had been misleading, 
inconsistent and, somewhat harassing. PSA said it was very sorry for what had happened, 
and it recognised that more could have been done by our teams to prevent this. And it 
reduced Mr Bs outstanding balance by a further £150 in recognition of the stress and 
inconvenience it had caused.
PSA confirmed that the outstanding balance on Mr Bs account was £338.00 and the 
following month  August 2022  it advised that it had instructed external debt collection 
agents to manage the account.
PSA told this Service that under the terms of the Hire Agreement, all items and 
documentation supplied with the vehicle needed to be present upon its return; particular 
emphasis is placed on the vehicle being returned with a full service history. It said it was 
prepared to review the missing service charges upon receipt of evidence of the servicing 
having been carried out, and it had notified Mr B of this.
Mr B disagreed and brought his complaint to this Service.
Our investigator looked at this complaint and said she didnt think it should be upheld. She 
explained that the standard for what constitutes fair wear and tear is set out in the British 
Vehicle Renting Leasing Association (BVRLA) guidelines and her role was to decide whether 
the charges applied by PSA were fair and reasonable.
She said shed looked at the inspection report submitted by PSA to support its position and 
she thought the damage to the rear alloy wheel was visible and outside the fair wear and 
tear guidance and, as a result, was chargeable. And she said that the charges in respect of 
the missing Service Book and service history were both chargeable and fair.
Mr B disagrees, so the complaint comes to me to decide. He says the application of incorrect 
charges at the outset has thrown all charges into doubt. He says PSAs communications 
have been inconsistent and misleading throughout, and that this and the passing of the debt 
to a third party has caused him stress. He says he wants all the remaining charges to be 
dropped and for PSA to show how it will improve its processes and controls.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I hope that Mr B wont take it as a discourtesy that Ive condensed his complaint in the way 
that I have. Ours is an informal dispute resolution service, and Ive concentrated on what I 
consider to be the crux of his complaint. Our rules allow me to do that. Mr B should note, 
however, that although I may not address each individual point that hes raised, I have given 
careful consideration to all of his submissions before arriving at my decision.
Firstly, I understand why Mr B wants PSA to evidence how it will improve its processes and 
controls. But that isnt the role of this Service, and my role isnt to punish businesses for their 
performance or behaviour, thats the role of the regulator  the Financial Conduct Authority. 
My role is to look at problems that a consumer may have experienced and see if the 
business, in this case PSA, has done anything wrong. If it has, I seek to put the consumer  
Mr B  back in the position they wouldve been in if the mistakes hadnt happened. And I 
may award compensation if I think its appropriateAnd although Mr B is unhappy with the way in which PSA dealt with his complaint, I must 
explain that complaint handling by a business isnt a regulated activity. As such, the issues 
hes raised that relate directly to how PSA has investigated his complaint and his dis-
satisfaction with it, dont lie within my powers to consider. But I can, and will, look into the 
poor level of service that Mr B received from PSA.
Having considered all the evidence and testimony from both Mr B and PSA afresh, Ive 
reached the same conclusion as our investigator and for broadly the same reasons. Ill 
explain why.
The terms and conditions of the agreement say that Mr B must keep the vehicle in good 
condition, carry out repairs and replace parts when necessary and maintain and service the 
vehicle in accordance with the manufacturers recommendations. It is your responsibility to 
ensure that the repairer stamps the vehicles service book each time the vehicle is serviced. 
So, Im satisfied that Mr B was responsible for returning the car in good condition, but the 
question is whether all the charges applied by PSA are fair and reasonable.
Fair wear and tear guidelines have been issued by the British Vehicle Rental and Leasing 
Association (BVLRA) and these are accepted as an industry standard in determining 
whether any damage goes beyond fair wear and tear. So, Ive taken these into account 
when deciding what is fair and reasonable for PSA to charge Mr B.
Alloy wheel
PSAs inspection says damage to one of the alloy wheels is deemed to be outside fair wear 
and tear:
Rear Alloy Wheel Right  spoke damage - £65.00
The BVRLA guidance sets out the standard regarding fair wear and tear to alloy wheels. It 
says:
Dents and holes on wheel rims and wheel trims are not acceptable
Scuffs totalling up to 50mm on the total circumference of the wheel trim and on alloy 
wheels are acceptable
Any damage to the wheel spokes and the hub of the alloy wheel is not acceptable
Ive looked very carefully at the photograph that PSA provided, and Im satisfied that the 
alloy is damaged as detailed in the inspection report and that the damage is outside fair 
wear and tear. The alloy has damage to the spokes that exceeds the acceptable level. So, I 
think the charge in respect of the alloy wheel has been applied fairly.
Service Book and history
PSAs inspection report says the Service Book is missing and that theres no evidence of 
either of the two services that shouldve been undertaken. Its applied a charge of £23 in 
respect of the missing Service Book, and a further £200 for each of the two missed services. 
PSA did offer to review the charge in connection with the two services if Mr B provided 
evidence that they had been undertaken as they shouldve been. But Ive seen nothing to 
suggest that they were undertaken, or that Mr B has subsequently provided PSA with 
evidence confirming that the car was serviced as it shouldve been.
The BVRLA guidance sets out the industry standard on this matter. It says:The vehicle must have been serviced and looked after according to the 
manufacturers servicing/maintenance schedule
The Service book, if originally supplied with the vehicle, must be present and date-
stamped by the repairer or workshop as evidence that the services have taken place
Taking this into consideration along with the wording on the hire agreement, Im satisfied it 
was Mr Bs responsibility to ensure that services were recorded correctly in the Service 
Book, and that the Service Book was returned with the car at the end of the hire agreement.
Mr B says the Service Book wasnt present when he first took delivery of the car. PSA 
disagrees and says it wouldve been present. Where both parties disagree on something like 
this, I have to decide what I think is more likely to have happened taking into account all the 
evidence.
Ive been given a copy of the Vehicle Delivery Note from May 2019, and on this form, each 
of the following statements have been ticked:
Youve been given the vehicle handbook plus the service & maintenance record book
Service requirements and the service intervals have been fully explained
It is your responsibility to ensure the vehicle has a full service history record and a 
stamped service book.
And just below these statements, Mr B has signed and dated this document and confirmed 
his address, postcode and email address. So, on balance, Im satisfied that a Service Book 
was likely present when the car was delivered to Mr B, and that he knew, or ought 
reasonably to have known of his obligations in respect of it.
Ive gone on to consider whether there was any other reason why it would be unfair for PSA 
to apply these charges. Mr B has told us that he returned the car with much less than 
expected mileage  hed only driven around 20,000 miles versus the 36,000 miles he 
couldve driven under the hire agreement. But Ive seen nothing in the agreement terms and 
conditions that would allow for him to receive a discount for utilising less than the maximum 
permitted mileage. So, I wouldnt expect PSA to offer Mr B any rebate for this.
Given all of the above, Im satisfied that the charges PSA asked Mr B to pay were applied 
fairly and in line with relevant industry guidance and that PSA has acted fairly in respect of 
the charges it applied.
Next, Ive considered the customer service and administration issues Mr B experienced, and 
Ive read all the correspondence between the parties. I can appreciate that this wouldve 
been both frustrating and worrying for Mr B. PSA has offered Mr B £150 in recognition of the 
poor service he experienced; the distress and inconvenience  and its reduced the 
outstanding balance on his account by this amount. I think this is fair and reasonable in the 
circumstances, and in line with what this Service wouldve recommended, so I wont be 
asking PSA to do anything more.
I know Mr B is unhappy about PSA informing him in August 2022 that it had instructed a 
third-party debt collection agency to manage his account, and it said future correspondence 
on the outstanding balance would come from this third-party. Mr B says it shouldnt have 
done this when we were still in the complaint process. But I dont agree. PSA is allowed to 
appoint a third party to manage the debt collection process and it can record non-payment of 
the outstanding balance on Mr Bs credit file. The fact he has an ongoing complaint with 
PSA, or the fact that hes now brought his complaint to this Service, does not automatically mean that PSAs debt collection activities should be suspended or reversed  this is 
because there is an outstanding balance, and PSA has been clear that this amount remains 
unpaid.
I appreciate Mr Bs concerns about his credit file and the effect this may have on future 
lending applications. Mr B may be interested to note that he can place a Notice of 
Correction on his credit records. The purpose of such a notice is to allow someone the 
opportunity to add any explanatory circumstances that they would like prospective lenders to 
take into consideration when making lending decisions. And if he wishes to do this, he 
should contact the credit reference agencies directly.
I know Mr B will be disappointed with the outcome of his complaint, but I hope he 
understands why Ive reached the conclusions that I have.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 21 March 2023.
 
Andrew Macnamara
Ombudsman