DRN-1578166
 
The complaint
Mr J complains that a finance agreement he had with PSA Finance UK Limited ("PSA") was 
misrepresented to him and that the car it financed was not of satisfactory quality. 
What happened
Mr J has at times been represented by Mrs J but for ease, and as Mr J is named on the 
finance agreement, I will refer to him throughout this decision.
Mr J took receipt of a new car in September 2017. He financed the deal through a hire 
purchase agreement with PSA.
He complained to PSA as he said:
hed been told the car would have scrolling indicators but when it arrived it didn't;
the car needed the rear shock absorbers replacing in March 2018;
he was misinformed by the dealership about the cost of servicing.
PSA didn't think there was sufficient evidence that Mr J had been promised scrolling 
indicators. They said the repairs had been completed more than six months after Mr J had 
taken receipt of the car and they didn't think there was evidence the faults had been there at 
the point of supply when they were responsible for the quality of the car. Regardless, they 
said the relevant legislation allowed them an opportunity to repair faults present at the point 
of supply and that had been what they'd done. They therefore didn't think they needed to 
take any further action.
Mr J therefore referred his complaint to this service and our investigator provided her 
opinion. She didn't think it would be fair to suggest the car had been misrepresented to Mr J 
on the basis of the missing scrolling indicators. She noted that he hadn't complained about 
this for several days and she thought it was something that should have been obvious as 
soon as he received the car. 
She considered the fault with the suspension but she explained that relevant legislation 
allowed PSA to repair a fault present at the point of supply. She thought they'd done that and 
that there was no need for them to take any further action.
She went on to explain that servicing wasn't something covered by the credit agreement so 
she explained that Mr J's concerns about that would need to be referred to the dealership.
Mr J didn't agree with the investigator's view. He asked for a final decision by an 
ombudsman and he explained that one of the front suspension links had subsequently 
required replacing; that a speaker had needed to be fixed and that the car's handbrake 
release was being investigated. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I agree with the investigators view. I know that will disappoint Mr J so please let me explain 
why.
Where the information Ive got is incomplete, unclear or contradictory, as some of it is here I 
have to base my decision on the balance of probabilities.
Ive read and considered the whole file, but Ill concentrate my comments on what I think is 
relevant. If I dont comment on any specific point its not because Ive failed to take it on 
board and think about  it but because I dont think I need to comment on it in order to reach 
what I think is the right outcome.
Mr J acquired his car under a hire purchase agreement. This is a regulated consumer credit 
agreement and as a result our service is able to look into complaints about it.  
the quality of the car
The relevant law says, amongst other things, that the car should have been of satisfactory 
quality when supplied. If it wasnt then PSA, who are also the supplier of the car, are 
responsible. The relevant law also says the quality of goods is satisfactory if they meet the 
standard that a reasonable person would consider satisfactory taking into account any 
description of the goods, the price and all the other relevant circumstances. 
In a case like this which involves a car the other relevant circumstances would likely include 
things like the age, mileage and price at the time the car was supplied to Mr J. This was a 
brand-new car so I would not expect it to have any faults when supplied.
The rear suspension required attention on Mr J's car after hed been in receipt of it for less 
than six months and after the car had completed about 3,000 miles. I'm persuaded, given 
the fact the car failed so early on, that the fault was probably developing at the point of 
supply.
The relevant legislation allows a business one opportunity to repair a fault that is present at 
the point of supply.
The business completed that repair in April, so I don't think PSA needed to take any further 
action.
Mr J has provided a job card that suggests the suspension failed again in February 2020. 
That was nearly two and a half years after hed taken receipt of the car and as such, I dont 
think it is reasonable to suggest this subsequent problem was present or developing when 
the car was supplied to him. 
It appears to relate to the front suspension and not the rear suspension where shock 
absorbers were replaced in March 2018. So, I dont think it would be fair to say this 
suggested the repair attempted in March 2018 had failed. I think its more likely this failure, in 
February 2020, related to a problem that developed at some point after the car was supplied: 
when Mr J was responsible for the maintenance of the car and the resolution of any faults 
that arose.
So, I dont think theres sufficient evidence this car was of unsatisfactory quality.
the misrepresentationMr J says the car was misrepresented to him as he was told it would have scrolling 
indicators. I don't think there's sufficient evidence that this was promised, and I think it's 
reasonable to expect Mr J to have checked this against the specification list before ordering 
the new car. Mr J didn't complain about this issue when the car was collected. I think the 
absence of the lights would have been clearly noticeable at that time. 
Even if I was persuaded that the car was misrepresented and that Mr J had been promised 
the scrolling lights, I would need to be persuaded that if it hadn't been for the 
misrepresentation he would not have proceeded with the deal. I'm not persuaded there's 
sufficient evidence to suggest that was the case.
the service costs
Servicing isn't something that was paid for through the finance agreement Mr J had with 
PSA. Any complaint about servicing costs would therefore need to be referred to the 
dealership. It's not something I can fairly hold PSA responsible for.
My final decision
For the reasons I've given above I don't uphold Mr J's complaint against PSA Finance UK 
Limited.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr J to accept or 
reject my decision before 4 August 2020.
 
Phillip McMahon
Ombudsman