DRN-3744643
The complaint
Mr D complains that when he asked Hargreaves Lansdown Asset Management Limited 
(HLAM) to crystalise his pension benefits, it valued his shares using the share price from the 
previous day, rather than the day his funds were moved to drawdown. He says hes incurred 
a higher Lifetime Allowance (LTA) excess charge as a result. 
What happened
Mr D has a Self-invested Personal Pension (SIPP) with HLAM. I understand that Mr D is an 
execution-only client of HLAM. This means that it doesnt provide any investment advice  it 
simply executes the instructions he requests. 
I understand that on 6 July 2020 Mr D completed a Drawdown Risk Questionnaire. And that 
he also completed an application form to move his entire SIPP into the drawdown section of 
his plan. HLAM received this application on 8 July 2020.
The designation of pension benefits to drawdown is referred to as a Benefit Crystallisation 
Event (BCE). This means that the value of those benefits is tested against an individuals 
remaining LTA at this point. Mr D had already crystalised benefits in 2016, using up over 
70% of his LTA. So he had just over £320,000 of his LTA left. The BCE in question was 
expected to take him close to his remaining LTA.
Mr D had dated his application form with his date of birth, rather than the date he signed the 
form, so HLAM wrote to him on 10 July 2020 to ask him to confirm he wished to proceed. Mr 
D replied the same day to confirm that he had actually signed the form on 6 July 2020 and 
that he wanted to proceed.
HLAM processed the drawdown on 14 July 2020. This led to 26,170 shares in a named 
Investment Trust being sold. HLAM used the share price from the 13 July 2020, which was 
959p. This valued the shareholding at £250,970. Including a small amount of cash, the total 
BCE was £251,176.
On 3 October 2021, HLAM wrote to Mr D with a summary of his BCEs with it. HLAM also 
asked Mr D to provide details of the BCEs hed taken before hed taken benefits with it. 
Mr D replied to HLAM on 4 October 2021 to ask it about the valuation itd used for the 14 
July 2020 BCE. He felt HLAM had incorrectly used the closing price on 13 July 2020 for the 
shares sold. And that it shouldve used the closing price from the day of the transaction. 
Mr D said that HMRCs Pension Tax Manual said that for the purposes of BCEs, assets 
should be valued in line with section 272 of the Taxation of Chargeable Gains Act 1992.
He said that HMRC's Capital Gains Manual stated:
The Market Value of Shares, Securities and Strips Regulations 2015 (SI 2015/616) took 
effect from 6 April 2015 and changed the way shares are valued for the purposes of the 
TCGA.
On any day that the Stock Exchange is open, the value will be the lower of the two prices 
shown in the Stock Exchange Daily Official List for that day as the closing price for the 
shares, securities or strips on that day plus one-half of the difference between those two 
figures.
Mr D asked HLAM for its view on this issue. And told it that it would benefit him to use what 
he felt was the correct valuation. 
HLAM referred the matter to its technical team. And on 4 November 2021 it told Mr D that it 
had used the correct method to value the shares sold, according to the HMRC guidance hed 
referenced. It said the method itd used was called a 'Half-up' calculation. It said that the 
price used of 959p was the result of this calculation.
HLAM also said that the guidance permitted it to calculate BCEs in arrears. And that it 
wouldnt be feasible to perform the calculations the same day as it would need to wait for the 
end of trading to obtain the closing price. It said it would be impossible for it to maintain its 
service levels if it tried to calculate BCEs in this way. And that it performed calculations at 
the earliest opportunity as standard for all clients, with valuations used from the previous 
working day. It said it couldnt use different valuation points to suit different clients because 
markets go up and down. So it followed one standard rule to ensure it couldnt be accused of 
market abuse.
Mr D replied to HLAM the same day. He said that as it couldnt revise the valuation to use 
the valuation from the day of the transfer, he would use that valuation in his tax return and 
recalculate the BCE. 
HLAM replied to Mr D on 17 November 2021. It repeated that it couldnt revalue the 
calculations used to measure his LTA, as it was acting correctly according to both HMRC 
guidance and its own policy. 
Mr D replied to HLAM on 21 November 2021. He felt that as the legislation stated: on that 
day, HLAM shouldnt have used the valuation from the previous day. He asked HLAM to 
provide further clarity on how its valuation could be in compliance with HMRC.
HLAM replied to Mr D on 8 December 2021. It said it had acted correctly. And that its 
policies couldnt be changed to suit an individual clients preference. It said that it still needed 
full details of the other pension benefits hed taken which may mean hed exceeded his LTA.
Mr D sent a completed LTA check form to HLAM on 21 December 2021.
HLAM reviewed this and told Mr D on 17 January 2022 that the benefits hed taken in both 
2020 and 2021 were in excess of his LTA. 
Mr D questioned HLAMs calculations. And it agreed that thered been an error in its 
calculations due to the methodology itd had to use. HLAM agreed that Mr Ds remaining 
LTA was just over £320,000. It said this meant that the tax-free cash thatd been paid in 
2020 was correct, and there was nothing to pay back. But it said that Mr D had exceeded his 
LTA by just over £10,000 and that it would need to pay HMRC an excess tax charge of 
£2,613. It said this would need to be paid from funds which shouldnt have been moved into 
drawdown. And that those funds needed to be moved back into Mr Ds SIPP account so it 
could pay HMRC.
HLAM also said that as Mr D had no tax-free cash entitlement remaining when hed taken a 
small benefit in 2021, hed have to pay that back to his SIPP account.Mr D brought his complaint to this service on 17 January 2022. And also made a formal 
complaint to HLAM the same date. He felt that the legislation specifically required a scheme 
to use the share valuation on the actual day the BCE was processed. And that the valuation 
method HLAM had used had led to a higher LTA charge.
HLAM issued its final response to the complaint on 10 February 2022. It didnt agree that itd 
acted incorrectly. It said it had complied with the legislation, specifically:
Section 278 of Finance Act 2004
Section 272 of the Taxation of Chargeable Gains Act 1992
SI2015/616 Regulation 2 - The Market Value of Shares, Securities and Strips 
Regulations 2015
Mr D still didnt agree with HLAM. 
HLAM wrote to Mr D again on 16 February 2022. It said that when it moved a client into 
drawdown on a given day, it wasnt possible for it to get the prices using the method hed 
described, as they werent available yet. It said that when it had moved Mr Ds assets into 
drawdown on 14 July 2020, the most recent Stock Exchange Daily Official List was that 
relating to prices from 13 July 2020, so these were the most up to date figures available. It 
said that it in order to have used the Stock Exchange Daily Official list for the prices of 14 
July 2020, the movement into drawdown wouldve needed to have taken place on 15 July 
2020 once the Official List for 14 July 2020 had become available. It also said that HMRC 
had confirmed that using the most recently available price was acceptable, so it was 
satisfied that it was acting within regulations. 
Our investigator considered Mr Ds complaint, but he didnt think it should be upheld. He 
didnt agree that the legislation required a scheme to use a share valuation on the actual day 
a BCE was processed. He felt HLAM had processed Mr Ds application in a reasonable 
timeframe and used the most recent valuation available to it. 
Mr D asked our investigator if HLAM had discussed its methodology with HMRC. And if it 
had a letter from HMRC confirming its approach was acceptable. He also wanted to know 
why he didnt have the right to use the method of his choice, if it was valid. He felt HLAM 
was being obstructive in not revising the valuation.
Our investigator said that asking HLAM to change the valuation so that Mr D could avoid a 
tax charge would be manipulating the situation in order for him to avoid tax. So this wouldnt 
be condoned by HMRC. He also said that this service couldnt consult with HMRC on Mr Ds 
behalf or provide tax advice. So we couldnt tell him whether his proposed methodology was 
legal and acceptable to HMRC. He said our role was limited to resolving individual 
complaints between a consumer and a business. And that if we decided that something had 
gone wrong we would ask the business to put things right. But he didnt think HLAM had 
done anything wrong here. 
As agreement couldnt be reached, the complaint has come to me for a review.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im not going to uphold it, for largely the same reasons as our investigator. I know this will be disappointing for Mr D. Ill explain the reasons for my decision.
As our investigator noted, when Mr D submitted his application form to request his remaining 
pension be put into drawdown, it wasnt possible for him to know what day the request would 
be processed. So he couldnt know what the value of his crystalised assets would be. 
However, Mr D was aware that his SIPP value was close to his remaining LTA. So I consider 
that he shouldve know it was possible that the BCE could lead to an LTA excess charge. 
I also note that HLAM said that Mr D couldve asked it to crystallise a specific monetary 
amount if hed had any concerns about breaching the LTA at the time he requested the BCE.
HLAM believes that its valuation method is in line with all appropriate regulations. And that it 
is also in line with the HMRC Pension Tax Manual. 
Mr D considers that the method HLAM used to value the assets he crystallised in July 2020 
caused him to incur an additional tax bill of around £3,000. Hed like HLAM to revalue the 
BCE using the closing price from the day his funds were moved into drawdown. Specifically, 
Mr D believes that because the market was open on 14 July 2020, section (a) of SI2015/616 
Regulation 2 applies. This states:
"Shares, securities or strips included in the official UK list
2.(1) The market value at any time of shares, securities or strips which are included in the 
official UK list is
(a)on any day the Stock Exchange is open, the lower of the two prices shown in the Stock 
Exchange Daily Official List for that day as the closing price for the shares, securities or 
strips on that day plus one-half of the difference between those two figures, and
(b)on any day the Stock Exchange is closed, that value on the latest previous day on which it 
was open".
Mr D felt that where section (a) stated on that day", this must mean the day of the 
transaction. But I dont agree. I consider that section (a) states that the Stock Exchange 
Daily Official List that was available on that day should be used. And, as HLAM has 
explained, the most recent Stock Exchange Daily Official List on 14 July 2020 was that 
relating to prices from 13 July 2020. So the prices of 13 July 2020 were the most up to date 
figures available at that time. I agree with HLAM that in order for it to have used the Stock 
Exchange Daily Official list for the prices of 14 July 2020, the movement into drawdown 
wouldve needed to have taken place on 15 July 2020 once the Official List for 14 July 2020 
had become available.
I cant reasonably say that HLAM treated Mr D unfairly here. I say this because it followed its 
standard procedure that it uses for all its clients. And processed his request in a reasonable 
timeframe. I dont consider it would be reasonable to expect HLAM to use a different 
valuation method to suit an individual client, as I agree this could lead HMRC to scrutinise it 
for market abuse implications. And Im also satisfied that it wouldnt be practically possible. I 
also consider that the method HLAM used was correct and in line with the regulations it is 
required to follow. 
I agree with Mr D that if the share valuation from 14 July 2020 had been used instead of the 
value from 13 July 2020, he may have faced a reduced - or zero - LTA excess charge. But I 
cant fairly say that HLAM did anything wrong when it used the value from 13 July 2020 for 
the BCE calculation. 
I know that Mr D disagrees, but based on everything Ive seen, Im satisfied that HLAM 
hasnt done anything wrong. So I dont uphold the complaint. My final decision
For the reasons given above, I dont uphold the complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision before 2 March 2023.
 
Jo Occleshaw
Ombudsman