DRN-3415784
The complaint
Mr S and Mrs S complain about the service they got from, and about the standard of the
repairs carried out by, Tesco Underwriting Limited following a claim on their buildings
insurance policy.
When I refer to Tesco in this decision, Im also including the agents it instructed in
connection with Mr S and Mrs Ss claim.
What happened
In October 2019, Mr S and Mrs Ss washing machine leaked, causing water damage to a
number of rooms in their home. So they made a claim on their buildings insurance policy,
which Tesco accepted.
The sequence of events in Mr S and Mrs Ss claim is long and complicated. The details are
well known to both Mr S and Mrs S and Tesco, so Ill refer to what I think are the key issues
and events here.
Mr S and Mrs S, both of whom are in their later years, have told us Mrs S is severely
disabled and walks with the aid of a frame. Theyve said Mrs S has a number of health
problems, including one that means she has to access facilities very frequently by walking
through her home. And theyve also said Mr S has health issues that affect his mobility.
Immediately after Mr S and Mrs S made their claim, Tesco arranged for drying out work to
be done in some of the rooms affected by water damage. Drying out was completed by 6
November 2019. But at the beginning of February 2020, Mr S and Mrs S complained to
Tesco saying the repairs hadnt started and the delay was unacceptable. Later in February,
Tesco carried out the repairs.
A few weeks later, in March 2020, Mr S and Mrs S complained to Tesco again. They said the
underlay in their lounge hadnt been removed as part of the repairs and a damp proof
membrane hadnt been installed  both of which they say Tesco had told them would be
done. Tesco offered Mr S and Mrs S £200 to replace the underlay and £50 for the poor
service Mr S and Mrs S felt theyd had. Mr S and Mrs S accepted this offer.
Towards the end of May 2020, Mr S and Mrs S complained to us and Tesco about the
issues theyd already had (as Ive outlined them above). They also complained about the
standard of the repairs Tesco had carried out. They said the flooring at the edges of their
kitchen and utility room was flaking and the refitted lounge floor was starting to twist and
walking on it was like walking on  a trampoline. They say these things made the flooring
particularly unsafe for them to walk on, given Mrs Ss disabilities and their other health
problems.
Tesco agreed to replace the flaking flooring in the kitchen and utility room. But it said it
needed to investigate what had happened with the flooring in the lounge. This was so it
could decide if the problem there was to do with the leak Mr S and Mrs S were claiming for
or to do with rising damp. If rising damp was the problem, Mr S and Mrs Ss policy wouldnt
have covered them, because it had an exclusion for damage caused gradually over a period
of time.
Tesco carried out its investigations from May 2020 until the middle of September 2020. Mr S
says these investigations included taking up a section of the flooring opposite the kitchen
door. He says Tesco placed a piece of thick cardboard over an area of around one square
metre and put tape around it to keep it in place. At the beginning of September 2020, while
walking over it with her wheeled frame, Mr S says Mrs S fell over. She was taken to hospital
and discharged with a knee brace that Mr S says Mrs S wore for five weeks.
At the end of its investigations, Tesco got an experts report saying the problem with the
lounge flooring was rising damp (something Mr S and Mrs S dispute). So Tesco said the
damage wasnt covered by their policy. But, because of its delay in identifying the cause of
the damp and because Mrs S had injured herself on the uneven flooring, Tesco paid
Mr S and Mrs S a cash settlement of £1,068.98 to cover the cost of replacing the lounge
flooring, including installing a damp proof membrane.
Following the cash settlement, Mr S says in November 2020 a family member replaced the
flooring, the underlay and the sheet of plastic that had been placed on it in place of a damp
proof membrane.
Mr S and Mrs S would like Tesco to pay them £300 for the cost of this work. They would also
like compensation from Tesco for the mental and physical strain its handling of their claim
has caused them and for the pain and suffering Mrs S has experienced from the fall.
The investigator who looked at Mr S and Mrs Ss complaint didnt uphold it. He thought that,
while Tesco had caused Mr S and Mrs S a lot of distress and inconvenience, its offer to
compensate them for this was fair. He also thought it was fair for Tesco to rely on its experts
report that the lounge flooring was affected by rising damp but that its cash settlement was
reasonable, given the time it had taken Tesco to identify the problem and because of Mrs Ss
fall.
Mr S and Mrs S disagreed and asked for an ombudsman to decide their complaint. In my 
provisional decision of 2 March 2022, I explained why I intended to uphold Mr S and Mrs Ss 
complaint and award them £1,500 for the distress and inconvenience and pain and
suffering Tesco caused them in its handling of their claim.
Mr S and Mrs S have given me some comments on my provisional decision. Tesco has said 
it has nothing to add. So Mr S and Mrs Ss complaint has come to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
For the reasons I gave in my provisional decision, and which now form part of this final 
decision, I uphold Mr S and Mrs Ss complaint. In that decision, I explained why Ive come to 
that view, as follows:
Mr S and Mrs Ss vulnerabilities were well known to Tesco almost from the start of their
claim. And yet I can see little evidence Tesco took adequate steps to help mitigate them,
which I wouldve expected it to do here.
Mrs S has described living conditions in the four-month period before the repairs were
completed. Among other things, she says a strip of laminate floor had been removed andthere were strips of pointed laminate at all angles sticking out and trip up  hazards all
across the floor and not enough space to walk in with my feet in the centre section and my
wheels of the zimmer frame on the laminate that was left down.
In Mr S and Mrs Ss particular circumstances, I think Tesco shouldve given them the option
to move into alternative accommodation while the drying out and repair works were carried
out in their home. And I think it shouldve explained to them it was possible for alternative
accommodation to be found that would be suitable for their needs.
Ive seen no evidence Tesco did these things. From what Mr S and Mrs S say, one agent did
mention the possibility of alternative accommodation during the drying out works. But I cant
see this option was fully and formally explored with Mr S and Mrs S. I think this was a
significant failing on Tescos part. Had Mr S and Mrs S accepted alternative accommodation,
having been given a clear choice about it, I think much of the distress and inconvenience
theyve suffered couldve been avoided.
Tesco also hasnt adequately explained the reasons for the delay in the start of the repairs. It
says drying out work was needed and Mr S and Mrs S didnt want the repairs started over
the festive period. But the drying out certificate was signed by Tesco more than six weeks
before this and the works werent started until nearly two months after it. Tescos own
internal investigation notes acknowledge the delay in booking in a start date for them was,
among other things, concerning.
During this time, Mr S was in regular contact with various agents of Tesco, trying to find out
why the repairs werent being carried out. Call notes Tesco has sent us from this time (and
subsequently during their claim) refer to Mr Ss unhappiness with the situation and his
particular concerns about the impact of their living conditions on Mrs S, because of her
disabilities and health problems.
When the repairs were done, from what Mr S and Mrs S say, they were unhappy from the
start. They say they queried why the new flooring was being placed on old underlay (they
say this hadnt been dried out and theyd been told it would be removed). They say they also
queried why a sheet of plastic was being placed on top of the underlay, rather than the damp
proof membrane they say the loss adjuster had said was needed (and which Tescos drying
out certificate also said was needed). They say Tescos agents simply said thats what theyd
been instructed to do. I think seeing repairs carried out that didnt fit with what
Mr S and Mrs S say Tesco had led them to expect mustve been confusing and upsetting for
them. And then, two months on, to find that the repairs werent holding out can only have
added to their distress and inconvenience.
When an insurer chooses to settle a claim by repair, we expect it to indemnify the consumer
by carrying out an effective and lasting repair. To be effective the repair must fully put right
the damage. And to be lasting it must do so for an appropriate amount of time. From what
Ive seen so far in this complaint, the repairs Tesco carried out in February 2020 were not
effective and lasting, as Ive described above.
And, also from what Ive seen, it wasnt until May 2020 (more than six months after the
washing machine leaked) that Tesco began to investigate a possible issue with rising damp.
Given the nature of Mr S and Mrs Ss claim, I wouldve expected Tescos loss adjuster to
have done this at the start of their claim  not after repairs had been carried out.
Over the next four months, extensive case notes show Tesco trying to establish with its
various agents the cause of the problem with the lounge flooring. Often, Tesco got conflicting
information from its agents. Ultimately, Tesco appointed a senior expert who concluded the
problem was caused by rising damp. But, up until this point, it doesnt seem to me either thatTesco managed Mr S and Mrs Ss claim efficiently or that it was mindful of the impact the
long-drawn-out investigations were having on Mr S and Mrs Ss lives.
It was as part of these investigations that a section of lounge flooring was cut out which,
three months later, Mrs S fell over. I think Mrs Ss fall flows directly from Tescos protracted
investigations into the cause of the problem with the lounge flooring. The fall undoubtedly
caused Mrs S pain and suffering and Mr S anxiety. Ive seen photos of Mrs Ss bruised leg
and knee and of the brace Mr S says she wore for five weeks. I think the fall mustve made
what was already a difficult time for Mr S and Mrs S even more difficult.
Tesco initially paid Mr S and Mrs S £200 for new underlay and £50 for the distress and
inconvenience its poor service gave them. It has subsequently paid them, as a goodwill
gesture, £1,068.98 to remove and dispose of the old floor and underlay, supply and fit a
new floor and underlay and instal a damp proof membrane.
From what Ive seen, and for the reasons Ive given, I dont think the repairs Tesco carried
out to the lounge floor were lasting and effective. So I think it was fair and reasonable for
Tesco to make Mr S and Mrs S the cash settlement it did to replace it. But I dont think it
would be fair and reasonable to ask Tesco to pay Mr S and Mrs S another £300 for their
family member doing this work. Thats because these costs were factored into Tescos cash
settlement offer.
But based on what Ive seen so far, I think Tesco needs to do more to compensate
Mr S and Mrs S for its overall failings in dealing with their claim. A claim that I think
Mr S and Mrs S were entitled to expect would only run for a few months at most, ran for
almost a year. From what Mr S and Mrs S have described (some of which Ive outlined in
this decision), Tescos handling of their claim caused them substantial distress, upset and
worry involving serious disruption to their daily lives over a sustained period. I say this
especially bearing in mind Mrs Ss disabilities and the various health problems both she and
Mr S have.
Taking all of these factors into account, and based on what Ive seen so far, its my intention
to award Mr S and Mrs S £1,500 for the distress and inconvenience and pain and suffering
Tescos handling of their claim has caused them. This is in addition to the payments Tesco
has already made them of £50 for distress and inconvenience, £200 for new underlay and
£1,068.98 for replacement lounge flooring.
As I said at the start of this decision, Tesco says it has nothing further to add to my 
provisional decision and has accepted it. Mr S and Mrs S think the award of £1,500 I said I 
intended to make to compensate them for Tescos failings in handling their claim is 
derisory. Theyve given me some detailed comments on some of the points I made in my 
provisional decision. And the relative who made the final repairs to the lounge flooring has 
also given us his views on the condition of Mr S and Mrs Ss home generally because hes 
carried out works there over the years.
Im grateful to Mr S and Mrs S for their comments. As I said in my provisional decision, the 
sequence of events in their claim is long and complicated. And I know my provisional 
decision didnt set out details of all of the many things that went wrong with their claim  
rather, I highlighted what I thought were the key issues, events and difficulties                     
Mr S and Mrs S experienced during the long time in which their claim was outstanding. 
But Ive carefully considered everything theyve said throughout their complaint, including 
their comments on my provisional decision and the comments of their relative. And, as I said 
in my provisional decision, I think Tescos handling of their claim caused Mr S and Mrs S 
substantial distress and inconvenience. Mr S and Mrs Ss comments on my provisional decision, and those of their relative, dont change my view that an award of £1,500 in 
compensation is fair and reasonable for that substantial distress and inconvenience, for the 
reasons Ive set out.
My final decision
For the reasons given in my provisional decision, I uphold Mr S and Mrs Ss complaint and 
direct Tesco Underwriting Limited to pay them £1,500 for the distress and inconvenience 
and pain and suffering it has caused them in its handling of their claim.
Tesco Underwriting Limited must pay the compensation within 28 days of the date on which 
we tell it Mr S and Mrs S accept my final decision. If it pays later than this it must also pay 
interest on the compensation from the date of my final decision to the date of payment at 8% 
a year simple.*
*If Tesco Underwriting Limited considers that its required by HM Revenue & Customs to deduct 
income tax from that interest, it should tell Mr S and Mrs S how much its taken off. It should also give 
Mr S and Mrs S a certificate showing this if they ask for one, so they can reclaim the tax from HM 
Revenue & Customs if appropriate.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S and Mrs S to 
accept or reject my decision before 11 May 2022.
 
Jane Gallacher
Ombudsman