DRN-1715164
 
The complaint
Mr A complains that Elevate Credit International Limited (trading as Sunny) irresponsibly 
gave him loans which he couldnt afford to pay back.
What happened
Mr A took out 31 instalment loans with Sunny between February 2018 and May 2019.He 
says he was borrowing to repay existing loans and he was in financial difficulty. 
Our adjudicator considered the complaint and thought that it wasnt wrong for Sunny to have 
given Mr A loans 1 to 4. But our adjudicator thought that at the point of loan 5 Mr As 
borrowing pattern was a cause for concern and at the point of loan 13 Sunny shouldve seen 
that he was persistently relying on these loans and so further lending wasnt sustainable. 
Sunny didnt agree with the adjudicators opinion but offered to refund all interest and 
charges incurred from loan 21 onwards. 
Mr A didnt accept that offer so the complaint has been passed to me to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about short-term lending - including all of 
the relevant rules, guidance and good industry practice - on our website.
Sunny needed to take reasonable steps to ensure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In practice 
this means that it should have carried out proportionate checks to make sure Mr A could 
repay the loans in a sustainable manner. These checks could take into account a number of 
different things, such as how much was being lent, the repayment amounts and the 
consumers income and expenditure.
With this in mind, in the early stages of a lending relationship, I think less thorough checks 
might be reasonable and proportionate. But certain factors might point to the fact that Sunny 
should fairly and reasonably have done more to establish that any lending was sustainable 
for the consumer. These factors include:
the lower a customers income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make any 
loan repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income);
the higher the amount due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income);
the greater the number and frequency of loans, and the longer the period of time 
during which a customer has been given loans (reflecting the risk that repeated refinancing may signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, 
unsustainable).
 
There may even come a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly 
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable.
I think its important for me to start by saying that Sunny was required to establish whether 
Mr A could sustainably repay his loans  not just whether the loan payments were affordable 
on a strict pounds and pence calculation.
Of course the loan payments being affordable on this basis might be an indication a 
consumer could sustainably make their repayments. But it doesnt automatically follow this is 
the case. This is because the Consumer Credit Sourcebook defines sustainable as being 
without undue difficulties and in particular the customer should be able to make repayments 
on time, while meeting other reasonable commitments; as well as without having to 
borrow to meet the repayments.
So it follows that a lender should realise, or it ought fairly and reasonably to realise, that a 
consumer wont be able to make their repayments sustainably if theyre unlikely to be able to 
make their repayments without borrowing further.
Ive carefully considered all of the arguments, evidence and information provided in this 
context and what this all means for Mr As complaint. 
Sunny has told us about the checks it did before lending to Mr A. It asked Mr A for details of 
his income and normal expenditure. And Sunny carried out checks on Mr As credit file.
I agree with the adjudicator that it wasnt wrong for Sunny to give Mr A loans 1 to 4 on the 
basis of the information he gave about his income and outgoings. It was early in the lending 
relationship and so I think the checks were enough for Sunny to agree to lend. As Mr A 
hasnt raised any objection to the adjudicators recommendation in relation to these loans I 
dont think that I need to say more about them.
At the point of loan 5 I agree with the adjudicator that Mr As borrowing pattern was a cause 
for concern. Mr A had requested 4 loans in 10 days. Loans 2,3 and 4 were still 
outstanding. Taking out this many loans within such a short time frame should have 
prompted Sunny to consider whether this lending was sustainable for Mr A. His pattern of 
borrowing suggested that he was reliant on short term credit and not managing his money 
responsibly. I've taken into account the flexibility of this product but these were instalment 
loans with 6 month terms. Mr A was taking out multiple overlapping loans within a very short 
period so I think the signs were there that Mr A was struggling. So I think that 
Sunny shouldnt have given Mr A any more loans after loan 4. 
Ive looked at the overall pattern of Mr As lending with Sunny to see if there was a point at 
which Sunny should reasonably have seen that further lending was unsustainable or 
otherwise harmful. And so Sunny shouldve realised that it wasnt reasonable to lend more 
money to Mr A.
Given the particular circumstances of Mr As case, I agree with the conclusions of the 
adjudicator and I think that this point was reached by loan 13. I say this because:
When Mr A took out loan 13, hed been borrowing almost continually for 7 months 
and wasnt making any inroads into the amount that he owed.  These are short term products for unexpected expenses and Mr A was using the loans to regularly 
supplement his income.
This pattern would suggest he needed to borrow again to fill the hole in his finances. I 
think this pattern of lending shouldve alerted Sunny to the likelihood that Mr A was 
having problems responsibly managing his money. 
 
I think that Mr A lost out because Sunny continued to provide borrowing from loan 
13 onwards. This is because:
These loans had the effect of unfairly prolonging Mr As indebtedness by allowing 
him to take expensive credit intended for short term use over an extended period of 
time.
The number of loans, combined with the total length of time Mr A had been borrowing 
from Sunny was likely to have had negative implications on his ability to access 
mainstream credit. This kept Mr A in the market for these high-cost loans.
 
So Im upholding Mr As complaint about loans 5 to 31.
Putting things right - what Sunny needs to do
A. Add together the total of the repayments made by Mr A towards interest, fees 
and  charges on all upheld loans, not including anything it has already refunded.
B. Calculate 8% simple interest* on the individual payments made by Mr A which were 
considered as part of "A", calculated from the date Mr A originally made the payments, 
to the date the complaint is settled. Pay the total of A plus B to Mr A.
C. Remove any adverse information recorded about loans 5 to 12. The number of 
loans taken from loan 13 onwards means any information recorded about them is 
adverse. So all entries about loans 13 to 31 should be removed from Mr As credit file. 
*HM Revenue & Customs requires Sunny to take off tax from this interest. Sunny must 
give Mr A a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if he asks for one. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint and direct Elevate Credit International 
Limited (trading as Sunny) to put things right as detailed above.  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision before 29 May 2020.
Emma Boothroyd
Ombudsman