DRN-2861965
The complaint
Mr and Mrs A complain about three whole of life policies sold to them by Phoenix Life
Limited.
Mr and Mrs A are being represented in their complaint by a Claims Management Company. 
For ease I will refer to all actions as being those of Mr and Mrs A.
What happened
One of our investigators looked into the offer of redress that had been made by Phoenix and 
thought it was fair. Mr and Mrs A disagreed with our investigator so the complaint came to 
me for a decision. 
After reviewing the complaint, I came to the same conclusion as our investigator, that this 
complaint shouldnt be upheld; but for substantially different reasons. I issued a provisional 
decision on 27 May 2021 in which I said:
Mr and Mrs A have come to our service as they are unhappy with the redress offered by
Phoenix. In order to decide if this offer is fair, I must first consider whether I think the policies
were mis-sold.
Phoenix havent agreed the policies were mis-sold; rather they say they were unable to
justify the sale because of a lack of paperwork. This is an important difference.
The only information from the time of the sales in 1989 is a personal financial analysis form
completed by the advisor which records information about Mr and Mrs A. This is the
paperwork that Phoenix referred to in the final response letters.
The form shows Mr and Mrs A were married, both self-employed in the same business and
had two young children. The top two priorities are recorded as protecting against long term
illness and protection for family. It also shows that Mr and Mrs A were considering
purchasing the property they were living in. Its noted Mr and Mrs A didnt have enough life
cover and were looking for some more. The attitude to risk is recorded as being 5 on a scale
of 1 to 10, which would be considered medium risk. The recommendation was for individual
plans to be set up.
This form was completed in February 1989 when Mr and Mrs A met with the advisor. The
policy for Mrs A commenced at that time. A policy for Mr A was taken out a few months later
in April 1989. Because of the short period of time since the form was first completed it was
updated and re-signed. This seems reasonable and since the form was re-signed its fair to
assume that the circumstances hadnt changed.
In order to understand a bit more about what happened I asked Mr and Mrs A to let me know
about the meeting with the advisor. They said the purpose of the meeting was to discuss and
review their financial affairs. They say they trusted what the advisor said as they had little
experience in such matters. They also believed they were getting a plan that would provide
cover for life as long as they kept paying the premium.
Looking at what Mr and Mrs A have said about the meeting, and the form completed at the
time, Im persuaded the sale was suitable and met their needs at the time. Mr and Mrs A
were looking for more life cover to protect their family of two young children and it seemed
like their circumstances were soon to change with a possible house purchase. They thought
they were getting a plan that would provide life cover as long as they kept paying the
premiums; and thats what was sold to them.
Phoenix say that both policies are still in force, as is the top up policy taken by Mr A in 1994.
There doesnt seem to be any paperwork about the 1994 sale. Phoenix say they have
applied the same stance to that sale as they did to the original sales. This seems like a
reasonable approach and Mr and Mrs A havent disputed that their circumstances had
changed in any way between 1989 and 1994. So assuming they were still married, self-
employed in the same business and still had two dependent children, I couldnt say the top 
up policy was inappropriate or not suitable.
Mr and Mrs A were looking for protection for their family and had one of them died these
policies were designed to cover that.
Having considered everything carefully Im satisfied the sales of policies were suitable, so I
wont be asking Phoenix to take any action.
Phoenix has made an offer of redress as outlined in the final response letters. Mr and Mrs A
should contact Phoenix directly if they now wish to accept this.
I asked both parties to provide me with any further submissions they had before I issued my 
final decision. 
Phoenix responded to my provisional decision saying they had nothing further to add. 
Mr and Mrs A remained unhappy saying my provisional decision wasnt consistent with 
previous decisions issued by this service where we had said the type of redress offer made 
by Phoenix wasnt fair.
The complaint has now been passed back to me for a final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I find myself coming to the same conclusions as I did in my provisional 
decision, and for the same reasons.
I know Mr and Mrs A think the redress offer made by Phoenix isnt fair. As I explained in my 
provisional decision the first step before I can consider the fairness of any redress is for me 
to see if I think the policy was suitable. And, for the reasons I explained, I did think the policy 
was suitable, so I dont think any redress is due. I therefore made no comment on the 
redress offered by Phoenix, or the way it has been calculated.  
Mr and Mrs A didnt provide any response about the suitability of the policies, which formed 
the basis of my provisional decision. 
Having carefully considered everything Im satisfied the sales of the policies were suitable, 
so I wont be asking Phoenix to take any action.My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained above, my decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs A and Mr A to 
accept or reject my decision before 6 July 2021. 
Warren Wilson
Ombudsman