DRN-4121824
The complaint
Mr and Mrs D have complained about the cash settlement offered by Covea Insurance plc
(Covea) under their home insurance policy following a claim for storm damage.
For the avoidance of doubt, the term Covea includes its agents and contractors in this
decision letter.
What happened
A rear garden wall/fence at Mr and Mrs Ds property collapsed during a storm event in
February 2022. Mr and Mrs D duly notified their insurers, Covea. Its agents inspected the
damage, and the claim was accepted by Covea.
Mr and Mrs D were unhappy with the settlement offered by Covea to repair their garden
wall/fence, and that they hadnt been given the option to use Coveas contractors. They were
also unhappy with the level of service and claims handling by Covea. As Covea didnt
increase its settlement offer, Mr and Mrs D referred their complaint to this service.
The services investigator ultimately upheld Mr and Mrs Ds complaint. He recommended
that Covea re-calculate its offer of settlement and pay interest on the relevant sum in the
light of the evidence produced by Mr and Mrs D. He also recommended payment of a total of
£350 compensation.
Covea disagreed with the investigators view. The matter was therefore referred to me
to make a final decision in my role as Ombudsman. In April 2023, I issued a provisional 
decision for this complaint and explained why I was minded to uphold Mr and Mrs Ds 
complaint as follows; -
The key issue for me to determine is whether Covea acted fairly and reasonably in making
its settlement offer, and also in its provision of services. My provisional conclusion is that
Covea didnt act in a fair and reasonable manner in all respects. Ill explain why.
Mr and Mrs D said theyd had to correspond at length with Covea. They explained the
background to the matter. Following the collapse of their garden wall, they obtained quotes
to rebuild it. These included one for just under £8,000 and another for just over £7,200.
Other quotes had been withdrawn as costs had escalated since they were first submitted. Mr
and Mrs D didnt consider that Coveas offer of just under £6,000 was fair, but accepted that
fence panels and the excess had been legitimately excluded and werent covered by the
policy. They said that theyd suffered trauma and stress throughout their dealings with
Covea, which could and should have been avoided. They said theyd often been on the
phone with Covea two or three times a week.
Following a visit to assess the damage, Coveas agents had offered £1,800 to settle the
claim which Mr and Mrs D refused as they felt no doubt that it was wildly insufficient. Mr
and Mrs D had then asked if Covea would carry out the work for them, and the loss adjuster
indicated that this wouldnt happen, and that Mr and Mrs D would have to obtain their own
quotes. If Coveas builders had been used, Mr and Mrs D considered that three months of
anguish and stress would have been avoided. It eventually offered a settlement of just
under £6,000, however Mr and Mrs D also considered this to be inadequate. They said that
Coveas agents admitted at the eleventh hour that they couldnt deal with claims of over
£5,000 in any event. They also felt that Covea unreasonably withheld information as to how
theyd costed the works to enable them to understand how they reached their figures. In
summary, Mr and Mrs D were looking to receive payment from Covea of just over £1,250,
being the difference between Coveas offer and the lower of the two final estimates, plus
compensation to cover their time, phone call costs and stress.
Turning to what Covea has said about the complaint, it agreed to uphold Mr and Mrs Ds
complaint in relation to some of the service elements. It accepted that Mr and Mrs D werent
provided with the option of using their repair network at the outset, although it said that this
option was made available at a later stage. It also accepted that if it had discussed this with
Mr and Mrs D, they would have been able to make an informed choice and given a better
understanding of next steps and expectations. It also accepted that if it had acted in a
proactive manner when reviewing Mr and Mrs Ds quotes, the claims journey would have
been smoother and quicker. Covea nevertheless considered that the correct process had
been followed, and on receipt of the quotes, the settlement figure had been revised
appropriately. It remained of the view that the correct settlement figure has been offered.
Coveas agent stated that the length of the wall of 13.5m was never questioned, however he
said that the damaged wall was 8m in length, with the remaining area being made up of
wooden fencing panels. He said that the total area of brick wall was scoped and hed made
deductions for the fenced area. The agent said that when Mr and Mrs D had sent estimates
to the contractor, these were accepted in full. However, he said that Mr D had then come
back with another estimate being 50% higher than the previously agreed costs and
ascertained that the initial contractor had subsequently declined the work. The agent had
then spoken with the second contractor and increased the scope based on increased costs
of materials, however that this had taken the matter over the limit for the agent to be able to
deal with the matter.
Having carefully considered all available evidence, I provisionally uphold Mr and Mrs Ds
complaint for the following reasons. I note that Covea doesnt dispute that Mr and Mrs Ds
boundary wall collapsed due to a storm and that the damage was covered by the relevant
policy. The dispute relates to the level of cash settlement offered by Covea to remedy the
damage. Mr and Mrs D wished to receive an additional settlement to cover the difference
between the lowest quote which theyd obtained in May 2022 and the amount Covea thought
the work would cost.
Mr and Mrs D eventually arranged for the necessary work to be carried out themselves. On a
provisional basis, I dont consider that this was unreasonable. The reasons are firstly,
because Mr and Mrs D were initially led to believe by Covea that it wouldnt arrange repair
works and that Mr and Mrs D would need to obtain their own quotes. Secondly, the claims
process had been protracted and the garden and property had been exposed and open to
view to a footway and busy road for a lengthy period. It was understandable that Mr and Mrs
D didnt wish to endure further delays for an unknown period, waiting for Covea contractors.
I note that Mr and Mrs D also accepted that wooden panel fencing which was incorporated
into the boundary wouldnt be covered by their policy. I agree. The policy wording covers
storm damage to buildings including fixed boundary walls but doesnt cover storm damage to
fencing. Ive noted that Mr and Mrs Ds lowest quote refers to work relating to the boundary
wall panels as well as to the wall itself. As such, I consider that this quote includes materials
and labour for elements not covered by the policy. The evidence doesnt clarify when the
repair works were completed however Ive also borne in mind Mr [D]s comment that the 
cost of work was likely to have increased again, between the date on which this quote was
provided in May 2022 and the date on which rebuilding works were eventually completed.Mr and Mrs D provided detailed evidence in the form of photographs and drawings showing
the design of the boundary wall/fence prior to the storm in February 2022. Ive noted Coveas
expert evidence that the portion of the damaged brick wall was 8m. However, Covea dont
dispute that the total wall length is 13.5m, with some areas made up of brick and others
made of a combination of fence panels and brick. Im therefore persuaded by Mr and Mrs
Ds evidence that the wall was more extensive than may have been apparent on inspection
by Coveas agent following its collapse. The photographs provided by Mr and Mrs D clearly
show that, prior to the storm damage, the areas of panel fencing had brick bases which
would also have needed to be replaced and that the brickwork of varying heights therefore
ran for the whole length of the 13.5m boundary wall.
I consider that, on the balance of probabilities, Covea didnt account for the brickwork
beneath the fence panels in its original calculations. On a provisional basis, I therefore
conclude that it acted in an unfair and unreasonable manner. I consider it likely that Mr and
Mrs D should have received a higher settlement figure, even if it wasnt necessarily up to the
total included in the lowest available quote. In view of the above combined factors, I
conclude on a provisional basis that a fair outcome to this complaint would be for Covea to
pay 50% of the additional settlement figure being claimed by Mr and Mrs D. In other words,
Im minded to require that Covea pays £630, as an additional settlement payment, this being
a rounded-up figure resulting from 50% of £1,258.04.
As to the service failures in this matter, Covea has accepted that a poor service had been
provided in certain respects. I consider on a provisional basis that the service failures
included the following: -
- a failure to inform Mr and Mrs D at the outset that Coveas contractors could arrange the
necessary works, which then led to back and forth dialogue between Mr and Mrs D,
builders and Coveas agents.
- provision of an initial unrealistic settlement offer of £1,800.
- a review of estimates which wasnt managed smoothly to ensure a prompt conclusion to
the process.
- failure to recognise sufficiently soon that the level of claim meant that the agents didnt
have authority to deal with the claim.
- an apparent lack of appreciation that the brickwork had extended along the entire
boundary, albeit at different heights.
- eventual indication that it could carry out the work quickly, but then informing Mr and Mrs D
that it could take several weeks.
- general delays in resolving the claim over a period of approximately one year.
- lack of response to evidence provided by Mr and Mrs D as to the nature and length of the
brickwork in the boundary wall.
The services guidance makes it clear that administrative or service failures will often attract
modest compensatory awards only. In this case however, and again on a provisional basis, I
consider that there have been a number of service failures. These have caused significant
distress and inconvenience to Mr and Mrs D over a lengthy period of time. Im also aware
that Mr and Mrs D have been suffering from significant ill-health issues and that Coveas
service failures will have caused additional unnecessary concern. In the circumstances, Im
satisfied that a total award of compensation in the sum of £400 is justified on this occasion.
In my provisional decision, I asked both Covea and Mr and Mrs D if they had any further 
comments or evidence they would like me to consider before I made a final decision.What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Covea didnt provide any further information or evidence following my provisional decision. 
Mr D explained that Mrs Ds health had further deteriorated. He wished to place on record 
his thanks to the services investigator for his help, patience, and support with our 
Complaint. Mr D thought it had taken far too long to reach this position and felt that Covea 
could and should have reached a proper decision much more speedily. Mr D rightly noted a 
typographical error in the provisional decision which has now been corrected. 
Finally, Mr D said that he and Mrs D remained unhappy with the reduction by a half in the 
amount theyd claimed. However, he said that their only focus was now on a final settlement 
and closing this saga. They therefore accepted the provisional decision however considered 
it would be a very nice gesture after all that has passed to receive an Apology from 
Covea
In all the circumstances, Ive concluded that the provisional decision provides a fair and 
reasonable outcome to the matter.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I uphold Mr and Mrs Ds complaint against Covea
Insurance plc and to require it to: -
- Pay an additional settlement of £630 to Mr and Mrs D.
- Pay 8% simple interest per annum on £630 from the date Covea made the initial
settlement payment to the date of final settlement.
- Pay £400 compensation for the distress and inconvenience caused to Mr and Mrs D.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr and MrS D to 
accept or reject my decision before 15 June 2023.
 
Claire Jones
Ombudsman