DRN-1636981
The complaint
Mr C is unhappy that Markerstudy Insurance Company Limited has settled a claim under his 
motor insurance policy without enough proof of damage to the other car.
What happened
Mr C had a motor insurance policy with Markerstudy. In December 2018 he was involved in 
an accident when he ran into the back of another car at a junction. In January 2019 
Markerstudy wrote to him and told him he was at fault and it would settle the claim with the 
third party.
He said he heard nothing more until June 2019 when he received his renewal letter. He was 
surprised to see Markerstudy had paid more than £2,300 to settle the claim. He says he was 
surprised theyd paid so much when hed provided evidence in January 2019 showing no 
damage to the other car. He also asked why theyd paid this without checking with him, and 
before theyd completed their investigation.
He said he was also surprised to find out he had an excess on his policy of £3,000. He said 
he only found this out when he was told this by Markerstudy in January 2019 when they 
contacted him about the accident.
He says he was not at fault for the accident. Hed provided photos of the other car that he 
says showed there was no damage. He says he heard nothing further until he contacted 
them in June 2019 after receiving his renewal notice. This showed an increase in his 
premium and the amount that had been paid to settle the claim.
Markerstudy said they contacted Mr C in January 2019. They said they wrote to him telling 
him they would be settling the other partys claim in full. They said they were settling the 
claim because they had a duty to settle the matter on the best terms, and because hed 
confirmed hed hit the back of a stationary car.
They said they had information from the other insurer that confirmed the damage to the other 
car. They said one of their engineers had reviewed the invoice and the photographs of the 
car, and this was sufficient for them to settle the claim. They also said theyd written to him 
on several occasions.
Our investigator considered the complaint but didnt uphold it. She felt that Markerstudy had 
acted fairly and had properly considered all the evidence.
Mr C disagreed and asked for an ombudsmans decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Like our investigator Im not commenting on his complaint that he wasnt aware his policy 
carried a £3,000 excess. This is the subject of a separate complaint against the business 
that sold him the policy.
Mr C is unhappy that hes been asked to pay more than £2,300 when hes provided 
evidence there was no damage to the other vehicle. Hes also unhappy that he hasnt been 
told what the actual damage was to the other car.
The issue I have to consider is whether or not it was reasonable for Markerstudy to settle the 
claim in the way it has.
Like most motor insurance policies, Mr Cs policy includes a term that gives the insurer, 
Markerstudy, the right to settle the claim how it chooses. This is covered in section 4 of Mr 
Cs policy. This explains what happens in the event of a claim arising from an accident. Here 
it says, We shall be entitled to take over and conduct the defence or settlement of any claim 
or prosecute any claim in the name of any person covered by this insurance. This explains 
to the policyholder what steps the insurer may take to resolve a claim, including deciding to 
settle the claim.
And section 5 of the policy deals with the claims procedures and explains We shall have 
discretion in the conduct of any proceedings or in the settlement of any claim.
Markerstudy told Mr C they wouldnt defend the claim because hed confirmed he hit the rear 
of a stationary car. They explained to him that they had a duty to deal with the matter on the 
best terms, and in this case they felt they had to deal with the claim in full. Im satisfied that 
what they did was in line with Mr Cs policy. But I also have to consider if their approach was 
fair and reasonable.
Mr C provided Markerstudy with photographs that he believes show there was no damage to 
the other car. I can see that Markerstudy raised these objections with the other insurer and 
asked it to provide evidence to support the claim. The other insurer supplied an invoice and 
photographs. Markerstudy accepted these, but it also asked one of its expert engineers to 
provide an opinion. I see that he reviewed the invoice and the photos, and felt that the 
images showed that the other car had suffered a moderate impact to the rear. And he said 
the repairs carried out were consistent with a moderate impact to the rear, and the amount 
charged on the invoice seemed fair for the work carried out.
Im satisfied that Markerstudy has taken reasonable steps to satisfy itself the third-party 
claim was genuine, and neither fraudulent or exaggerated.
Where there is conflicting evidence I have to base my decision on what is most likely to have 
happened. In this case, it is not disputed that Mr C drove into the back of the other car, albeit 
at what he says was a low speed. Mr C has provided photographs that do not show any 
obvious signs of damage. But we have a repair invoice that an insurance companys 
engineer says is consistent with the type of damage that can occur after this type of collision 
 an engineer whose role it is to assess damage to motor vehicles following collisions.
 
Mr C seriously doubts the level of damage done to the car. And its difficult to see the 
damage in the photos hes provided. Hes gone as far to say he believes the claim is 
fraudulent. Id expect an insurance company to refuse to pay for the entire claim if it believed 
the claim was exaggerated. But as Ive already said, Im satisfied theyve taken reasonable 
steps, by checking with their engineers, to satisfy themselves that the claim isnt 
exaggerated. And it was in line with what they expected based on their experience.Mr C questioned why Markerstudy settled the claim before theyd completed their own 
investigation. Its industry practice to pay a claim early without admitting liability. This can 
help reduce costs, and recovery could be made from the other insurer if theyd found the 
claim wasnt genuine, or if it found Mr C hadnt been at fault. Not to have done so could have 
resulted in Mr C being liable for higher costs. 
I understand Mr Cs frustration, but Im satisfied that Markerstudy has handled this claim 
fairly and reasonably, in line with his policy, and in line with industry practice.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 21 September 2020.
 
Gordon Ramsay
Ombudsman