DRN-4374579
The complaint
Complaint Mr B complains about the Helvetia Global Solutions Ltd handled a claim he made 
for a damaged sofa under his furniture insurance policy. 
What happened
In late 2022, Mr B made a claim on his policy, he said his leather sofa had been stained by a 
spillage. Helvetia accepted the claim and an attempt was made to clean the leather, when 
that was unsuccessful, it arranged for the stained parts of the sofa, including some sofa 
cushions to be replaced. After some delay, this was done. Mr B complained as he wasnt 
happy about the repair, he said the replacement leather didnt match and he wanted all of 
the cushion covers to be replaced with the new leather. 
Helvetia said the leather was from the same batch, so it didnt agree to do further work on 
the sofa.
 Unhappy with its response, Mr B brought the complaint to our service. When responding to 
this service, Helvetia accepted there was an issue with the first repair booked in, and that 
meant there was a delay with the work being carried out. So it offered £50 for the 
inconvenience caused to Mr B.
Our investigator didnt think Helvetia needed to do any further work to the sofa. He said the 
terms made clear that the colour, shade and appearance of leather is likely to change over 
time. He was satisfied Helvetia had carried out a reasonable repair based on the policy 
terms. He accepted it had taken several months for the replacement leather to come from 
overseas but thought that was outside of Helvetias control. He thought £50 was reasonable 
for the inconvenience caused by Helvetia cancelling the first appointment to replace the 
leather at short notice.
Mr B didnt accept that. He said the technician had caused more damage to the sofa by 
using the wrong cleaning products on it. He also said the sample of leather taken was from 
under the arm of the chair, so it wasnt a match for the sofa cushions. He said hed spent 
around £5,000 on the sofa and was sold the insurance due to the nature of the product, so 
he feels he might have been mis-sold or misled about this. He said the situation had been 
very distressing. 
As Mr B didnt agree, the matter has come to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Under how we will settle claims Mr Bs policy says valid claims will be settled by cleaning 
or repairing the damaged product. If the product cant be cleaned or repaired, we will provide 
a replacement of an alternative settlement. So Ive considered whether Helvetia has acted 
in line with these terms.
Helvetia did try and carry out a clean first, but this didnt resolve the issue. Mr B says the 
technician admitted he didnt have the right cleaning products when he attended to do a 
clean. He said this caused damage to the sofa. Helvetia dispute this claim and said this type 
of leather is difficult to clean, but not impossible. It said the technician wouldnt have known 
whether a clean would work until he attempted it. 
I dont think I need to make a finding on whether the clean was done properly or not. 
Because I dont think it matters to the outcome here. Had the technician thought it couldnt 
be cleaned, then a repair would have been offered straight away, which is what Helvetia 
offered after the attempted clean. There is no suggestion from Mr B that the technician 
damaged parts of the sofa that werent affected by the spillage, so I dont consider hes in a 
worse position from the cleaning being attempted. And I havent seen any evidence that a 
clean would have been successful with any other products used.
Mr B says he was told when he took out the policy that, given the nature of the leather, if one 
part was damaged all of the leather would need to be replaced to ensure a match. But the 
policy makes clear that a repair will be attempted even on leather products. It doesnt say it 
will replace undamaged items where a repair can be carried out. It also says it may offer a 
cash settlement in lieu of repairs, which will be the value of the repairs. Helvetia said this 
would be around £600, this wasnt accepted by Mr B so new leather parts were ordered.
The terms of Mr Bs policy also say where the product is leather, it is noted that the 
appearance of leather can change over time, given the nature of the product. The policy 
says in the event new parts are required, we will supply them based on the original 
appearance of your product. In this case, Helvetia took a sample of the leather from the 
sofa to get the best colour match for the replacement. It also took the batch number from the 
sofa to request the same material. So Im satisfied its supplied parts based on the original 
appearance of the product. 
Mr B says because the leather was taken from under the arm of the sofa, and not the 
cushion, it is a different shade and style. Ive reviewed all of the photographs from Mr B and 
Helvetia. From these, it is difficult to see any difference between the grains and colours of 
the new sofa cushions and the old ones. But I accept that to Mr B, being more familiar with 
the sofa, any differences will be more noticeable. However, I have to decide whether any 
differences in the appearance of the leather means Helvetia has failed to meet its obligations 
under the policy. And having considered everything, I think it has done enough to supply 
new parts based on the original appearance of the product. 
I understand its been a distressing time for Mr B in having his new sofa damaged, but I cant 
award compensation for this unless Im satisfied Helvetia has failed to carry out a reasonable 
repair. 
There was an appointment booked for the sofa to be repaired which then didnt take place, it 
seems the technician injured his hand. It was then about another two months before another 
suitable appointment could be arranged. I appreciate thats inconvenient, but in offering £50 I 
think Helvetias made a reasonable offer to compensate for that inconvenience.
Mr B has raised various comments about what he was told when he was sold the insurance, 
but I cant consider those against Helvetia, as it didnt sell the policy to Mr B. If he has 
concerns about the sale of the policy those need to be directed to whoever he bought the 
insurance from. 
My final decision
My final decision is that Im not going to ask Helvetia Global Solutions do anything 
differently. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 28 November 2023.
 Michelle Henderson
Ombudsman