DRN-3324035
The complaint
Mr E complains Barclays Bank UK PLC trading as Barclaycard didnt treat him fairly when he 
was unable to make his contractual repayments to his credit card account.
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I dont repeat them here. 
Instead, Ill focus on the reasons for my decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr E says he moved abroad for a commission-based job in January 2020 and by 
mid-February 2020 still hadnt received any income and was concerned he didnt have 
enough money to buy food. He contacted Barclaycard. Barclaycard established Mr E 
couldnt afford to make any repayment, so it froze interest and started the default process.
I find Barclaycards actions were fair and reasonable. I say this because Barclaycard couldnt 
set up a reduced repayment plan as Mr E couldnt afford one, there wasnt anything 
compelling to suggest Mr Es circumstances would improve in the short to medium term, and 
by freezing interest and moving to default the account it was ensuring his debt wouldnt 
increase and he wouldnt feel pressured to make repayments he couldnt afford. 
The account defaulted in April 2020, thereby permanently suspending interest and charges.
Mr E says he attempted to contact Barclaycard before the account defaulted but couldnt get 
through. He says this has caused him detriment because he could have had a Covid-related 
payment deferral. I think its most likely, however, Mr E would have been able to get through 
to Barclaycard if hed made a concerted effort. Long wait times are frustrating, but when 
matters are important/urgent - as was the case here - there is a need to persevere. In any 
case, I dont agree Mr E would have been eligible for a Covid-related payment deferral. I say 
this because his financial difficulties stem from him not receiving income while working 
abroad and theres no reference in the contemporaneous notes Ive seen that Covid was 
mentioned as the cause. 
Mr E spoke to Barclaycard in August 2020, some four months after the account had 
defaulted, to ask for the default to be removed. Barclays declined his request. I find this was 
fair and reasonable for the reasons set out above. Mr E spoke to Barclaycard again in 
November 2020 and it was agreed hed make repayments of £50 a month, which appears to 
have been affordable following him starting a new job in August 2020. 
Mr E suggests if he hadnt contacted Barclaycard in February 2020 a default could have 
been avoided. Im not persuaded thats the case. Mr E doesnt appear to have been able to 
make his contractual repayments until late 2020. No repayments to the account from 
February 2020 onwards would most likely have resulted in the account defaulting around 
May/June 2020, and by then interest would have continued to increase the debt. In the 
event, no interest has been charged since February 2020 and when Mr E started making 
repayments, the full repayments would have been used to reduce the outstanding balance, 
rather than mostly covering interest charges. 
I accept this was a difficult time for Mr E and Im sorry to hear of his family bereavement. I 
must, however, approach these matters objectively and having done so Im satisfied 
Barclaycard treated him fairly and reasonably. Im aware Mr E says his other creditors did 
things differently. My role here though, is to consider Barclaycards actions and not those of 
other creditors. 
Mr E may be disappointed with the outcome Ive reached on his complaint. But this final
decision ends what our service can do for him. However, he can reject my decision and 
pursue the matter elsewhere if he wishes to do so.
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr E to accept or 
reject my decision before 20 June 2022.
 
James Langford
Ombudsman