DRN-4050660
The complaint
Mrs J is unhappy with the service received from Great Lakes Insurance SE when seeking 
assistance under her travel insurance policy.
All references to Great Lakes include its medical assistance company. And although Mrs J is 
being represented in this complaint, for ease, Ive referred to the submissions made on her 
behalf as her own. 
What happened
Mrs J had the benefit of an annual travel insurance policy, underwritten by Great Lakes (the 
policy). She travelled abroad in April 2022. Whilst away she injured herself after tripping 
over and was taken to hospital where she was told shed fractured a bone in her lower arm.
She was later discharged from hospital and returned to her daughters holiday home where 
shed been staying (the holiday home), with ambulance staff eventually using equipment to 
assist her to her bedroom upstairs as she was unable to walk due to her fall. 
Mrs J was due to fly back to the UK a few days later and although she was deemed to be fit 
to fly on a commercial flight (subject to some requirements being met), Mrs Js daughter told 
Great Lakes that she and her husband wouldnt be able to move Mrs J from her bedroom 
and assist her downstairs to enable her to be transported to the airport. She also informed 
Great Lakes that Mrs J was unable to care for herself, move unaided or sit up without 
assistance. She also had to buy a commode to put beside her bed so that Mrs J didnt need 
to be assisted to the bathroom.
Great Lakes said it required Mrs J to undergo a further medical assessment to see whether 
she remained fit to fly. After communications with Mrs Js daughter, it arranged for a private 
ambulance to take Mrs J back to hospital. Ambulance staff were able to assist her 
downstairs with equipment. 
Ultimately, Mrs J was still deemed to be fit to fly but on a stretcher flight and with a medical 
escort on the way home. 
Mrs Js daughter contacted Great Lakes to say that the ambulance crew advised they 
wouldnt be able to assist Mrs J back upstairs to her bedroom, and the living room located at 
ground level was unsuitable for her needs as it didnt have a bed or suitable sofa for Mrs J to 
sleep on. 
As there was nothing more the hospital could do from a medical perspective, Mrs J was 
unable to remain there. So, Mrs Js daughter and her husband moved a bed into the living 
room for Mrs J. They say they continued to provide personal assistance to Mrs J  including 
moving her in and out of bed to use the commode, until she was repatriated home a few 
days later. 
In its final response letter dated August 2022, Great Lakes accepts that there was a delay 
with the medical discharge report from the hospital Mrs J was treated at due to a significant 
increase in the volume of new cases itd received. It also accepts that there was a lack of 
empathy when talking to Mrs Js daughter about Mrs J including her state of health, whether 
she was fit to fly, the care she required and how she was going to be moved from her 
bedroom and transported to the airport to board any flight. It didnt offer any compensation. 
Unhappy with the response, Mrs J complained to our service.
Our investigator agreed that the assistance received from Great Lakes couldve been better 
and recommended it pay Mrs J £150 compensation. Great Lakes agreed. It also accepted 
that more couldve been done to assess the assistance required and to ensure 
accommodation was suitable, but this couldnt have been done until a medical report was 
provided  and that was outside of Great Lakes control. Mrs J said this amount wasnt 
sufficient to reflect the distress and inconvenience shed experienced. She felt £500 would 
be fair. 
Our investigator then requested and listened to the recordings of calls which took place 
between Great Lakes representatives and Mrs Js daughter. She issued a second view 
recommending Great Lakes pay £400 compensation. Mrs J disagreed and Great Lakes 
didnt reply. So, this complaint has been passed to me to consider everything afresh and 
decide whats fair and reasonable.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
At the outset I acknowledge that Ive summarised this complaint in far less detail than Mrs J 
has, and in my own words. And Im not going to respond to every single point made. No 
discourtesy is intended by this. Instead, Ive focussed on what I think are the key issues 
here. The rules that govern our service allow me to do this as we are an informal dispute 
resolution service. If theres something Ive not mentioned, it isnt because Ive overlooked it. 
I havent. Im satisfied I dont need to comment on every individual point to be able to reach 
what I think is a fair and reasonable outcome here.
The insurance industry regulator, the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA), has set out rules 
and guidance for insurers in the Insurance: Conduct of Business Sourcebook (ICOBS). 
ICOBS says that insurers should act honestly, fairly and professionally in accordance with
the best interests of their customers. It also says they should handle insurance claims 
promptly and fairly.
I partially uphold this complaint as, for the reasons below, Im satisfied Great Lakes didnt act 
fairly and reasonably when providing medical assistance to Mrs J. 
Under the emergency medical & repatriation expenses section of the policy terms, subject to 
the remaining terms of the policy, it says Great Lakes will pay (up to a stipulated financial 
limit):
- for medical expenses for the immediate needs of an unforeseen medical 
emergency, deemed necessary by a recognised doctor and agreed by our 
medical officer.
- to extend the policyholders stay if its medical assistance team agrees that its 
medically necessary for extra accommodation (room only) and travel 
expensesto allow you to return to your home country. 
Given that Mrs J was particularly vulnerable, her age and her injuries, I think it wouldve 
been reasonable for Great Lakes to have explored Mrs J moving to alternative accommodation, particularly after it was made aware of the difficulties getting her back 
upstairs to her bedroom in the holiday home and the difficulties with her sleeping in the living 
area. If this had been offered, I think its likely this wouldve been accepted, and Mrs J 
couldve been cared for in accommodation that she was able to more easily access and 
more suited to her needs. As such, Im satisfied that Mrs J couldve been made much 
comfortable and this wouldve elevated some of the distress shed experienced by worrying 
about how she would get back up to her room and, thereafter, having to sleep in the living 
room. I accept whats said about this being undignified in the circumstances.  
I havent seen anything from a doctor from around the time showing that Mrs J needed 
medical attention at home. It would appear that the country Mrs J was visiting didnt offer 
general geriatric care and personal social care is expected to be provided by the community. 
However, the hospital report from 2 May 2022 does reflect that its a medical necessity for 
Mrs J to have a nurse escort on the flight back to the UK and she had difficulty standing up 
and mild disorientation. This isnt inconsistent with what Mrs Js daughter was saying to 
Great Lakes about Mrs Js condition at the time; that she wasnt able to independently move 
from her bed, sit up or go to the toilet. 
As such, Mrs Js daughter and her husband had to do this for her  including changing 
disposable incontinent pads and lifting her up. So, I think its fair and reasonable to assume 
that  if asked by Great Lakes at the time  a doctor wouldve recommended some medical 
support outside of hospital for Mrs J whilst awaiting repatriation. And I see no compelling 
reason why this wouldnt have been agreed by Great Lakes. I accept that its likely Mrs J 
wouldve felt less embarrassed by having support from a medical professional rather than 
relying on her daughter and son-in-law for personal assistance  and this wouldve alleviated 
some of the distress shed experienced.
Im also satisfied that Mrs J was put to additional distress including by:
- delays in receiving updates from Great Lakes about the progress of her claim 
particularly as she was due to fly home on 30 April 2022 and worrying how she 
was going to be able to get downstairs from the holiday home. This wouldve 
been compounded by knowing her daughter was having to call Great Lakes to 
chase for updates and having to repeat the same information more than once 
about the circumstances she found herself in.
- Seeing her daughter and son-in-law put to additional and unnecessary stress by 
the nature of the calls and not being given much new information about the 
progress of the claim towards the end of April 2022.
- Great Lakes not informing her daughter to keep receipts for certain things she 
and her husband bought for Mrs J whilst awaiting repatriation, to support claiming 
back the cost later. For example, the commode. 
Im satisfied that £400 fairly reflects the unnecessary distress and inconvenience Mrs J 
experienced as a result of what Great Lakes shouldve done better here.
Whilst I appreciate Mrs Js comments about Great Lakes not offering an interpreter for when 
she was visiting hospital to assist communicating with hospital staff, this wasnt requested at 
the time by Mrs J or her family. In the circumstances of this case, I dont think Great Lakes 
reasonably ought to have proactively asked whether this was required.
I also know Mrs Js daughters unhappy with the overall service she received when calling 
Great Lakes and that she (and her husband) was left to care for Mrs J, at the holiday home, until Mrs J was able to be repatriated back to the UK in early May 2022. However, Mrs Js 
daughter isnt a beneficiary under the policy and so isnt an eligible complainant in respect of 
the complaint Ive been asked to decide. So, I dont have any power to direct Great Lakes to 
pay her any compensation for distress and inconvenience shes personally experienced 
because of what Great Lakes reasonably ought to have done better.
Putting things right
I direct Great Lakes to pay Mrs J £400 compensation for distress and inconvenience.
My final decision
I partially uphold Mrs Js complaint and direct Great Lakes Insurance SE to put things right 
as set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs J to accept or 
reject my decision before 2 June 2023.
 
David Curtis-Johnson
Ombudsman