DRN-4223120
The complaint
Mr B complains that Wirex Limited wont refund unauthorised withdrawals from his account.
What happened
Mr B complains about withdrawals from his Wirex account that took place from around 
December 2020, which he says were unauthorised. Mr B wants Wirex to refund him for 
these withdrawals. 
Wirex doesnt agree that the withdrawals were unauthorised. It points to the fact that Mr B 
topped up his account (which he doesnt dispute) around the time the withdrawals took 
place. Wirex also believes that, although Mr Bs account seems to have been accessed by 
other users via different devices, it thinks this was carried out with Mr Bs consent. 
Initially, Wirex also said that Mr B had disabled two-factor authentication on his account 
around the time and that he wouldve needed to confirm the authenticity of new devices 
accessing to his account via an SMS sent to his mobile.
After Mr B asked this service to get involved, Wirex later confirmed that the two-factor 
authentication on Mr Bs account wasnt disabled around the time. Wirex also couldnt 
evidence that Mr B was sent an SMS to verify new devices accessing his account. Wirex 
concludes that the only explanation as to how the withdrawals took place was that either 
Mr B granted access to a third party by authorising a new device and by changing his 
contact number, or that a third party gained access to Mr Bs phone.
As part of his submissions, Mr B says:
He uses his computer at home and his mobile phone to log into his Wirex account
He thinks his account was compromised around November 2020, given he later 
started seeing unexplained activity  such as emails regarding activity he says he 
didnt carry out
Hes never shared access to his account with anyone else
He agrees that he topped up his Wirex account around the time of the disputed 
withdrawals
Hes unsure of the exact value of the disputed withdrawals 
The contact number associated with his account was changed to an unknown 
international number
He also recently confirmed that he didnt convert his cryptocurrency assets and that 
he intended to grow his investments as well as use his Wirex card for purchases, to 
gain extra tokens
Wirex caused him stress and sleepless nights because it didnt refund him for the 
disputed withdrawals
Our investigator concluded that the withdrawals were unauthorised and asked Wirex to 
refund the disputed withdrawals, as well as pay him £150 compensation. The investigator 
wasnt satisfied that Wirex had provided enough information to support its conclusions that 
Mr B consented to these transactions. 
Wirex didnt agree  so the complaint has been passed to me to have a final say on this 
matter.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I can see that around the time the disputed withdrawals took place, most of the funds Mr B 
held with Wirex were various forms of cryptocurrency. The withdrawals he disputes involved 
converting all these cryptocurrencies into two others  and then transferring them out. 
Its important to note that, although cryptocurrency itself isnt regulated, this service can 
consider complaints involving cryptocurrency where it is ancillary to another regulated 
activity. In this case, the nature of Mr Bs Wirex account allows for transactions using fiat, e-
money, and cryptocurrency under one platform. So wed consider the losses caused by 
unauthorised access to the platform as ancillary to the provision of e-money services.
Wirex can generally only hold Mr B responsible for the disputed withdrawals if the evidence 
suggests it was more likely than not that Mr B authorised them. Wirexs evidence doesnt 
persuade me that this is the case, so Im upholding this complaint. Ill explain why.
Wirex says that it believes Mr B consented to the disputed withdrawals. Wirex has provided 
records showing that Mr B topped up his account several times before the disputed 
withdrawals took place. Wirex thinks that Mr B must have consented given the proximity of 
the top ups and the withdrawals. Wirex adds that Mr B wouldve received an SMS to verify 
any new devices accessing his account and, in doing so, he wouldve authorised the 
withdrawals. However, the information Wirex has sent to us doesnt support these 
conclusions.
Wirex hasnt been able to back-up its assertions with any actual records. It says Mr B 
wouldve verified access to his account by new devices via an SMS sent to him. But Wirex 
doesnt hold any records to persuade me that these were sent to Mr Bs phone, nor has it 
proven that Mr Bs actions in response to the SMS was to authorise a new device. 
In fact, Mr Bs submissions make me think differently. Hes provided information indicating 
that the contact number held on his account was changed from his genuine mobile number 
to a number he doesnt recognise and one that seems to have a non-UK prefix. I havent 
seen anything that suggests Mr B had access to this number nor can I see that he carried 
out the amendment to the contact number registered on his Wirex account.
Wirex has been able to share log in data from around the time. The data indicates that the 
internet protocol (IP) address Mr Bs account was logged in from during the disputed 
withdrawals originated from different non-UK countries. Each of these IP addresses also 
seem to be distinctly different to the IP addresses associated with genuine access carried 
out by Mr B. 
It also seems that, throughout the period that Mr Bs account seems to have been accessed 
from another country, there appears to be multiple instances where his account is logged in 
from the UK. The device names used appear to be associated with Mr B, so Im persuaded 
that this was him logging in. 
If I accept Wirexs position on the disputed withdrawals, this would mean Mr B was logging 
into his account from multiple countries around the same time. This seems highly unusual 
and also unlikely, as well as being atypical of Mr Bs previous account activity. So Im not persuaded that Mr B is responsible for these withdrawals.
Wirex suggests Mr B consented to a third-party accessing his account or that Mr Bs phone 
was compromised. But I cant see how Wirex has arrived at such a conclusion. Theres 
nothing Ive seen that suggests Mr B consented to access by a third-party, so I dont agree 
that this a fair explanation for the disputed withdrawals. Theres also no report of Mr B either 
misplacing or having his phone compromised in any way. 
Wirex has also been inconsistent with its submissions, which leads me to doubt that such 
conclusions are the product of a thorough, evidenced investigation. Wirex initially told this 
service that it was Mr B that disabled the two-factor authentication on his account  but it 
recently told us this wasnt the case. Wirex also suggests Mr B amended the contact number 
on his account but couldnt substantiate this submission with any records to confirm. 
Instead, the information Ive seen persuades me that Mr B took steps to flag unexplained 
activity on his account  including when he had problems accessing his account and when 
he received a notification that the two-factor authentication on his account had been 
removed. So I dont think its likely that Mr B granted a third-party access to his account. 
So, although Wirex has submitted some records and evidence, theres nothing that makes 
me think Mr B authorised the disputed withdrawals. Based on what Ive seen, Im satisfied 
that these withdrawals were unauthorised by Mr B and so he should be refunded. 
Putting things right
Wirex unfairly decided that Mr B was responsible for the withdrawals hes disputing. 
Although Mr Bs losses were mainly formed of cryptocurrency, I wont be awarding this type 
of asset as it is unregulated, and its value can also be volatile. I also cant say for certain 
what Mr B wouldve done with his cryptocurrency in the period after the disputed 
withdrawals, had the funds not been taken.
To put things right, Wirex should pay Mr B the value of the cryptocurrency assets on the day 
the disputed withdrawals were carried out. Wirex should also refund the disputed fiat 
withdrawals and include 8% simple interest from the date of the withdrawal to the date of 
settlement. 
Additionally, Wirex should pay Mr B £150 compensation because of the stress it caused him.
My final decision
Im upholding this complaint. Wirex Limited should settle this complaint in line with what Ive 
set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 29 September 2023.
 
Abdul Ali
Ombudsman