DRN-1472055
The complaint
Mr C complains about comments made in National Westminster Bank plc's 
("Natwest") records regarding his complaints history.
What happened
Mr C holds a bank account with Natwest. He made a complaint to Natwest as he was 
unhappy about the service hed received. He then made a subject access request, asking for 
information held by Natwest about him. 
In the information he received, there were comments which referred to him being a frequent 
complainer. The notes also said hed previously been employed by Natwest and that it was 
believed he was using his awareness of banking processes to seek extensive 
compensation. 
Mr C was unhappy about this and submitted a further complaint to Natwest. It said the 
description of Mr C as a frequent complainer was a statement of fact, given the number of 
complaints hed made. It apologised for the comments about him using his previous work to 
his advantage.
Mr C didnt accept this and brought his complaint to our service. Our investigator thought 
Natwests response was fair. Its description of Mr C was a reflection that hed made a 
number of complaints to Natwest. And while he understood Mr C was upset about what had 
been said about his previous work, he didnt think Natwest needed to do anything more than 
apologise at it had already done. Mr C remained dissatisfied and asked for an ombudsmans 
decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I understand Mr C was upset by the comments made in Natwests notes. But Im not 
persuaded I should ask Natwest to do any more than its already done. Ill explain why.
Mr C has highlighted two comments which upset him, so Ill address each in turn. Mr C 
believes Natwests reference to him as a frequent complainer was meant negatively. But I 
cant agree this is the case. The context of this comment was that the advisor who wrote it 
was seeking to escalate Mr Cs complaint to a specialist team and so was giving their 
reasons for this. And its not disputed that Mr C had made 20 complaints to Natwest in six 
years. So on that basis, Im satisfied that Natwests description of Mr C as a frequent 
complainer was a statement of fact. I understand why Mr C believes theres a negative 
connotation to this description, but Im not persuaded that theres enough evidence to say 
this comment was made with that intention.
The second comment Mr C disagrees with is the characterisation of him as an ex-employee 
of Natwest using his knowledge of its processes to seek extensive compensation. Natwest 
has acknowledged this comment may be inappropriate. I agree with this. While Mr C was a former employee, Ive seen nothing to support a view that Mr C was using this to put himself 
in an advantageous position when making complaints. 
But Natwest has offered an apology for this comment. Im satisfied this is enough in the 
circumstances. I understand this would have been upsetting for Mr C, but I dont think the 
distress caused by reading this comment justifies any further recognition by Natwest beyond 
the apology its offered.
My final decision
Its my final decision that I don't uphold this complaint and will not be asking National 
Westminster Bank plc to do any more.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 13 February 2020.
Ben Williams
Ombudsman