DRN-3630325
The complaint
Mr J complains that TSB Bank plc mis-sold him unsecured loans and that has caused him
financial hardship
.What happened
In October 2015, Mr J took out a loan with TSB for £10,000 over a term of 42 months with a
fixed interest rate of 12.68%.
In February 2016, Mr J refinanced the remaining balance of his loan with TSB for 
£9,688.71 over a term of 39 months with a fixed interest rate of 3.87%. He also took out 
another loan for £19,533 over a term, of 48 months also with a fixed rate of 3.87%.
In November 2017 Mr J took out another loan with TSB for £22,600 over a term of 87 
months with a fixed interest rate of 9.6% and payments of £370.53 a month.
Mr J complained that TSB mis-sold the loans in 2015 and 2016. He said that it 
approached him to review his finances  but rather than do that, it sold him the two loans. 
And it didnt properly assess whether the loans were affordable. Mr J added that he was 
vulnerable and suffered mental health problems.,
Mr J said that he two loans caused him financial difficulty. But in 2017, when he approached 
TSB for help, it offered him another loan to repay the two existing loans, but only by way of 
another loan with a higher interest rate. Mr J considered that TSB should have extended the 
term at a lower interest at the same interest rate to help him. He also said that it has told 
him that the only way it could offer him further help was if the loan was in arrears.
The investigator didnt think the complaint should be upheld. When it was referred to me and 
I asked TSB for more information about the 2017 loan application. When I received that 
information I issued a provisional decision. While the outcome was the same as the 
investigators, the reasons were different and in the interest of fairness I had to give Mr J the 
opportunity to comment on the new evidence. 
My provisional findings, which form part of this decision, were:
TSB should carry out reasonable and proportionate checks into the affordability and 
sustainability of any loans it grants. That wont be a one size fits all approach. It will 
depend on the borrowers circumstances, how much they are looking to borrow and the 
terms of any loan.
2015 loan
Mr J hasnt complained about the loan he took in October 2015. But I think it is relevant 
here because that loan was refinanced in 2016  and Mr J is complaining about the 2016 
loan. Further, it is relevant as it establishes the pattern of borrowing.
TSBs notes show that it Mr J wanted the loan primarily to repay other debts. The evidence 
it has provided shows that it carried out a credit scoring exercise, considered Mr Js 
income and expenditure and sense checked his bank statements (he had a bank account 
with TSB). Looking at the circumstances here, I think that reasonable checks were carried 
out  and that it was reasonable for TSB to lend Mr J the amount it did.
2016 loans
In February 2016, Mr J refinanced the remaining balance of his 2015 loan at a lower 
interest rate. He also borrowed a further £10,000 to repay other debts.
TSB carried out a credit score and looked at Mr Js income and expenditure. Its notes say 
that the loan would give Mr J a bit of breathing space with moving and buying 
furnituresaving around £400pm with the re-finance.
Its not clear from the notes whether TSB checked Mr Js bank account or not. If it had 
done so, it would have seen that Mr J was again making payments towards all of the credit 
card balances he had cleared with the 2015 loan.
I think it would be difficult for me to criticise TSB for refinancing the 2015 loan at a lower 
interest rate  given I have found that it was a reasonable decision to lend Mr J that 
amount.
I think TSB should have reviewed Mr Js financial situation more closely in respect of the 
sustainability of his position. This was Mr Js second debt consolidation in around four 
months. He had accumulated a relatively significant amount of debt in a short period of 
time.
On the other hand, there was no suggestion that Mr J was struggling or couldnt manage 
his finances. The bank account was operated within its agreed overdraft limit. Mr J had 
recently moved, which hed explained accounted for the need for the loan. And the loan 
reduced his outgoings by £400 per month.
Overall, while I can see the argument that TSB should have had concerns about the 
sustainability of the 2016 loan and should have carried out more thorough checks than it 
did, if it had done so I consider that it would have been reasonable for it to conclude that 
the loan was affordable and sustainable.
2017 loan
It isnt in dispute that Mr J told TSB that he was experiencing financial difficulty in 2017  
and that he was looking for help with his loan.
TSB has told us that it operates a policy where it explores refinancing existing borrowing to 
make the repayments more affordable, with the aim of preventing the borrower falling into 
arrears.
TSB said it would have carried out an income and expenditure exercise to determine if the 
loan was affordable  but it has no record of the information submitted. It has provided a 
copy of a script it said would have been read to Mr J. that includes reference to obtaining 
details of Mr Js income and expenditure. It also said that Mr J maintained the payments 
for some time  and that when it gathered information about his income and expenditure 
in 2021, there was surplus income available.
Restructuring borrowing is a legitimate thing for a lender to offer borrowers who may be 
experiencing financial difficulty  and can be a positive step. It reduced Mr Js outgoings 
and unlike other concessions would not have been recorded as adverse information on his 
credit file. Mr J was able to maintain the payments for some time. Based on the evidence 
we have, it seems more likely than not that TSB did carry out an affordability assessment 
and that (initially at least) the revised loan was affordable.I see Mr Js point that it appears unfair that TSB took advantage of his position to charge 
him a higher interest rate than he had previously. But it isnt out of line with normal practice 
for lenders to charge a higher interest rate to reflect greater risk to it. There may well be 
situations where a it wouldnt be appropriate for a lender to do that. But in the 
circumstances here I dont consider it was unfair. It was essentially an opportunity for Mr J 
to restructure his finances and make them more affordable before he fell into greater 
difficulty. And I think that was a reasonable offer from TSB, along with refunding bank 
charges. It was Mr Js decision to accept that offer.
Im afraid there is no evidence that Mr J made TSB aware of any vulnerability at the time e
loan was granted. So I cant see any reason why it ought to have adjusted its approach.
TSB accepted my provisional decision. Mr J did not respond.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In the absence of any new evidence or arguments, I see no reason to change the decision I 
proposed in my provisional decision. TSB should have carried out more thorough checks 
than it did in respect of the 2016 loans  but if it had it seems that it would still have been a 
reasonable decision to lend Mr J the amount it did. The 2017 consolidation loan was a 
positive step in view of all the circumstances at the time in question.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr J to accept or 
reject my decision before 1 September 2022.
 
Ken Rose
Ombudsman