DRN-4099522
The complaint
Mr O has complained about how Domestic & General Insurance Plc (D&G) dealt with a claim 
under a boiler care policy.
What happened
Mr O contacted D&G when he found a fault with his boiler. D&G sent an engineer, who had 
to order a part and then return to fix the boiler. Mr O complained because he said he was left 
without heating and hot water. D&G replied and said the delay in dealing with the boiler 
didnt meet its expected service levels. It said it had already refunded £90 and would now 
refund a further £170.
Mr O complained again, as he said D&Gs engineers left him with a boiler that wasnt in good 
working order. When D&G replied, it didnt uphold the complaint. It said when one engineer 
visited, they repaired the leak and fitted a new PCB. Another engineer visited a short time 
later and was unable to find an ongoing fault.
When Mr O complained to this service, he said D&G should refund the cost of a new boiler 
hed had to fit because he was left with a non-working boiler. Our investigator didnt uphold 
the complaint. She said there wasnt evidence to show the boiler wasnt working. She said 
the refunds D&G offered were reasonable in the circumstances.
As Mr O didnt agree, the complaint was referred to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I dont require D&G to do anything further. I will explain why.
Mr O has said D&G was unable to repair his boiler and, as he then replaced it, D&G should 
pay for his new boiler. Ive looked at the records, these showed that when one of the 
engineers visited, Mr O was left without heating and hot water for a few days. D&G offered 
compensation because of the inconvenience to Mr O, including to cover the costs of any 
heaters. However, the records show that the engineer was able to repair the boiler when he 
returned with a part. 
Another engineer visited a short while later to carry out further checks. The records indicated 
that the boiler was working and I havent seen any other evidence that showed me this 
wasnt the case. Im aware Mr O spoke to D&G a couple of times following the engineers 
visits, including to chase an invoice payment and, later, to cancel the policy. However, I 
havent seen evidence that Mr O told D&G his boiler wasnt working or that this was the 
reason the boiler was replaced. So, Im not persuaded that D&G needed to pay for a new 
boiler.
I also note the policy said that if it replaced a boiler, it would either provide the replacement 
boiler itself or, if it was unable to do so, it would provide manufacturer credit or vouchers. In 
both cases, this was up to the value of £750. It didnt say it would pay for a new boiler where 
a policyholder had arranged the boiler replacement themselves and without D&G being 
aware of it happening, which is what seems to have happened here.
Thinking about all of the above, I havent seen evidence that showed D&G was unable to 
repair the boiler or that Mr O replacing the boiler himself was covered by the terms of the 
policy. I think what D&G has offered was reasonable to address the issues when Mr O was 
left without heating and hot water. As a result, I dont require D&G to do anything further.
My final decision
For the reasons I have given, it is my final decision that Domestic & General Insurance Plc 
does not need to do anything further in relation to this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr O to accept or 
reject my decision before 11 July 2023.
 
Louise O'Sullivan
Ombudsman