The complaint
Mr G complains that Monzo Bank Ltd won't refund two payments that he says he neither 
made himself nor authorised anyone else to make.
What happened
In November 2019 Mr G received a payment of compensation in respect of a personal injury 
claim. He made some payments to individuals but paid most of it into his savings account. 
Over a three-day period, £600 was paid from his savings account to his account with Monzo, 
£100 was paid back to the savings account and two online purchases were made using Mr 
G's Monzo account; one was made using his card details and the other using a payment app 
installed on his mobile phone. They totalled nearly £500; Mr G said he didn't make them and 
knew nothing about them. He asked Monzo to investigate. 
Monzo looked into what had happened. It thought it was more likely than not, however, that 
Mr G had been responsible for the payments. It noted that the phone payment would have 
required the use of his mobile phone, which was secured by his fingerprint and a passcode. 
The card payment was subject to 3D Secure authentication, meaning additional security 
checks were carried out; Monzo says those checks required the use of a personal 
identification number. 
Monzo also said that there had been undisputed transfers to and from Mr G's savings 
account at around the same time as the disputed payments. This, it said, indicated that Mr G 
would have been aware of the activity on his account at the time. Mr G said however that 
he'd been unaware of the transfers until Monzo had raised them. He said too that he had 
been at a family event at the time of the payments and it was possible that someone there 
had been able to use his phone and card without his knowledge or consent. 
Monzo acknowledged that, in dealing with Mr G's concerns, it hadn't always contacted him 
when it said it would and paid in £60 in recognition of that. It wouldn't however refund the 
disputed payments.
Mr G referred the matter to this service and one of our investigators considered it. He 
thought it was more likely than not that Mr G either made the payments himself or authorised 
someone else to do so. He didn't recommend that Monzo refund them. Mr G didn't accept 
the investigator's recommendations and asked that an ombudsman review the case.      
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Having done so, however, I've reached 
DRN-1879995broadly the same conclusions as the investigator did, and for similar reasons.
The first payment which Mr G disputes was made using the payment app installed on his 
mobile phone. His phone is secured by fingerprint and a passcode. Mr G has suggested that 
someone could have taken his phone and, having observed him using his passcode, 
accessed it. He's suggested too that the same person might have changed the fingerprint 
recognition on the phone to their own. He says he had to change the settings later. 
I can't rule out the possibility that someone watched Mr G use his passcode and then later 
took advantage of that when he left his phone unattended. It does however strike me as 
unlikely. And I note as well that there's no evidence other than Mr G's own submissions of 
any change to the phone's security settings.
The second disputed payment was made two days later using Mr G's card details. 
Monzo says it was subject to 3D Secure verification; that is, additional checks were made, 
and the payment wasn't approved simply because the card details matched. Monzo's own 
records indicate that was the case, and I accept that they do demonstrate an additional level 
of security. Those records also indicate that the additional check needed was the entry of Mr 
G's PIN in the Monzo app. He's suggested that someone could have seen his PIN, since he 
hasn't shared it with anyone and doesn't keep a record of it. Again, I can't rule out the 
possibility that someone did use Mr G's card details and was able to pass additional security 
checks, but I think it unlikely.
I'm not persuaded that someone was able to observe Mr G using his phone and then take it 
and use it to make a payment and then, two days later, do something very similar using his 
card details. And if they had been able to make transfers from Mr G's savings account, I 
think it's unlikely that they wouldn't have made more; it's even less likely that they would 
have transferred money back into that account, as Mr G suggested had happened. 
In my view, the most likely explanation for what has happened here is that Mr G either made 
the disputed payments himself or authorised someone else to make them. Either way, it 
wouldn't be fair to require Monzo to reimburse them.   
My final decision
My final decision is that I don't require Monzo Bank Ltd to take any further steps to resolve 
Mr G's complaint. Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask 
Mr G to accept or reject my decision before 28 July 2020.
Mike Ingram
Ombudsman