DRN-2842676
The complaint
Mr W complains about the quality of a car he has been financing through an agreement with 
Santander Consumer (UK) Plc (Santander).  
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again 
here. Instead Ill focus on giving my reasons for my decision. 
  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I know it will disappoint Santander, but I agree with the investigators opinion. Please let me 
explain why.
Where the information Ive got is incomplete, unclear or contradictory, as some of it is here I 
have to base my decision on the balance of probabilities.
Ive read and considered the whole file, but Ill concentrate my comments on what I think is 
relevant. If I dont comment on any specific point its not because Ive failed to take it on 
board and think about it but because I dont think I need to comment on it in order to reach 
what I think is the right outcome.
Mr W acquired his car under a conditional sale agreement. This is a regulated consumer 
credit agreement and as a result our service is able to look into complaints about it.  
The relevant law says, amongst other things, that the car should have been of satisfactory 
quality when supplied. If it wasnt then Santander, who are also the supplier of the car, are 
responsible. The relevant law also says the quality of goods is satisfactory if they meet the 
standard that a reasonable person would consider satisfactory taking into account any 
description of the goods, the price and all the other relevant circumstances. 
In a case like this which involves a car the other relevant circumstances would include things 
like the age and mileage at the time the car was supplied to Mr W. The car here was about 
five years old and had already completed 41,585 miles. So, I think a reasonable person 
would expect some wear and tear, but I dont think a reasonable person would expect the 
start stop function not to be working correctly. That would have some impact on the cars 
omissions and fuel efficiency.
The relevant legislation explains that if the fault occurs within the first six months we are to 
assume it was present at the point of supply, when Santander were responsible for its 
quality, unless they can demonstrate otherwise. The fault with the start/stop was reported 
the day after Mr W took delivery of the car and Im persuaded that it is likely it remained 
unresolved until 28 August 2020 when the dealership completed repairs.
I dont think Santander have been able to demonstrate the fault wasnt present at the point of 
supply as the independent inspector didnt drive the car and could not therefore reliably 
comment on it.
So, I dont think this car was of satisfactory quality when it was supplied to Mr W.
Putting things right
Mr W doesnt want to reject the car but does understandably want to be compensated for the 
distress and inconvenience hes experienced and the loss of use of his car.
Im persuaded the problem with the start/stop function impacted Mr W from 29 September 
2019 to 28 August 2020. Whilst Mr W has been able to cover a reasonable mileage in the 
car in that time and has benefitted from the other functions of his car. The start/stop problem 
has plagued him from the onset of the agreement and there have been other problems that 
were clearly present at the point of supply that will have impacted on the use Mr W has had 
of the car i.e. the key fob and battery issues. In the circumstances, I would agree with the 
investigator that Santander should refund 10% of the finance instalments Mr W paid until the 
issues with the car were resolved on 28 August 2020.
Mr W has clearly been inconvenienced by these issues. Hes had to take the car back to the 
dealership on several occasions and hes had to commission a diagnostic report to 
demonstrate the problem with the car. I think Santander should pay him £250 to compensate 
him for the distress and inconvenience experienced and that they should refund the £137.95 
he paid for diagnostics. 
Santander will need to add interest to the refunds they make as Mr W has been deprived of 
the money.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above I uphold this complaint and tell Santander Consumer (UK) 
Plc to:
refund 10% of any finance instalments Mr W has paid from the start of the agreement 
until 28 August 2020 when the car was repaired, in respect of the impaired use Mr W 
has experienced. Add 8% simple interest per year from the date of payment to the 
date of settlement.
pay Mr W £250 to compensate him for the distress and inconvenience caused;
refund the £137.95 Mr W paid for diagnostics and add 8% simple interest per year 
from the date of payment (28 February 2020) to the date of settlement;
remove any adverse reports they may have made to Mr Ws credit file.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision before 16 July 2021.
 
Phillip McMahon
Ombudsman