DRN-4113353
The complaint
Ms Z complains that Revolut Ltd wont refund the money she lost when she fell victim to a 
scam.
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties. So rather than repeat them all 
again here, Ill briefly summarise the key points.
Around August 2022, Ms Z saw an advert on social media for a trading company, L. They 
instructed her to set up cryptocurrency wallets to convert her funds to cryptocurrency, and 
then load it on to their platform. 
After making three payments totalling £4,900, she asked to withdraw some funds. L told her 
she had to pay tax to do so  and she made a final payment of around €5,100. But they still 
wouldnt let her withdraw any funds. Ms Z realised L were a scam.
Shortly after, supported by a professional representative, Ms Z complained to Revolut  as 
she had transferred her funds from there, on to the cryptocurrency wallets, and then on to L. 
She said Revolut had failed to protect her from fraud as the payments were uncharacteristic 
 and if Revolut had spoken to her about them, the fraud would have been prevented.
Revolut didnt agree to refund Ms Z. So she referred the matter on to our service. Our 
investigator didnt uphold the complaint. He noted that Ms Z had previously used Revolut for 
cryptocurrency activity. Overall, he didnt think the payments looked significantly out of 
keeping with the expected account activity. So he didnt think Revolut had cause to intervene 
when processing them. Nor did he think it could have successfully recovered the funds.
Ms Z has appealed. In summary, she says the final payment was a significant increase, so 
should have prompted intervention. And more widely, the pattern of opening a new account 
and making cryptocurrency payments is a fraud trend it should have known about. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the conclusions reached by the investigator for these reasons. 
In line with the Payment Services Regulations 2017 (PSRs), Revolut is expected to execute 
authorised payment instructions without undue delay. So, as Ms Z made these payments  
albeit due to being tricked by the scammers  the starting position is that she is presumed 
liable. 
However, there are circumstances when it might be appropriate for Revolut, as an electronic 
money institute (EMI), to identify a fraud risk and to therefore take additional steps before 
processing a payment. Such as when the payment appears significantly unusual or 
uncharacteristic.
Ive considered the payments made, to see whether Revolut had cause to be concerned 
about fraud.  And Im not persuaded it should have done.
While I appreciate Ms Zs points about cryptocurrency payments from new accounts, as the 
investigator pointed out, she opened her account with Revolut around four months prior to 
the scam. So it wasnt immediately utilised to make large cryptocurrency payments to a 
scam. Instead, Im looking at how Ms Z was using her account in the run up to the scam, to 
see if there was a significant change that Revolut ought to have identified as indicative of 
fraud.  
I therefore agree with the investigator that its relevant Ms Z was using her Revolut account 
for cryptocurrency activity prior to the scam. That means the type of payment/recipients 
wouldnt have appeared particularly uncharacteristic.
Nor do I think the payment values were significant enough that Revolut ought to have been 
concerned about fraud. While I accept they were an increase compared to the previous 
payments, they werent so significantly high to the extent I think they should have prompted 
further checks. Thats bearing in mind, as mentioned above, that cryptocurrency payments 
wouldnt have appeared uncharacteristic.
The last payment, at over €5,000, was the most significant. But by that point, there was an 
established pattern of cryptocurrency payments  including payments in the thousands. 
Ms Z had already paid £3,400 to a cryptocurrency merchant in one day. And so Im not 
persuaded the final payment constituted a significant enough change to warrant further 
checks. In line with its regulatory duties, I consider it reasonable that Revolut processed the 
payments in line with Ms Zs instructions.   
I also agree with the investigator that Revolut couldnt have helped recover the payments. 
For the funds sent by bank transfer, we know from the nature of the scam that the funds 
were moved on from the account paid directly, to Ls scam platform. So Revolut couldnt 
have successfully recalled the funds. 
Nor could Revolut have raised successful chargeback claims for the card payments. As 
above, Ms Z used her debit card to pay legitimate crypto-exchange platforms before the 
funds were subsequently transferred on to the scammer. So she wouldnt be able to make a 
successful chargeback claim in these circumstances because the service would be 
considered provided (i.e. the purchase of cryptocurrency). 
I appreciate this will be disappointing for Ms Z. But in the circumstances, Im not persuaded 
Revolut made mistakes which caused or contributed to her loss. So it wouldnt be fair for me 
to hold it liable. 
My final decision
For the reasons given above, my final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms Z to accept or 
reject my decision before 16 October 2023.
 
Rachel Loughlin
Ombudsman