DRN-3155751
The complaint
Mr A is unhappy with how Close Brothers Limited dealt with his request for assistance as a 
result of the Coronavirus (Covid-19) pandemic.
What happened
In January 2019, Mr A was supplied with a used car through a conditional sale agreement 
with Close Brothers. The agreement was for £12,179 over 48 months; with 47 monthly 
repayments of £316.35 and a final payment of £326.35. 
On 18 March 2020, Mr A contacted Close Brothers to tell them he was experiencing financial 
difficulties, which he says were as a result of the Covid-19 pandemic. Close Brothers said 
they would monitor the situation and, once things improved, they could look to put a payment 
arrangement in place to clear any arrears. And, on the advice of Close Brothers, Mr A 
cancelled his direct debit and stopped making payments.
The Financial Conduct Authority (FCA) issued temporary guidance, that came into effect on 
27 April 2020, about customers who were faced with payment difficulties as a result of 
Covid-19. And, as part of this guidance, the FCA said financial businesses shouldnt 
terminate an agreement, or repossess a car, where the customer is experiencing temporary 
payment difficulties because of Covid-19.
Between April and June 2020, Close Brothers unsuccessfully tried to call Mr A on three 
occasions. They also wrote to him on four occasions, and emailed him once, asking him to 
contact them. Because he didnt, Close Brothers terminated the agreement and repossessed 
the car.
Mr A complained to Close Brothers that they shouldnt have repossessed the car because 
he was on an agreed payment deferral (also known as a payment holiday). And, that hes 
not received any repossession documents. Mr A also said that, when the car was being 
collected, his 14-year-old son was threatened.
Close Brothers didnt think theyd done anything wrong and didnt uphold Mr As complaint. 
Mr A wasnt happy with this, and he brought his complaint to us for investigation.
Our investigator said hed seen no evidence that Mr A had ever asked for a payment 
deferral, or that Close Brothers had ever agreed one. But he didnt think that Close Brothers 
had acted reasonably by repossessing the car, as Mr As financial difficulties were as a 
result of the Covid-19 pandemic.
The investigator said that Close Brothers had sold the car after repossession, and this left an 
outstanding balance of £3,669.77. Which Close Brothers sold to a debt collection agency. 
But, at the time the car was repossessed, Mr A was only £1,265.40 in arrears. So, he said 
that Close Brothers should recall the debt from the debt collection agency and reduce the 
balance to £1,256.40. He said Close Brothers should also amend Mr As credit file; make an 
arrangement with Mr A to repay the reduced outstanding amount; show the agreement as 
settled once this amount has been repaid; and pay Mr A an additional £300 for the trouble 
and upset hed been caused by having the car incorrectly repossessed.
The investigator also said that because hed seen no evidence of what had happened when 
the car was collected, he couldnt fairly say that Close Brothers had done anything wrong in 
this respect.
Close Brothers didnt agree with the investigator. They said that, because Mr A had fallen 
into financial difficulties before the FCA issued their guidance, then their normal arrears 
process was correctly applied  Mr A didnt fall into arrears as a result of Covid-19. And, 
because theyd unsuccessfully tried to contact Mr A on a number of occasions, they feel 
theyd acted correctly by repossessing the car. Close Brothers also didnt think it was fair to 
compensate Mr A, because the situation was avoidable if hed contacted them.
Because Close Brothers didnt agree with the investigator, this has been passed to me to 
make a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive reached the same overall conclusions as the investigator, and for 
broadly the same reasons. If I havent commented on any specific point, its because I dont 
believe its affected what I think is the right outcome.
In considering this complaint Ive had regard to the relevant law and regulations; any 
regulators rules, guidance and standards, codes of practice, and (if appropriate) what I 
consider was good industry practice at the time. Mr A was supplied with a car under a 
conditional sale agreement. This is a regulated consumer credit agreement which means 
were able to look into complaints about it. 
The basic facts about Close Brothers unsuccessful attempts to contact Mr A, and their 
eventual repossession of the car, arent in dispute. Because of this, my decision will focus on 
Mr As initial contact with Close Brothers in March 2020, and what I think derives from that.
On 16 March 2020 the UK Government issued advice on actions to be taken to stop the 
spread of Covid-19. This included stopping all non-essential travel and contact and asking 
people to work from home where possible. And, on 23 March 2020, this became a national 
lockdown, with people being told they needed to stay at home, and with all non-essential 
businesses being closed.
Ive seen Close Brothers system notes for 18 March 2020, which say hirer called in. Said 
he is a Private Hire taxi driver and work has severely reduced and wanted to know what he 
can do as payment next week wont go out. This note doesnt record the reason why Mr As 
work had reduced.
Close Brothers havent provided a copy of the call itself, so I dont know the reason Mr A 
gave for his financial difficulties. However, I think its more likely than not this is something 
Close Brothers wouldve asked, as any advice they provided wouldve needed to be based 
on the reasons for the financial difficulties and a likely timescale as to when the situation 
could change. And, as Close Brothers said they would reassess his circumstances every 1-
2 weeks, the given reason was likely to be because of a temporary or evolving situation 
such as the developing Covid-19 pandemic.The guidance issued by the FCA in April 2020 clearly stated firms should not take steps to 
terminate the agreement or seek to repossess the vehicle  where the customer is 
experiencing temporary payment difficulties as a result of circumstances relating to 
coronavirus  we consider that seeking to terminate the agreement or commencing 
repossession action as described above is very likely to contravene Principle 6.  
FCA Principle 6 says a firm must pay due regards to the interests of its customers and treat 
them fairly.
Close Brothers did not record the reason why Mr A was experiencing financial difficulties. 
But, given the timing of his contact, his occupation, the government advice in place at the 
time, and that he hadnt missed any payments to that point; Im satisfied that his financial 
difficulties was most likely as a result of Covid-19. And I dont think the fact that Mr A 
contacted Close Brothers before either the first national lockdown or the FCA issuing their 
guidance changes that.
If, from the evidence they had to hand, Close Brothers werent sure of the reasons why Mr A 
was suffering financial difficulties; for the reasons stated above Im satisfied that the FCA 
guidance and Principle 6 gave them the obligation to establish this before they started 
repossession proceedings. Im aware that Close Brothers made attempts to contact Mr A, 
but none of these contacts were specifically asking Mr A whether his financial difficulties 
were as a result of Covid-19. So, Im not satisfied that Close Brothers took reasonable steps 
to establish whether they were able to start repossession proceedings or not. And, because 
of this, I dont this that repossessing the car was either fair or reasonable in the 
circumstances.
Putting things right
As I dont think that Close Brothers acted reasonably by repossessing the car, I need to 
consider how to put Mr A back in the position he wouldve been if this hadnt happened. But, 
because the car was subsequently sold by Close Brothers, for less than was outstanding on 
the finance agreement, its no longer possible to return the car to him.
At the time the car was repossessed, Mr A was four months in arrears. And, had Close 
Brothers established the reasons why he was in financial difficulties was due to Covid-19, 
Im satisfied they wouldve considered the payment deferral options contained within the 
FCA guidance. While this wouldnt mean the arrears were written off, it would mean that 
Close Brothers wouldnt report this as arrears to the credit reference agency.
And repossessing the car when they did meant Mr A was severely inconvenienced. He was 
using the car to take an elderly relative to hospital appointments, and the car he was using 
as a taxi was off the road and uninsured because he wasnt working. Which meant he was 
without transport at a critical time. Because of this, Im satisfied that Close Brothers should 
compensate Mr A for this.
So, Close Brothers should:
recall the debt from the debt collection agency, and reduce the outstanding amount 
to £1,256.40  the amount of the arrears at the time of repossession;
remove any adverse credit relating to the agreement from Mr As credit file; and
pay Mr A £300 to compensate him for the trouble and upset caused by the incorrect 
repossession of the car.
Close Brothers should also contact Mr A with a view to arranging a suitable repayment plan 
for the outstanding amount.My final decision
For the reasons explained, I uphold Mr As complaint. Close Brothers Limited must follow my 
directions above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision before 12 January 2022.
 
Andrew Burford
Ombudsman