DRN-2004725
The complaint
Mr N is unhappy that Aviva Insurance Limited has decided to stop providing cover for 
treatment of kidney stones under his private medical insurance policy. 
What happened
In October 2019, Mr N contacted Aviva to register a claim. He said he was having 
reoccurring symptoms which he thought was related to his kidney stones  such as having 
difficulty emptying his bladder and passing urine. As Mr N had previously received treatment 
for the same condition, Aviva requested details from his specialist. Following a review of the 
medical information, Aviva told Mr N that it would no longer provide cover for his kidney 
stones, and any related conditions, as it considered this to be a chronic condition as 
described in the policy terms and conditions. But it did agree to continue to provide cover for 
this until the end of the policy year  which expired on 30 June 2020. And it offered Mr N 
£250 as compensation for the distress caused to him.
Unhappy with this outcome, Mr N complained to Aviva and then brought his complaint to this 
service. Our investigator looked into the complaint but didnt agree that Aviva needed to do 
anything more. She found that the medical evidence showed that the production of kidney 
stones fell within the definition of a long-term condition and that it continues to reoccur. She 
said this suggests that ongoing or long-term monitoring is required which would fall under 
the definition of a chronic condition. As a result, she felt Aviva had acted fairly and in 
accordance with the policy terms and conditions when making the decision to restrict the 
cover under his policy.
Mr N disagreed with the investigators view. He said that the policy did provide cover for 
unexpected flare-ups for chronic conditions and he said the flare-ups of his condition were 
unexpected  so this should be accepted for cover. As no agreement could be reached the 
complaint has been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The policy Mr N took out with Aviva covers what it calls acute conditions, which it defines as 
a disease, illness or injury that is likely to respond quickly to treatment which aims to 
return you to the state of health you were in immediately before suffering from it, or which 
leads to your full recovery
The policy doesnt cover treatment of chronic conditions and the definition of a chronic 
condition is as follows:
A disease, illness or injury that has one or more of the following characteristics:
 it needs ongoing or long-term monitoring through consultations, examinations, 
check-ups and/or tests
 it needs ongoing or long term control or relief of symptoms
 it requires your rehabilitation or for you to be specially trained to cope with it
 it continues indefinitely
 it has no known cure
 it comes back or is likely to come back.
It is important to point out that my role isnt to say whether or not I think the condition of 
kidney stones is medically chronic. Instead, I need to decide whether it was reasonable for 
Aviva to withdraw cover for this condition at the end of the policy year because it thinks the 
condition falls under its definition of a chronic condition.
From the claims notes and medical information supplied I can see that Mr N has been 
having consultations and receiving treatment for bladder problems related to kidney stones 
for a number of years. And the correspondence from his specialist shows an ongoing 
monitoring of his condition since 2017. Based on the medical evidence Ive seen, Im 
persuaded that Mr Ns condition of kidney stones meets the policy definition of a chronic 
condition. And Im therefore satisfied that Aviva has acted within the terms and conditions of 
the policy when restricting cover for this condition.
The policy does provide cover for chronic conditions in certain circumstances. The terms and 
conditions state;
we do cover unexpected acute flare-ups of a chronic condition until your condition is re-
stabilised
Mr N has said that these flare-ups of his condition are acute and unexpected  so should be 
covered by the policy. Whilst I accept that Mr N may not have known when he was going to 
suffer a flare-up of his condition, Im not persuaded that this means they are unexpected. In 
a letter to Aviva, Mr Ns specialist comments that Patients with kidney stones disease may 
occasionally get an acute flare up of their condition resulting in acute renal colic that may 
require urgent treatment. Based on this information, it would appear that it is a known issue 
for patients with this condition to suffer from flare-ups, so I dont think the episodes Mr N has 
suffered from would be considered as unexpected as required under this policy term.
Im aware that Aviva has said it failed to apply the exclusion correctly when considering his 
previous claims for this condition and it should have informed Mr N of the situation earlier. In 
recognition of this, Aviva has agreed to pay him £250 for the distress this has caused him. I 
can appreciate how the decision to no longer cover his condition would have been a shock 
for Mr N, especially as his treatment had been covered by Aviva for some time. In the 
circumstances, I need to consider the impact that has been caused by the situation. From 
what I understand, Mr Ns previous claims for this condition have been met by Aviva and 
therefore he is not out of pocket for these costs. Also, Aviva agreed to continue to cover the 
condition until the end of the policy year so that Mr N could look into getting alternative cover 
elsewhere if he wished. Taking all of this into account, I think that Avivas offer of 
compensation is fair, alongside its offer to extend his cover, and I dont require it to do 
anything more.
My final decision
Whilst I appreciate this will be disappointing for Mr N, I dont uphold this complaint for the 
reasons stated above.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr N to accept or 
reject my decision before 11 June 2021.
 
Jenny Giles
Ombudsman