DRN-2397164
The complaint
Mrs R complains that National Westminster Bank PLC (NatWest) wont refund the £10,000 
she lost when she fell victim to a scam.
What happened
In May 2019, Mrs R made a £10,000 transfer from her NatWest current account using her 
online banking facility. She thought she was making the payment to an investment 
company, but later found out shed been the victim of a scam and had actually sent her 
money to a fraudster.
Mrs R told NatWest what had happened and asked it to refund the money. But the bank 
didnt think it was liable for her loss. Mrs R complained that NatWests fraud detection 
systems had flagged a transaction she made the day before for the same, but not the 
one made to the fraudster. She felt that if NatWest had flagged the disputed payment, 
she wouldnt have made it, and her loss wouldve been prevented.
NatWest said:
Mrs R willingly made the payment and so it wasnt responsible for her loss.
It did everything it was supposed to do after being made aware Mrs R had been 
the victim of a scam. This included contacting the beneficiary bank to see if any of 
her money remained, but it did not.
Since March 2018, it has placed warning messages across its online banking facility 
to warn customers of the scams its seeing.
Mrs R remained unhappy and referred a complaint to this service. But our investigator 
didnt think NatWest shouldve reasonably been expected to prevent the fraud. Mrs R 
remained unhappy and asked for an ombudsman to review her complaint. So the matter 
has been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Theres no dispute Mrs R fell victim to a scam, and I appreciate why she feels that her 
money should be returned to her. But having carefully considered everything shes told us, 
I cant fairly hold NatWest liable for her loss. Ill explain why.
In broad terms, the starting position in law is that a bank is expected to process 
payments and withdrawals that a customer authorises it to make, in accordance with the 
terms and conditions of their account. And Ive taken that into account when deciding 
what is fair and reasonable in this case.
But the matter doesnt end there, Ive also taken into account the law, regulators rules 
and guidance, relevant codes of practice and what I consider to have been good industry 
practice at the time. And I consider NatWest should, fairly and reasonably:
Have been monitoring accounts and any payments made or received to counter 
various risks, including money laundering, the financing of terrorism, and fraud and 
scams.
Have had systems in place to look out for unusual transactions or other signs that 
might indicate its customers were at risk of fraud (among other things). This is 
particularly so given the increase in sophisticated fraud and scams in recent years, 
which banks are generally more familiar with than the average customer.
In some circumstances, irrespective of the payment channel used, have taken 
additional steps, or made additional checks, before processing a payment, or in some 
cases declined to make a payment altogether, to help protect customers from the 
possibility of financial harm from fraud.
So, I need to decide whether NatWest acted fairly and reasonably in its dealings with Mrs 
R when she made the transfer using its online banking platform, or whether it shouldve 
done something more.
The disputed payment and Mrs Rs interaction with NatWest
Its not in dispute that Mrs R authorised the transfer and, as Ive already set out, 
NatWest had an obligation to follow her instructions. But, as Ive explained above, I 
think NatWest should also have been on the lookout for unusual and out of character 
transactions.
With this in mind, I can see Mrs Rs account was credited with a large sum of money from 
an existing investment about 10 days before the disputed transaction was made. Shes told 
us shed decided to put this money into three different savings and investment vehicles in 
order to get a better return. The day before the disputed payment was made, Mrs R 
attempted to make a payment using her online banking facility, also for £10,000, to an 
account shed paid money to before. But this was stopped by NatWest  the bank said this 
was because the change in account behaviour triggered its fraud detection system and it 
texted Mrs R to check it was a genuine payment. After finding that the money hadnt arrived 
at its destination as expected, Mrs R called the bank and confirmed the payment was 
genuine. NatWest removed the temporary restriction that had been placed on the payment 
and Mrs Rs online banking facility, and the money was promptly released to the intended 
beneficiary.
The next day, Mrs R again used her online banking facility, this time to make the £10,000 
payment to the investment company which turned out to a fraudster. This time, she set up 
a new payee, and the transfer went through without question. As noted above, Mrs R is 
unhappy this transaction wasnt also stopped by NatWest.
I appreciate Mrs R feels strongly about this, but taking into account the recent change in her 
account activity, I dont think it was unreasonable for NatWest to question the first £10,000 
payment. I say this because the account was in receipt of a large credit, shortly followed by 
a payment that was out of character given Mrs Rs historic account usage. But once Mrs R 
had confirmed that was a genuine payment I can see, to an extent, why the bank allowed a 
payment of a similar value to be made the following day without further question even 
thought this was to a new payee.
Having said that, even if the bank had flagged the second £10,000 payment and had 
probed deeper into the reason it was being made, I think its more likely than not Mrs R wouldve still made the payment. I say this because:
When she reported the scam to the bank Mrs R said shed been researching 
investment opportunities online. Shed found what looked like a good deal being offered 
by this investment company (the fraudster), had checked its portfolio and thought 
everything looked genuine.
Mrs R told us she carried out a lot of research into the investment company before 
contacting them. She sent us copies of emails she was sent, which I dont think 
ought necessarily to have aroused any suspicions. The emails included various links 
to the investment companys website and the FCAs (the industry regulator) so she 
could access its regulations and credentials.
Mrs R seems to have told our investigator that she called the telephone number the 
investment company gave for the FCA and she was satisfied from her discussions 
that the company was genuine.
The investment company (or the fraudster) Mrs R was in contact with was actually a 
clone of a genuine, FCA-regulated firm. But the FCA didnt publish any warnings 
about the cloned company until September 2019, some months after Mrs R made her 
payment.
I note Mrs Rs comments about the new process most banks follow when it comes to 
setting up new payees. This process is called Confirmation of Payee and was developed, 
at least in part, to help prevent fraud. But it only came into effect in June in 2020, over a 
year after Mrs R lost her money to the fraudsters. Back in May 2019, NatWest wouldnt 
have been able to verify the name of the beneficiary account, or whether it matched with 
the name Mrs R gave when she made the payment. Also, the beneficiary account was 
operated by a different bank and Ive seen nothing which suggest NatWest knew, or ought 
to have known that the account was under the control of fraudsters.
Recovering Mrs Rs money
The Payment Service Regulations 2017 say a payment service provider, in this case 
NatWest, should notify receiving banks about potential fraud immediately. NatWests 
records suggest it contacted the beneficiary bank within 30 minutes of Mrs R telling it about 
the scam. So Im satisfied the bank did everything it could once it was aware of what had 
happened. Unfortunately, its a common fraudster tactic to remove money from the 
receiving account as quickly as possible, before the victim of fraud realises what has 
happened. And, it seems that by the time NatWest contacted the beneficiary bank, none of 
Mrs Rs money remained.
Overall, taking all the circumstances into account, I dont think NatWest should be 
held responsible for Mrs Rs loss, so it wouldnt be fair for me to tell it to refund her 
money.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs R to accept or 
reject my decision before 24 September 2021.
 
Ruth HerseyOmbudsman