DRN-3749139
The complaint
Mr O complains about the advice given by The Tavistock Partnership Limited (Tavistock) to 
transfer the benefits from his defined-benefit (DB) occupational pension scheme to a 
personal pension. He says the advice was unsuitable for him and believes this has caused a 
financial loss and this has caused him some stress and anxiety.
What happened
In March 2016, Tata Steel UK Ltd announced that it would be examining options to 
restructure its business including decoupling the BSPS (the DB pension scheme) from the 
company. The consultation with members referred to possible outcomes regarding their 
preserved pension benefits, one of which was a transfer to the Pension Protection Fund 
(PPF)  the PPF is a statutory fund designed to provide compensation to members of 
defined benefit pension schemes when their employer becomes insolvent. The BSPS was 
closed to further benefit accrual from 31 March 2017.
In May 2017, the PPF made the announcement that the terms of a Regulated 
Apportionment Arrangement (RAA) had been agreed. That announcement said that, if 
risk-related qualifying conditions relating to funding and size could be satisfied, a new 
pension scheme sponsored by Mr Os employer would be set up  the BSPS2.
Mr O approached Tavistock in May 2017 to discuss his pension and retirement needs. He 
wanted some advice on his individual retirement, and some further help with understanding 
the information he had received from the BSPS about the changes within this scheme.  
Tavistock completed a fact-find to gather information about Mr Os circumstances and 
objectives. This showed that he was aged 56, in good health and married. He was employed 
by Tata Steel and earned £46,000 per annum. Mrs O was also employed. They owned their 
own home valued at £250,000 and this was subject to a mortgage of £108,000. They had 
savings and shares totalling £28,000.
Tavistock also carried out an assessment of Mr Os attitude to risk. It said this was 3 on a 
scale of 1 to 10 which was described as cautious to moderate. 
In respect of Mr and Mrs Os pension arrangements: 
Mr O had received a cash equivalent transfer value (CETV) from the BSPS in 
September 2017. Hed also received an earlier one, but the transfer advice was 
based on this later one. This showed that he had around 27 years service. He was 
entitled to a pension of about £24,400 at the date of leaving the scheme. The CETV 
was about £600,000.  
He had also joined his employers new defined contribution (DC) scheme. The fact 
find recorded that he was contributing 6% of his salary into this and his employer was 
contributing 10%. 
Mrs O had a DB pension that was estimated to provide an annual income of £3,000 a 
year and they both would receive state pensions at their age 67. 
In October 2017, members of the BSPS were sent a Time to Choose letter which gave 
them the options to either stay in the BSPS and move with it to the PPF, move to the 
BSPS2 or transfer their BSPS benefits elsewhere. The deadline to make their choice was 
11 December (and was later extended to 22 December 2017)
On 16 November 2017, Tavistock advised Mr O to transfer his DB pension benefits into a 
personal pension and invest the proceeds in a fund that it said matched his attitude to risk. 
The suitability report said that Mr O wanted to retire at age 65. His mortgage was due to run 
until he was 71 and he wanted to use the tax-free cash from his pension to repay this, the 
monthly repayments were £750 and the amount outstanding was £108,000. He did want to 
continue working but he wanted to have the peace of mind that the mortgage would be clear 
and he could afford the property in his retirement. And he wanted to repay this as soon as he 
could, or at 65.
I understand that Mr O withdrew £150,000 as tax-free cash shortly after the transfer went 
ahead and repaid his mortgage, made some house improvements and purchased a new car. 
Mr O complained in May 2022 to Tavistock about the suitability of the transfer advice. He 
didnt think the advice was right for him and finding out that he may have lost out had caused 
him some anxiety. 
Tavistock didnt uphold Mr Os complaint. It said that the advice was suitable for him. It met 
his objectives of clearing his mortgage and completing home improvements. Tavistock was 
satisfied that Mr O was fully informed before he went ahead with the transfer. 
Mr O referred his complaint to the Financial Ombudsman Service saying that he shouldnt 
have been advised to use his pension to repay debt or make some house improvements 
when he didnt really need to. He also may have used the BSPS ill health pension when he 
couldnt work due to ill health later on. 
An Investigator upheld the complaint and recommended that Tavistock pay compensation. 
He said that given the returns needed to match the DB scheme it was likely that Mr O would 
receive lower benefits at retirement. And whilst he did want tax-free cash to repay his 
mortgage the DB scheme would have provided enough at his retirement for him to do this. 
And his mortgage was affordable and reducing, so he didnt need to repay it straight away. 
This wasnt a good reason to transfer. 
Mr O agreed with what the adjudicator said. 
Tavistock disagreed, and asked for an ombudsman to consider the complaint, but it didnt 
say why it disagreed. The complaint has been referred to me to make a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive taken into account relevant law and regulations, regulators rules, guidance and 
standards and codes of practice, and what I consider to have been good industry practice at 
the time. This includes the Principles for Businesses (PRIN) and the Conduct of Business 
Sourcebook (COBS). And where the evidence is incomplete, inconclusive or contradictory, 
I reach my conclusions on the balance of probabilities  that is, what I think is more likely 
than not to have happened based on the available evidence and the wider surrounding 
circumstances.The applicable rules, regulations and requirements
The below is not a comprehensive list of the rules and regulations which applied at the time 
of the advice, but provides useful context for my assessment of Tavistock's actions here.
PRIN 6: A firm must pay due regard to the interests of its customers and treat them fairly.
PRIN 7: A firm must pay due regard to the information needs of its clients, and communicate 
information to them in a way which is clear, fair and not misleading.
COBS 2.1.1R: A firm must act honestly, fairly and professionally in accordance with the best 
interests of its client (the client's best interests rule).
The provisions in COBS 9 which deal with the obligations when giving a personal 
recommendation and assessing suitability. And the provisions in COBS 19 which specifically 
relate to a DB pension transfer.
Having considered all of this and the evidence in this case, Ive decided to uphold the 
complaint for largely the same reasons given by the Investigator.
The regulator, the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA), states in COBS 19.1.6G that the 
starting assumption for a transfer from a DB scheme is that it is unsuitable. So, Tavistock 
should have only considered a transfer if it could clearly demonstrate that the transfer was in 
Mr Os best interests. And having looked at all the evidence available, Im not satisfied it was 
in his best interests.
Tavistock was required to carry out a transfer value analysis (TVAS) report by the 
regulator. Ive not seen the full TVAS but some of this information that it would have 
provided is in the suitability report. This calculated the critical yield which was how 
much Mr Os pension fund would need to grow by each year in order to provide the 
same benefits as his DB scheme. It showed this was 6.66% to match the full pension 
hed have been entitled to under the scheme at age 65. Or to match the maximum 
tax-free cash and reduced pension the scheme would provide at that age, was 
4.23%. 
To match the full pension the PPF wouldve paid from 65 the critical yield was 4.63% 
and to match the tax-free cash and reduced pension the PPF wouldve offered, it was 
4.11%.
The discount rate, which represents a reasonable assumption about future growth, 
was 3.5% for 8 years to retirement in this case. And given this, and Mr Os recorded 
attitude to risk, and the regulators lower and middle projection rates of 2% and 5%, I 
think Mr O was always likely to receive pension benefits, from age 65, of a 
substantially lower value than those hed have been entitled to under the BSPS2 or 
the PPF by transferring and investing in line with that attitude to risk. 
Mr Os main goal was to repay his mortgage of £108,000. He did go on to do this 
soon after the transfer with the tax-free cash he withdrew from the scheme. So, its 
clear that this was an aim he had. But it wasnt Tavistocks role just to put in place 
what Mr O mightve thought he wanted. Its role was to advise him on what was in his best interests. And even if Mr O indicated this was something he was considering, I 
dont think this meant a transfer was in his best interests.
Mr O was paying £750 a month to his mortgage, but this was affordable. And the 
longer he kept repaying the mortgage the more the amount he owed would reduce. 
So, there was no need to repay his mortgage at the time of advice. That said he 
clearly wouldnt want to continue to pay this into his retirement so Ive looked to see if 
he could have met his aims if he remained in the DB scheme. 
Mr O wanted to retire at age 65 with at least £19,000 a year. The BSPS2 would 
provide him with a pension of around £28,750 at this time or tax-free cash of about 
£130,000 plus a reduced pension of £19,500. The PPF provided similar amounts at 
this age. And Mr and Mrs O would receive their state pensions in time and Mrs O had 
the pension provision Ive outlined above. Mr O also would have his DC scheme 
benefits which, by 65, may have built up to be a significant amount. 
I think this met their needs; in fact it seems to provide in excess of what they said 
they needed. Mr O would be able to receive enough income and more than enough 
tax-free cash to pay his borrowing and fund the other things he wanted to do. It looks 
likely that they may have been some scope for Mr O to retire a few years early, or 
they could use the income to fully enjoy their retirement. 
Mr O gave up a guaranteed and increasing income to withdraw the amounts he did. 
And there was a significant risk that he would have lower retirement benefits because 
of this. I dont think it was right to say this lower income wasnt important due to 
Mr and Mrs Os other provisions. The pension under the BSPS2 or PPF appears to 
have been a more appropriate way to meet Mr Os income needs in retirement  
which is the primary purpose of a pension. 
Whilst Mr Os aim for tax-free cash was clearly important to him. I dont think that 
Tavistock should have advised him to alter his retirement provisions, at a significant 
potential overall cost, without fully exploring any alternatives he could have used to 
meet these aims. 
Overall, as Mr O had no plans to stop working prior to age 65 and he didnt have a 
pressing need to clear any of his outstanding debt as this appears to be affordable, 
I dont think transferring to obtain flexibility was in his best interests.
Tavistock said Mr O was interested in the improved death benefits a transfer offered 
to his family by way of alternative death benefits. He wanted cash rather than a 
pension for Mrs O. But the priority here was to advise Mr O about what was best for 
his retirement. And the existing scheme offered death benefits, by way of a spouses 
pension, that couldve been valuable to his family in the event of his death.
While the CETV figure would no doubt have appeared attractive as a potential lump 
sum, the sum remaining on death following a transfer was always likely to be 
different. As well as being dependent on investment performance, it wouldve also 
been reduced by any income Mr O drew in his lifetime. And so may not have 
provided the legacy that Mr O may have thought it would. 
If Mr O had wanted to leave a legacy for his family, Tavistock couldve explored life 
insurance as an alternative. And this couldve been considered on a whole of life or 
term assurance basis  which was likely to be cheaper. There are some whole of life 
quotes on file, but these are expensive and dont seem to reflect the actual amounts Mr O may have wanted to leave to his family. Life cover doesnt seem to have been 
considered in any detail.  
Overall, I dont think different death benefits available through a transfer justified the 
likely decrease of retirement benefits for Mr O. I dont think that insurance was 
properly explored as an alternative. And ultimately Tavistock should not have 
encouraged Mr O to prioritise the potential for alternative death benefits through a 
personal pension over his security in retirement.
It was recorded that Mr O did want to control his pension fund although there was 
very little detail about how he would do this. I cant see that he had an interest in or 
the knowledge to be able to manage his pension funds on his own. And the 
recommendation seems to have been given on the basis hed receive, and pay for, 
ongoing support with his pension. So, I dont think that this was a genuine objective 
for Mr O  it was simply a consequence of transferring away from his DB scheme.
Mr O may have legitimately held concerns about how his employer had handled his 
pension and the prospect of entering the PPF. But it was Tavistocks role to 
objectively address those concerns. At the time of the advice, all signs pointed 
toward the BSPS2 being established. But even if not, the PPF still provided Mr O with 
guaranteed income and the option of accessing tax-free cash. Mr O was unlikely to 
improve on these benefits by transferring. So, entering the PPF was not as 
concerning as he mightve thought, and I dont think any concerns he held about this 
meant that transferring was in his best interests.
Overall, I cant see persuasive reasons why it was clearly in Mr Os best interests to give up 
his DB benefits and transfer them to a personal pension. And I also havent seen anything to 
persuade me that Mr O wouldve insisted on transferring, against advice to remain in the DB 
scheme. So, Im upholding the complaint as I think the advice Mr O received from Tavistock 
was unsuitable for him.
Our Investigator recommended that Tavistock also pay Mr O £300 for the distress caused by 
the unsuitable advice. Mr O said that finding out that he may be worse off in retirement has 
caused him a lot of anxiety. Particularly when he had to stop work due to ill health. He said 
he worried a lot about his financial future at this point. I dont doubt that Mr O has been 
caused concern in relation to his retirement planning, in what was already a difficult time for 
employees of the company he worked for. And Im conscious this wouldnt have happened 
but for the unsuitable advice. And so, in the circumstances, I think the award the Investigator 
recommended is fair.
Mr O says that he may have been able to use his employers pension early as he stopped 
work for a period due to ill health. Ive mainly looked at the suitability of the advice here 
rather than fully consider this issue. But its worth noting that to qualify for an ill health 
pension the scheme rules say that he would have needed to be permanently incapacitated 
and unable to carry out any gainful employment. From what Mr O has said I dont think this 
would have applied here. And in any event Mr O did indicate that he was happy with the 
compensation below.  
Putting things right
A fair and reasonable outcome would be for the business to put Mr O, as far as possible, into 
the position he would now be in but for the unsuitable advice. I consider Mr O would most 
likely have remained in the occupational pension scheme and joined the BSPS2 if suitable 
advice had been given. Tavistock must therefore undertake a redress calculation in line with the rules for calculating 
redress for non-compliant pension transfer advice, as detailed in policy statement PS22/13 
and set out in the regulators handbook in DISP App 4: 
https://www.handbook.fca.org.uk/handbook/DISP/App/4/?view=chapter. 
Tavistock should use the FCAs BSPS-specific redress calculator to calculate the redress. A 
copy of the BSPS calculator output should be sent to Mr O and our Service upon completion 
of the calculation together with supporting evidence of what Tavistock based the inputs into 
the calculator on.
For clarity, Mr O has not yet retired, and he has no plans to do so at present. So, 
compensation should be based on the schemes normal retirement age, as per the usual 
assumptions in the FCA's guidance.
This calculation should be carried out using the most recent financial assumptions in line 
with DISP App 4. In accordance with the regulators expectations, this should be undertaken 
or submitted to an appropriate provider promptly following receipt of notification of Mr Os 
acceptance of my final decision.
If the redress calculation demonstrates a loss, as explained in policy statement PS22/13 and 
set out in DISP App 4, Tavistock should:
calculate and offer Mr O redress as a cash lump sum payment,
explain to Mr O before starting the redress calculation that:
- their redress will be calculated on the basis that it will be invested prudently 
(in line with the cautious investment return assumption used in the 
calculation), and
- a straightforward way to invest their redress prudently is to use it to augment 
their DC pension
offer to calculate how much of any redress Mr O receives could be augmented rather 
than receiving it all as a cash lump sum,
if Mr O accepts Tavistocks offer to calculate how much of their redress could be 
augmented, request the necessary information and not charge Mr O for the 
calculation, even if he ultimately decides not to have any of their redress augmented, 
and
take a prudent approach when calculating how much redress could be augmented, 
given the inherent uncertainty around Mr Os end of year tax position.
Redress paid to Mr O as a cash lump sum will be treated as income for tax purposes. So, in 
line with DISP App 4, Tavistock may make a notional deduction to cash lump sum payments 
to take account of tax that consumers would otherwise pay on income from their pension. 
Typically, 25% of the loss could have been taken as tax-free cash and 75% would have 
been taxed according to Mr Os likely income tax rate in retirement  presumed to be 20%. 
So making a notional deduction of 15% overall from the loss adequately reflects this. 
Tavistock should also pay Mr O £300 for the distress and inconvenience the poor advice 
caused him. 
Where I uphold a complaint, I can award fair compensation of up to £170,000, plus any
interest and/or costs that I consider are appropriate. Where I consider that fair compensation
requires payment of an amount that might exceed £170,000, I may recommend that the 
business pays the balance.My final decision
Determination and money award: I uphold this complaint and require The Tavistock 
Partnership Limited to pay Mr O the compensation amount as set out in the steps above, up 
to a maximum of £170,000.
Recommendation: If the compensation amount exceeds £170,000, I also recommend that 
The Tavistock Partnership Limited pays Mr O the balance.
If Mr O accepts this decision, the money award becomes binding on The Tavistock 
Partnership Limited.
My recommendation would not be binding. Further, its unlikely that Mr O can accept my 
decision and go to court to ask for the balance. Mr O may want to consider getting 
independent legal advice before deciding whether to accept any final decision.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr O to accept or 
reject my decision before 15 December 2023.
 
Andy Burlinson
Ombudsman