DRN-4360969
The complaint
Mr S complains about how West Bay Insurance Plc handled a claim made on his motor 
insurance policy. 
What happened
Mr S said a motorcyclist collided with his car, but they agreed there had been no damage 
caused. Later, the police contacted Mr S about a hit and run. Mr S then told the police and 
West Bay what had happened. West Bay settled the motorcyclists claim and told Mr S that 
the likely outcome would be 50/50 split liability. 
But Mr S was unhappy with this as he thought it hadnt investigated the claim or considered 
his evidence. He also said West Bay hadnt kept him updated and he was unhappy that his 
premium increased at renewal. West Bay agreed that its service had been wanting at times 
and it paid Mr S £300 compensation for this. But it said the claim remained open. 
Our Investigator recommended that the complaint should be upheld in part. She thought 
West Bay had reasonably considered the evidence available and settled the claim on a 
without prejudice basis whilst it continued to defend it. She thought the open claim meant 
that Mr Ss premiums would increase. But she thought there had been delays in the claim 
and West Bay hadnt been proactive in keeping Mr S updated. She thought West Bay should 
pay Mr S £150 more for the trouble and upset caused. 
West Bay agreed its communication with Mr S had been more reactive than proactive as it 
had nothing to update him about. It said this hadnt affected the claim or liability, which it was 
continuing to defend. It thought an increase in compensation wasnt justified.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I can understand that Mr S feels frustrated that a claim was made against his policy and 
West Bay settled it. Mr S described what happened. He said the motorcyclist was weaving 
through traffic, clipped his tyre and fell off his bike when Mr S indicated to turn right. The 
motorcyclist, however, said he was driving straight ahead when Mr S turned right and 
collided with him.
The Investigator has already explained that it isnt our role to decide who was responsible for 
causing the accident. This is the role of the courts. Instead, our role in complaints of this 
nature is simply to investigate how the insurer made the decision to settle the claim. Did it 
act fairly and reasonably and in line with the terms and conditions of the policy? And has it 
treated Mr S the same as someone else in his position. 
West Bay is entitled under the terms and conditions of its policy with Mr S to take over, 
defend, or settle a claim as it  sees fit. Mr S has to follow its advice in connection with the 
settlement of his claim, whether he agrees with the outcome or not. This is a common term in 
motor insurance policies, and I dont find it unusual. Insurers are entitled to take a commercial 
decision about whether it is reasonable to contest a third party claim or better to 
compromise.
That said, we expect an insurer to reasonably investigate a claim and consider the evidence 
available before making its decision on liability. 
The evidence West Bay had to consider was Mr Ss version of events and the diagram and 
images he provided, the motorcyclists version of events and engineers report of damage to 
the bike. An independent witness later provided a statement holding the motorcyclist at fault 
as he was overtaking Mr S whilst he was signalling to turn right. 
West Bay initially decided to settle the motorcyclists claim for damage on a without prejudice 
basis to limit its costs whilst it continued to defend Mr S. It warned Mr S that the likely 
outcome would be 50/50 split liability. And it has now passed the claim to its solicitors as the 
other party isnt accepting liability. I think it decided this after reasonably considering the 
evidence available as its entitled to do by the policys terms and conditions. So I cant say it 
did anything wrong in this. 
The motorcyclists engineers report said the bike was a total loss. Mr S thought this meant 
that it was totally wrecked, which was in contrast to the images he provided. But this isnt 
correct. The total loss was decided on the basis that the bike was uneconomical to repair. 
This is shown by the estimated repair cost exceeding the bikes pre-accident value. And I 
can see that the valuation took into account the bikes previous written-off status, its 
unrelated damage and its mileage. So, whilst I can understand Mr Ss concerns, I think it 
was reasonable for West Bay to rely on this report. 
West Bay agreed there had been errors in its claim handling: 
It had made a typo in the claim number which caused confusion.
It sent the incorrect witness statement to the other insurer, which upset Mr S.
It delayed responding to Mr Ss complaint for six months, causing Mr S much frustration.
And, it said in its response to Mr Ss complaint that it hadnt updated Mr S in a four-
month period and hadnt been proactive in pursuing the other party for a response to the 
claim. It said this may have caused some delay. 
I think West Bay only needed to update Mr S when it had something new to tell him. And 
whilst I can understand that he wanted news, I dont think West Bay had anything new to tell 
him during the four months it said it hadnt made contact. 
And I wouldnt usually hold West Bay responsible for the other insurers delays and lack of 
response where it has chased it sufficiently. But I cant see that West Bay chased it 
sufficiently for a response to the independent witnesss statement. And when it did, the other 
party pursued matters immediately. So I think West Bay most likely caused avoidable 
delays. This didnt affect the outcome of the claim, but I think this caused Mr S avoidable 
stress and frustration.
West Bay paid Mr S £300 compensation for the impact of these errors. But Im not satisfied 
that this was sufficient for the impact its errors had over many months. In keeping with our 
published guidance, I think an award of £450 is fair and reasonable. And so I think West Bay 
should pay Mr S £150 further compensation. 
Mr S was unhappy that his premium had increased significantly due to the claim. But, as our 
Investigator already explained, an open claim is treated as a fault until liability is settled. If 
West Bay recovers its outlay, then the claim would be changed to non-fault and Mr Ss 
premium would be recalculated. So I cant say that West Bay has done anything wrong in 
this.  
Putting things right
I require West Bay Insurance Plc to pay Mr S £150 further compensation for the distress and 
inconvenience caused by its handling of his claim.My final decision
For the reasons given above, my final decision is that I uphold this complaint in part. I 
require West Bay Insurance Plc to carry out the redress set out above.
   
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 16 January 2024.
 
Phillip Berechree
Ombudsman