DRN-3068857
The complaint
Mr I complains that Caledonian Consumer Finance Ltd irresponsibly granted him a fixed sum 
loan agreement he couldnt afford to repay. 
What happened
In January 2017, Mr I signed up for a training course financed by a fixed sum loan 
agreement from Caledonian Consumer Finance. Mr I was required to make 43 monthly 
repayments of £165 and he paid a £50 registration fee. The total repayable under the 
agreement was £7,145.
Mr I says that Caledonian Consumer Finance didnt complete adequate affordability checks. 
He says if it had adequate checks taken place, it would have seen the agreement wasnt 
affordable. Caledonian Consumer Finance didnt agree. It said that it carried out a thorough 
assessment which included asking Mr I about this income (which it verified with a recent 
bank statement) and expenditure and undertaking a credit check. It said Mr I was required to 
complete an income and expenditure declaration to evidence he had sufficient disposable 
income to meet the repayments.
Our investigator recommended the complaint be upheld. He thought Caledonian Consumer 
Finance ought to have realised the agreement wasnt affordable to Mr I.
Caledonian Consumer Finance didnt agree and said Mr I had raised several different 
allegations in order to have his finance agreement unwound. It said had Mr I raised the issue 
of affordability it would have investigated this, but instead he raised an issue of fraud. It says 
that had the agreement been unaffordable at the outset it was likely Mr I would have raised 
this sooner. It said that Mr I raised financial concerns after setting up the agreement and it 
attempted to assist him by setting up a repayment plan in July 2019. 
Caledonian Consumer Finance noted that our investigator thought the checks carried out 
before the loan was provided were adequate and Mr Is credit file didnt raise concerns. It 
said Mr I said he was self-employed, and it was reasonable to expect his bank statements to 
show payments from several different sources which it said was the case and supported 
Mr Is income information. It also noted Mr I had taken out credit with other providers 
subsequently and maintained the payments. 
The case has been passed to me for a final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Before granting the finance, I think Caledonian Consumer Finance gathered a reasonable 
amount of evidence and information from Mr I about his ability to repay. I say this because it 
carried out a credit check which it said resulted in a credit score acceptable for loan to be 
offered it also asked Mr I about his income and expenses and requested a copy of Mr Is 
bank statement to verify his income. However, just because I think it carried out 
proportionate checks, it doesnt automatically mean it made a fair lending decision. So, Ive 
thought about what the evidence and information showed.
Mr I declared his monthly income to be £1,600 and provided a copy of his bank statement. 
Caledonian Consumer Finance no longer has a copy of the bank statement Mr I provided but 
having looked at the statements Mr I has provided this service from the time, I think 
Caledonian Consumer Finance should have been able to see that the declared income 
amount wasnt accurate. I note the comments made about Mr I being a trainer at a gym and 
payments coming from different sources. However, I still do not find this supports the 
declared income. 
Mr I has explained payments from one individual were assistance for him to pay his bills and 
he was expected to pay this back (and I note he paid the individual £750 in January 2017). 
In terms of other payments from other individuals these were minimal. Mr I did receive a 
payment of around £2,400 in November 2016 and January 2017. This supports his 
comments to this service that he was a student at the time and is likely to have been for 
costs. Therefore, I wouldnt find it reasonable to consider this as Mr Is income and I dont 
have evidence that this was included in Caledonian Consumer Finances assessment. 
Overall, while Caledonian Consumer Finance did ask Mr I about his employment and 
income, this wasnt substantiated through is bank statement. 
Mr I said that he was living at home at the time and declared monthly expenses of £260 for 
items such as a mobile phone and transport costs. Hs bank statements didnt show any rent 
or other housing payments and so I do not find it unreasonable this amount was accepted. 
But, as I do not think it reasonable that the declared income was relied on and cannot see 
that Mr I had a clear regular income at the time, I think it is clear Mr I wouldnt be able to 
afford the monthly repayments towards this agreement without difficulty or having to borrow 
further. Caledonian Consumer Finance therefore didnt make a fair lending decision. 
Mr I also said that his signature had been forged on the agreement and that the agreement 
had been amended. I note his comments and also the comments made by Caledonian 
Consumer Finance about the error in the course title not having any financial implications. 
While I appreciate this has been upsetting for Mr I as I am upholding his complaint and 
recommending redress based on this I do not find that this issue will change my outcome 
and so I havent considered it further.
While I understand that Mr Is credit file has been affected by the agreement, he had agreed 
to the terms and then didnt maintain his payments and so I cannot say that Caledonian 
Consumer Finance was wrong to report this to the credit reference agencies at the time. 
However, as I find that the loan shouldnt have been provided I now think that they should 
remove this from his credit file. I appreciate that Mr I wants to get compensation for the 
impact on his credit file and has said he has had to pay more for credit over the past years. 
However, I do not have evidence to say that this loan was the only reason why Mr I was 
charged certain rates on his other credit and I note he was able to secure other credit in the 
period. Therefore, I think that my redress in response to the irresponsible lending part of this 
complaint is sufficient in this case. 
Putting things right
As I dont think Caledonian Consumer Finance ought to have approved the lending, I dont 
think its fair for it to be able to charge any interest or charges under the agreement. In this 
case, Mr I hasnt had used the training materials and I understand he didnt enrol on the 
course and so it doesnt appear that Mr I has had any benefit from this loan which is why I 
think a full refund is required. To settle Mr Is complaint Caledonian Consumer Finance should do the following:
Cancel the agreement with nothing further left to pay;
Refund Mr I the deposit of £50 adding 8% simple interest from the date of payment to 
the date of settlement;
Refund Mr I the payments he has already paid towards this loan adding 8% simple 
interest from the date of payment to the date of settlement; and
Remove any adverse information about this loan from Mr Is credit file.
*HM Revenue & Customs requires Caledonian Consumer Finance to take off tax from this 
interest. Caledonian Consumer Finance must give Mr I a certificate showing how much tax 
its taken off if Mr I asks for one.
My final decision
I uphold this complaint and direct Caledonian Consumer Finance Ltd to put things right in the 
manner set out above. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr I to accept or 
reject my decision before 8 December 2021.
 
Jane Archer
Ombudsman