DRN-3108980
The complaint
Mrs P has complained that U K Insurance Limited trading as Direct Line provided a poor
service when her car was repaired following an incident. Mrs P made a claim under her car
insurance policy. Mr P, a named driver under the policy has assisted Mrs P with her
complaint.
What happened
Mrs P made a claim for repairs under her car insurance policy with UKI in March 2020
following an incident which she wasnt at fault for. The car was driveable. Due to government
restrictions at the time, repairs were postponed until June 2020.
UKI offered Mrs P the option for the claim to be handled by a non fault credit hire company
(CHC) rather than under her policy, so that  along other benefits - she would receive a hire
car similar to her own while her car was being repaired.
Mr P called UKI and said they hadnt heard from anyone to provide a replacement hire car
while Mrs Ps car was being repaired. UKI said it would ask the CHC to contact them.
In July 2020 Mr P called UKI to say the CHC didnt provide a replacement car. He was
unhappy with this call as he said UKI told him Mrs P wasnt guaranteed a hire car even
though the policy terms covered this. The agent had agreed to call Mr P back as the systems
were down when he called, but this didnt happen.
UKI told Mr P their complaint against the CHC wouldnt be handled by UKI as they are a
separate business.
Mrs P complained to the CHC and in August 2020 Mrs P received a reply from them. Our
investigator has dealt with this complaint separately. I cant consider this under the complaint
against UKI as it is a separate business. But by way of background, the CHC said they
called Mrs P and left a voicemail message when her car was taken in for repairs. As they
didnt receive a call back, they said they didnt do anything wrong and didnt uphold the
complaint.
In relation to the call in July 2020 between UKI and Mr P, UKI said it could have been clearer
about the options between claiming under the guaranteed hire car (GHC) benefit under the
policy and credit hire. And it accepted it had failed to call Mr P back when promised.
UKI asked Mr P what the impact was of not having a replacement car. Mr P explained that
they had to walk to the shops and had to do this more frequently without having use of the
car. He said they were stuck at home and werent able to go anywhere during this time.
In calls with Mr P, UKI offered Mr P £50 compensation, which it later increased to £100.
When Mrs P brought her complaint to us, she said she thought she should receive the
equivalent rate of £250 for a replacement hire car for the duration of repairs over five days.
Our investigator didnt recommend the complaint should be upheld. In line with UKIs policy,
it said it would provide a hire car for the duration of repairs. And if this didnt happen, it would
reimburse travel costs for a customer up to £50 a day, with a maximum of £500. As there
were no travel costs to consider reimbursement for, our investigator kept in mind our
approach for complaints about loss of use, where we apply a rate of £10 a day as the cost of
providing a basic hatchback courtesy car. So overall the investigator thought the
compensation UKI paid of £100 for failing to provide a replacement car was fair.
Mr and Mrs P disagreed. They said the compensation of £100 UKI paid wasnt for failing to
provide a replacement car, as UKI disputed this was their responsibility - and directed them
to the CHC, which didnt uphold the complaint. They believe the rate of £10 a day weve
applied is too low when considering a compensation award for loss of use.
Having listened to a recording provided by UKI of a call in July 2020 between Mr P and UKI,
our investigator issued a second view. He said it wasnt exactly clear what the £100
compensation was for, but it was clear from its notes that the issues UKI considered when
deciding this amount were for:
Not calling Mr P back when promised.
Not giving the option to claim under the guaranteed car hire (GCH) option under
 the policy on 18 June 2020 and;
As a result of point two, Mrs P was without a vehicle for five days.
So he thought UKI had been fair and reasonable.
Mrs P didnt agree that UKI paid compensation for failing to provide a replacement car. So
in her opinion, UKI hasnt paid any compensation for this failing. And for this reason, Mrs P
believed UKI should pay £250 compensation.
I issued a provisional decision on 8 October 2021. I thought UKI was responsible for failing 
to offer the option of having a basic hatchback under the policy when Mr P called to say he 
hadnt heard from the CHC. But I didnt think UKI was responsible for covering the equivalent 
of hire car costs for a similar car. I explained that this was the responsibility of the CHC and 
the service they provided. So I thought UKI had done enough to put things right for the poor 
service it provided. 
UKI accepted my provisional decision. 
Mr and Mrs P didnt agree. They say UKI should reimburse them for the costs of an estimate 
they recently obtained to hire a basic hatchback car for five days costing £347.86.
So the case has been passed back to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In my provisional decision I explained that there has been some confusion and I agreed that 
UKI hadnt paid compensation for failing to provide a hire car. But as Mr and Mrs P said, UKI 
has said that the CHC is responsible for this complaint. And this has been dealt with under a 
separate complaint. 
In UKIs letter to Mrs P on 27 March 2020, it said the CHC would provide a hire car similar to
their own. So I cannot make a finding in my decision about the service the CHC provided in
relation to providing a hire car. I can only make a decision as to whether UKI acted
reasonably.When Mr P called UKI to tell it they hadnt heard from the CHC, UKI accepts that it should
have offered the option for Mrs P to claim under the GCH section of their policy. This
however meant a small basic hatchback would have been offered for the duration of the
repairs, so it wouldnt have been a car similar to Mrs Ps. I think this was poor service on
UKIs part.
So  the failing by UKI isnt for failing to provide a hire car, but for failing to offer the option to
claim under the GHC section of the policy - as Mrs P hadnt heard from the CHC. This is a
subtle but important distinction when considering the compensation amount Mr P feels
should be awarded for loss of use.
Mr P believes the compensation for not being provided with a hire car should equate to £50
a day, and so a total of £250 for loss of use for five days. But I dont think UKI is responsible
for paying this. I think its responsible for failing to call Mr P back when promised, and for
failing to offer the option of claiming under the GCH section of the policy, and the
inconvenience of not having a replacement car for the duration of the repairs. This is
because  had UKI acted correctly  and had Mrs P taken up the offer  UKI should have
provided Mrs P with a basic hatchback for the duration of the repairs.
UKI told us that Mrs Ps car was with the approved repairer for five days from 29 June to 3
July 2020. Rectification repairs were needed after this date, but UKI said the repairer
compensated Mrs P for the inconvenience caused by paying her £70 compensation.
So the remaining issue for me to decide is whether UKI did enough to put right the impact its
poor service had on Mrs P. Mrs Ps policy with UKI says in the event of repairs, she is
entitled to a hire car which is the equivalent of a small hatchback. I explained in my 
provisional decision our approach to complaints we uphold involving loss of use. Insurers 
tend to have arrangements with hire car companies which means they receive commercial 
rates which are more favourable than consumer rates. For this reason, we apply what we 
find to be the market rate for a basic hire car of £10 a day. For this reason, I dont think UKI 
should pay Mr and Mrs P the same amount as the estimate theyve provided in response to 
my provisional decision. 
I understand Mrs P feels she was entitled to the equivalent rate for a car similar to her own in
line with what the CHC was to have provided. But this isnt something I can ask UKI to
consider. I can only look at what UKI would have done in line with what the policy if it had
offered the GHC benefit. This would have been to provide a small basic hatchback for the
duration of repairs.
Im sorry to disappoint Mr and Mrs P. But I think UKIs compensation payment of £100 is 
reasonable for failing to call Mr P back and the inconvenience caused by not offering the 
option for Mrs P to claim under the GCH section of her policy when she hadnt heard from 
the CHC regarding a hire car. I dont think UKI is responsible for paying the costs Mr and 
Mrs P are claiming for. So Im not asking UKI to do any more.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs P to accept or 
reject my decision before 1 December 2021.
 
Geraldine NewboldOmbudsman