DRN-3661508
The complaint
Mr S is unhappy that Barclays Bank UK PLC (Barclays) didnt transfer his registered device 
details when it switched to a different insurer.
What happened
Mr S had mobile phone and gadget insurance arranged through Barclays. The cover 
switched to a different insurer and Barclays notified Mr S of the change.
Some months later, he wanted to make a claim under his policy for his mobile phone, but 
Barclays hadnt transferred the details for his registered devices to the new insurer. Mr S 
complained to Barclays.
To try to resolve things, Barclays asked the previous insurer to send Mr S the details of his 
devices so he could register them with the new insurer. Mr S didnt receive the details, so 
Barclays asked again.
Barclays suggested to Mr S that, in the meantime, he could get the details from his phone 
provider, phone network, or the previous insurer. Mr S remained unhappy with the service 
Barclays provided. He complained and Barclays offered a total of £50 goodwill for the 
service shortfalls. But Mr S felt compensation was due for the poor service, including the 
need to make several phone calls and the inability to get his phone repaired.  
Our investigator didnt think Barclays needed to do any more than it already had. He said 
Barclays had provided guidance so Mr S could obtain the information to register his devices 
again and he found the goodwill payment was reasonable for the service shortfalls.
Mr S didnt agree. He said Barclays hadnt followed its own complaints process; hed been 
without a working phone for six months because Barclays hadnt transferred the device 
details to the new insurer, and he didnt think it had made any effort to contact him. Mr S 
asked for compensation of £4,700 in recognition of the distress and inconvenience it caused 
him.
The complaint was passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided not to uphold Mr Ss complaint. I realise this will come as a 
disappointment to him, but Ill explain why.
The overriding issue is that Mr S had difficulty making a claim under his phone insurance 
policy, arranged by Barclays, because his registered device details hadnt been transferred 
to the new insurer.
Looking at the evidence, I can see that Mr S still had the phone insurance. I also see that 
Barclays notified him of the switch to a different insurer some months before he tried to 
claim. However, the letter Barclays sent certainly suggests that his registered device details 
would transfer to the new insurer. The letter also explains that hed be able to see his 
registered devices on the new app and make changes should he need to.
That said, Im satisfied Mr S could reasonably expect his details to have transferred as 
indicated in Barclays letter.
I can understand that Mr S was frustrated when his attempt to claim didnt go as smoothly as 
hed hoped. Because his device wasn't showing as registered he needed to take additional 
steps to make a claim. So, Ive looked at what Barclays did to try to resolve things.
I see that Barclays did try to assist by twice asking the old insurer to send him the registered 
device information. I cant hold Barclays responsible for its failure to respond.
I also note that Barclays advised Mr S of other ways he could get the information needed, 
such as contacting his phone provider or the old insurer himself. I think that was a 
reasonable suggestion in the circumstances and its not something Barclays couldve done 
on Mr Ss behalf. By making these suggestions, Barclays was trying to enable Mr S to 
progress his claim and I think thats fair.
In recognition of its service shortfall, Barclays offered Mr S £50 as a gesture of goodwill. 
Having considered the advice Barclays gave him, and its contact with the old insurer to help 
resolve things, albeit without response, Im satisfied that the offer is fair and in line with what 
I wouldve required.
Mr S has said, more recently, that it took six months to have his phone fixed; he had to 
chase updates from Barclays; it didnt return his calls; he spent hours on the phone, and it 
didnt follow its own complaints process. He said hed like compensation of £4,700 in 
recognition of the stress and unfair treatment he experienced.
Firstly, I cannot consider Mr Ss concerns about whether Barclays adhered it its own 
complaint handling process. My remit is to consider complaints about regulated services. 
Complaint handling is not a regulated service. I have, however, considered his overall 
complaint that Barclays didnt provide the standard of customer service he mightve hoped 
for. But, as Ive said, Im satisfied that Barclays offered appropriate advice to help him 
resolve things, so I wont be asking it to increase its goodwill offer.
Although Mr S said it took six months for him to progress his claim, I see that he brought his 
complaint to this service much sooner. Barclays responded to his complaint promptly and it 
issued the final response letter around seven weeks after he first tried to make a claim. I 
cant consider anything that happened after that point as Barclays must first have an 
opportunity to respond. 
In summary, although I understand Mr S wouldve been frustrated at having to register his 
phone again, it was something he could do whereas Barclays couldnt. Barclays had to rely 
on third parties providing information, over which it had no control. So, once Barclays 
advised Mr S how to obtain the information to register his phone again, Im satisfied it had 
done enough and the responsibility then lay with Mr S. I see no reason to require Barclays to 
pay compensation of £4,700 and Im satisfied that its offer of £50 by way of apology is fair 
and reasonable in the circumstances.My final decision
For the reasons given above, my final decision is that I dont uphold the complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 12 October 2022.
 
Debra Vaughan
Ombudsman