DRN-3842647
The complaint
The complaint is about advice from Wealthmasters Financial Management Ltd (WFM). The 
advice was to invest in unregulated investments. The trustees of the Small Self Administered 
Scheme (SSAS) thought that the recommended investments were too high risk. 
Mr and Mr C are the trustees of the SSAS and have both consented to our service looking 
into this complaint. The trustees are being represented. All references to the trustees and/ or 
Mrs C will include submissions made by the representative.
What happened
I issued a second provisional decision on 15 November 2022. Only the trustees via their 
representative provided any further response. They said:
If Wealthmasters Financial Management Ltd does not pay the recommended amount, then 
any investment currently illiquid should be retained by the trustees this is seemingly at 
odds with the fact that she [the Ombudsman] has upheld the complaint and made a decision 
that Wealthmasters must compensate our clients for their losses.
To avoid any issues regarding interpretation we would respectfully request that the decision 
is amended so that it is unequivocal that Wealthmasters must compensate my clients up to 
£160,000. Wealthmasters must pay the compensation. My clients would be happy to provide 
an undertaking that, on the basis that Wealthmasters pays them their compensation in full, 
they will hold any proceeds from their investment on account for Wealthmasters but that is 
on the strict understanding that they are compensated for their losses.
I set out the background to this complaint in my provisional decision. This remains 
unchanged as follows:
The SSAS was set up on 29 April 2013. At this point Mr C and a professional trustee were 
the only trustees. Mrs C was appointed trustee of the SSAS on 31 December 2013. And in 
or around February 2014, WFM recommended to Mrs C that she transfer £100,000 into the 
SSAS which she did through her employer.
On 28 July 2014, a suitability letter was prepared for Mrs C but related only to the £100,000 
held in the SSAS. WFM recommended that the £100,000 held in the SSAS be invested into 
two separate investments.
Before setting out his recommendations under the heading Introduction to Alternative 
Investments, the adviser said:
Investors and savers who only allocate their money to mainstream investments will have 
their entire worth linked to the economic cycle, and therefore may be concerned that when 
they seek to crystallise their investments they run the risk of this coinciding with a low point 
in the cyclical nature of markets and derivatives. Alternative Investments work in isolation 
from such cycles, allowing investors to mitigate this risk by accessing non-correlated, niche 
asset classes - providing diversification.
The adviser went on to recommend that £50,000 should be invested in Dolphin Capital Loan 
Notes (Dolphin) and a further £50,000 in Greyfriars Asset Management LLP Portfolio Six (P6 
or Greyfriars P6) via a Novia General Investment Account (GIA).
In terms of the Dolphin investment the suitability report set out the main characteristics as 
follows:
Dolphin Capital loans money from qualifying individuals in return for a fixed interest 
payment which would be encapsulated in a legally binding loan contract.
All investment contracts and other associated documentation had been carefully 
created by lawyers in the UK and Germany.
Dolphin had a five year trading history and had completed over 200 units.
Interest rates of up to 14% per year were achievable when the longer term options 
were chosen which were 3 and 5 year term options.
The investment was secured with a first legal charge on the underlying asset class, 
which was noted to be German Listed Buildings.
Under risk factors the suitability report said:
This was an unregulated investment.
In the event of Dolphin Capital experiencing unforeseen prolonged adverse markets 
this could result in having an adverse effect on the interest payable and the return of 
investor's capital. In the very worst case scenario, this could result in all or some of 
the investment being lost.
There were various development risks associated with the construction industry.
There was an exchange rate risk.
The interest was fixed for the term chosen but could not be considered guaranteed.
Return of capital could not be guaranteed.
The suitability report noted the risk factors were mitigated by:
Careful planning of its development and construction programme and ensuring 
agreements were in place to purchase the completed properties prior to committing 
investor's funds (i.e. 'sold off plan').
Strong demand for completed Listed Buildings and high demand for New Homes.
The contrarian view that any break-up of the Euro and the Eurozone reverts to 
national currencies was likely to lead to a rise in the re-adopted Deutschmark as a 
strong currency.
Investor's funds were to be held in a separate client account with a law firm until 
required and then only released in stages as the work progressed.
The SPV (Special Purpose Vehicle) held the first legal charge which secured the 
investors capital and interest.
An independent trustee represents the interests of all investors.
Dolphin maintains a contingency reserve to cover any exchange rate movements.
It had a good credit rating.
In terms of the P6 investment the adviser described this investment opportunity as: P'6 is 
a portfolio of investments specifically designed to allow investors to gain exposure to both 
noncorrelated and niche investments under one professionally managed umbrella. The types 
of Investments within P'6 are not necessarily all accessible to the general investor and 
therefore P'6 allows for greater accessibility. Each investment is carefully selected on its own 
merit to perform independently of major markets, with management focusing on key 
opportunities in a variety of sectors as opposed to market trends.The adviser said the benefits of the P6 investment included, buying power and economies of 
scale; spread of investments to create diversification; income return available six-monthly 
and exit at any time at no additional fee; based on back-tested data from 2011, steady 
income returns of around 6% per year with low volatility; and potential for capital growth.
Amongst other things, under risk factors for the P6 the adviser said: The nature of the 
investments is such that they will be illiquid as they are not quoted on any stockmarket or 
bourse, disposal may not be possible at any price and, if the fund manager can make a sale, 
the price cannot be guaranteed. The fund manager does provide some liquidity through a 
warehousing facility but, in extremis, this may not function.
In conclusion, the adviser noted under Unique Product Warning that (bold advisers 
emphasis): I confirm that Dolphin Capital and Greyfriars Portfolio 6 are unique 
products. They cannot be directly compared to any other product offered by other 
companies in the marketplace. Taking into account your current circumstances and 
stated objectives, I would advise that these plans are suitable for you and are in line 
with your attitude to risk for these investments.
In its application form, Greyfriars described its service as a Discretionary Fund Management 
(DFM) service. And that its P6 portfolio was described as: [it] may wholly consist of non- 
pooled investments such as Exchange Traded Funds, simple deposits and asset backed 
securities and our discretion extends to investments in unregulated investments such as 
direct investments into commercial property or unquoted corporate bonds, but will never 
include 'Unregulated Collective Investment Schemes' (UCIS) or 'Non Mainstream Pooled 
Investments' (NMPI).
The trustees agreed to both recommendations and signed applications for both the Dolphin 
loan notes and Greyfriars P6.
The application form was completed by the trustees for the P6 investments in August 2014. 
Under the heading Application Form  Adviser as Client, the intermediary declaration 
signed by the WFM adviser confirmed the following:
Greyfriars DFM service, and it's fee of 0.5% (plus VAT) was suitable for the 
underlying investor.
The Appropriateness Flowchart for Portfolio Six has been accurately and fully 
completed and the result confirms the appropriateness of this portfolio and the 
underlying investments for the underlying investor.
The objectives and mandate against which P6 will be managed was suitable for the 
risk profile and financial circumstances of the underlying investor.
The investment in unregulated investments to the proportions of potentially up to 
100% is suitable for the risk profile, financial circumstances, knowledge and 
experience of the underlying investor.
The underlying investor in this context was stated to be the SSAS trustees. On 12 August 
2014, an application for a Novia GIA was completed by the trustees. The WFM advisers 
details were given under the adviser section.
The GIA valuation statement dated 3 September 2015 showed the SSAS funds were 
invested as follows:
Cash: £3,172
ABC Bond IV: £12,182Enviroparks Bond: £12,182
Lateral Eco Parks CB: £12,419
Olmsted Bond SII: £12,182
On 20 August 2014, the trustees became the registered holders of £50,000 in Dolphin 
Capital Secured Loan Notes.
In October 2018 Greyfriars went into administration. And in 2020 Dolphin Capital and other 
associated companies entered into preliminary bankruptcy proceedings in Germany. Mr and 
Mrs C started to raise concerns with WFM in 2019 and in 2020, they raised a formal 
complaint about the investments that had been made via the SSAS.
The professional trustee ceased to be a trustee of the SSAS as of 25 February 2021 
following a deed of removal completed by Mr and Mrs C who remained the only trustees of 
the SSAS.
In brief, our investigator recommended upholding the complaint based on the advice being 
given to Mrs C as the eligible complainant. She said based on Mrs Cs circumstances she 
didnt think she (Mrs C) was a sophisticated investor or a high net worth individual as WFM 
had claimed. Our investigator didnt think the Dolphin or Greyfriars P6 investments were 
suitable for Mrs C.
WFM disagreed. It said the SSAS was the eligible complainant and that Mr and Mrs C 
should be seen as both complainants rather than Mrs C on her own. It said on this basis, the 
investments were suitable as together they were high net worth individuals and sophisticated 
investors.
Both parties have now provided further submissions to my [first] provisional decision in which 
I said I intended to uphold the complaint.
Mrs C, through her representatives, has said she wanted the cost covered of the SSAS. She 
has provided evidence of the costs associated with the Greyfriars P6 investments which is 
held in a separate GIA account. She said if it wasnt for the advice of WFM she would not 
continue to incur the cost of this account which remains open and the illiquid assets cannot 
be removed at present.
WFM responded saying that Mr C, who is also a trustee, is a sophisticated investor and 
therefore, this knowledge and experience extends to all the trustees. It said any decision 
made by one trustee, is made for all trustees so Mr Cs knowledge as a sophisticated 
investor is relevant to whether or not the recommendation was suitable for Mrs C. It pointed 
to various investments Mr C had in unregulated investments and says his knowledge alone 
means the recommendation was suitable for the trustees.
Following these representations, I said my decision to uphold the complaint remained 
unchanged. However, I agreed with the trustees of the SSAS that the fees of the GIA should 
be covered for a period of time. But I did not agree that this applied to the Dolphin 
investment  the reasons for this are set out below. So, I issued a second provisional 
decision and amended the redress accordingly.
Now that both parties have had an opportunity to respond to both the first and second 
provisional decision, the matter has been passed back to me for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I set out my reasoning for my decision in my first provisional decision as follows  this 
reasoning now forms part of my final decision:
Who is the eligible complainant in this case 
When our investigator looked into this complaint, she said that Mrs C was the eligible 
complainant. But WFM disagreed with this saying that Mr and Mrs C were the trustees of the 
SSAS so should be treated as one client rather than two. I agree with this. I think that 
because the advice was being given about how to use funds held in the SSAS this could 
only be actioned by a trustee. So, in this case the correct eligible complainants are the 
trustees of the SSAS.
The jurisdiction of the Financial Ombudsman Service is set out in the Dispute Resolution: 
Complaints Sourcebook (DISP) section of the regulators handbook. At the point of the 
complaint to WFM in August 2020, DISP 2.7.3R provided:
An eligible complainant must be a person that is:
(1) a consumer;
[]
(4) a trustee of a trust which has a net asset value of less than £5 million at the time the 
complainant refers the complaint to the respondent.
It is agreed that the complainants were trustees. This fact is not disputed by WFM from its 
submissions to this service. And its clear from the contemporaneous documents from the 
time of the advice to Mrs C in July 2014, that WFM were acting as advisers to her and that 
she was a trustee of the SSAS. Its also not in dispute that this advice led to both the Dolphin 
and Greyfriars P6 investments being made. This is made clear in various documents 
including the GIA application form where WFM were listed as advisers. WFM also had to 
confirm in the application form for the Greyfriars P6 application that it had assessed the 
suitability of the underlying client who in this case, was listed as the trustees of the SSAS.
Was the advice suitable
The advice that is being complained about is the advice dated 28 July 2014 that was 
addressed to Mrs C. In the suitability letter the adviser said that she should invest £100,000 
in the Dolphin and Greyfriars P6 investments via the SSAS.
Dolphin loan notes was an unregulated investment. The promotion of such schemes was 
restricted by the Conduct of Business Sourcebook (COBS) 4.12.3R. But as WFM has 
alluded to, whilst Mrs C on her own may not have qualified for such promotions, it was the 
SSAS that the Dolphin investments was being promoted to. The SSAS had net assets of 
£250,000 which is what is required to meet the high net worth individual test as set out in 
COBS 4.12.6R. So, on this basis, I think the promotion of the Dolphin investment didnt 
breach the regulatory rules in terms of promoting this type of investment.
Regardless of whether the adviser shouldve promoted the investment to the trustees it still 
had to be suitable, and I am not satisfied it was. WFM had to obtain the information necessary 
for it to have a reasonable basis for believing that what it recommended: met the clients 
investment objectives; is such that the client can bear the investment risk; is such that the 
client has the necessary experience and knowledge to understand the risks (COBS 9.2.2).
From what I can see the only information gathered about the trustees related to Mr and Mrs C. There is no information as to what experience and knowledge the professional 
trustee had. However, from the professional trustees members guide, its primary purpose 
was to provide SSAS administration services and to govern the SSAS in line with the legal 
requirements set out by HMRC.
The SSAS members guide, which was provided to this service by WFM, said: We [the 
professional trustees] recommend that member trustees take appropriate advice from an 
independent financial adviser.
So, there is nothing to suggest they (the professional trustees) had any experience in 
financial matters beyond that of the member trustees, Mr and Mrs C. The members guide 
goes on to say: The member trustees control the funds in the SSAS, subject to the Trust 
Deed and Rules of the scheme, and are free to appoint the investment adviser of their 
choice to help take advantage of the wide range of investment opportunities open to them. 
In this case, the members trustees who were Mr and Mrs C, chose WFM as their advisers in 
respect of choosing investments to be held via the SSAS.
From the information that is available, I dont accept any of the member trustees were 
sophisticated investors. Mr and Mrs C ran their own business, but I havent seen any 
evidence to show that they had experience in investing in anything outside of mainstream 
investments.
That said, Mr C was advised to invest in an Enterprise Investment Scheme (EIS) via the 
SSAS in December 2013 and did have some mainstream investments via a Stocks and 
Shares Individual Savings Account. An EIS is a government scheme to help encourage 
investors to invest in unquoted, small trading companies. This was an unregulated product. 
And Mr C was recommended by WFM to invest £250,000 in an EIS in or around December 
2013 via the SSAS.
But I dont think this meant any of the trustees were experienced or sophisticated investors 
due to this one investment, which was a recommendation made by WFM only a few months 
before the Dolphin and Greyfriars investments. Given this, I dont think the fact the SSAS 
was already holding an unregulated investment meant that the trustees had sufficient 
experience and/ or knowledge to fully appreciate the risks involved in the Dolphin loan notes.
Despite this lack of experience, both Mr and Mrs C were categorised as either moderately 
adventurous or adventurous meaning they were willing to accept high risks and a chance 
of loss in order to achieve higher returns on his or her investments. But there is no record of 
either of them having any extensive investment knowledge or experience apart from what 
Ive set out above. Mrs C herself had no investment experience according to the fact find 
that was completed in February 2013.
Given what Ive said, it isnt clear how the attitude to risk for the trustees was assessed as 
adventurous. This was defined as someone willing to take a higher level of risk in return for the 
potential for higher returns in the longer term. Im not satisfied that this definition reflects the risks 
that the trustees were prepared to take. It doesnt match their previous experience of investing.
Given the clear lack of experience of either trustee, I think that WFM had to make it clear 
what the risks were in investing in the type of unregulated investment the Dolphin loan notes 
were. Ive set out above what was said about this investment in the suitability report. The 
Dolphin loan notes were extremely complex and carried significant risks. I think the suitability 
report downplayed these risks. For example, whilst highlighting some of the risks, it also 
went on to discuss the mitigation of these risks. Further, I cant see that at any point the 
suitability report said the Dolphin investment was a high risk investment or gave the 
impression that it was.All in all, I dont think the trustees were given clear, fair and not misleading information such 
that they could make an informed choice about whether the Dolphin investment was a 
suitable investment to make on Mrs Cs behalf. I also think that recommending such a high 
proportion of the available funds to be invested in one single fund, was unsuitable.
The other investment recommended by WFM on 28 July 2014, was in the Greyfriars DFM 
service. Despite already recommending Dolphin loan notes, which itself was an unregulated 
investment, WFM went on to recommend investing in Greyfriars Portfolio Six (P6). When 
looking at the composition of the P6, it was made up of a range of bonds which are 
connected to niche investment markets such as:
Investing in a business that ran serviced offices.
Investing in the development of a waste treatment and energy recovery facility.
Investing in a commercial property development in the United States of America.
Investing in a renewable energy development.
I think that individually these investments would, on balance, be considered suitable for more 
experienced investors who have the capacity to take higher risk. Further, the P6 was only 
set up in April 2014, so had no track record by the time the investment was recommended in 
July 2014. WFM was providing advice to the trustees about how to invest Mrs Cs pension 
funds. And I think it should have properly explained the risks involved with a portfolio that 
had no track record and would almost exclusively be investing in unregulated investments. 
Again, I cant see how recommending such a high proportion of the available funds to be 
invested in unregulated, high risk, illiquid funds, was a reasonable recommendation to make.
The application form for the P6 was signed by the adviser to confirm he was aware the 
investments that were part of the P6 composition, were likely to be in unregulated 
investments up to potentially 100% of the portfolio. The form asked the adviser to confirm 
the chosen portfolio was suitable for the risk profile, financial circumstances, knowledge and 
experience of the underlying investor, who in this case were the trustees of the SSAS. But 
as Ive already said, the assessments that were carried out on at least two of the trustees, 
showed they had little or no investment experience of such investments.
The main objective for the trustees was to provide Mrs C with sufficient income for her 
retirement. And the fact find completed for Mr and Mrs C showed this was one of their 
primary objectives. Whilst Mrs C had a significant amount of time before her likely retirement 
date, so could afford to take some level of risk, I dont think the trustees would have put her 
pension funds at the level of risk that they did if theyd been properly advised.
Based on the above, my first provisional decision recommended upholding the complaint. I 
set out the redress to be paid but did not order that WFM pay the fees for the SSAS or the 
GIA. The trustees of the SSAS challenged this. They also corrected the investment in the 
SSAS that was referred to as an EIS. WFM also provided responses similar to those it had 
provided previously. So, I issued a second provisional decision which also now forms part of 
my final decision and added the following reasoning for my decision:
In terms of what WFM has said [in response to my first provisional decision], I cant see that 
it has added anything substantially new to its previous submissions to this service. So, Im 
not persuaded that anything it says has changed my mind. 
I took into account in the first provisional decision the knowledge and experience of the other 
trustees including Mr C. I note the EIS it refers to was in fact unquoted shares rather than an 
EIS. Nonetheless, it was still an unregulated investment and I did take this and other factors of Mr Cs knowledge and experience into account. And as I said even if Mrs C or Mr C were 
correctly classified as sophisticated investors so that the investments could be promoted to 
them, the recommended investments still needed to be suitable. For all the reasons set out 
above, I do not think either the Dolphin investment or the Greyfriars P6 were suitable 
recommendations to make.
In terms of the trustees further submissions, they have argued that the fees for the SSAS 
should be covered for five years which is our usual approach. But this is only something our 
service would normally award where the pension wrapper itself was considered unsuitable. 
And therefore the SSAS only existed because of the unsuitable advice. In this case, the 
SSAS was already in existence when Mrs C paid her funds into the SSAS. And I dont think 
the recommendation to invest her pension funds into the SSAS was, in itself, unsuitable. It is 
the investments that were unsuitable based on the reasons Ive set out above.
However, I can see that the Novia GIA account was only set up to hold the Greyfriars P6 
investments which are now illiquid. So, I consider WFM should cover the fees for the GIA if 
the account cannot be closed and is still incurring fees as the statements sent to our service 
indicate it is. So, Ive amended the redress accordingly.
I will now deal with the submissions made by the trustees representatives in response to my 
second provisional decision.
Mrs C and the other trustee of the SSAS should note that the recommendation is the 
amount over and above the amount WFM are required to pay in redress according to our 
award limits. In this case, the award limit is £160,000. So, WFM are required to pay up to 
this amount in compensation. But I have also recommended that if the loss calculations 
come to more than the award limits that apply, it could also pay this to Mrs C via the SSAS. 
So, there should be no issues regarding interpretation, in terms of what WFM must 
pay in compensation.
Putting things right
My aim is to put Mrs C, via her SSAS as close to the position she would probably be in if 
suitable advice had been given. I think the trustees of the SSAS acting on her behalf, wouldve 
invested differently. Its not possible to say precisely what they would have done, but Im 
satisfied that what Ive set out below is fair and reasonable.
What must Wealthmasters Financial Management Ltd do?
To compensate Mrs C fairly, Wealthmasters Financial Management Ltd must:
Compare the performance of Mrs C's investments with the benchmark shown below. 
If the actual value is greater than the fair value, no compensation is payable. If the 
fair value is greater than the actual value, there is a loss and compensation is 
payable.
A separate calculation should be carried out for each investment. The losses should 
be combined and the total is the amount of compensation payable.
Wealthmasters Financial Management Ltd should pay into Mrs C's pension plan to 
increase its value by the total amount of the compensation and any interest. The 
amount paid should allow for the effect of charges and any available tax relief. 
Compensation should not be paid into the pension plan if it would conflict with any 
existing protection or allowance.
If Wealthmasters Financial Management Ltd is unable to pay the total amount into the 
SSAS (pension plan), as the beneficiary of the pension, it should pay Mrs C that amount direct to her. But had it been possible to pay into the plan, it would have 
provided a taxable income. Therefore the total amount should be reduced to notionally 
allow for any income tax that would otherwise have been paid. This is an adjustment to 
ensure the compensation is a fair amount  it isnt a payment of tax to HMRC, so 
Mrs C wont be able to reclaim any of the reduction after compensation is paid.
The notional allowance should be calculated using Mrs Cs actual or expected 
marginal rate of tax at her selected retirement age. Its reasonable to assume that 
Mrs C is likely to be a basic rate taxpayer at the selected retirement age, so the 
reduction would be equal to the basic taxpayer rate. However, if she would have 
been able to take a tax free lump sum, the notional allowance should be applied to 
75% of the compensation.
Wealthmasters Financial Management should pay Mrs C £300 for the distress and 
inconvenience caused by the total loss of the investments.
Wealthmasters Financial Management Ltd should add interest as set out below. 
Income tax may be payable on any interest paid.
Investment 
nameStatus BenchmarkFrom (start 
date)To (end 
date)Additional interest
Dolphin Capital 
Loan NotesStill exists 
but illiquidFTSE UK 
Private 
Investors 
Income Total 
Return IndexDate of 
investmentDate of my 
final decision8% simple per 
year from final 
decision to 
settlement (if not 
settled within 28 
days of the 
business receiving 
the complainant's 
acceptance)
Greyfriars Asset 
Management 
LLP Portfolio 
SixStill exists 
but illiquidFTSE UK 
Private 
Investors 
Income Total 
Return IndexDate of 
investmentDate of my 
final decision8% simple per 
year from final 
decision to 
settlement (if not 
settled within 28 
days of the 
business receiving 
the complainant's 
acceptance)
For each investment:
Actual value
This means the actual amount paid or payable from the investment at the end date. 
It may be difficult to find the actual value of the investments. This is complicated where 
investments are illiquid (meaning they could not be readily sold on the open market) as in 
this case. Wealthmasters Financial Management Ltd should take ownership of the illiquid 
investments by paying a commercial value acceptable to the pension provider. The amount 
Wealthmasters Financial Management Ltd pays should be included in the actual value 
before compensation is calculated.
If Wealthmasters Financial Management Ltd is unable to purchase the investment the actual 
value should be assumed to be nil for the purpose of calculation. Wealthmasters Financial 
Management Ltd may require that the trustees provide an undertaking to pay Wealthmasters 
Financial Management Ltd any amount they may receive from the investment in the future. That undertaking must allow for any tax and charges that would be incurred on drawing the 
receipt from the pension plan. Wealthmasters Financial Management Ltd will need to meet 
any costs in drawing up the undertaking.
Fair value
This is what the investment would have been worth at the end date had it produced a return 
using the benchmark above.
As I said above, I do think the SSAS would exist even if unsuitable advice had not been 
given to the trustees about the investments. However, the General Investment Account 
holding the Greyfriars Portfolio Six investments only exists because of illiquid investments. 
And this wrapper only exists because of the unsuitable advice provided by Wealthmasters 
Financial Management Ltd.
In order for the wrapper to be closed and further fees that are charged to be prevented, 
those investments need to be removed. Ive set out above how this might be achieved by 
Wealthmasters Financial Management Ltd taking over the investments, or this is something 
that the trustees can discuss with the wrapper provider directly. But I dont know how long 
that will take. Third parties are involved and we dont have the power to tell them what to do. 
If Wealthmasters Financial Management Ltd is unable to purchase the investments held in 
the General Investment Account related to the Greyfriars Portfolio Six, to provide certainty to 
all parties, I think its fair that it pays the trustees an upfront lump sum equivalent to five 
years worth of wrapper fees (calculated using the fee in the previous year to date). This 
should provide a reasonable period for the parties to arrange for the GIA to be closed. 
Why is this remedy suitable?
Ive chosen this method of compensation because:
The trustees, on behalf of Mrs C, wanted Capital growth and was willing to accept 
some investment risk.
The FTSE UK Private Investors Income total return index (prior to 1 March 2017, the 
FTSE WMA Stock Market Income total return index) is made up of a range of indices 
with different asset classes, mainly UK equities and government bonds. Its a fair 
measure for someone who was prepared to take some risk to get a higher return.
Although it is called income index, the mix and diversification provided within the 
index is close enough to allow me to use it as a reasonable measure of comparison 
given Mrs Cs circumstances and risk attitude.
My final decision
Where I uphold a complaint, I can make a money award requiring a financial business to pay 
compensation of up to £160,000, plus any interest and/or costs that I consider appropriate. If 
I consider that the fair compensation may exceed £160,000, I can recommend that 
Wealthmasters Financial Management Ltd pays the balance.
Determination and award: I uphold the complaint. I consider that fair compensation should 
be calculated as set out above. My final decision is that Wealthmasters Financial 
Management Ltd are required to pay the amount produced by that calculation up to the 
maximum of £160,000 (including distress or inconvenience but excluding costs) plus any 
interest on that amount as set out above.Recommendation: If the amount produced by the calculation of fair compensation exceeds 
£160,000, I recommend that Wealthmasters Financial Management Ltd pays the trustees 
the balance plus any interest on the balance as set out above.
If Wealthmasters Financial Management Ltd does not pay the recommended amount, then 
any investment currently illiquid should be retained by the trustees. This is until any future 
benefit that Mrs C may receive from the investment together with the compensation paid by 
Wealthmasters Financial Management Ltd (excluding any interest) equates to the full fair 
compensation as set out above.
Wealthmasters Financial Management Ltd may request an undertaking from the trustees 
that either they repay to Wealthmasters Financial Management Ltd any amount the trustees 
may receive from the investment thereafter, or if possible transfers the investment to 
Wealthmasters Financial Management Ltd at that point. 
The trustees should be aware that any such amount would be paid into Mrs Cs pension plan 
so they may have to realise other assets from the SSAS in order to meet the undertaking.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs C and Mr C as 
trustees of the SSAS to accept or reject my decision before 5 January 2023.
 
Yolande Mcleod
Ombudsman