DRN-2547150
The complaint
Mr and Mrs M complain that BFP BRISTOL LTD (BFP) gave them poor advice when they 
were trying to get a new mortgage. They want BFP to pay them several thousand pounds 
compensation to make up for charges and extra interest they say theyre now paying.
What happened
Both parties know the history of this complaint, so I wont go into detail here. In summary 
though, Mr and Mrs M were looking for a new mortgage when they moved home in 2017.
BFP recommended a lender based largely on Mr and Mrs Ms credit history, and how much 
they could afford to pay. At the time BFP said it would only look at lenders and products it 
had access to. 
Mr M worked for a bank and was eligible for a staff mortgage for some of the money he and 
Mrs M wanted. He told BFP he thought the tax implications of taking a staff mortgage 
outweighed the lower interest rate he might get.
Mr and Mrs M proceeded with the mortgage recommended by BFP. Mr M checked staff 
rates in 2020 and discovered he and Mrs M would have been better off with some of their 
borrowing on a staff mortgage. They think BFP  given it knew Mr M worked for a bank  
should have told him to check what was available to him as a member of staff. They say that 
if theyd done that theyd now be about £124 a month better off.
Mr and Mrs M want BFP to pay their early repayment charge on their current mortgage so 
they can transfer to a staff mortgage.
Our investigator looked at this complaint, but didnt think it should be upheld. They thought 
BFP had made it clear it would only look at products and lenders it could access  and a 
staff mortgage didnt fall into that category. Our investigator thought the onus was on Mr and 
Mrs M to check what products were available to them because of Mr Ms employment.
Mr and Mrs M dont agree  they say BFP knew where Mr M worked and that hed probably 
be able to get a staff mortgage  and that BFP failed in its duties because it sold them an 
unsuitable mortgage simply to earn commission rather than because it was the best deal for 
them.
Ive been asked to decide this complaint.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I do understand that Mr and Mrs M are upset as they think a family friend has taken 
advantage of them in order to get commission. I dont know if thats the case, nor can I 
comment on this. I can only look at what the intermediary did and whether this fits with the 
standards expected by the Financial Conduct Authority, which regulates the activities of 
financial intermediaries. Having done that, Im not going to uphold this complaint.
I realise this will disappoint Mr and Mrs M, but Ill explain how Ive reached my decision.
Ive looked at the paperwork provided by BFP, and it does clearly say that it will only search 
for mortgage products it can access  and that it wont consider products only available by 
going to a lender direct.
I think a staff mortgage is clearly one that could only be accessed by direct contact from     
Mr M. So I wouldnt expect BFP to check if one was available for him and Mrs M.
I accept that Mr and Mrs M mentioned this type of mortgage to BFP  but they also say they 
said the tax implications wiped out any savings. It appears they said this without having first 
checked if that was the case. Mr and Mrs M say BFP agreed with their assessment  but 
should have told them to try the bank in case the product was cheaper. 
I dont think BFP needed to do that. It was Mr and Mrs M who said a staff mortgage wasnt 
going to be worthwhile for them when considering their overall tax position  and Mr M was 
the only person who could check this.  I dont know why he didnt do that given his 
background and employer  but I cant say it was something BFP should have advised him 
on. And I dont think thats affected by the fact that the member of staff from BFP used to 
work for the same bank as he wouldnt know what staff concessions were currently 
available.
Im also aware that the choices of lender for Mr and Mrs M were somewhat limited by their 
earnings and credit history. So its possible they wouldnt have been able to get a staff 
mortgage if theyd not met all the lending criteria. If that was the case, then any lack of 
advice from BFP  and Im not saying there was a lack  wouldnt have affected the outcome 
of Mr and Mrs Ms search for a new mortgage.
Taking everything into account Im not persuade BFP did anything wrong  so theres 
nothing for it to put right. 
My final decision
My decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M and Mrs M to 
accept or reject my decision before 6 August 2021.
 
Susan Peters
Ombudsman