DRN-4032446
The complaint
Mr G complains that Gain Credit LLC, trading as Lending Stream, lent to him irresponsibly.
What happened
Mr G was approved for four instalment loans and using information from Lending Streams 
records here is a brief loan table. 
Loan Borrowed 
dateBorrowed 
AmountInstalment 
amounts (monthly)
Rounded sumsClosed 
Date
1 07-03-2022 £500 £160 x 6 20-05-2022
2 13-05-2022 £600 £184 x 6 14-05-2022
3 01-06-2022 £600 £198 x 6 arrangement
4 04-06-2022 £800 £258 x 6 arrangement
Mr G repaid loans 1 and 2 early. 
After Mr G had complained, Lending Stream responded with its final response letter (FRL) in 
September 2022. Mr G was not content with its response and so referred it to the Financial 
Ombudsman Service. 
One of our adjudicators looked at the complaint, twice and had asked Mr G for additional 
information, some of which had been provided. But our adjudicators view both times for 
loans 1 to 3 was that either Lending Stream had carried out the checks he would have 
expected it to have carried out and did not think that Lending Stream had done anything 
wrong. For loan 4 he thought that he did not have enough information to be able 
satisfactorily to conclude that if Lending Stream had carried out additional checks on loan 4 it 
would have decided not to lend. 
Mr G was not content and the unresolved complaint has been passed to me to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about this type of lending - including all 
the relevant rules, guidance and good industry practice - on our website.
Lending Stream had to assess the lending to check if Mr G could afford to pay back the 
amounts hed borrowed without undue difficulty. It needed to do this in a way which was 
proportionate to the circumstances. Lending Streams checks couldve taken into account a 
number of different things, such as how much was being lent, the size of the repayments, 
and Mr Gs income and expenditure. 
With this in mind, I think in the early stages of a lending relationship, less thorough checks 
might have been proportionate. But certain factors might suggest Lending Stream should 
have done more to establish that any lending was sustainable for Mr G. These factors 
include:
Mr G having a low income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make any loan 
repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income);
The amounts to be repaid being especially high (reflecting that it could be more 
difficult to meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income);
Mr G having a large number of loans and/or having these loans over a long period of 
time (reflecting the risk that repeated refinancing may signal that the borrowing had 
become, or was becoming, unsustainable);
Mr G coming back for loans shortly after previous borrowing had been repaid (also 
suggestive of the borrowing becoming unsustainable).
There may even come a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly 
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable for Mr G. But our adjudicator did not think 
that this applied to Mr Gs situation and neither do I. These were four loans taken in a short 
space of time. 
Lending Stream was required to establish whether Mr G could sustainably repay the loans  
not just whether he technically had enough money to make his repayments. Having enough 
money to make the repayments could of course be an indicator that Mr G was able to repay 
his loans sustainably. But it doesnt automatically follow that this is the case.
 
Industry regulations say that payments are sustainable if they are made without undue 
difficulties and, made on time, while meeting other reasonable commitments and without 
having to borrow to make them. If a lender realises, or ought reasonably to have realised, 
that a borrower wont be able to make their repayments without borrowing further, then it 
follows that it should conclude those repayments are unsustainable.
Ive considered all the arguments, evidence and information provided in this context, and
thought about what this means for Mr Gs complaint.
Here is some information taken from Lending Streams records, and it has sent to us the 
application forms completed by Mr G. The bank statements that Mr G has sent to us indicate 
that Mr Gs income was around these figures. 
Loan Monthly Income Monthly Expenditure Disposable Income
1 £3,600 £2,050 £1,550
2 £4,800 £2,200 £2,600
3 £4,800 £2,375 £2,425
4 £4,800 £2,300 £2,500
Lending Stream carried out a credit search and Mr G has always maintained that he had a 
lot of defaults on his credit file and a County Court Judgment (CCJ) which meant that 
Lending Stream got it wrong when it lent to him. However, the credit search document 
Lending Stream has sent to us does not show the CCJ or the defaults. So, Mr G sent to us 
the details. It dated back to a mail order account and the Judgment date was February 2018. 
Mr G also sent details of some defaults (two) and they were recorded for 2017. I am surprised that the CCJ did not show on the credit search results but now that I have 
seen some details of it then even if Lending Stream had seen that I consider that it was far 
enough in the past to have not made much of a difference to Mr Gs application. Lenders 
such as Lending Stream often lend to those with adverse entries on credit files  its the 
nature of high cost instalment lenders. 
Other information from the credit search obtained by Lending Stream, which is the relevant 
one for the purposes of this complaint, show that Lending Stream knew he had 26 active 
accounts and no defaults and some recent delinquencies. 
The total amount Mr G appeared to be committed to spending on his credit was £253 being 
the figure for the total monthly payments on all active accounts, excluding mortgages, credit 
cards, and revolving credit.
Our adjudicator has looked at Mr Gs own credit file  not that Lending Stream would have 
seen this  and has calculated that he owed just under £7,000 on credit cards/revolving 
credit accounts. So, at a minimum of 3% £210 each month, that still wouldve looked 
affordable together with the £253 a month Lending Stream had calculated plus the Lending 
Stream repayments due.
Lending Stream was likely to have considered the previous repayment history when 
considering applications from Mr G on loans later in the lending relationship. And my view 
that is a justified action when carrying out a creditworthiness assessment. And Mr G had 
repaid loans 1 and 2 very quickly and well before the scheduled term  six months. So, when 
Mr G asked for loans 3 and 4 (admittedly close together) then that would have been a factor. 
And a favourable one in my view which would have assisted Lending Stream to make its 
decision on Loan 3 when he applied for it. 
I do think that because Mr G was asking for loan 4 so close to having just taken out loan 3, 
and it was for £800 rather than the other loans of £500 and £600, then additional checks 
ought to have been done by Lending Stream and I dont think it did that. Loan 4 was going to 
have overlapped with loan 3 and so the monthly repayments were due to have been £456.22 
against a total debt of £1,400  which Mr G had taken in four days.
And for me to consider the whole picture I need to be able to see what it is that Lending 
Stream would have discovered if it had done those additional checks.
Mr G has sent to us details of his situation including bank account statements although not 
the full suite of bank account statements and so weve not got the whole picture. 
What I have got I have reviewed and I have seen the two loans  loans 3 and 4  crediting 
one bank account to be immediately transferred out to another about which I have no details. 
And the bank account statements I have for June and July 2022 do not show Mr Mr Gs 
financial position in the lead up to these loans being approved. The June 2022 statement 
does not lead me to think that Mr G was in financial difficulties such that he was unable to 
afford the repayments. 
Mr G has told our adjudicator that he cant send any more information about his finances.
So, I have decided that even if Lending Stream had carried out additional checks, the 
historic defaults and CCJ would not likely have deterred it from lending. And Ive not got 
enough evidence to come to a conclusion that Mr G was unable to afford the Lending 
Stream repayments for these loans. 
I realise Mr G will be disappointed but I do not uphold his complaint. My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold the complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision before 28 June 2023.
 
Rachael Williams
Ombudsman