DRN-2113893
The complaint
Mr L has complained about Acromas Insurance Company Limited. He isnt happy about 
the service he received under his breakdown insurance policy after his car broke down.  
What happened
Mr L took out a breakdown insurance policy as he was driving abroad in September 2019. 
Unfortunately his car broke down and he called Acromas in order to make a claim under the 
policy. When the recovery driver attended he expected him to fix the car at the side of the 
road and was disappointed to find that he was looking to recover his car to a garage a few 
miles away. But Mr L persuaded him to attend a garage that was nearby who eventually 
repaired his car for around £100.
Mr L wasnt happy about the way his claim was dealt with, that his car wasnt repaired at the 
roadside, that his recovery driver didnt speak English and about the general service 
Acromas provided. Acromas explained that Mr Ls car was recovered to his chosen garage 
in line with the policy. It was unfortunate his car couldnt be repaired at the side of the road 
and it offered him £50 compensation as a gesture of good will. But as Mr L remained 
unhappy he complained to this service.
Our investigator looked into things for him but didnt uphold the complaint. He thought Mr L 
had been provided cover in line with the policy and didnt feel Acromas had done anything 
wrong. It had arranged the recovery of his car after it had broken down in line with the policy. 
And he didnt think the repair that was required was the kind of repair that could be 
undertaken at the side of the road.
As Mr L didnt agree the matter has been passed to me for review. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so Im not upholding this complaint. I know this will come as a disappointment 
to Mr L, but Ill explain why.
I know Mr L is frustrated that Acromas didnt repair his car at the roadside. But I think his 
expectations of what a recovery driver or breakdown patrol person can do at the side of the 
road are a little unrealistic. I understand that Mr L had an idea about what was wrong with 
his car and he was frustrated the call taker in the country where he broke down didnt have 
the technical expertise to understand what he told them.
But I wouldnt expect a call taker to do any more than note the problem and arrange a 
recovery agents attendance which they did. Mr L has also been critical of the attending 
recovery persons ability to speak English, but I wouldnt expect a recovery driver in another 
country to speak English, so I cant be critical of Acromas here. It simply arranged, facilitated 
and covered the cost of the attending recovery agent.
I know Mr L feels that the driver didnt undertake a routine repair at the roadside. But given 
that the garage his car was taken to had to try and order a part in order to undertake the 
repair and ultimately went onto weld the part, I dont think I can say this kind of repair 
shouldve been undertaken at the roadside and it was fair for the driver to recover Mr L.
The European Breakdown policy Mr L purchased is designed to provide help at the roadside 
following a breakdown due to damage, mechanical or electrical failure. The basic intention is 
to get Mr Ls car mobile again, or for the car to be recovered if a repair at the roadside isnt 
possible. The policy wording is pretty clear about this and says it will cover Roadside 
assistance and emergency repair at the roadside or, if Your Vehicle cannot be repaired at 
the roadside, towage to the nearest repairer. It is also clear that the policy doesnt cover 
Any costs for labour that are not incurred at the roadside. 
So I think, given the level of repair required, I cant conclude that the car shouldve been 
repaired at the roadside. I wouldnt expect a recovery driver to carry Mr Ls part or be able to 
weld at the roadside. As such, the recovery of Mr Ls car to his chosen garage adequately 
provided Mr L with appropriate emergency roadside cover. 
I know Mr L also feels the recovery driver wanted to take him to a set garage which was 
further away. And it is possible they had a working relationship with a particular garage or 
trusted that garage as it was best placed to repair Mr Ls particular make of car. But Mr L got 
the recovery driver to take him to his chosen garage in any event, so he hasnt been 
prejudiced here.
Finally, I can see Acromas has paid Mr L £50 as a goodwill gesture for any inconvenience 
he has faced. I think this more than compensates Mr L for any inconvenience he has faced 
and covers more than half the cost of the repair which seems more than fair in the 
circumstances.
My final decision
It follows, for the reasons given above, that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr L to accept or 
reject my decision before 26 November 2020.
 
Colin Keegan
Ombudsman