DRN-2028515
The complaint
Mr C and Mr H complain that Lloyds Bank PLC (trading as Cheltenham & Gloucester) mis-
sold them a monthly premium payment protection insurance (PPI) policy taken out in 1998 
in connection with a joint mortgage. 
  
What happened
Mr C and Mr H complained they had no need for PPI; they were not told it was optional and 
they felt pressured to buy it. They paid £37.98 per month to receive a benefit of at least 
£588.27 per month up to a maximum of 12 months on a successful claim. The PPI benefit 
was split into shares of 25% for Mr H and 75% for Mr C.
Our adjudicator thought the complaint shouldnt be upheld because it looked like they were 
offered an optional policy and it was suitable for their needs when it was taken out. Our 
adjudicator said the information might have been clearer but concludes Mr C and Mr H 
probably would have bought the PPI anyway.
Mr C and Mr H disagreed with our adjudicators view and asked for the matter to be looked 
at again. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The relevant considerations in this case are materially the same as those set out in the PPI 
section in our website.
Having looked at the evidence, Ive decided not to uphold Mr Cs and Mr Hs complaint. I 
know this will be a disappointment to them, so Ill explain why. 
I first looked at whether Lloyds Bank made Mr C and Mr H aware the policy was optional. 
They said they were not told it was optional and they couldnt remember any details about 
the sale. But I looked at their separate PPI application form which Lloyds Bank produced 
from 1998. As it was a separate form, I can reasonably assume they didnt have to instruct 
Lloyds Bank to complete it at all and so they could have declined PPI. 
I saw both Mr C and Mr H had signed the PPI form, so I can reasonably assume they 
checked the form before signing it to make sure they agreed the contents. So I think their 
signature was enough for them to have PPI added to their mortgage account. 
I also noted that the policy was tailored to cover Mr C and Mr H in different shares and that 
would have been a conscious decision for them to split the PPI cover. 
So overall, I think the PPI was most likely presented to them as an optional product which 
they could change for their particular needs and it was added to their account with their 
consent and knowledge.
They have also both complained they felt pressured to buy the policy. There is no evidence 
of that on the documents. And they havent told me exactly what was said to them at the 
time or by whom to make them feel pressured. So I cant uphold the complaint on that 
ground. They have pointed out they didnt take PPI in later years, so they conclude they 
must have been pressured to buy it in 1998. However, they may have decided not to buy 
PPI in later years for many different reasons. In this case, I have to be fair to all parties in 
this complaint and I have to look at what happened in 1998 to see if the policy was mis-sold. 
So I dont think there is enough evidence here for me to conclude they were pressured to 
buy PPI in 1998.
Lloyds Bank said the sale was advised. For advised sales, the policy had to be suitable for 
Mr Hs and Mr Cs needs. In this case, I think it was suitable for Mr C and Mr H because they 
were eligible for the PPI policy, it seems the policy was affordable for them at the time and, it 
doesnt look like they were affected by the main exclusions and limitations in the policy. 
Mr C confirmed he had asthma which was medically controlled. It didnt affect his day to day 
activities, and he hadnt taken time off work for it. As its unlikely he would have needed to 
claim on the policy for it, I dont think this condition made the policy unsuitable for them.
I also looked into their financial circumstances at the time of the sale to see if the policy was 
still suitable for them.
Mr C and Mr H said they had savings and were in full time employment and could get good 
employee benefits if he they were sick or couldnt work due to an accident; 
However, having decided they wanted PPI and chose to have it, I think Mr C and Mr H 
probably thought the policy provided a valuable benefit to them in addition to their savings 
and employee benefits. I say this because the PPI could have paid out for longer than their 
employee benefits at a time when they might have needed it most  leaving their savings for 
other expenses. So I dont think their employee benefits and savings made the policy 
unsuitable.
I also looked at whether Lloyds Bank gave Mr C and Mr H enough clear information about 
the policy. In respect of the cost and benefits, it isnt clear whether the documents set these 
out. But having said that, I dont know how the cost and benefits were actually explained to 
them in the meeting. So as Ive decided they chose to have PPI and that it was suitable and 
affordable for them I dont think that having more detailed information about the cost and 
benefits would have put them off from taking out the policy.
It isnt clear if all the exclusions and limitations were brought to Mr Cs and Mr Hs attention. 
But as they were unlikely to be affected by the main exclusions and limitations to the policy, I 
dont think they would have decided not to buy PPI even if theyd been given a full list of the 
exclusions. 
Taking everything into account, I think they were aware PPI was optional and they 
consented to buy it. I think it that it was suitable for their circumstances and that they had 
enough clear information to make a decision about it. So Im not going to uphold this 
complaint. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C and Mr H to accept or reject my decision before 26 October 2020.
 
Amrit Mangra
Ombudsman