DRN-3739103
The complaint
Ms R, though her representative, complains that Morses Club PLC lent to her when it had 
not carried out proper affordability checks. If it had done, it would not have lent to Ms R. 
What happened
Using information from Morses here is a brief loan table:
Loan Date of Loan Capital Sum Date Settled Term (w) Weekly Repayment
1 29/03/2017 300.00 01/11/2017 33 15.00
2 01/11/2017 300.00 11/05/2018 33 15.00
3 11/05/2018 300.00 01/11/2018 33 15.00
4 01/11/2018 600.00 25/06/2019 33 30.00
5 25/06/2019 600.00 26/06/2020 33 30.00
6 06/10/2020 500.00 12/07/2021 34 25.00
Ms Rs representative complained to Morses in January 2022 and says that she borrowed 
£2,600 and repaid that with £1,698 interest. 
Morses issued its final response letter (FRL) in which it did not uphold Ms Rs complaint. The 
complaint was referred to the Financial Ombudsman Service. 
Morses has explained that it would have carried out one credit search before loan 1 which 
was in March 2017. No other search was done. A copy of the March 2017 results has been 
sent to us. And Morses said that after 2018 it would have verified the applicants income. 
A preliminary view by one of our adjudicators was that Morses ought to have ceased lending 
at loan 4. For loans 4 and 5 the reasons given was that Ms R was paying a significant 
amount of her monthly income towards the repayments: 10.7% and 20% respectively. And -
the second reason was that the complaint ought to be upheld for loans 4 to 6 was because 
of the pattern of lending. 
Morses disagreed and said that it had verified Ms Rs income as £279 a week for loan 4, 
£145 a week for loan 5 and £292 a week for loan 6. There was a gap of over three months 
between loans 5 and 6. And her income increased significantly for loan 6. Morses did not 
think that Ms R was paying excessive percentages of her income for the debts. There was 
no reason for Morses to conclude that Ms R was not able to afford loan 6. 
After that a formal view was written and sent to both parties in which our adjudicator said 
that 
- The loan 4 repayment to Morses represented a significant proportion of Ms Rs 
income and this increased at loan 5. So, our adjudicator thought that there was a risk 
that Ms R was not able to meet her existing commitments without borrowing again. 
- In addition, our adjudicator thought that the overall pattern of borrowing was such 
that it was harmful to Ms R and this was the case from Loan 4. 
Morses disagreed, and said that Ms R repaid her loans 1 to 4 with no undue hardship and it 
had no information about any financial difficulties she may have been in. And even though 
her income reduced at loan 5 it still considered loan 5 was affordable. 
Morses repeated that there was a gap in lending before loan 6 and the amount Ms R wanted 
at loan 6 reduced to £500. 
The unresolved complaint was passed to me to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about high cost, short-term and home 
credit lending - including all the relevant rules, guidance and good industry practice - on our 
website.
Morses had to assess the lending to check if Ms R could afford to pay back the amounts 
shed borrowed without undue difficulty. It needed to do this in a way which was 
proportionate to the circumstances. Morses checks could have considered a number of 
different things, such as how much was being lent, the size of the repayments, and Ms Rs 
income and expenditure.
I think in the early stages of a lending relationship, less thorough checks might have been 
proportionate. But certain factors might suggest Morses should have done more to establish 
that any lending was sustainable for Ms R. These factors include:
- Ms R having a low income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make any loan 
repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income);
- The amounts to be repaid being especially high (reflecting that it could be more 
difficult to meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income);
- Ms R having a large number of loans and/or having these loans over a long period of 
time (reflecting the risk that repeated refinancing may signal that the borrowing had 
become, or was becoming, unsustainable);
- Ms R coming back for loans shortly after previous borrowing had been repaid (also 
suggestive of the borrowing becoming unsustainable).
There may even come a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly 
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable for Ms R. Our adjudicator considered this 
to be the case for Ms R.
Morses was required to establish whether Ms R could sustainably repay the loans  not just 
whether she technically had enough money to make her repayments. Having enough money 
to make the repayments could of course be an indicator that Ms R was able to repay her 
loans sustainably. But it doesnt automatically follow that this is the case.
Industry regulations say that payments are sustainable if they are made without undue difficulties and, made on time, while meeting other reasonable commitments and without 
having to borrow to make them. If a lender realises, or ought reasonably to have realised, 
that a borrower wont be able to make their repayments without borrowing further, then it 
follows that it should conclude those repayments are unsustainable.
Ive considered all the arguments, evidence and information provided in this context, and 
thought about what this means for Ms Rs complaint.
Borrowing consecutively for many years and without any breaks of any significance  
highlights the fact that Ms R was likely to be having trouble making ends meet. Morses was 
alert from its own research about Ms R that she had experienced a poor financial situation in 
the past (historic defaults and a County Court Judgment). I appreciate it was some time 
before loan 1. But this was not unknown to Morses. 
I have reviewed Morses comment about the gap of about 3 months between loans 5 and 6 
but I consider that after 3 and a half years of lending I dont think that a short gap of a few 
weeks was enough to have led me to come to a different conclusion to the adjudicators. 
From Loan 4 I think this is a clear example of repetitive borrowing by Ms R and especially 
where the loan 5 income dropped significantly to only £145 a week. That would, in my view, 
place Ms R in the category of a low earner. 
Added to which, the proportions of her income going on the Morses repayments were 
significant at over 10% and then 20% for loans 4 and 5 respectively. 
I think that by loan 4 Morses ought to have realised that she was filling a hole left by the 
repayments for the earlier loans. And the repetitive nature of the lending was otherwise 
unsustainable. I say this because she had been indebted to Morses for almost two years. 
This was a reasonably long time to be using high cost credit in itself. 
But at loan 4 Ms R was making a commitment to make repayments for a further 33 weeks. 
The amounts she was borrowing was tending to increase over this period and for the rest of 
the borrowing relationship with Morses. By the time of Ms Rs application for loan 4 she was 
seeking a capital sum equal to twice her original loan. And Ms R was repeatedly coming 
back for new loans on the day a previous loan was repaid. 
Notwithstanding the small gap between loans five and six, I think that Ms R lost out because 
Morses provided loans 4 to 6
These loans had the effect of unfairly prolonging her indebtedness by allowing her to 
take expensive credit over an extended period.
The number of loans and the length of time over which Ms R borrowed was likely to 
have had negative implications on her ability to access mainstream credit and so 
kept her in the market for these high-cost loans.
So, Im upholding the complaint about loans 4 to 6 and Morses should put things right.
Putting things right
In deciding what redress Morses should fairly pay in this case Ive thought about what might 
have happened had it stopped lending to Ms R at loan 4, as Im satisfied it ought to have.
Clearly there are a great many possible, and all hypothetical, answers to that question.
For example, having been declined this lending Ms R may have simply left matters there, not attempting to obtain the funds from elsewhere  particularly as a relationship existed 
between her and this particular lender which they may not have had with others. If this 
wasnt a viable option, they may have looked to borrow the funds from a friend or relative  
assuming that was even possible.
Or, they may have decided to approach a third-party lender with the same application, or 
indeed a different application (i.e. for more or less borrowing). But even if they had done 
that, the information that would have been available to such a lender and how they would (or 
ought to have) treated an application which may or may not have been the same is 
impossible to now accurately reconstruct. From what Ive seen in this case, I certainly dont 
think I can fairly conclude there was a real and substantial chance that a new lender would 
have been able to lend to Ms R in a compliant way at this time.
Having thought about all these possibilities, Im not persuaded it would be fair or reasonable 
to conclude that Ms R would more likely than not have taken up any one of these options. So 
it wouldnt be fair to now reduce Morses liability in this case for what Im satisfied it has done 
wrong and should put right.
Morses shouldnt have given Ms R loans 4 to 6.
A) Morses should add together the total of the repayments made by Ms R towards interest, 
fees and charges on these loans, including payments made to a third party where 
applicable, but not including anything it has already refunded.
B) Morses should calculate 8% simple interest* on the individual payments made by Ms R 
which were considered as part of A, calculated from the date Ms R originally made the 
payments, to the date the complaint is settled.
C) Morses should pay Ms R the total of A plus B.
D) The overall pattern of Ms Rs borrowing for loans 4 to 6 means any information recorded 
about it is adverse, so it should remove them entirely from Ms Rs credit file.
*HM Revenue & Customs requires Morses to deduct tax from this interest. Morses should 
give Ms R a certificate showing how much tax Morses has deducted, if she asks for one.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold Ms Rs complaint and I direct that Morses Club PLC should 
do as I have outlined above. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms R to accept or 
reject my decision before 26 November 2022.
 
Rachael Williams
Ombudsman