DRN-4221351
The complaint
Mr J complains American Express Services Europe Limited (Amex) says it returned 
payments to the third party who deposited monies into his credit card account, but these 
werent ever received.
What happened
Mr J says four payments were deposited to his credit card account with Amex from a third 
party in June 2022 totalling £4,650. Mr J says he was told by Amex these were returned to 
the source of the payments but having checked with the third party, these monies havent 
been received into their bank account. Mr J says this matter has been ongoing for many 
months and Amex arent able to confirm where the money has been sent to. 
Mr J wants Amex to re-allocate the returned payments back to his credit card account. 
Amex says the payments were returned to the original source in late August 2022 and Mr J 
would need to ask the third party to trace these payments with their own bank. Amex says it 
has made no error here but as a gesture of goodwill for the frustration this matter has 
caused, paid him £25. 
Mr J wasnt happy with Amexs response and referred the matter to this service. 
The investigator looked at all the available information but didnt uphold the complaint. The 
investigator felt Amex had not made an error as the payments were reversed on the 
instructions of the issuing bank. The investigator felt Mr J should ask the third party to 
contact their bank regarding these returned payments. 
Mr J didnt agree with the investigators view and asked for the matter to be referred to an 
ombudsman for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I wont be upholding this complaint and I will explain how I have come to my 
decision. 
I can understand it would be upsetting for Mr J to have learned payments made from a third 
party into his Amex credit card account were reversed by Amex, and then to be informed 
these funds were never received by the third party in question.
When looking at this complaint I will decide if Amex acted reasonably when it reversed the 
payments made into Mr Js credit card account and if it could have done anymore to inform 
Mr J of what was happening. 
Its worth saying here and as understood by Mr J, third party payments into his credit card 
account are not permitted under the terms and conditions of the account and therefore it 
would be reasonable for Amex to return such payments if that happened. Here though, Mr 
Js complaint centres around the fact the third party who sent the monies to his credit card 
account has told him these funds have never been received by them and Amex havent been 
helpful in locating where these funds have been sent exactly. 
Its fair to say here, matters could have been explained a little more clearly to Mr J by Amex 
albeit it is restricted to some extent by data protection regulations. Having investigated the 
matter further, I have been informed by Amex it has carried out the instructions given by the 
third party who originally sent the payments to Mr Js credit card account. 
Due to data protection regulations I nor Amex are permitted to divulge exactly where those 
monies have been sent, but I have been provided with information from Amex explaining the 
original sender of those payments contacted Amex in August 2022 and requested that these 
monies be re allocated to an account of their choice and Amex carried out those instructions. 
So, its not clear why the third party says they havent received those monies, but thats not 
something I can consider under the circumstances of this complaint, for the reasons I have 
already explained.  
While Mr J will be disappointed with my decision, I wont be asking anymore of Amex.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr J to accept or 
reject my decision before 27 November 2023.
 
Barry White
Ombudsman