DRN-3182376
The complaint
Mr B has complained that Ikano Bank AB (publ) (Ikano) rejected his claim against it under 
section 75 of the Consumer Credit Act 1974 in relation to his purchase of some solar panels.
What happened
Mr B bought solar panels for his home in January 2015. The purchase was funded by a five-
year interest-free loan from Ikano, and that business is therefore liable for the acts and 
omissions of the installer under the relevant legislation. In this case, that relates to the 
installer misleading Mr B into believing that the panels would be self-funding within a 
reasonable period, which they werent.
Mr Bs complaint was considered by one of our adjudicators. She thought that the benefits of 
the panels were mis-represented to Mr B, and that fair redress would be for the loan to be 
restructured to effectively make the panels self-funding over a reasonable period, which she 
decided was ten years (rather than the five-year term of the loan). This restructure should be 
based on evidence of the actual performance of the panels, and a number of assumptions 
on future performance. Ikano didnt respond, so the case was referred for an ombudsmans 
decision.
I wrote a provisional decision which read as follows.
What Ive provisionally decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having carefully considered everything provided, I am currently not minded to uphold this 
complaint. That is because the contract for the sale of the solar panels sets out the cost and 
the estimated benefit of the panels very clearly, and the benefits did not begin to approach 
the cost.
Immediately above the signature box, in the middle, it says in bold capital letters Estimated 
total 1st year benefit, and next to that on the right is the figure £403.77. I think this figure is 
conspicuous; it is not buried in some fine print. To the left it says that the finance amount is 
£4,550, payable over five years. This document was signed by Mr B immediately below 
those figures, and so I think that the installers salesman did enough to bring this information 
to his attention.
However, only one tenth of the amount borrowed  six months worth of loan repayments  
would clearly come to £455, which is a little more than the stated benefit figure for the first 
twelve months. So one fifth of the amount borrowed, which would have to be repaid during 
the first year of the loan, would come to over twice the estimated benefit. Again, I think this is 
clear.
For these reasons, I am not persuaded that the installer misled Mr B about the benefits and 
cost of the panels. It was clear that the panels would not be self-funding during the term of 
the loan.
Responses to my provisional decision
Neither party responded to my provisional decision, so there is no reason for me to depart 
from my provisional findings, and I confirm them here.
My final decision
 My decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 11 February 2022. 
Richard Wood
Ombudsman