DRN-2129532
The complaint
Mrs M complains about Saga Services Limiteds service when she bought travel insurance. 
Mrs M is represented by her son in her complaint to us. For simplicity Ill refer to his 
comments as Mrs Ms comments.
What happened
In October 2018 Mrs M took out a travel insurance policy for a holiday, which was sold by 
Saga. The email from Saga confirming the policy purchase said:
We have automatically saved your policy documents within the MySaga portal which 
you can access any time as long as you have internet access. 
In October 2019 Mrs M wanted to buy a new policy. Mrs Ms son, who bought and managed 
the policies on her behalf, tried to access the 2018 policy documents on-line to help 
complete Mrs Ms medical information for the new policy. The 2018 policy documents were 
marked as no longer available. When Mrs Ms son spoke to Saga it told him that when the 
policy ended the documents were no longer available.
Mrs M bought the 2019 policy and Saga emailed her with the same wording that she could 
access the policy documents any time. Saga had said it would send her the policy 
documents by email, unless she noted her preference for them to be posted. Saga didnt 
send the documents by email but emailed Mrs M a link to access her MySaga portal where 
the documents could be seen on-line.
Mrs M complains that:
 Sagas emails saying the policy documents could be accessed any time was wrong, 
misleading and disadvantaged her
 Saga misled her into believing it would email her the policy documents. Sending a 
link to access the document on a portal wasnt the same 
 when she asked for the 2018 policy documents to be posted to her Saga sent them 
to the wrong address.
Mrs M says Sagas action caused her and her son upset and inconvenience when they 
should have been preparing for a relaxing holiday. She wants £375 compensation which she 
broke down into amounts for different activities such as £25 for a phone call and £100 for 
preparation of her complaint to us.
Saga accepted its email saying the policy documents could be viewed any time could be 
seen as misleading. It said it emailed a link to the policy documents rather than email the 
documents to protect personal data but it understood its message could imply the 
documents would be attached to the email. It had posted the 2018 policy documents to the 
address where the 2018 documents were originally sent and it had no record of Mrs M 
updating her address details. Saga upheld the complaint and offered Mrs M £40 
compensation for distress and inconvenience.
Mrs M didnt accept the offer and complained to us. She added that she thought Sagas 
actions were a breach of Part 2 of The Consumer Protection from Unfair Trading 
Regulations 2008 (the Act).  
Our investigator thought Sagas offer was fair.
Mrs M disagrees and wants an ombudsmans decision. In brief she said: 
 the complaint should be upheld when Saga had upheld the complaint and the 
disputed issue was the amount of compensation 
 Sagas £40 offer wasnt enough as its actions had led to her sons inconvenience of 
searching for the documents and having to contact Saga. Shed been greatly 
distressed and inconvenienced by having to go through her medication to sort out her 
health conditions to ensure she gave the correct information before buying the policy 
and again when the policy schedule arrived 
 having to wait six working days for policy documents that are posted was 
unreasonable
 we should acknowledge the impact of an insurer providing wrong information on the 
lives of busy people and older people with poor health and our compensation awards 
would influence insurers to make sure they didnt provide misleading information.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I partly uphold this complaint. I think Saga did something wrong as its communication could 
have been clearer but I think its offer of £40 compensation was fair and reasonable. 
Ive considered Mrs Ms detailed comments. Im not going to refer to each point and Ill focus 
on the main points to explain why Ive made my decision.
I dont think Sagas actions breach the Act. But I dont need to make a detailed finding about 
that issue as my role isnt primarily to determine whether a business is in breach of the law 
and Saga accepts its communication could have been clearer. 
I also think Sagas email confirming the purchase of the policy could have been clearer that 
the policy documents were only available to view during the policy period. 
I dont think theres any substantive difference between Saga saying it will email the policy 
documents and it emailing a link to a portal where the documents are. Ive seen no evidence 
that Mrs M couldnt access the documents through the link or portal. 
Also, I understand the 2018 documents were viewed through the link to the portal. So when 
Mrs M bought the 2019 policy she would have known the documents were accessed through 
a link and she could have asked for those documents to be posted if she didnt like 
accessing them through the portal.
Ive seen no evidence that Mrs M told Saga of her change of address when she asked for 
the 2018 policy documents to be posted so Saga acted reasonably in posting to the address it held for Mrs M. Ive seen Mrs Ms comments about the timescale but I think six working 
days to receive the documents is reasonable.
I need to decide whether Sagas £40 offer is enough given what I think it did wrong and the 
distress and inconvenience it caused. The policy is in Mrs Ms name and although her son 
was also insured he was doing the tasks that caused him inconvenience on behalf of his 
mother.
It would have been easier for Mrs M and her son to complete the 2019 policy application if 
the 2018 policy schedule had been available on-line. But a consumer ensuring theyve given 
full medical disclosure is a usual part of taking out travel insurance and as a year had 
passed Mrs M needed to review what medical conditions and medication she needed to 
disclose anyway. Mrs Ms son had to log on to the portal to see the 2018 policy documents 
werent available and he contacted Saga around three times about the complaint so there 
was some inconvenience.
We dont make compensation awards as a penalty to punish a business. I dont generally 
award compensation for each inconvenient action, as Mrs M has suggested and I dont 
generally award compensation for a consumers inconvenience in making a complaint to us. 
Theres no reason for me to do so in this case.
Putting things right
Saga Services Limited has already made an offer to pay £40 compensation for the distress 
and inconvenience it caused to settle the complaint and I think the offer is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances.
My final decision
I partly uphold the complaint. Saga Services Limited must pay £40 for the distress and 
inconvenience its caused, as its already offered 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs M to accept or 
reject my decision before 25 September 2020.
 
Nicola Sisk
Ombudsman