DRN-1917359
The complaint
Mr L has complained about Haven Insurance Company Limited. He isnt happy that it settled 
a fault claim against his commercial insurance taxi policy. 
What happened
Mr L was contacted by his insurance company after one of his taxis had been involved in an 
accident. Mr L disputed this and said that his car was in fact at a garage for repair at the time 
of the alleged accident. 
Haven looked into this and all the circumstances surrounding the incident but thought that it 
couldnt defend Mr L. It was satisfied that his vehicle was most likely involved in the incident 
and so it accepted responsibility and settled the claim. But Mr L remained unhappy and so 
he complained to this service.
Our investigator looked into things for him but didnt uphold his complaint. He thought that 
Haven undertook a reasonable investigation and had settled liability in a fair way. 
As Mr L didnt agree the matter has been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so I dont think that the complaint should be upheld. I know this will come as a 
disappointment to Mr L, but Ill explain why.
I can understand how difficult and frustrating Mr L has found all of this. I say this as he is 
adamant that his car wasnt at the scene when the incident happened and has provided 
some evidence to support his position. 
But as our investigator has explained it isnt the role of this service to decide liability, which is 
a matter for the courts. Although we do look to ensure insurers have acted in a fair and 
reasonable way. 
Haven, like most motor insurers, have a clause in the contract that allows it to take over the 
settlement of the claim. This gives it the right to decide whether to proceed to court or settle 
a claim. And court proceedings are uncertain and expensive, so insurers are cautious about 
going to court. They look to consider the costs involved and the likelihood of success in 
making these decisions.
But we look to ensure insurers act fairly in deciding whether to settle matters and make a 
reasonable assessment of the claim. Based on a clear understanding of the evidence and 
circumstances surrounding the accident. With this in mind, I have carefully considered how 
Haven has handled Mr Ls claim.
Haven was approached by the third party and appointed an investigator to look at the 
circumstances surrounding the accident and to interview Mr L, the third party and a number 
of other witnesses. They provided a detailed report and statements from Mr L and the other 
witnesses. And Haven considered photographs of the accident damage; the account and 
medical evidence from the third party; the peripheral witnesses; and the detailed report from 
the investigators who undertook detailed enquiries. 
Having considered all of this and trying to defend Mr L for a number of months, Haven 
eventually accepted liability. I know Mr L isnt happy about this and maintains that his car 
was being repaired at a garage. But it is possible that his car was taken from the garage and 
the third party is very clear about who was driving the car at the time of impact and this has 
been supported by a member of the drivers family. Plus, the third party provided medical 
evidence outlining injuries sustained at the time of the incident. 
Given all of this I cant conclude that Haven has acted unreasonably here. And Haven has 
settled the matter on a without prejudice basis which means that Mr L can still pursue the 
matter himself at court if he wishes.
My final decision
It follows, for the reasons given above, that Im not upholding this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr L to accept or 
reject my decision before 27 January 2021.
 
Colin Keegan
Ombudsman