DRN-3566544
The complaint
Mr S complains that Santander UK Plc did not fairly compensate him after it erroneously 
charged him for payment protection insurance (PPI). 
What happened
PPI was sold to Mr S in or around 2006. After a problem making a PPI claim in 2018, Mr S 
complained to Santander that it had mis-sold PPI to him. Santander upheld the complaint 
and it offered to compensate Mr S for that mis-sale. It told Mr S that it would arrange to 
cancel the PPI policy and that no further premiums would be taken. 
In 2021, Mr S discovered that Santander had not cancelled his policy and he had been 
paying for premiums since 2018. He sought a refund of all the premiums Santander had 
debited in error. In response, Santander further assured Mr S that his policy had been 
cancelled. It offered to pay compensation to him as follows: 
Amount
Total refund of premiums from September 
2018 to February 2022£1569.30
Net 8% compensatory interest £138.11
Total £1707.41
Mr S complained to this service. At this point, he had not been paid the compensation 
Santander offered. He also thought a further payment to compensate him for the trouble and 
upset hed been put to by Santander was appropriate. 
Our adjudicator made some further enquiries of Santander. She noted that even at the point 
of her further enquiries, the insurer was still deducting premiums for Mr Ss policy. Santander 
had not cancelled the policy as it said it would. It told our adjudicator it could not cancel the 
policy until Mr S had accepted its offer to reimburse the additional premiums. After some 
considerable coming and going, Santander said that it could not cancel the policy and that 
Mr S would have to do so with the insurer directly. I understand he did this in March 2022. 
I understand Santander paid the offer of £1,707.41 to Mr S. But this initial offer was only up 
to February 2021. By this point, Mr S had been unnecessarily paying for PPI for several 
more months. It eventually offered to make a further payment of £652.84 to Mr S, comprising 
£627.72 for the additional premiums he had paid for and £25.12 in net compensatory 
interest. It then offered to pay him a further £50 to compensate him for the additional distress 
and inconvenience he had been put to in pursuing his complaint. 
Mr S did not accept Santanders offer in respect of the additional £50. Our adjudicator 
thought Santander should pay £150 to Mr S in that regard. Mr S thought a payment of £250 
would be more appropriate. 
As Mr S did not agree with our adjudicators view, the matter was passed to me to make a 
final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having considered the matter at some length, I agree with our adjudicator that a payment of 
£150 is appropriate to compensate Mr S for the additional inconvenience he was put to in 
pursuing his complaint. Ill explain why below. 
Santanders calculation 
The first thing Ive considered is whether Santander has now paid back to Mr S all of the 
additional premiums he paid after his policy should have been cancelled in 2018. 
Looking at the information before me, I can see Santander refunded what Mr S paid for the 
PPI. It also offered to pay an additional 8% compensatory interest to Mr S up to the date he 
got the money back. This is effectively because Mr S was deprived of the opportunity to use 
the money he paid for his premiums whilst it was held by Santander. The purpose of the 8% 
interest is to compensate Mr S for the period he was out of pocket because of Santanders 
actions. 
Distress and inconvenience 
It is absolutely clear to me that Mr S was inconvenienced because of Santanders actions. It 
assured him it would cancel the policy in 2018. And that assurance was repeated in March 
2021. The policy was not cancelled until March 2022 when Mr S contacted the insurer 
directly. If that was what was required of Mr S, Santander should have told him thats what 
he needed to do when the error was discovered in March 2021. 
I cannot understand why it took a further year for the policy to be cancelled. I cannot 
reasonably see why Santanders ability to cancel the policy was contingent upon him 
accepting its compensation offer. If Santander required consent from Mr S, that consent 
could have been obtained in another form other than the offer acceptance. I can easily see 
how Mr S was inconvenienced in that regard. 
That said, my role in deciding an appropriate amount of compensation for inconvenience is 
not punitive. So the amount I can award must be linked to the impact Santanders mistakes 
had on Mr S. 
As I said above, Mr S has already received 8% simple interest to compensate him for being 
out of pocket because of Santanders errors. Im satisfied thats a fair way to compensate 
him for being without those funds. So I cant make a further award for that. I dont have a lot 
of information about the wider impact Santanders mistakes had on Mr S. For example, the 
evidence before me doesnt suggest he had a health condition that was aggravated by its 
errors. I havent seen anything to suggest that paying the PPI for the additional months 
caused him to run into any financial difficulties. 
But Mr S was still put to some inconvenience to sort the matter out with Santander, which 
took some while. On that basis, I am satisfied that £150 as suggested by our adjudicator is 
an appropriate amount to compensate Mr S for those mistakes. I do appreciate Mr S thought 
he should be paid £250 in total and I am sorry to disappoint him in that regard. 
I understand Santander has already paid £50 to Mr S for distress and inconvenience. If it 
has not already done so, it must now arrange to pay the additional £100 to Mr S if he 
accepts my decision. 
My final decision
If it has not done so already, Santander needs to arrange to pay £150 to Mr S to 
compensate him for the inconvenience he was put to following the mistakes I have identified above. I understand £50 may has already been paid to Mr S. Santander can deduct what it 
has already paid from the amount I have set out above. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 2 August 2022.
 
Nicola Bowes
Ombudsman