DRN-4209847
The complaint
Mr L is unhappy that Barclays Bank UK PLC has refused to refund the money he says he 
lost to a scam.
What happened
The circumstances that led to this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat 
them in detail here. But, in summary:
Mr L says he fell victim to an investment scam that occurred between January and 
August 2021. He made various payments and transfers over this period including eight 
bank transfers, totalling £140,000, which are the subject of this complaint.
Barclays refunded 50% (almost £12,000) of some debit card payments that Mr L said 
were made as part of the same scam  the bank concluded that both it and Mr L were at 
fault relating to those payments. But Barclays subsequently refused to refund any of the 
bank transfers, saying Mr Ls claim wasnt covered by the provisions of the Contingent 
Reimbursement Model Code (the CRM Code). But it paid £150 compensation into his 
account by way of an apology for the length of time it had taken to give Mr L an answer 
to his complaint. It also contacted the banks that received Mr Ls payments to see if 
anything could be recovered, but no funds remained. Mr L remained unhappy and asked 
us to consider his complaint.
Our investigator didnt think that Barclays ought to have reimbursed Mr L. But Mr L 
disagreed, so the complaint has come to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive reached the same conclusion as the investigator, for much the same 
reasons. In all the circumstances, I dont think its fair or reasonable to instruct Barclays to 
refund any of the disputed payments  under the provisions of the CRM Code or otherwise  
and Ive reached this conclusion having taken the following into account.
Theres no dispute that Mr L authorised all of the disputed payments. So, under the Payment 
Services Regulations 2017, and the terms and conditions of his account, Mr L is presumed 
liable for the losses in the first instance. But the matter doesn't end there if a scam has taken 
place.
As Mr L has pointed out, Barclays should be on the lookout for, and help to prevent, 
payments that could involve fraud or be the result of a scam. But a balance must be struck 
between identifying payments that may indicate a customer is potentially at risk of financial 
harm  and then responding appropriately to any concerns  and ensuring minimal 
disruption to legitimate payments. With this in mind, given the historic activity on the 
numerous account Mr L held with Barclays, which included some relatively large payments 
and references to investments, Im not persuaded the bank ought to have intervened 
particularly with respect to the earlier payments.
But, even if I thought the bank ought to have provided in-person intervention at some point, 
Im not persuaded that this would have prevented the losses Mr L has claimed. I think, by the 
time he made these payments, hed already built up a great deal of trust and belief in what 
the scammer was telling him. And, I think its more likely than not the scammer could have 
persuaded him to continue investing despite any warnings the bank might have given. I say 
this, not least, given the following:
The day before the first transfer was made, Mr L asked the scammer to recommend a 
business account that he could open because his personal account had been stopped a 
few times and he didnt want this to keep happening. So, it doesnt seem that the blocks 
Barclays, or other banks, had instigated had much (if any) effect on Mr Ls decision-
making. He had been sending money to genuine cryptocurrency exchanges up to that 
point and then passing the cryptocurrency on to the scammer. Its not clear to me, 
despite asking, why Mr L was subsequently persuaded to send money by bank transfer.
Barclays records suggest that when Mr L set up the first new payee in order to make the 
first transfer, he received an on-screen warning which encouraged him to check the 
FCAs register and warning list to confirm the investment company was certified and 
regulated before proceeding. Mr L says he didnt undertake any checks at that point. He 
appears to have thought the money he was sending was passing through a genuine 
FCA-regulated bank and this gave him some reassurance.
By the time Mr L made the first transfer, hed already been communicating and 
transacting with the scammer for at least a couple of months. Hed been given access to, 
what he felt was, a professional looking online trading platform which showed him how 
his investment was performing. Hed been given an insurance policy which he believed 
guaranteed 100% of his investment. Hed previously sent cryptocurrency to the scammer 
and been able to withdraw a small amount. Mr L has also shared some messages he 
exchanged with the scammer, but I cant see all the detail and its clear that a great many 
phone calls also took place. At one point Mr L asked for a call because he wanted to 
discuss an idea hed had an didnt want this to be recorded on the chat facility. 
Despite what Mr L says, I think the evidence suggest he and his friends (who I will talk 
about more below) had some investment experience prior to becoming involved in this 
alleged scam. They were all interested in making money quickly using the stockmarket, 
forex, cryptocurrency etc and were exploring these options directly as well as through 
intermediaries like this scammer.
Barclays has shown that £125,000 was received into Mr Ls accounts from various sources 
while this alleged scam was taking place. Despite what Mr L has said and provided, Im not 
persuaded all of money he paid away was his own. He says at least three different friends 
loaned money to him. But I think its more likely than not that he was investing this money 
on their (and perhaps others) behalf. I say this, not least given that:
Before and around the time this investment started, Mr L set up various limited 
companies which had direct and indirect links to two of his friends. The limited 
companies were all set up with intended business activities linked to investing and/or 
financial services. Mr L suggests these companies were never really active, but he 
seems to have received payments into his accounts relating to at least one of them. And, 
at some point, Mr L set up a separate account with the scammer in the name of one of 
the limited companies.The messages Mr L exchanged with the scammer include a reference to one of the 
individuals being his business partner. Its clear the scammer was also corresponding 
with this friend directly and, at one point, Mr L asked if that individual could send money 
direct rather than through him. Mr L asks for a third person to be added to their chat 
group. And Mr L refers more than once to the groups plans for the future and that they 
have a lot more investors lined up.
Many of the payment descriptions that the individuals used when sending Mr L money 
suggested they were investing, not lending.
Despite what Mr L says, I think the historic account activity suggests that Mr L entered 
investment arrangements with at least one of the individuals (and other, third parties) 
previously.  
Mr L has provided a personal loan agreement he says he entered into with one of the 
individuals. But that same individual sent him money before the date that document was 
signed.
With the above in mind, I cant fairly hold Barclays liable for financial losses which werent 
Mr Ls own.
Im also satisfied that the banks award of compensation was fair and reasonable in all the 
circumstances of this complaint  this was a, somewhat, complex situation which has taken 
some unravelling.
While looking into Mr Ls complaint, Barclays decided to amalgamate all his accounts into 
one and close the others. It has also, seemingly, defaulted the remaining account because 
the amalgamation resulted in a debit balance which Mr L had not repaid. Mr L tells us hes 
unhappy with the banks decision in this respect but, as the investigator has already 
explained, he needs to pursue a complaint with the bank about those matters before we can 
consider them.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr L to accept or 
reject my decision before 31 August 2023.
 
Ruth Hersey
Ombudsman