DRN-2159133
The complaint
Mr D has complained that The Royal Bank of Scotland Plc (RBS) mis-sold him fee-paying 
Select Silver and Select Platinum packaged bank accounts.
Mr D says he was led to believe that the accounts would improve his credit score and his 
ability to obtain credit.
What happened
Our adjudicators assessed the complaint and they didnt think that the accounts had been 
mis-sold. Mr D disagreed, so the complaint was referred for an ombudsmans decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve explained our approach to complaints about packaged bank accounts on our website 
and Ive used that to help me decide this complaint. And having considered everything that 
has been provided, I dont uphold this complaint. I will explain why.
Firstly, I think it might help to explain that where evidence is missing and matters are in 
dispute, as they are here, I have to decide what I think was most likely to have happened, 
based on everything that is available.   
Mr D says that he was told in branch that if he applied for the Select Silver account, this 
would improve his credit score, and in turn his chances of obtaining credit. However, RBS 
has no evidence of the conversation that Mr D has referred to. On the contrary, it says that 
Mr D applied for the account through its website and says that its staff had no involvement in 
his decision to open the Select Silver account.
Looking at the application forms, these show that the application for the Select Silver 
account was made via the internet. Its possible that Mr D did attend an RBS branch, but the 
evidence suggests that if he did, it was after hed submitted his application. I say this as he 
signed an application form and provided his driving licence (to verify his identity and 
address) on 15 May 2013, which was a few days after the online application had been made. 
But if thats the case, I see no reason why a member of staff would incorrectly tell him that it 
would help improve his credit score at that point, as hed already chosen to open the Select 
Silver account. 
Mr D says that, only a few months later, RBS then led him to believe that he should upgrade 
to the more expensive Select Platinum account in October 2013  for exactly the same 
reasons why he agreed to the Select Silver account in May 2013. But again, there is nothing 
to suggest he was told this, or that hed tried to apply for credit under the Select Silver 
account and had been unsuccessful. And I find it unlikely that Mr D was given exactly the 
same wrong information about two different accounts. 
The first time I can see Mr D did apply for credit was over three years after he agreed to the 
Select Platinum account. Whereas I wouldve expected Mr D to apply for credit much 
sooner, if he thought having the packaged accounts would improve his credit score, and that 
was the reason why he agreed to pay £10, and then £16, per month for the packaged 
accounts. Conversely, Mr D has told us that, at the time, he had a smart phone and drove a 
vehicle. The Select Silver account he agreed to provided mobile phone insurance. And the 
Select Platinum account provided mobile phone insurance and breakdown cover  amongst 
other benefits. And Mr D has also said he cancelled his existing breakdown cover in favour 
of the cover provided by the package account. 
So when weighing up what I think was more likely to have happened, I think its more likely 
that Mr D agreed to these accounts as he was attracted to the perks that they came with, 
rather than because he thought they might improve his chances of getting credit.
As I dont think the accounts were sold on an advised basis, this means RBS did not have to 
check if they were right for Mr D. But it was still obliged to give Mr D all of the important 
information about the account and benefits so he was able to make an informed decision 
whether to agree to them.
Im not sure exactly what information Mr D was presented with during the Select Silver 
application. But the application documents suggest that Mr D confirmed he had no pre-
existing medical conditions and that hed agreed to the travel and mobile phone insurance 
key exclusions. And the application documents for the Select Platinum account show that Mr 
D was told about the account cost and benefits, the eligibility criteria and was given a key 
facts document. 
From what Mr D has said, it seems he had an awareness that the accounts came with 
perks. So Im satisfied that Mr D was given at least some of the key information about the 
accounts. I accept that its possible RBS may not have given Mr D all of the information it 
shouldve during the application process for both accounts. But having said that, Ive not 
seen anything about Mr Ds circumstances that makes me think he wouldve been put off 
from agreeing to the accounts, had he been given more information about them.
Therefore, whilst I appreciate that this will be disappointing for Mr D, overall, Ive not seen 
enough evidence to say that the two packaged accounts were likely to have been mis-sold.
My final decision
Because of the reasons given above, I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision before 24 June 2021.
 
Thomas White
Ombudsman