DRN-3687630
The complaint
Miss B complains Unum Ltd unfairly turned down her income protection claim when she was 
too unwell to work. 
Miss Bs complaint has been brought on her behalf by a representative, but for ease I will 
refer to all submissions as having been made by Miss B herself. 
What happened
Miss B works as a senior executive and is a beneficiary of her employers group income 
protection policy, unwritten by Unum. The policy is designed to pay a benefit in the event of 
illness or injury, following a 26 week deferred period. 
The policy cover for incapacity is defined within the policy terms as follows. 
A member is incapacitated if we are satisfied that they are: 
Unable by reason of their illness or injury, to perform the material and substantial 
duties of the insured occupation, and are 
Not performing any occupation
Miss B became absent from work in mid-February 2020 due to illness and was signed off 
work by her GP. 
 
An incapacity claim was submitted to Unum via Miss Bs employer. In her claim form 
completed in July 2020, Miss B described having been unwell with flu in February 2020 with 
prolonged symptoms, and later being diagnosed with situational anxiety. She described her 
symptoms at the time to include tearfulness, sleeplessness, low mood, anxiety and trouble 
concentrating. She also said she had low self-esteem, appetite and lack of motivation. and 
said she was taking medication for sleep and anti-depressants. 
Within the claim forms, Miss Bs employer stated that she had been put at risk of redundancy 
at the end of January 2020. And consultation meetings began in February 2020.
Miss Bs medical records show she was initially unfit for work due to an infection from late 
February, and was then signed off work by her GP for the majority of March due to stress at 
work. The GP noted Miss B had said shed been put at risk of redundancy and had never 
done another job, so was feeling very anxious. He also noted she had concerns about the 
reasons for the redundancy and her employers motives. 
Miss B was signed off work for a further month during April 2020 and the GP stated the 
reason to be Work related Stress, Anxiety, Insomnia and prescribed a short course of 
sleeping tablets. 
Miss Bs employer referred her for an Occupational Health review in early April 2020 with 
Doctor M. The report stated Miss Bs symptoms were likely to be attributed to situational 
anxiety and noted the difficulties she was going through at work. The recommendation was 
that Miss B was unfit for work and would benefit from counselling or other therapies to 
maximise her coping strategies and emotional resilience. 
Following this report, Miss B was referred to a psychiatrist  Dr F  and began consultations 
in mid-April 2020. In the report from the first assessment with Dr F, her notes reflect Miss Bs 
shock at being put at risk of redundancy and feeling her selection was discrimination. Dr F 
stated Miss B had been unable to deal with telephone consultations about the redundancy. 
She notes Miss Bs reported symptoms of insomnia, poor concentration and memory, low 
appetite and lack of motivation. As well as panic attacks which Dr F said were mostly 
precipitated by work related issues. Dr F diagnosed Mixed Anxiety and Depressive disorder 
and prescribed an anti-depressant and sleeping medication. 
Miss B was assessed regularly by Dr F during the deferred period. A report from 6 May 
reflects Miss B had become physically sick on receiving an email from her employer and had 
been unable to open it. And at the end of May, she noted Miss B had just suffered a 
bereavement and had very low mood and wasnt sleeping. At the beginning of June Dr F 
noted Miss B had attended her close relatives funeral and was extremely tearful with low 
mood. And she increased the dosage of the anti-depressant. And at the next appointment, 
Dr F recommended counselling, but Miss B was uncomfortable with that. And her anti-
depressant dose was increased again. 
In July 2020, Dr F noted Miss B was still very tearful and low in mood. Miss B reported 
having had a few better days when she was not tearful but seldom left the house and was 
still not sleeping well. And later in July at the next appointment, Dr F commented on Miss B 
still feeling sad and tearful with low mood, no motivation and no energy. And she prescribed 
an additional anti-depressant medication. However at the next appointment in early August, 
Miss B reported side effects from the new medication, but she would try taking this again. 
Unum declined the claim in December 2020. It said the evidence didnt support that Miss B 
was absent from work due to an illness or injury. It said it thought this was due to an 
adjustment reaction to a workplace stressor. And it said the claim didnt meet the policy 
terms of incapacity.  It said the evidence supported that Miss B was absent due to a stressful 
event at work, rather than a significant mental health condition. 
Miss B complained to Unum. She appealed its claim decision and provided a report from a 
Consultant Psychiatrist  Dr D - dated August 2021. Dr D said he had been asked to assess 
Miss Bs condition as at August 2020 for the purpose of the appeal, and her current condition 
at that time. He said he had been provided with the past medical evidence, and had met with 
Miss B in May 2021. 
Dr D said Miss B was suffering with a severe psychiatric condition and her symptoms 
amounted to a severe depressive disorder. And he said this was also supported by the 
maximum does of anti-depressant medications she had been prescribed, as well as therapy 
and inpatient psychiatric treatment in March 2021. And he said he thought it was wrong in 
my opinion to conclude that this is a stress related disorder or adjustment reaction to a 
workplace stressor. 
Dr D concluded that he thought Miss B met the policy definition of incapacity and said having 
reviewed her job description: the impact of [Miss Bs] mental illness namely severe 
depressive disorder with anxiety would not allow her to carry on the duties at the level she is 
required. And he said he thought it was likely that this was the case as at mid-August 2020, 
which was the end of the policy deferred period. In response to the complaint, Unum said it still thought Miss B hadnt met the policy terms of 
incapacity. It said it thought her absence from work was due to a stress reaction to her job 
being at risk. And it said it didnt consider Dr Ds report provided an opinion on Miss Bs 
condition during the deferred period. 
Unhappy with Unums response, Miss B brought her complaint to this service. An 
investigator here looked into what had happened. They said they thought Unum hadnt 
unfairly declined the claim. And said Miss B hadnt shown she had an illness which caused 
her to be incapacitated throughout the deferred period. They also noted Unum had since 
agreed it would be willing to assess a new claim with a later deferred period, and thought 
this was fair.
Unum made no comment on the investigators view. However Miss B disagreed. In summary 
she said she had met the policy definition of incapacity, had been very unwell with flu at the 
start of the deferred period and later due to her mental health. She said Unum had not 
contacted Dr F for any further report and she had not been made aware that it would not do 
this. And she said was aware Unum had agreed to assess a further claim, but felt this did not 
correct its failings in initially declining her claim.
Miss B asked for a decision from an ombudsman, so the case has been passed to me to 
decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
And Ive looked at the relevant rules and industry guidelines, which say Unum has a 
responsibility to handle claims promptly and fairly and shouldnt reject a claim unreasonably.
Firstly, Im very sorry to hear of the difficulties Miss B has been through. My assessment 
here is not based on whether or not she has been unwell; my focus is on whether she met 
the policy terms of incapacity for the duration of the deferred period. 
If I havent commented on a particular point in my decision, this doesnt mean I havent 
considered it. Im not required to comment on each and every point, but instead Im 
concentrating on the main issues in the complaint. No discourtesy is intended by this; it 
simply reflects the informal nature of the ombudsman service and my role in it.
For Miss B to make a successful claim, she would need to demonstrate that she was unable 
to perform the material and substantial duties of her occupation, due to illness or injury, 
throughout the deferred period. 
Having reviewed the medical evidence, I dont think Unum acted unfairly in declining Miss 
Bs claim. And I say this for the following reasons.
Although Miss B was signed off work by a doctor, Im not persuaded this sufficiently 
demonstrates she was incapacitated, as its evident the majority of commentary about 
symptoms, relates to Miss Bs self-reporting. And, the threshold criteria for a doctor to 
certify someone as unfit for work is not the same as the policy definition of incapacity.
The occupational health reports also reference Miss B being unfit for work. This 
assessment is largely based on the information Miss B self-reported about her condition, 
and would not have taken into account the policy definition of incapacity. So it doesnt automatically follow that because Miss B was deemed unfit for work by Occupational 
Health, her claim should be paid. 
Unum has said it thought the main barrier to Miss B working, was stress caused by 
issues related to her job. And said it thought it was unlikely Miss B would have continued 
to be absent from work had she not been placed at risk of redundancy.  I didnt think this 
was unreasonable, particularly during the earlier part of the deferred period, as within the 
medical records there are various mentions of stress and anxiety in relation to Miss Bs 
concerns over her job  this includes the GP notes, Occupational Health report and Dr 
Fs reports.  Miss Bs absence from work began shortly after she was informed of the 
redundancy, and I also noted mention of her feeling the selection process had been 
unfair and discriminatory in the reports. So I dont think it was unfair for Unum to 
conclude that Miss Bs stress was most likely triggered by work related factors, rather 
than an illness. 
Stress in itself is not considered an illness, but rather a reaction to a set of 
circumstances. And although I accept the symptoms of stress can be debilitating and can 
often lead to more serious mental health problems, Ive not been sufficiently persuaded 
that was the case here to the extent that Miss B was incapacitated by an illness for the 
full deferred period.  Ive noted Miss Bs symptoms continued and developed further, 
however Ive focused on the 26 week deferred period Unum was required to assess 
when it reviewed the claim. 
Ive considered that Dr F diagnosed a depressive disorder in mid-April 2020, however 
the deferred period had started in mid-February 2020, with the medical evidence prior to 
this indicating work-related stress as the cause of Miss Bs symptoms. And in the May 
reports, Dr F relates some of Miss Bs symptoms to contact she had from her employer, 
and also her suffering a bereavement. So although there is evidence Miss Bs condition 
was deteriorating as reflected in Dr Fs reports during the later part of the deferred 
period, Im still not sufficiently persuaded she was incapacitated by illness for the full 
deferred period.
Miss B has said Unum made its claim decision without allowing her the opportunity to 
obtain more evidence and it didnt request any further reports from Dr F. However Im 
satisfied that the burden of proof was on Miss B to evidence her claim and that Unum 
assessed the evidence provided. As there were regular reports from Dr F from each 
consultation during the deferred period, I dont think its unreasonable that Unum relied 
on those reports and didnt request any further comments from her. And, when Miss B 
provided further medical evidence with her complaint, Unum assessed it and provided its 
comments. Which is what I would have expected it to do. 
Dr D assessed Miss Bs condition in 2021, having met with her in May and provided his 
report in August. However the deferred period had ended in August 2020, and the 26 
week deferred period between February and August 2020 is the relevant assessment 
period for this claim. So Ive not considered Dr Ds findings about Miss Bs condition after 
the end of August 2020 to be relevant to the claim assessment. 
Whilst I appreciate Dr D had referred to further deterioration in Miss Bs condition leading 
to psychiatric inpatient treatment in March 2021, this was some considerable after the 
deferred period had ended. So it wouldnt be right for me to take this into account. And Dr D relates the conclusions in his report around Miss B meeting the policy terms of 
incapacity at the end of the deferred period in August 2020. His report does not confirm 
that he thought she met that definition for the entirety of the deferred period from 
February to August 2020. 
Miss B also questioned whether Unum has required her incapacity to have one continuous 
cause in order to meet the policy terms. And I note she has raised this as she was first very 
unwell with flu and then later with various symptoms related to mental health. Based on the 
policy terms, for a successful claim, Miss B needed to evidence she was incapacitated by 
illness or injury for the full deferred period  there is no stipulation that this must be the same 
condition throughout the period, rather that she was incapacitated throughout. And Ive seen 
nothing which gives me cause for concern that Unum has not assessed the claim against the 
correct policy terms. 
In its final response, Unum said it accepted Miss B may have subsequently developed a 
mental illness. And I understand Unum has since said it will consider a claim with a later 
deferred period. Should Miss B and her employer make that claim and remain unhappy with 
the outcome, she can raise a new complaint with Unum. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given, its my final decision that I do not uphold this complaint. And I 
make no award against Unum Ltd. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss B to accept 
or reject my decision before 28 February 2023.
 
Gemma Warner
Ombudsman