DRN-3727431
The complaint
Mr S complains that Avant Credit of UK, LLC trading as SpringCoin and as AvantCredit, lent 
to him when it had not carried out thorough credit checks and if it had it would not have lent 
to him. 
What happened
Using information from AvantCredit here is a brief loan table of the two loans approved for 
Mr S. 
Loan Date taken Amount Term Monthly 
repaymentTotal 
amount 
repayableStatus
1 8 August 2014 £3,100.00 36 £131.60 £4,737.43 Settled
2 19 November 2016 £3,600.00 36 £153.06 £5,510.08 Settled
Mr S complained to AvantCredit in December 2021 and received a final response letter from 
AvantCredit in which it said that it had carried out proportionate checks including obtaining a 
credit report record of Mr S commitments and had seen his bank account statements for the 
months leading up to the loan approvals. It said it used information from data analysis to 
make a reasoned estimate of your likely expenditure to assess the likelihood of you falling 
behind with your repayments under the agreements.
After the complaint had been referred to the Financial Ombudsman Service by Mr S, one of 
our adjudicators looked at all the information from both parties and could see that there were 
elements of Mr S financial history and (then) financial position which led him to think that 
AvantCredit ought not to have lent to Mr S at all. He thought that the checks it had carried 
out were proportionate for loan 1 (but not for loan 2) but there was evidence of payday loans 
and high-cost short term instalment loans.
Mr S had sent to us the joint account bank statements and Mrs S is aware and satisfied that 
we are looking at the transactions relating to her as well. 
 
Our adjudicator was aware that the bank statements were a joint account and he had 
gathered that Mr and Mrs S had spent around £1,880 more than they had deposited in the 
account in the lead up to loan 1 being approved. 
And there was evidence of around £780 on gambling transactions. Our adjudicator 
considered that was around 50% of Mr S net salary and he thought that the loans ought not 
to have been lent. For loan 2 the gambling transactions were less than this but still there was 
evidence of high-cost loans being utilised too. 
AvantCredit responded with copies of the bank transactions it had obtained by having 
access to Mr S bank account for the period of three months up to loan 1 and loan 2. And it 
made many submissions all of which I have reviewed. 
The access to bank account evidence from AvantCredit was new and so I compared them 
to the bank statements that Mr S had sent to us and they do correlate and so it seems the 
bank statements AvantCredit saw in 2014 and 2016 are the same ones Mr S has sent to us. 
They are for the joint account ending *0583. 
So, having reviewed the complaint and the new evidence I asked Mr S for additional 
information to assist in the understanding of those bank account transactions. That has been 
sent to me and I refer to that information about Mr and Mrs S financial situation in the main 
part of the decision.
The unresolved complaint was passed to me to decide.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about unaffordable/irresponsible lending - 
including all the relevant rules, guidance and good industry practice - on our website. 
Taking into account the relevant rules, guidance and good industry practice, what I need to 
consider in deciding whats fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint are 
whether Avant completed reasonable and proportionate checks to satisfy itself that Mr S  
would be able to repay in a sustainable way? And, if not, would those checks have shown 
that Mr S  wouldve been able to do so?
If I determine that Avant did not act fairly and reasonably in its dealings with Mr S and that 
he has lost out as a result, I will go on to consider what is fair compensation.
The rules and regulations in place required Avant to carry out a reasonable and 
proportionate assessment of Mr Ss ability to make the repayments under this agreement. 
This assessment is sometimes referred to as an affordability assessment or affordability 
check.
The checks had to be borrower focused  so Avant had to think about whether repaying 
the loan would be sustainable and/or cause significant adverse consequences for Mr S. In 
practice this meant that Avant had to ensure that making the payments to the loan wouldnt 
cause Mr S undue difficulty or significant adverse consequences.
In other words, it wasnt enough for Avant to simply think about the likelihood of it getting its 
money back, it had to consider the impact of the loan repayments on Mr S. Checks also had 
to be proportionate to the specific circumstances of the loan application.
In general, what constitutes a proportionate affordability check will be dependent upon a 
number of factors including  but not limited to  the circumstances of the consumer (e.g. 
their financial history, current situation and outlook, and any indications of vulnerability or 
financial difficulty) and the amount/type/cost of credit they are seeking. Even for the same 
customer, a proportionate check could look different for different applications.
I think that a reasonable and proportionate check ought generally to have been more 
thorough:the lower a consumers income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make 
any loan repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income);
the higher the amount due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income); 
the greater the number and frequency of loans, and the longer the period during 
which a customer has been given loans (reflecting the risk that repeated 
refinancing may signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, 
unsustainable).
Ive carefully considered all the arguments, evidence and information provided in this context 
and what this all means for Mr Ss complaint.
I accept AvantCredits point that loan 2 was not used to pay off loan 1. I have seen from the 
AvantCredit account notes that Mr S telephoned on 3 October 2016 (during the life of loan 1) 
to ask if he was able to apply for a second loan and the answer was that he had to pay it off 
and wait at least 5 days before re-applying for further credit. 
I have seen that AvantCredit obtained credit report information about Mr S existing credit 
commitments in 2014 and 2016. It makes a relevant point that the bank account transactions 
may reveal that the other loans not showing on its credit search but are recognisable in the 
bank statements may be because they were the other bank account holders loans. I have 
investigated that by asking Mr S for additional information. And here is the information I have 
gathered from Mr S. 
Mr S was able to confirm that the larger salary crediting the joint bank account was his  
around £1,500 and at its peak with that employer his salary was £1,800 in 2020. Mr S told us 
that his overtime was severely curtailed in 2015. I had asked Mr S about the record of a 
salary of £2,450 each month and he did say  £2,450 would have been average income at 
this time, although this included bonuses and overtime of which Mr S was doing a lot of at 
that time
Theres a contradiction there  in relation to his income - but as the bank transactions show 
the higher income I have proceeded on that basis. 
And I had asked Mr S why he had under-declared his income on the application to 
AvantCredit and his answer was that his basic pay was £1,500 a month and a good portion 
of my salary at the town [sic] was made up of overtime payments and attendance bonuses. 
We decided to declare just my basic pay in case such a time came as thats all I was paid. 
I consider that a sensible approach and now its been explained Ive taken it into account. 
His wifes consultancy fees were about £260 a month. Mr S confirmed that all household 
expenditure was paid from this account including rent, council tax, utilities, TV services, food, 
fuel and childcare costs. And Mr S confirmed that they were making payments to a debt 
advice charity for its debt management services. 
Mr S did confirm that both he and his wife applied for the high cost short term loans but hed 
not been able to identify which was which for each of them. 
In any event, there were multiple transactions with a specific reference on the bank 
transaction list AvantCredit obtained and the bank statements Mr S has sent us which I will 
refer to as A+365. These were so numerous that they cannot be ignored. I asked Mr S 
about those and he confirmed that they were to a gambling website and it was his wife who 
was making those payments. There were also payments to a second gaming company as well but I had not asked Mr S about those and so I do not know who had been using that. 
Mr S has explained that they were struggling at the time and the loans from AvantCredit 
were to pay off other loans such as short term loans or to pay for repairs to their car which 
was needed to get the children to school and to get to work. 
And I have thought carefully about the high-cost short term instalment loans and the payday 
loans which appear on the account transactions. And to do this I have looked at the versions 
sent to us by AvantCredit and were obtained in 2014 and 2016 at the time Mr S was 
applying for loans 1 and 2 respectively. 
There are a lot. And even if they did not appear on the credit search records, they are not 
items on the bank account transaction lists which could be ignored.
And if they were loans obtained by the joint account holder and not Mr S, then additional 
queries ought to have been raised about them as they were being repaid from that joint-
account for which Mr S was jointly and severally liable. Its not realistic to think that Mr S 
financial circumstances can be viewed and approached in isolation to the joint account 
holders financial circumstances whether that was gambling or payday loans. 
Having done all of that, my view is that for loans of this amount and over 36 months then full 
and financial reviews ought to have been carried out. And having the information 
AvantCredit had, then I dont consider that this ought to have been ignored and/or further 
queries not raised about them.
My view is that AvantCredit made decision on pounds and pence and appeared not to 
account for the gambling and gaming transactions. And it seemed to rationalise the further 
indebtedness for Mr S as a solution for the serious indebtedness Mr S was already in. As it 
was using the joint account transactions list then it cannot ignore the transactions (as well as 
income) attributable to that other account holder. 
I uphold the complaint.
Putting things right
AvantCredit needs to put things right for Mr S. It needs to do as follows: 
refund all interest and charges Mr S paid on both the loans;
pay interest of 8% simple a year on any refunded interest and charges from the date 
they were paid (if they were) to the date of settlement*;
remove any negative payment information about the loans from Mr S credit file;
*HM Revenue & Customs requires AvantCredit to take off tax from this interest. It must give 
Mr S a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if he asks for one.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold Mr S complaint and I direct that AvantCredit of UK LLC 
does as I have outlined in the putting things right part of the decision.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 30 November 2022.
 
Rachael Williams
Ombudsman