DRN-2020092
The complaint
Mr P is unhappy with how Admiral insurance Company Limited (Admiral) dealt with his car 
insurance claim after he was involved in an accident.
Any reference to Admiral includes its agents. 
What happened
On 16 January 2020 Mr P was involved an accident with another car. Mr P had a telematics 
box fitted to his car which alerted his insurer, Admiral, that there may have been an accident. 
They phoned him to discuss this and he said he was busy and would need to call them back.
Mr P spoke to Admiral later that day and, based on everything that he told Admiral initially, 
they said that he was likely at fault for the accident. Mr P disputed this as he felt that the car 
in front had braked sharply before a roundabout when they didnt need to stop  resulting in 
him crashing into the back of the other car.
Mr P was initially undecided about whether hed make a claim on his insurance policy as he 
wanted to see how much the repairs would cost. The next day, Mr P sent Admiral dash cam 
footage of the accident. Admiral said they still felt Mr P was at fault for the accident. Mr P 
agreed with Admiral that one of their approved repairers would also look at the car to assess 
the damage and cost of repairs. There were some delays in this happening which Mr P was 
unhappy about.
On 5 February the Admiral approved repairer said that Mr Ps car was a total loss and that 
there was potentially further damage to the car. Mr P wasnt happy with this and so Admiral 
agreed that Mr P could have the car collected at his own expense and reviewed by a second 
garage. However, it explained that as the car wasnt road worthy, it couldnt be driven by 
him. 
On 7 February Admiral told Mr P that hed have to return the courtesy car hed been using to 
avoid any extra charges and pay the transport costs to take his car to his own garage for a 
second opinion. Shortly after this, Mr P contacted Admiral to raise concerns with their 
decision to class the car as a total loss based on the cost of repair and their valuation.  
On 27 February Mr P sent Admiral an independent repairer report and estimate. Mr P says 
this showed that the estimated cost of repair was much less than what Admirals report said. 
Admiral didnt agree with the independent report as they felt that it didnt cover the costs of 
all parts that needed replacing to ensure the car was road worthy and safe. Mr P disagreed 
as he felt that some of the parts didnt need replacing - meaning a lower repair cost. 
Mr P was unhappy with the car being classed as a total loss and feels that it shouldve been 
repaired instead. Admiral referred to the policy terms which stated:
We will decide how to settle your claim and will either:pay to repair your car, 
orpay a cash sum to replace the damaged carIf we give you a cash sum, the 
most we will pay is the market value of the car
When making the decision to class the car as a total loss, Admiral looked at the cost of 
repair relative to the market value of the car. The market value they initially felt was fair was 
around £4,300. After the independent report, Admiral increased this offer to £5,000. Admiral 
pointed out that under the most recent policy terms - applicable since the policy was 
renewed - only manufacturer parts would be used in any repair. Mr P felt that this increased 
the cost of repair and that this hadnt been drawn to his attention at the time of the policy 
renewing.
Mr P complained to Admiral with a comprehensive list of everything he was unhappy about. 
Admiral responded to those points and offered him £50 for any trouble and upset caused as 
he wasnt called back as agreed on one occasion, the approved repairers took too long to 
complete their estimate and they hadnt properly responded when Mr p asked for a cash in 
lieu settlement or to repair the vehicle. But overall they said that theyd fairly considered the 
claim inline with the policy terms.
Mr P referred his complaint to our service. Our investigator reviewed the complaint and didnt 
agree that Admiral had acted unfairly or outside of the policy terms in this matter. This 
includes when considering the claim, the market value, how they reached their valuation and 
classing the car as a total loss rather than covering the repair costs. He also found that 
Admiral had provided sufficient information on the relevant term relating to using 
manufacturer parts for repair because Admiral had stated on the policy certificate: You must 
read this document in conjunction with Your Car Insurance Guide.
Mr P remained unhappy so the complaint has now been referred to me for a decision. In 
particular, Mr P raises the following points in particular:
- there were other options, apart from classing the car as a total loss, that would 
mean he was better off financially.
- the change in policy terms about manufacturers parts being sued for repairs wasnt 
drawn to his attention. 
- He shouldnt have to pay the remaining insurance premium after making a claim.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In my decision Ill mainly focus on the issues that are still in dispute in this case and have 
included headings below for ease. Ive carefully considered the entirety of Mr Ps complaint 
before coming to my decision but havent directly addressed all points raised. 
Having done so, I have to tell Mr P that I think the investigator has reached a fair outcome 
here. So I dont uphold his complaint in this matter. Ill explain why.
In this case, the key areas Ive considered are set out below. 
- Admirals decision to hold Mr P at fault for the accident.
- Admirals decision to write off Mr Ps car and the change in its policy terms to use 
genuine manufacturers parts.
- Valuation of Mr Ps car.
- Other issues including customer service.
When doing so, I need to decide are whether Admiral has considered the claim inline with 
the policy terms and done so fairly and reasonably.  The liability decision
As our investigator has already said, our service doesnt decide liability when theres an 
accident. Instead we look at whether the business, Admiral in this case, have fairly and 
reasonably considered all of the evidence before coming to their decision. 
The terms and conditions of the policy allow Admiral to settle a claim as it sees fit. It also 
doesnt need Mr Ps agreement when making any decision on liability. That might mean it 
makes a decision the policy holder disagrees with, as has happened here.
Taking everything into account, I think Admiral investigated matters reasonably. And Im not 
persuaded it was acting unfairly or unreasonably when it decided to hold Mr P at fault for it. It 
considered the dashcam footage and what Mr P said about the accident as well as the 
damage caused. Also, Admiral will have experience of how courts view such matters, and 
the likelihood of success in pursuing a legal case. 
I understand Mr P feels very strongly about this and I know he believes the third party to be 
at fault for what happened. But, as Ive explained, itd be for a court of law to decide liability. 
What Ive looked at is whether Admiral has followed the policy terms and exercised its 
discretion fairly and reasonably when deciding to hold its customer liable, as it has done 
here. And Im satisfied it has. It follows that it was entitled under the policy terms to require 
Mr P to pay the excess for this claim and retain the insurance policy for the year. So I wont 
be asking Admiral to do anything further in relation to this matter.
The cost of repairs 
Admiral based the decision to deem the car a total loss on the cost of repairs and the 
market value of the car which its allowed to do under the policy terms as set out below. 
We will decide how to settle your claim and will either:
pay to repair your car, or
pay a cash sum to replace the damaged car or item..
A decision will be made based on the garage/engineers recommendation.
I think its reasonable for Admiral to rely on an approved repairers report when considering 
the cost of repair and this is what they did here. I note that they also offered Mr P the 
opportunity to have the car moved to a different garage (at his own expense) for another 
estimate. 
Ive thought about the independent report and can see Admiral considered it when reaching 
their revised valuations. However, Admiral was concerned that the independent report was 
estimating a cheaper repair cost as the repair wasnt intending to replace all parts that 
needed replacing and use some non-manufacturer parts - so it wasnt willing to allow this to 
override the report it had obtained. And I dont think this was unreasonable in the 
circumstances. It follows that this isnt something I think Admiral should pay for.
I note that Mr P says, as he drove the car after the accident for a number of days, it was 
road worthy. But theres a difference between being able to drive a car and it actually being 
roadworthy  that is, safe for Mr P and other road users. He also says he has some 
knowledge of mechanics and thinks Admiral werent correct. Even so, the experts in this 
case are the Admiral approved repairers whove reviewed the car and given their opinion in 
this matter. And, as Ive already mentioned, I dont think it was unreasonable for Admiral to 
rely on this in making its decision to write off Mr Ps car.It follows that I dont think that Admiral acted unreasonably when relying on the approved 
repairers report and estimate when coming to their decision to write off Mr Ps car. 
The valuation 
I think its helpful at this point to explain that our service doesnt give an exact value of Mr Ps 
car. Instead, we consider if the amount offered by the insurer is fair and reasonable in the 
circumstances. 
Where a car has been damaged, Admirals terms and conditions say they will pay the value 
of the car immediately before the accident which, in this matter, theyve ultimately 
determined to be £5000.  Admiral referred to the trade guides to obtain a value for the car. 
The guides gave different figures, which isnt unusual. We would use a similar approach and 
the same trade guides to help decide if a settlement offer is fair when valuing second hand 
vehicles. 
Our service generally thinks that the fairest approach when for an insurer to take when 
making a valuation is to consider relevant motor trade guides. These are based on extensive 
national research of likely selling prices rather than advertised prices. And they can provide 
valuations based on the make, model, age, condition and specification of a car. So we 
generally find them more reliable than adverts which dont take account of any negotiation 
from the advertised price.
Im pleased to see that Admiral reviewed its valuation once it received further information 
from Mr P. I can see that our investigator checked the motor trade guides we use for cars of 
the same make, model, age, condition, extras and mileage as Mr Ps at the date of its loss. 
These checks found that Admirals second offer was within the range of the valuations 
provided by the guides - infact it was above or at the very least towards the top end. So, I 
dont consider Admiral has acted unfairly in reaching the value it has.
So, having carefully considered this point I think that Admiral have reached a fair valuation 
for the market value of his car. And its the market value thats due under the terms of his 
policy. 
Therefore, when Ive considered the cost of repairs against the market value of Mr Ps car I 
think that Admiral have acted fairly, reasonably and in line with policy terms when making 
the decision to deem the car beyond economic repair. Mr P has asked for a definition of 
what being uneconomical to repair means. Whilst the policy doesnt set out the exact 
formula for how Admiral consider a car to be a total loss, ultimately Ive found that the 
decision taken in this case was fair and reasonable given the likely cost of repair and the 
market value of the car. Its the insurers choice and decision to take the most financially 
sensible solution and they arent required to explain it in detail  providing theyve acted fairly 
and reasonably when doing so  as Ive found in this case. 
The change in policy terms
Mr P feels that the change in terms relating to only manufacturer parts being used for any 
repairs wasnt communicated properly to him. But I dont see things the same. I say this 
because an insurer isnt expected to draw every term to the customers attention I dont think 
it was an unfair, unusual or hidden term. I also note that, at the time of renewal, Mr P was 
given the relevant information to read in his own time and this is something he couldve 
checked if it was a particular concern to him. Mr P says had he known that Admiral would only use new manufacturer parts for any repair 
hed prefer not to file a claim and have the vehicle repaired at my expense. But this would 
have meant that Mr P would have paid for all of the repairs himself  much more than what 
making a claim and paying for the insurance has cost Mr P. So this doesnt change my 
decision. 
Other issues raised 
Mr P has expressed dissatisfaction with a number of issues in this complaint and has sent us 
detailed submissions on these points. As outlined above, I wont be commenting or 
addressing every issue raised  but I have considered them before coming to my final 
decision. For example the point raised about the remaining insurance premium due  
Admiral have acted within the policy terms when asking for this payment. Having done so, I 
dont agree that Admiral has acted unfairly or unreasonably in this matter. However, Ive 
specifically commented on the issues mentioned below.
Mr P was unhappy with the courtesy car provided. Any issue with the actual hire car 
company isnt considered as part of my decision. But the policy states that a courtesy 
car will be a small car and isnt intended to be a like for like replacement and it is only 
available until the decision about the car being beyond economic repair was made. 
So I dont uphold the complaint on this point.
I agree with our investigators findings on the road worthiness issue raised by Mr P. 
Fortunately, Mr P hasnt lost out as result of this.
The trouble and upset experienced by Mr P
Mr P says that what caused him most trauma and emotional distress wasnt the actual 
accident but his dealings with Admiral. But Ive not seen sufficient evidence to support what 
hes said, in particular what hes told us about Admiral being untruthful. Whilst everything 
may not have been perfect, I havent found that Admiral intentionally caused Mr P stress, 
annoyance or seen evidence to allow me to conclude that theyve acted untruthfully. 
Generally Ive found their communication and general customer service to be acceptable 
and Ive also had to consider that some of the delays were as a result of Mr P wanting a 
second opinion on the car. 
Therefore, I dont direct Admiral to make any further award for trouble and upset caused in 
addition to the £50 theyve already paid. 
Summary 
Although a lot of detail has been provided in this case, ultimately Ive found that at the heart 
of the complaint is whether Admiral have acted fairly when choosing to pay the market value 
of the car rather than covering the cost of repairs. Ive found that theyve acted within the 
policy terms, fairly and reasonably by doing so.
I know Mr P will be disappointed with this outcome. Im also sorry to hear of the impact that 
Mr P has says all of this has had on his mental health and I wish him all the best going 
forward. My decision brings to an end what we  in trying to informally resolve his dispute 
with Admiral  can do for him. My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I dont uphold Mr Ps complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision before 9 October 2020.
 
Daniel O'Shea
Ombudsman