DRN-4121344
The complaint
Mr T complains that his ex-partner was able to access and make changes to his motor
insurance policy because of failings in EUI Limiteds (EUI) security processes.
What happened
Mr T has a multi-product insurance policy with EUI. He says his ex-partner was able to gain
access to his account and this locked him out. He says she couldve made changes to the
policy and had access to his payment information.
EUI says when a driver is removed from a policy that person may still need access to their
information. In its complaint response it says Mr Ts ex-partner was only able to access his
online account as she was able to pass its data protection process and had permission to
access the account.
Mr T wasnt satisfied with this explanation. EUI sent further responses telling Mr T he can
secure his account by changing his password. It also told him it wouldnt remove an email
address from his policy unless he gave instructions to do this. EUI maintained it hadnt done
anything wrong.
Mr T didnt think this was fair and referred his complaint to our service. Our investigator
upheld his complaint. She says EUI had explained why Mr Ts ex-partner was allowed
access to see her historical policy information. She thought this was reasonable. But she
didnt think his ex-partner shouldve been able to see his partially redacted payment details
and the premium amount. She says EUI should pay Mr T £100 compensation and ensure his
payment details cant be viewed by anyone else.
EUI responded to say the screenshots provided showed Mr Ts ex-partner logging onto her
online account. It says although payment information is visible, this is only the last four digits
and not much could be done with this information. It says it has taken Mr Ts concerns away
for wider consideration on what information is visible in these circumstances. EUI says it
hasnt uploaded Mr Ts details onto his ex-partners account. It says at the point of
separation Mr T chose to continue with the same email address that his ex-partner was
linked to.
As an agreement couldnt be reached, the complaint has been passed to me to decide.
I issued a provisional decision in April 2023 explaining that I was intending not to uphold Mr 
Ts complaint. Heres what I said:
provisional findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im minded to not uphold this complaint. Let me explain.
Mr T and his partner originally had insurance under the same policy. When they separated
his ex-partner was removed from the policy. She later needed to see her policy information.
She attempted to access this online and was able to gain access to Mr Ts account and
changed the password. This meant Mr T was locked out of his account, until he was able to
change the password himself.
Ive read the explanation provided by EUI in its final complaint response. I didnt think this 
was clear in explaining what happened, and why the ex-partner was able to access Mr Ts
account. EUI refers to the ex-partner having permission to access the online account. It also
says to set up an online account a person needs an email address and a password. But
indicates Mr Ts ex-partner had access to the information she needed to do this. It also
refers to not removing an email address unless instructed to do so.
I asked EUI for further clarification. More specifically about whether Mr Ts ex-partner was
able to reset his password, and gain access to his account, using her email that was still
linked to the policy. EUI responded to say that no - this wasnt possible. It says to reset Mr
Ts account, access is needed to his email. Without this access Mr Ts ex-partner couldnt
have gained access to his account.
I also queried why Mr T wasnt able to gain access to his account when the password had
been changed. More specifically, what prevented him requesting a password reset email so
he could change the password himself. EUI says Mr T was able to change the password by
requesting a password reset. As long as he had access to the email account linked to his
policy, he could then change the password and gain access to his account.
EUI has provided a screenshot of the page used to request a password change when a
customer has forgotten their password. The only information requested is the email address
associated with the policy account.
In addition to the above, EUI says Mr Ts ex-partner will have been able to login as an ex-
policyholder. This is so that she can access historical documents for her vehicle. I asked
what information Mr Ts ex-partner should be able to see using her access. It provided a
screenshot that shows access would be available to information and documents relating to
her vehicle. But Mr Ts ex-partner wouldnt be able to access information relating to his
vehicle.
I can see from the information provided that Mr Ts ex-partner would have sight of the last
four digits of the card used for payment and the expiry date. I acknowledge EUIs comments
that not much can be done with this information. Effectively it doesnt think this represents
a security risk given the majority of the payment information is redacted. But it does say it
will consider its approach to what information is visible.
In her view our investigator said that EUI must ensure that Mr Ts payment information was
only shared to his account. In response EUI says as the policyholder and administrator of
the account, Mr Ts payment details are linked to the whole policy. This means the details
are visible as the payment method for the policy as a whole. But as stated above, Mr Ts ex-
partner would only now have access to view information for her car and the redacted
payment details for Mr T.
We asked EUI to comment on the screenshots Mr T provided of access being gained to his
information. It responded to say that in the screenshots provided, this showed Mr T logging
in as his ex-partner. It says this is possible because she would have already registered with
the email in question historically. EUI points to a blank page underneath the policy number 
which it says shows no further information would be visible in this removed policyholder
view. It says this is the information that it expects to be shown for a removed policyholder.Having considered all of this, I dont think its been shown that Mr Ts ex-partner was able to
access information she shouldnt have because of an issue with EUIs systems. From the
evidence provided Im satisfied that only redacted payment information is visible to a
policyholder that has been separated from the multi-product policy. The payment information
that is visible is redacted so cant be used.
Based on the evidence and explanations provided I dont think EUI did anything wrong here.
So, I cant reasonably ask it to do anything more.
I said I was intending not to uphold Mr Ts complaint. 
I asked both parties to send me any further comments and information they might want me 
to consider before I reached a final decision.
EUI didnt respond with any further comments or information for me to consider. 
Mr T responded to say EUI isnt being truthful. He says his password was reset on his side. 
And that his ex-partner has never had access to his emails or devices since the break-up. Mr 
T says following his account being blocked he was unable to re-set his password. He says 
this was confirmed by a member of staff from EUI as a procedure to protect his account. He 
says no password reset could be sent to his email account as a result. 
Mr T says EUI is continuing to provide misinformation and refers to call logs that should 
show what was discussed.  He says the blank page EUI refers to relates to a vehicle 
purchased after the break-up with his ex-partner. He says the information shown includes 
that which is unrelated to her and includes the premium he paid. Mr T says this information 
wasnt redacted. Even if it was, he says why should this information be viewable to someone 
thats been removed from the account.  
Mr T says EUI shouldve changed his policy number in order to resolve the issues he 
highlighted. He points to the Information Commissioners Office (ICO) guide to the General 
Data Protection Regulations (GDPR). And says EUI should consider the significant fines that 
can be levied for failure to comply with these regulations.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive thought carefully about Mr Ts further comments but having done so Im not persuaded a 
change to my provisional decision is warranted.
I acknowledge what Mr T says, but EUI has clearly shown what information is needed, and 
the process that must be followed for someone to access their online account. Its also 
shown the process that must be followed to change an account password. This can only be 
done by someone with access to the main policyholders email account. In this case this 
means Mr Ts email account. 
Based on this I dont think its been shown that EUI has allowed unauthorised access to Mr 
Ts online account. I dont dispute what he says about experiencing issues gaining access to 
his account after it was blocked. But again, I dont think its been shown that EUI allowed an 
unauthorised access. 
Ive considered Mr Ts further comments about the information a removed policyholder is able to see. EUI has explained that the screen shots Mr T provided showed someone 
logging in as his ex-partner. From this, it says it hasnt been shown that it uploaded Mr Ts 
information incorrectly. 
EUI acknowledged the redacted payment details for the main policyholder was still visible to 
a removed policyholder. I note Mr Ts comments that this shouldnt be visible. EUI says this 
information couldnt be used as it only contains the last four digits of the card number and 
expiry date. However, it has said that this is something it will consider. I think this is fair. 
Clearly Mr T holds strong views on this point. But as the information was redacted I dont 
think EUIs position is unreasonable. Im not persuaded that a change to my provisional 
decision is warranted based on Mr Ts further comments . 
Mr T refers to the ICO guideline and the GDPRs. I acknowledge what he says with reference 
to the fines that could be incurred if EUI wasnt compliant with these regulations. 
My role is to consider whether EUI treated Mr T fairly with respect to his specific complaint. If 
it hasnt, I must consider the impact this had on him and, if necessary, require remedial 
action to put this right. Having considered all the evidence and circumstances of this 
complaint I dont think its been shown that EUI has treated Mr T unfairly, or that he has 
suffered a loss. He can of course choose to contact the ICO regarding his concerns about 
EUIs systems. But for the reasons discussed here, and in my provisional decision, Im not 
persuaded that EUI did anything substantially wrong. So, for these reasons, my provisional 
decision will now become my final decision. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr T to accept or 
reject my decision before 19 July 2023.
 
Mike Waldron
Ombudsman