DRN-3216593
The complaint
Mr S complains about the level of service received from Allianz Insurance Plc following 
claims against his buildings insurance. 
Reference to Allianz include the actions of their agents. 
What happened
The background to this longstanding dispute is well known to all parties. Mr S has provided 
very detailed submissions to support his complaint. Hes also told all parties of the impact 
this dispute has had on him, his physical and mental health, and wellbeing. 
As all parties are aware of the background to it, rather than repeating in detail what 
happened, Ill summarise my understanding and focus on what I consider to be materially 
relevant to the complaint. 
In summary, Mr S raised separate escape of water claims to Allianz in 2017. Allianz 
accepted the claims and instructed contractors to carry out trace and access, and repair 
works, amongst other things. Several claims were running concurrently. 
Throughout the claim process, Mr S says he was left chasing for updates frequently. He 
says communication was poor and he had to write to Allianz several times to receive 
information. Mr S had informed Allianz very early on of his medical history and conditions, 
and throughout the claims, and how things were impacting him. 
Once the first 2017 claim was accepted, Allianz say repairs were due to run for only a few 
weeks. However, delays were caused by poor workmanship and communication, so it ran on 
longer. For example, Mr S says tiles initially fitted had to be removed and refitted due to poor 
workmanship. Allianz say as more than one claim was running, this caused challenges. 
Throughout the claims, Mr S says he experienced multiple issues. He says this was due to 
poor workmanship, communication and a lack of consideration given to his health. He also 
says, despite Allianz being aware of how writing emails impacted him, he was left to chase 
for updates. Mr S says contractors left works unfinished to a poor standard, which had to be 
corrected constantly. As an example, he says his property had to be repainted multiple times 
due to the paint used, and workmanship, amongst other things. 
Also, for periods, Mr S says he was left without essential washing facilities. He had to use a 
sink to wash and had no access to a downstairs toilet which caused him difficulties and 
distress. Mr S says his medical conditions require him to wash several times a day. 
Further issues were raised in 2018, 2019 and 2020. Mr S continued to report snagging 
issues that hadnt been put right following the 2017 escape of water incidents. As such, Mr S 
says his property was left in a poor state of repair, which he says he had to argue with 
Allianz, who at points had told him they felt his property was habitable. Mr S didnt agree and 
provided detailed submissions, and photographs, to evidence this, which had a negative 
impact on his health. 
Mr S also says he raised several complaints with Allianz whilst the claims were running, and 
snagging issues outstanding. He says his complaints were either ignored or not addressed 
adequately. Specifically, Mr S says he wasnt being listened to, and was made to feel as 
though his concerns were being exaggerated. Mr S also says he requested the information 
Allianz held on him, in November 2019, but to date this hasnt been received. And Mr S is 
concerned about the information Allianz holds on both his claims and complaint files. 
Mr S says the key themes throughout the claims process were a lack of communication, 
organisation, and poor management and workmanship. And despite his best efforts, issues 
remained in 2022. He didnt think Allianz considered his health circumstances and in turn 
caused him pain, suffering, distress, and inconvenience due to the way things were handled. 
Mr S says he had to travel to stay with his mother who lived approximately 90 miles away 
whilst works were undertaken. And had to travel back and forth regularly, taking breaks due 
to his health. He says alternative accommodation was a concern of his, wasnt extended 
when it should have been, and Allianz failed to consider his circumstances in this respect. 
Alternative accommodation was offered at periods, but Mr S said the options were 
inappropriate. 
Mr S also had six large dogs living with him at his property. And his dogs were put into 
kennel facilities for prolonged periods. He says payments to the kennel facility were late, 
which resulted in him being threatened with legal action due to non-payment. And other late 
payments impacted his ability to pay for private healthcare. 
There are several complaint points that had been raised by Mr S which he thinks have either 
been ignored or not responded to adequately. Another issue Mr S raised was the dust in his 
property, following repairs, he says was dangerous to him and his dogs. 
The physical claim issues were progressing, and in 2021, Mr S and Allianz agreed a way 
forward to resolve the outstanding issues. This included replacing the boiler installed by 
Allianz, and repairing the bathroom and ensuite decorative work, amongst other things. A 
new contractor was also appointed to undertake the works to finalise the physical claim 
issues. 
Allianz did respond to Mr Ss complaint  albeit Mr S didnt think they responded adequately 
 in 2020. Their response addressed several points. They agreed things should have been 
handled much better, and more consideration should have been given to Mr Ss 
circumstances. All parties have seen Allianzs 2020 final response, so I wont repeat it here. 
In summary, however, Allianz offered to pay Mr S £3,000 compensation for any distress and 
inconvenience caused. Mr S didnt think this was fair, and felt the offer was made too 
prematurely, given issues remained with repairs. 
Mr S approached our service in 2020. It was agreed by all parties, and our service, that the 
physical claim issues be resolved ahead of our services involvement. It was also agreed, 
given the number of complaint points, that the complaint be split into two parts. As such, 
once a way forward had been agreed to resolve the physical claim, our investigator went on 
to consider the overall service provided to Mr S by Allianz. He didnt consider the following 
complaints points under this complaint: 
The impact the claims could have on Mr Ss current and future premiums; 
How the claims were recorded on the Claims Underwriting Exchange; 
Whether Allianz were responsible for causing the 2018 and subsequent escape of 
water incidents; and 
The policy excess payments paid by Mr S. Our investigator considered the complaint and recommended it be upheld. He didnt think 
Allianz treated Mr S fairly, so he recommended they pay £5,000 compensation for any 
distress and inconvenience caused to Mr S due to the way things were handled. He also 
thought Allianz should provide Mr S with the information he requested, in November 2019. 
Allianz agreed, but Mr S didnt. 
Mr S didnt think the compensation amount went far enough to recognise the impact things 
had on him. The initial claim was reported in 2017, but issues remained in 2022. He thinks 
the compensation amount should be increased to recognise the extreme level of pain, 
suffering, distress, and inconvenience he experienced due to the way Allianz treated him. Mr 
S also says hes been left out of pocket. So, he asked for an ombudsman to decide, so the 
case was passed to me for a decision. 
It's important I set out the progression of the physical claim and complaint issues since the 
matter was passed to me. 
I contacted all parties after the complaint was passed to me given the number of issues 
outstanding. Since my involvement, all parties have agreed that, following the new 
contractors appointment, the physical claim issues have been resolved to Mr Ss 
satisfaction. I also discussed the level of compensation with all parties, and the amount 
thats been put to Mr S in full and final settlement, totals £10,500. 
Allianz agreed to accept this amount to bring this longstanding dispute to a final resolution. 
The amount recognised the pain, suffering, distress, and inconvenience caused to Mr S. 
And, the amount Mr S says hes out of pocket, which included additional fuel and electricity 
costs, and tile lippage, amongst other things. 
After this amount was put to all parties, I provided them with a final opportunity to respond to 
this. Allianz agreed to this resolution, but Mr S didnt, so Ill now set out my final decision on 
the matter. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Before I go on to set out my decision, I must explain Ive not considered the points set out 
above (bullet pointed), as this is being considered as a separate complaint. I must also 
explain, if an aspect hasnt been mentioned specifically in my decision, that doesnt mean its 
been overlooked or ignored. Rather, Ive focused on what I consider to be materially relevant 
to the complaint. This isnt meant as a discourtesy, it simply reflects the informal nature of 
our service. 
Turning to the complaint, whats clear is things should have been handled much better 
overall. This is a longstanding dispute involving multiple claims, poor communication, 
workmanship, and above all, a failure to minimise the impact on Mr S. He took out insurance 
to alleviate the impact on him, should a claim arise, and I think its fair to say Allianz let him 
down. 
Mr S made Allianz aware of his health circumstances and how the claims were impacting 
him early on, in 2017, and throughout. I accept Allianz say they should have done more in 
this respect, but there is no doubt in my mind, that the way things were handled caused Mr S 
pain, suffering, distress, and inconvenience  over and above whats naturally expected 
following multiple escape of water claims. Ive made my view clear to all parties I think part of the reason why the claims ran on for as 
long as they did was due to poor workmanship when attempting to put matters right. Ive 
seen several examples of work having to be redone and put right due to this. Mr S told us his 
property was repainted ten times which is just one example of what I consider to be poor 
workmanship. Ive seen several other examples, some of which were resolved in 2021 and 
2022 as part of Allianzs action plan to bring the physical claim issues to a resolution. 
Another reason I think the claims ran on longer than reasonable was due to the level of 
communication between Allianz and their contractors. Mr S was left chasing for updates 
frequently which he made clear impacted his health. The lack of communication between 
Allianz and their contractors is further evidenced by Allianzs comments that, at times, Mr S 
had more information than they did regarding what was happening. I find the lack of clear 
oversight from Allianz caused unnecessary distress, delays, and inconvenience to Mr S.  
Mr S also says he had to travel to stay with his mother, making approximately 60 trips in 
2017, and 413 in 2018. He told us he had to take regular breaks whilst travelling due to his 
health. And in some instances, was asked by police why he had stopped on the roadside. 
He says he had to travel back and forth to attend medical appointments and carrying out 
these trips caused him to experience pain and suffering due to his health circumstances  as 
well as distress and inconvenience.  
I appreciate it could have been challenging for Allianz to secure appropriate alternative 
accommodation at periods. I say this because Mr S had six large dogs living with him. His 
dogs were put into kennels for significant periods. And, Mr S was threatened with legal 
action due to non-payment, which would have been very distressing and worrying. But, I also 
think, had Mr Ss circumstances been fully considered, this could have minimised the need 
for him to make multiple trips to and from his mothers house. 
Mr S also says he was without basic washing facilities when he did stay at his property for 
periods, and had to wash in a sink, and had no access to a downstairs toilet. Mr S says his 
health requires him to wash throughout the day, and he described the impact of having no 
access to a downstairs toilet which I was verry sorry to hear. Ive no doubt the impact having 
no access to a downstairs toilet would have been very upsetting and distressing for Mr S. 
In this decision, Ive highlighted examples of what I consider lengthened the period these 
claims ran on for  and the impact these issues, and the way things were handled, had on 
Mr S. 
I accept multiple escape of water claims running concurrently, and repairs, would have been 
challenging for both Mr S and Allianz. But overall, based on what Ive seen, had the 
communication, organisation, and repairs been handled better, the impact on Mr S would 
have been far less extreme  and the claims would have been resolved much sooner than 
they eventually were. And its because of this, I think Mr S has had to endure unnecessary 
and prolonged pain, suffering, distress, and inconvenience. 
I told Mr S my role here was to find a fair and reasonable resolution I felt put matters right, 
and importantly, would enable him to move on from what really has been a rather 
devastating period for him. Given the issues Mr S raised, and the length of time this dispute 
has been running, it is difficult to quantify within a monetary value that truly reflects the 
impact on him. Im aware Mr S understands this. 
The crucial part of the matter was to progress the physical claim issues, and Im pleased to 
note Mr S is satisfied with the works that have been carried out by the new contractor, and 
the physical claim issues have now been put right. Returning to the compensation amount, I agree things should have been handled much 
better overall, and the impact this had on Mr S should be considered in my view as extreme. 
As such, Im satisfied £10,500 is fair, reasonable, and proportionate in respect of the pain 
and suffering, distress, inconvenience, and compensation for his financial losses he 
experienced due to the poor handling of these claims  since 2017. 
I know my decision will come as a disappointment to Mr S. I am hoping however, following 
my involvement and our conversations, Mr S is of the understanding I agree with him the 
past few years have been extremely difficult. And Ive no doubt, particularly due to his health, 
the impact on him was far greater than what it should have been, because of the way things 
were handled. 
In relation to the second complaint Mr S made, I understand hes concerned about the 
information Allianz hold on his claims and complaint files. To alleviate his concerns, he 
requested Allianz provided the information they held on him, in 2019. Mr S says Allianz failed 
to fulfil this request. 
Allianz will be aware of their obligations to Mr S in this respect, and whether they have 
fulfilled these obligations or not. Based on what Mr S has told us, I havent seen supporting 
evidence that demonstrates this has been fulfilled. Mr S has the option of contacting the 
Information Commissioners Office (ICO) in respect of his concerns of how Allianz might 
have handled his data, and his 2019 information request. In fact, given Mr Ss concerns, this 
aspect of his complaint might be better suited to be directed to the ICO. 
Returning to this complaint, even if there is a potential information request outstanding, 
having carefully considered everything Mr S has told us, Im satisfied its appropriate I make 
my final decision on this complaint outlining what I consider to be fair and reasonable in the 
circumstances. And overall, I find £10,500 compensation is fair, reasonable, and 
proportionate to the level of impact the handling of these claims had on Mr S, for the reasons 
Ive mentioned above. 
Putting things right
In concluding, I absolutely accept this has been a very difficult time for Mr S. I dont find 
Allianz treated him fairly and could have done more to mitigate the impact on him. As they 
failed to do so, Mr S experienced unnecessary pain and suffering, distress, and 
inconvenience as a result. 
And its because of this, I now require Allianz to pay Mr S £10,500 compensation (less any 
amounts of compensation already paid following our investigators recommendations). 
My final decision 
My final decision is I uphold this complaint. I now require Allianz Insurance Plc to put matters 
right and pay Mr S £10,500 compensation (less any compensation amounts paid to Mr S 
following our investigators recommendations). 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 29 March 2022.
 
Liam Hickey
Ombudsman