DRN-3733298
The complaint
Mr and Mrs A wanted to renew their fixed interest rate mortgage with Nationwide Building 
Society. But they said it undervalued their house. And while Nationwide was redoing the 
valuation, interest rates went up. They wanted Nationwide to offer them the old rates. 
What happened
Mr and Mrs A said that when they asked Nationwide about a new fixed interest rate 
mortgage deal, they noticed that the valuation of their house was too low. They said this 
affected the loan to value (LTV) figure, which meant they werent offered quite as good a 
deal. So they asked Nationwide on 12 May 2022 to redo their valuation. 
Nationwide said it couldnt value Mr and Mrs As home itself, so it asked a third party to do 
this for them, a local surveyor. Nationwide did then increase its valuation of their home, 
which put Mr and Mrs A in a more favourable LTV bracket. But Nationwide didnt complete 
the valuation process until 25 May 2022. And in the meantime, interest rates went up. 
Mr and Mrs A said that Nationwide wouldnt offer them the old rates, which were available 
when they first appealed against their property valuation. They complained, and their 
complaint wasnt addressed until 12 July. 
Mr and Mrs A said that they had to pay the standard variable rate on their mortgage at the 
start of July, and they had since taken out a two year tracker, to protect their position. But 
they said this could all have been avoided if Nationwide used the correct valuation when 
they wanted to take out a new deal. They said they just wanted to be offered the mortgage 
products they could originally have had, before 20 May 2022. 
Nationwide said that it received Mr and Mrs As valuation appeal on Thursday 12 May 2022. 
On 13 May it asked for further information for its assessment, and looked at this additional 
information on Monday 16 May. It then emailed them to say that they could go ahead with 
their appeal, but it advised them this could take up to ten working days. And it said to them 
at this point, that if they were worried about interest rates going up, they could always fix 
their mortgage now, based on the valuation Nationwide held for them before their appeal. 
Our investigator didnt think this complaint should be upheld. He said that, because some 
mortgage deals are based on LTV, Nationwide had a system to establish the current value of 
a property. But Nationwide also had an appeal system in place, because its index-linked 
valuation system wouldnt always get things right. 
Mr and Mrs A used the appeal system, and Nationwide did alert them to the fact that rates 
could change in the meantime. Rates unfortunately did change before Mr and Mrs A got their 
revised valuation. And when they complained, Nationwide then responded within the eight 
weeks its allowed under the dispute resolution rules. 
Our investigator didnt think Nationwide had made any errors, and although rates had gone 
up, that wasnt because of anything Nationwide had done wrong. He didnt think Nationwide 
had to do any more. 
Mr A replied, on behalf of himself and Mrs A. He said that it wouldnt have been either fair or 
reasonable for him to have to take out a new mortgage deal based on an incorrect valuation 
of his home, to protect against rate rises. And he said that when he complained, 
Nationwides response only mentioned one date, 16 May, with no mention of when they 
actually received the correct valuation of the property, and it failed to mention the third party 
delays. 
Mr A said that he felt he was justified in complaining, and in asking us to look into things, but 
he said that because of the time this had all taken, he was now facing much, much higher 
mortgage costs. He said that felt like a punishment for bringing a genuine grievance to 
Nationwide and our service.
Mr A said that a fair and reasonable outcome would be for Nationwide to offer the fixed rate 
products based on rates available when his valuation had been returned as a gesture of 
goodwill to one of its members.
Mr A also said he wanted this complaint to be considered by an ombudsman, so it was 
passed to me for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive reached the same overall conclusion on this complaint as our investigator.
I understand that Mr and Mrs A have been dismayed by the change in mortgage interest 
rates, and they are now very concerned about how this will affect them. But Im sorry to have 
to tell them that I dont think whats gone wrong here is Nationwides fault. 
A quick and light-touch valuation system such as that used by Nationwide does always have 
some margin for error. And I know Mr and Mrs A felt their house was undervalued at first. 
But in the context where Nationwide does have an appeal process, I dont think its unfair or 
unreasonable for Nationwide to use a relatively light-touch valuation process at first. 
When they challenged the valuation, Nationwide did listen to what Mr and Mrs A had said, 
and it commissioned a more accurate valuation. But it also made clear to Mr and Mrs A how 
long the valuation would take, and it completed the valuation well within that timetable. 
Again, I dont think that was unreasonable or unfair. 
Mr and Mrs A then complained, and Nationwide reached a decision on their complaint within 
the time allowed for this in the Financial Conduct Authoritys dispute resolution rules. 
Importantly, Nationwide has never promised Mr and Mrs A that it will keep the current 
mortgage interest rate deals open for them, either while their valuation was done, or while 
this complaint was being resolved. And it also prompted them, when it was commissioning a 
new valuation of their home, that they could take out a new mortgage deal at the existing 
rates, if they had any concerns about rates rising in the meantime.I know that Mr and Mrs A will be very disappointed by my decision, but I dont think 
Nationwide has been unfair or unreasonable in how it has dealt with their concerns. So I 
dont think Nationwide has to pick up the additional costs involved in offering Mr and Mrs A a 
mortgage at the rates which were previously available to them. And because of that, I dont 
think this complaint should be upheld.
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs A and Mr A to 
accept or reject my decision before 27 December 2022.
 
Esther Absalom-Gough
Ombudsman