DRN-3630341
The complaint
Mr and Mrs G complain that Phoenix Life Limited has incorrectly administered their 
reviewable unit-linked whole of life policy, when applying annual indexation to the policy 
premiums and sum assured. They say this meant that when they came to make a claim in 
2019, the policys sum assured was less than it should have been. 
What happened
Mr and Mrs Gs policy began in 1992 through CCL Assurance Limited. Phoenix took over 
operation of the policy in 2006. It had an initial £22 monthly premium and sum assured of 
£42,991 and included critical illness benefit. The policy was also subject to annual 
indexation, so that the premium and sum assured would rise by the higher of 7.5% or the 
rate of inflation for the preceding twelve months. 
In April 2008, the policy failed a review. At that time, Phoenix wrote to Mr and Mrs G with 
four options regarding amendments to either the premium or sum assured. This was 
because the current premium of £60.09 was not sufficient for the indexed sum assured of 
£136,693. One of the options was to reduce the sum assured to £76,100 and keep the 
premium unchanged  save for the annual indexation. This was the default choice as Mr and 
Mrs G did not reply to the review letter. 
However, Phoenix made an error. It did not reduce the policys sum assured as it should 
have, and left both the premium and sum assured unchanged. It also failed to notice that 
indexation had not been correctly applied from 2005. 
In January 2011, Phoenix told Mr and Mrs G that it hadnt correctly reduced their sum 
assured in 2008, meaning an incorrect sum assured had been set out on the policy 
correspondence. It confirmed at that time that the correct sum assured was £87,943, not 
£157,964 for the current premium which was by this time set at £65.19. 
In April 2011, the policy failed another review. The result, including the indexation increase, 
was that the planned premium of £70.07 would not sustain the policys sum assured which 
was then £94,538. Again, Mr and Mrs G were given four options. They did not reply so the 
sum assured was reduced to £64,000. 
Another review was failed the following year, and Mr and Mrs G this time opted to increase 
the premium to £80.21 to maintain the indexed £68,800 sum assured. 
Reviews were thereafter failed in 2016, 2018 and 2019. The sum assured was reduced to 
£70,800, £63,800 and finally £64,100 in April 2019. 
In June 2019, Mr and Mrs G made a claim for critical illness benefit under the policy on 
behalf of Mrs G. They were paid £64,100 plus net interest in October 2019.  
In May 2020, Mr and Mrs G complained. They said their son had reviewed the claim 
payment and policy and raised some concerns about the issue Phoenix had raised in 2011. 
While the premium was indexed at 7.5% at that time (to £65.19) they believed Phoenix had 
not carried out the indexation in the previous five years. This meant they had cause to 
question whether the sum assured used to pay the claim in 2019 was right or not.  
In July 2020, Phoenix rejected the complaint. It accepted that from 2005 to 2011 the policy 
had not been properly indexed each year, as required. But the adjusted sum assured of 
£76,100 had been correct based on the premiums Mr and Mrs G had paid. It took the view 
that Mr and Mrs G had actually benefitted from a higher amount of cover for a lower 
premium until the error had been spotted in 2011. Thereafter the policy was correctly 
administered. It did not think Mr and Mrs G were owed any further payment.  
Mr and Mrs G remained unhappy and brought the complaint to this service. They said their 
investment fund should not have diminished to pay for a higher level of cover than the 
premium at the time would have offered, but for Phoenixs error. 
They had calculated that if indexation had been correctly applied, then their view was that 
the policy would have at least a sum assured of £74,700, less the additional cost of 
premiums  so they had been underpaid by over £8,300. And, if they had been correctly told 
about the issues with indexation and given reasonable information at the review stage, they 
also might have increased their policy premiums meaning a sum assured might have been 
as high as £300,000. 
Phoenix initially said it did not consent to the case continuing, but this was on the basis that 
Mr and Mrs G had complained about the reviewable nature of the policy. An investigator 
from this service confirmed that Mr and Mrs G were not complaining that they did not know 
their policy could be subject to reviews. He therefore went on to consider the merits of the 
complaint.  
Our investigator reviewed the complaint and felt that it should succeed. He said Phoenixs 
offer didnt go far enough to establish whether its error had impacted the policys sum 
assured and the subsequent critical illness claim value. He therefore felt it should be 
recalculated to account for what would have happened if the indexation had been properly 
applied. If the claim value would have been higher, he felt the balance should be paid to Mr 
and Mrs G with interest, and a further £150 for the upset theyd been caused.  
Neither party replied nor made further comment following our investigators view. The 
complaint has now been passed to me.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having looked at everything before me, I also believe this complaint should be upheld.  
Neither party disputes that Phoenix made an error in respect of applying indexation to Mr 
and Mrs Gs policy. This applied to the policy years (1 April each year) from 2005 to 2010. 
The calculation date for the retrospective indexation was 9 January 2011 at which time 
Phoenix told Mr and Mrs G about the error.
However, I agree with our investigator that the information Phoenix has given - a mere 
calculation of the correctly indexed premiums which exceeded what Mr and Mrs G had 
actually paid - does not go far enough to resolve this complaint. Ill set out below how I 
believe this complaint ought to be addressed. 
I should note that Mr and Mrs G have given some wide-ranging calculations which may apply to them, depending on whether they had taken different choices at the times of the 
reviews. For clarity, annual reviews took place from 1 April 2005 until 1 April 2019. Of these 
reviews, the 2011, 2012, 2016, 2018 and 2019 reviews failed. It was only in 2012 that Mr 
and Mrs G chose to increase their policy premium to maintain the sum assured. 
So, in my redress below, Phoenix must follow the same pattern (that being to increase the 
premium for one failed review and reduce the sum assured for four others) in order to rebuild 
the policy. Ill address the prospect of other reviews below in the section entitled putting 
things right. 
What I cannot assume is that for the four failed reviews (where Mr and Mrs Gs policy was 
subjected to the default reduction in the sum assured) that they would have done anything 
differently. I do not believe the review paperwork was unclear  it set out why changes were 
required and that the policy was not sustainable without action. In the absence of a response 
to confirm a premium increase, the sum assured would reduce. So it does not follow that the 
sum assured would have been maintained on every review occasion. 
However, notwithstanding the upset Mr and Mrs G have been placed under, the correct 
response to a mistake on the part of a business is to put a consumer in the position they 
would have been in, but for that mistake. I cannot assume that Mr and Mrs G would have 
chosen to pay additional policy premiums when they did not opt to do so in the intervening 
years after the indexation error was pointed out to them. Fair redress must look at what 
ought to have happened based on what both parties would likely have done; Mr and Mrs G 
did not increase their premiums on four of the five reviews and so the rebuilding of the policy 
calculation must follow that same approach. 
Putting things right
Phoenix must rebuild Mr and Mrs Gs policy from 1 April 2005 to the date the policy was 
settled in 2019. It must undertake a complete breakdown of all correct indexed monthly 
premiums and how these would have been used to purchase units in the policys Century 
Managed Life Series C fund. It should also then assess the actual investment growth of the 
policy based on the underlying fund performance and the timing at which policy reviews 
would have been required, giving calculations for each review and indexed premiums and 
sum assured. 
Phoenix can assume that Mr and Mrs G would have taken the same action as they did for 
the five reviews of 2011, 2012, 2016, 2018 and 2019. However, if any further reviews would 
have failed  because of the impact on the cost of the underlying units in the policy  then 
Phoenix should assume that Mr and Mrs G would have increased their policy premium to 
maintain the policys sum assured. I cannot say what they otherwise would likely have done, 
but I do not believe Mr and Mrs G ought to be further penalised for the indexation error.
Phoenix should then supply evidence of the rebuilding of the policy to Mr and Mrs G. If this 
would have resulted in a higher sum assured at the date of the claim, it should pay this sum 
to Mr and Mrs G, less any additional premiums due (in the event of additional reviews 
beyond the five set out above) plus 8% simple interest. 
If any redress is due to Mr and Mrs G and Phoenix considers it is legally obliged to deduct 
income tax from the interest paid, it should issue a tax deduction certificate with the 
payment. Mr and Mrs G may be able to reclaim the tax paid from HM Revenue and 
Customs, if applicable.  
Finally, irrespective of the redress which may or may not be due, Phoenix should pay Mr and 
Mrs G £150 for the upset they have suffered. They say it has been distressing for them in discovering that their policy may not have been operated correctly and may have impacted 
on them financially, at a time when Mrs G became seriously unwell. I believe £150 is a 
reasonable sum to reflect the upset and disappointment they have been caused.  
My final decision
I uphold this complaint. Phoenix Life Limited must undertake the rebuilding of the policy with 
the correct indexation applied and if this results in redress, pay this to Mr and Mrs G, less 
premiums and plus interest. To this, it must add the payment for trouble and upset.  
Should no redress be due, Phoenix must still pay Mr and Mrs G £150, within one month of 
acceptance of this decision. I make no further award or direction.  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs G and Mr G to 
accept or reject my decision before 14 October 2022.
 
Jo Storey
Ombudsman