DRN-3141321
The complaint
Ms K complains that Barclays Bank UK PLC wont refund all the money she lost when she 
was the victim of a scam.
  
What happened
Ms K received a call from someone claiming to be from a third-party bank she had an 
account with. Unfortunately, we now know the caller was a scammer.
The scammer initially told Ms K her account with the third-party bank was at risk, so she 
should transfer all her funds to her account with Barclays. But Ms K was then told she was 
being transferred to someone who worked at Barclays, who said her Barclays account was 
also at risk so she should transfer her funds to a safe account they gave her the details for.  
Ms K says the scammer knew her name, address, phone number and date of birth. And the 
call showed on her phone as genuinely coming from the third-party bank. So she believed 
the call was genuine.
Ms K made three payments out of her Barclays account, totalling £4,930, to the account 
details she was given, using her mobile banking. She says she was told to go into a Barclays 
branch the following morning where a manager would continue sorting the issue out. But, 
when she went into the branch, she was told she had been the victim of a scam.
Barclays is a signatory of the Lending Standards Board Contingent Reimbursement Model 
(the CRM code) which requires firms to reimburse customers who have been the victims of 
authorised push payment scams like this, except in limited circumstances. Barclays 
investigated Ms Ks case but said one or more of the exceptions applies, specifically that 
Ms K had made the payments without a reasonable basis for believing they were legitimate. 
So it didnt think she was entitled to a full refund under the CRM code. But it did accept it 
could have to done more to advise her about the risk of scams so refunded 50% of the 
money shed lost, plus £3.23 recovered from the account the funds went to. Ms K wasnt 
satisfied with Barclays response, so brought a complaint to our service.
One of our investigators looked at Ms Ks complaint. They didnt think Barclays had 
established that Ms K had made the payments without a reasonable basis for believing they 
were legitimate. So they felt Ms K met the requirements to be fully reimbursed under the 
CRM code and recommended Barclays refund the remaining money shed lost. Barclays 
disagreed with our investigator, so the complaint has been passed to me.
  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In deciding whats fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of a complaint, Im required to 
take into account relevant: law and regulations; regulators rules, guidance and standards; 
codes of practice; and, where appropriate, what I consider to be good industry practice at the 
time.
In broad terms, the starting position at law is that a firm is expected to process payments 
and withdrawals that a customer authorises, in accordance with the Payment Services 
Regulations and the terms and conditions of the customers account. However, where the 
consumer made the payment as a consequence of the actions of a fraudster, it may 
sometimes be fair and reasonable for the bank to reimburse the consumer even though they 
authorised the payment.
When thinking about what is fair and reasonable in this case, Ive considered whether 
Barclays should have reimbursed Ms K under the provisions of the CRM code and whether it 
ought to have done more to protect her from the possibility of financial harm from fraud. The 
CRM code places a level of care on Ms K too, so Ive considered whether she met this.
The CRM code
As I mentioned above, Barclays is a signatory to the CRM code. The CRM code requires 
firms to reimburse customers who have been the victims of Authorised Push Payment (APP) 
scams like this, in all but a limited number of circumstances. And it is for the firm to establish 
that a customer failed to meet their requisite level of care under one of the listed exceptions 
set out in the CRM code.
Under the CRM code, a firm may choose not to reimburse a customer if it can establish that:
The customer ignored an effective warning in relation to the payment being made
The customer made the payment without a reasonable basis for believing that:
othe payee was the person the customer was expecting to pay;
othe payment was for genuine goods or services; and/or
othe person or business with whom they transacted was legitimate
There are further exceptions within the CRM code, but these dont apply here.
Did Ms K have a reasonable basis for belief?
Ms K was called by someone claiming to be from a third-party bank she had an account 
with. She says the call showed up on her phone as being from a genuine number for that 
bank. And Ive not seen anything to suggest Ms K was aware scammers could spoof phone 
numbers in this way.
Ms K says the caller knew her name, address, phone number and date of birth. She says 
she asked how she could be sure she was speaking to Barclays and the caller said shed 
receive a text from them, which she then did while she was on the phone. And she says she 
was played hold music while she was being transferred and the caller gave her an 
explanation of how the hacking could have taken place and statistics about the number of 
people affected by fraud. So, given the information the caller had and the professional nature 
of the call, I think its reasonable that Ms K thought it was legitimate.
Barclays has said Ms K should have carried out further checks before making the payments, 
such as hanging up and calling the bank back or questioning why the safe account details 
she was given were in the name of someone she didnt know. It also says she ignored a 
warning message which said Barclays would never ask her to move money to a safe 
account.
But I can understand why Ms K, who isnt familiar with banking processes, didnt think to 
hang up and call back to verify who she was speaking to. Ms K says she saw the payments 
were going to a Barclays account, which reassured her they were legitimate. And the caller coached her through the payment process and rushed her to move her money as soon as 
possible before it was lost. So I dont think its reasonable to say she lacked a reasonable 
basis for belief because she didnt carry out these further checks and navigated past the 
warning message.
This was clearly a sophisticated scam. The caller had called from a genuine-looking number 
and knew enough information and sounded professional enough to gain Ms Ks trust. So I 
think Ms K did have a reasonable basis for belief that the caller was legitimate and that the 
payments she was making were genuine.
Did Ms K ignore an effective warning?
Barclays has accepted that it could have done more to advise Ms K about the risk of scams 
and so has already refunded 50% of the money she lost. But its also said that the warnings 
Ms K would have seen were effective, so Ive considered this too.
The CRM code sets out that an effective warning should enable a customer to understand 
what actions they need to take to address a risk and the consequences of not doing so. As a 
minimum, the CRM code sets out that an effective warning should be understandable, clear, 
impactful, timely and specific.
Barclays has said the warning message Ms K would have seen would have said:
Were continuing to increase the protection we offer you, but its also important for you to 
protect yourself. Once a transactions gone through, its difficult to recover your money. Well 
never ask you to move your money to a safe account, nor will the police, HMRC or any 
trusted organisation.
Stay safe from scams
Have you actually met this person and how well do you know them? Speak to them directly 
to verify their details before going ahead. Payment requests on social media, dating sites 
and claims of family crisis, can be fraudulent. Be cautious about transferring money for 
someone else, especially if youve received funds unexpectedly.
While the warning message does say Barclays would never ask Ms K to move money to a 
safe account, it doesnt explain how scammers can spoof phone numbers so they appear 
genuine. It doesnt mention any steps Ms K could take to spot or avoid falling victim to a 
scam. And its mostly talking about sending money to someone the customer doesnt know 
or unexpected payment requests from friends and family, which arent relevant to the scam 
Ms K fell victim to. So I dont think this warning was specific enough to be effective in Ms Ks 
circumstances.
So I dont think Ms K ignored an effective warning in relation to these payments.
Overall, Im not satisfied that any of the exceptions set out in the CRM code apply in this 
case. So I think Barclays should have refunded the full amount Ms K lost under the 
provisions of the CRM code.  
My final decision
For the reasons Ive set out above, I uphold this complaint and require Barclays Bank UK 
PLC to:Refund Ms K the remaining £2,461.77 she lost as a result of this scam
Pay Ms K 8% simple interest on that refund from the date it initially rejected her claim 
until the date of settlement
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms K to accept or 
reject my decision before 4 January 2022. 
Alan Millward
Ombudsman