DRN-2262523
The complaint
Miss Ks complaint is about Capital One (Europe) plc applying a default to her credit file after 
she had explained she was entering a debt management plan and she thought it was agreed 
that her account would be put on hold for 30 days. 
Miss K wants the default removed.
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again 
here. Instead Ill focus on giving my reasons for my decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the conclusions reached by the investigator for these reasons:
Miss K entered into a credit agreement with Capital One in 2016 and in doing so she 
agreed to its terms and conditions. These included making the required monthly 
payments. The account terms set out the consequences of missed payments 
including the possibly of the account being defaulted.
Miss K was sent a notice of default dated 11 November 2019. Before this, Miss K 
had missed payments and had been sent letters about the arrears on her account. A 
payment plan had been set up in August 2019, but Miss K hadnt maintained the 
required payments. Given this, I find that Capital One had provided Miss K with the 
information she needed to be aware of the status of her account. It had tried to work 
with her by setting up the payment plan but when this wasnt maintained I find It 
reasonable it took further action and issued a notice of default.
The November notice of default letter required payment to be made by 9 December. 
This didnt happen.
Miss Ks complaint is that she sent a secure message to Capital One on 9 December 
2019, and believed her account was then on hold but the default was recorded a few 
days later. I have looked at the secure message Miss K sent. She said she was in 
discussion with a debt management company and asked for her account to be 
frozen. Capital One responded asking for details of the debt management company 
and said, Once we receive the above information your account will be on hold for the 
next 30 days. Miss K says that she thought, based on this communication that her 
account was on hold from 9 December. While I understand Miss Ks comments, the 
message didnt say the account was on hold and made no reference to the default 
fault proceedings being paused. Therefore, I do not find that Capital One did anything 
wrong by continuing with the default proceedings at this time.
I understand there was then some confusion caused by the comments in Capital 
Ones final response letter and discussion about the difference between freezing an 
account and it being placed on hold. I also note that Capital One refunded some 
interest charged at that time. However, the issue in this complaint is whether the 
default has been applied fairly and in this case I find it has been.
Miss Ks account was in arrears and she hadnt made the payment required on the 
notice of default. Instead she contacted Capital on the date the payment was due. 
Following this contact she was asked for further information and as this wasnt 
provided until 13 January 2020, I do not find it unreasonable that Capital One 
continued its process of applying the default in December 2019.
Miss K was sent a statement of default on 14 December and a confirmation of this 
dated 16 December. I can understand how upsetting this must have been, but she 
hadnt maintained her payments over an extended period, including not maintaining 
the payment plan. Based on this, and the other information included in this complaint, 
I do not find that Capital One did anything wrong applying a default to her account in 
December 2019. 
For these reasons, I do not uphold this complaint.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint about Capital One (Europe) plc. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss K to accept 
or reject my decision before 27 November 2020.
 
Jane Archer
Ombudsman