DRN-3423291
The complaint
Miss B complains that Capital One (Europe) plc was irresponsible in allowing her to open 
two credit card accounts and increasing her credit limit on one.
What happened
In August 2014, Miss B opened a Capital One credit account. She told the business she had 
an annual income of £16,000 and she was living with her parents. At the time of her 
application she had an outstanding credit balance of £3,494. Her credit file did have some 
issues and this meant Capital One imposed a £200 credit limit.
In August 2015, Miss B opened a second Capital One credit account. At this time, her 
declared annual income had increased to £22,897 and she was still living with her parents. 
At this point she had an outstanding credit balance of some £1,030. Capital One considered 
she had managed her other card account well, making several payments in excess of the 
minimum amount due and gave her a limit of £500.
In June 2016 Capital One offered Miss B an increased limit on her first card from £200 to 
£950. She had a similar level of income as in August 2015. Miss B had history of borrowing 
both before and after the credit card accounts were opened and in 2020 Capital One 
defaulted the two credit card accounts.
Her complaint was rejected by Capital One and so she brought a complaint to this service. It 
was considered by one of our investigators who didnt recommend it be upheld. He reviewed 
Miss Bs financial situation at the time of each application or increase and the checks carried 
out by Capital One. He concluded the checks were proportionate and the lending wasnt 
unreasonable.
Miss B didnt agree and said similar complaints she had made about other credit cards had 
been upheld. She said she was heavily in debt and ended up paying excessive interest.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Although the first card was taken out in 2014 Capital One has agreed that the all parts of the 
complaint fall within our jurisdiction.
I have to determine whether Capital One knew or ought reasonably to have known that the 
lending was likely to have been unsustainable and unaffordable for Miss B. That means I 
have to decide whether Capital One carried out reasonable and proportionate checks before 
lending. I appreciate Miss B fell into financial difficulties later, but my decision is based on 
her situation at the time the cards were issued and the limit increased.
At the time the original card was offered with a small limit Miss B had a declared annual 
income of £16,000 and was living with her parents. I can see her credit history has some 
issues. There were two small defaults in 2008 and 2009. I also have noted a default of £16 
in April 2014. While there were some issues I have to decide if these were sufficient to allow 
Capital One to have declined her request for a card. I am satisfied that proportionate checks 
were carried out for the credit limit approved. And I am satisfied that the decision taken by 
Capital One was not unreasonable. It gave her a small limit which I consider was 
manageable given Miss Bs financial situation.
The second card was issued a year later and Capital One had the benefit of reviewing her 
handling of the first card. By this time her income had increased to £22,897 and Miss B was 
still living with her parents. Capital One carried out appropriate checks and took onto 
account the state of her other card account. I have seen no obvious reason why this 
application should have been declined.
The increased limit on the first card was offered to Miss B and accepted by her after Capital 
One was satisfied that she was managing her two cards. On occasions she was able to pay 
more than the minimum payment due and there were no missed payments or defaults. I 
have noted Capital One didnt verify Miss Bs income at this point and while I think it should I 
cannot say that the outcome would have been different if it had. Verification would have 
shown that the declared income was correct. 
I appreciate that other complaints made by Miss B about irresponsible lending have been 
upheld the circumstances were different. I have to consider if appropriate checks were 
carried out by Capital One and whether its lending decisions were fair and reasonable. 
Overall, I am satisfied that it did so.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss B to accept 
or reject my decision before 18 August 2022.
 
Ivor Graham
Ombudsman