DRN-4308600
The complaint
Mr S complains about the service provided by Admiral Insurance (Gibraltar) Limited following 
a claim made on his motor insurance policy. 
What happened
Following a claim on his policy, Admiral paid Mr S cash in lieu of repairs. But Mr S said this 
didnt cover all the incident-related repairs. He was unhappy that he wasnt provided with a 
courtesy car and so he incurred hire costs. And he was also unhappy with delays in the 
claim and with Admirals level of service. 
Admiral agreed there had been service failings and it paid Mr S £360 compensation for this. 
It said Mr S wasnt entitled to a courtesy car under his policy. But it covered his hire costs 
from the date of the claim to the date the cash payment was made and also paid him £620 
for his loss of use during this period. But Admiral said the further damage described wasnt 
related to the claim.
Our Investigator recommended that the complaint should be upheld. She first thought there 
wasnt convincing evidence that the further damage alleged was related to the claim. She 
thought Admirals payment of compensation for the service failings was fair and reasonable. 
She thought Mr S wasnt entitled to a courtesy car as he was using a non-approved garage 
for his repairs. She thought Admiral neednt have paid loss of use as well as the hire costs. 
But she thought it had delayed returning the car so the repairs could be made. And she 
thought it should pay Mr S compensation for his loss of use from a month after the claim until 
the car was returned to him, less what it had already paid, with interest.
Admiral replied that Mr S had delayed having the car assessed by a month. So it agreed to 
pay his hire car costs for the subsequent two months, less the loss of use payment already 
made. Its engineers said the further damage to the car wasnt related to the original accident 
as described by the notification call. It said it may be due to driving on or to a second 
incident. It said it had already paid Mr S a total loss settlement and he had accepted this. 
Our Investigator then thought Admiral hadnt taken into account the full claim circumstances. 
She thought that if it had and if it had assessed the car fully then it would have seen the 
additional damage caused. She thought it should settle the claim as a total loss less the 
cash in lieu payment. 
She thought Admiral had caused Mr S to be without a car for longer than was reasonable. 
So she thought it should reimburse Mr Ss hire costs from a month after the accident until he 
replaced his car, with interest, on production of evidence for these costs, less the payments 
for loss of use already made.    
Admiral replied that if all the alleged damage had been caused in the reported incident, the 
car would have been undriveable. It said Mr Ss original report from his garage and its 
independent assessors report didnt note the extent of damage now reported. It said its 
counter offer for hire car costs remained. 
Our Investigator replied that she was persuaded that some of the claimed for damage was 
due to wear and tear. But she thought the intercooler had been damaged in the accident. As 
Admiral didnt agree with the Investigators view, the complaint has come to me for a final 
decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I can see that its now more than a year since Mr Ss accident and I can understand that he 
would want this matter resolved. He has helpfully provided a detailed timeline of the claim 
journey. And I have considered this alongside his other submissions and Admirals file. 
Admiral agreed there had been service failings in its handling of the claim. I can see that 
these caused Mr S to spend long periods on hold trying to contact Admiral and its agents. 
And it agreed that its delays in progressing the claim had caused Mr S considerable trouble 
and upset. Admiral paid Mr S £360 in total compensation for this. And Im satisfied that this 
was fair and reasonable compensation for the impact its service failings had over several 
months. From what I can see, Mr S has accepted this, and so I wont consider this point 
further. 
What remains for me to consider is Admirals decision that the mechanical damage Mr S 
said had been caused in the accident was unrelated to his claim and was a consequence of 
wear and tear. And also its compensation for the delays in the claim. 
Were not engineers. We dont assess whether or how damage to a vehicle would be caused 
as this is a matter for the experts in these situations, the insurance companies and 
engineers. Our role in these complaints is to determine whether an insurance company has 
considered all the available evidence and whether it can justify its decision to not pay for 
additional repairs.
The evidence Admiral had to consider was Mr Ss reports from the recovery agents, its 
approved repairers assessment of the car, its independent assessors three reports, a report 
from Mr Ss own garage, and the opinions of its own engineers. 
When Mr S first reported the claim, he described the circumstances saying that another cars 
wing mirror had clipped his and then he had driven into a ditch whilst making a three point 
turn. He said there had been a concrete pipe in the ditch. And he said the damage was to 
the cars wingmirror and bodywork (front bumper and bonnet). Admirals approved repairer 
provided an estimate for the bodywork repairs. But it didnt remove the bumper to check for 
any underlying damage.
Mr S later said that there had been performance issues with the car after the accident and a 
warning light had been on. But he had kept driving the car and seems to have driven 700 
miles until the car became undriveable. I havent seen that Mr S told Admiral about the 
performance issues earlier or that the approved repairer noted any concerns. 
Mr S said two recovery agents said the failure was due to mechanical damage caused by 
the accident. But Admirals repairer said the problem was due to wear and tear and it didnt 
note any mechanical damage caused by the accident. So Admiral offered Mr S cash in lieu 
of repairs and he accepted this. 
The car was returned to Mr S, and he said he then noticed damage to a pipe in the area 
impacted by the accident. Admiral then instructed an independent engineer to assess the 
car. He said the bumper needed to be removed to assess the mechanical damage. But I 
cant see that this was done. Admiral then instructed the engineer to do this and provide a 
further report. I havent seen this report, but Mr S said it restated the earlier findings that the 
mechanical damage was unrelated, but the bumper still hadnt been removed.Mr S then had his own garage provide a repairs estimate. This was reviewed by the 
independent engineer. Again I havent seen his report, but Admirals file notes that the cost 
of repairs due to suspension damage alone made the car beyond economical repair. So then 
Admiral paid Mr S a settlement for the total loss of his car, less the payment it had already 
made for his repairs. Mr S accepted this.
Mr Ss garage later provided a report stating that it had removed the cars bumper and found 
damage consistent with a front end collision. But Admirals in-house engineer said this 
wasnt consistent with the approved repairers report and that the car would have been 
undriveable with the level of damage now reported. But I dont think this takes into account 
that the approved repairer hadnt removed the bumper and the damage to the pipe could 
have been initiated by the accident and worsened over time. 
Mr S was unhappy that Admiral hadnt considered the mechanical damage when it offered 
him cash in lieu of repairs. And I can see that there is conflicting evidence, and Im not 
satisfied that Admiral justified its decision that the mechanical damage was unrelated to the 
accident. But as Mr S accepted Admirals offer for the total loss of his car, then I think this 
concern is now redundant. 
This is because Admiral paid Mr S the market value of the car less the previous cash 
payment. Mr S said it would cost more to repair his car, based on his garages estimate. But 
Mr S cant be bettered a claim. So if Admiral increased its payment for repairs, it would have 
to reduce the balancing payment. So Im satisfied that it doesnt need to do anything further 
on this point.
But it took some time for Admiral to make this decision. It took months for it to return the car 
to Mr S so he could look to have it repaired. It had to chase the independent engineer three 
times to remove the cars bumper over several months. And I cant see that this was done.
Admiral said Mr S had contributed to the delays by a month as he hadnt responded to its 
requests to return the car so its independent engineer could further assess it. But I dont 
agree. I can see that Admiral called Mr S without success. But when it texted him, then he 
did respond promptly. So Im satisfied the delay was due to Admiral, not Mr S. 
Mr S complained that he hadnt been provided with a courtesy car during this time. But, as 
our Investigator has explained, he wasnt entitled to one until his car was taken for repairs. 
And, when he accepted the cash in lieu payment, then the courtesy car entitlement wouldnt 
usually apply as Admiral had indemnified him. But Admiral then delayed returning the car to 
him and Im satisfied that it should have removed the bumper when the repairs were first 
assessed. This could most likely have avoided the substantial delays in the claim. 
After the claim was made, Mr S initially asked friends for help with transport. He then hired a 
car as he needed to transport his children to school. The hire car was the smallest on offer. 
So I think Mr S reasonably mitigated his costs. 
Admiral initially paid Mr S for his loss of use and it reimbursed his car hire costs from the 
claim date to the date of the cash settlement. Our Investigator has already explained that 
this is more than we would think reasonable as he was being compensated twice so the loss 
of use payment need not be made. And wed allow one month for the claim to be progressed 
to the repairs stage. Ill consider this further below.
As Ive explained above, I consider that Admiral caused delays in returning the car and didnt 
fully assess it at the start of the claim. But for this, Mr Ss car would likely have been 
declared a total loss at the start and he wouldnt have incurred his hire costs. 
So, to restore Mr Ss position, Im satisfied that Admiral should reimburse his car hire costs 
(on provision of reasonable evidence for these) from a month after the date of the claim until 
the payment for the cars total loss was made so that Mr S could buy a replacement. The 
previous payments for loss of use and reimbursement of hire costs should be deducted from this amount. And because Mr S has been without his money for some time, interest should 
be added to the further reimbursement. 
Putting things right
I require Admiral Insurance (Gibraltar) Limited to do the following:
1. Reimburse Mr Ss car hire costs (on provision of reasonable evidence for these) from a 
month after the date of the claim until the payment for the cars total loss was made, less 
the previous payments for loss of use and reimbursement of hire costs.
2. Interest should be added to this amount at the rate of 8% simple per annum from the 
dates of payment to the date of settlement. 
If Admiral considers that its required by HM Revenue & Customs to deduct income tax 
from that interest, it should tell Mr S how much its taken off. It should also give Mr S a 
tax deduction certificate if he asks for one, so he can reclaim the tax from HM Revenue 
& Customs if appropriate.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, my final decision is that I uphold this complaint. I require 
Admiral Insurance (Gibraltar) Limited to carry out the redress set out above. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 8 November 2023.
 
Phillip Berechree
Ombudsman