DRN-3307422
The complaint
Miss G has complained about her mortgage account with Barclays Bank UK Plc. Miss G 
says that at the time she redeemed her mortgage Barclays has charged her twice for a 
monthly repayment, but she believes the bank has made an error.
What happened
I will keep my summary of what happened quite brief. Our decisions are published and so I 
must ensure I dont include anything here that might lead Miss G to be identified. I also note 
the investigator set out what had happened in detail, and both Miss G and Barclays have 
had a copy of his letter, so I dont need to repeat all the details here.
In July 2021 Miss G was in the process of redeeming her mortgage and buying out her 
former partners interest in the property. A redemption statement was sent to her solicitors, 
which included the last payment that was due to be made by direct debit on 30 July 2021  
an amount of £391.12. However, the July 2021 direct debit payment was returned unpaid as 
there were insufficient funds in the account, and so when the redemption took place the 
£391.12 was still owed to Barclays. 
Confusingly, Barclays then wrote to Miss G to let her know that a refund of £391.12 was due 
to Miss G, and that this had been refunded to the account from which the direct debit was 
taken  an account ending 8111. However, this payment wasnt received by Miss G, nor was 
it added back to the mortgage account. Consequently, the account showed that 2 x £391.12 
was due, a total of £782.24.
Miss G complained to the Financial Ombudsman Service, and an investigator looked at what 
had happened. He was satisfied that Barclays had been sent too little to redeem the 
mortgage in July 2021, as the payment due (in arrears) on 30 July 2021 still needed to be 
made, but the direct debit had been returned unpaid. But Barclays then made a mistake by 
saying it would refund £391.12, but then didnt.
The investigator thought Barclays should write off £391.12, and that Miss G should repay the 
remaining £391.12, which was legitimately due to Barclays. He also thought Barclays should 
pay £200 compensation for trouble and upset.
Barclays had nothing further to add, but Miss G didnt accept the investigators findings. She 
has reiterated that she believed she had repaid the mortgage in full on 27 July 2020. Miss G 
has also provided further background about her personal circumstances, and says that 
Barclays has turned an already difficult situation into an intolerable one.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Your text her I will begin by saying that, although this was a joint mortgage, the complaint 
has been brought only by Miss G. Generally we would need both parties to a mortgage to 
consent to the complaint, but I can see that the relationship between Miss G and her former 
partner has broken down. In addition, the events giving rise to the complaint have affected 
only Miss G. In the circumstances, it is appropriate for me to consider the complaint in the 
sole name of Miss G without the need to involve the other party to the mortgage account.
Ive looked at what happened, and Im satisfied that the redemption statement says:
Well cancel any Direct Debits for this mortgage when we receive your final 
payment. If thats within three working days of your usual monthly payment date, it 
may be too late to stop the payment being taken. Well refund any such payments to 
the account they were paid from within seven working days.
Because the redemption was on 27 July 2021, it didnt include the payment due on 30 July 
2021, as monthly payments are made in arrears. However, as the direct debit for the July 
payment was returned unpaid, that amount still remained due. However, Im satisfied the 
direct debit due on 30 July 2021 failed, meaning the account was short. 
But Barclays made a mistake by saying it had refunded the same amount to Miss G, but 
didnt do so, making the account not just one payment of £391.12 short, but two payments, 
totalling £782.24. Ive looked at Miss Gs bank account for August 2021, and Im satisfied 
that no refund was made by Barclays. 
I know Miss G is adamant that the redemption on 27 July 2021 included the July 2021 
repayment, but Im satisfied it did not. But Barclays shouldnt have then said it was making a 
refund but did not in fact do so, and then doubled the amount of the shortfall.
Putting things right
To settle the complaint, Barclays should write off £391.12 from the outstanding account 
balance and pay Miss G £200 compensation for the trouble and upset shes been caused. 
Ive taken note of what Miss G says is the impact of these events, but Im satisfied that £200 
is fair, and proportionate to the error Barclays made in saying it would make a refund (when 
it didnt need to do so) and then increasing the account balance by the amount of the refund 
which it did not, in fact, make.
My final decision
My decision is that I partly uphold this complaint. I direct Barclays Bank UK Plc to put in 
place the settlement set out above in full and final settlement of this complaint.
This final decision concludes the Financial Ombudsman Services review of this complaint. 
This means that we are unable to consider the complaint any further, nor enter into any 
correspondence about the merits of it.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss G to accept 
or reject my decision before 23 May 2022.
 
Jan O'Leary
Ombudsman