DRN-3910986
The complaint
Mr S complains about Saga Services Limited cancelling his home insurance policy.
What happened
Mr S had a home insurance policy sold to him by Saga, acting as an intermediary for the 
underwriter. 
Saga sent Mr C a renewal notice on 17 November 2021, telling him that his policy would 
auto-renew on 10 December 2021 and asking him to check that the policy was still suitable 
for his needs.
On 7 December 2021, they sent a further email, saying that the policy was to renew and 
again reminding Mr S to check the policy details.
The policy then renewed, but Saga were unable to collect the annual premium. This was 
because Mr S had recently lost his previous card but hadnt updated Saga with his new card 
details.
Having chased Mr S for payment, Saga cancelled the policy and asked Mr S to pay just over 
£28 in fees.
Mr S complained to Saga. He wanted them to reinstate his policy. Saga promised Mr S a 
manager would call him back, but that didnt in fact happen.
Saga paid Mr S £25 in compensation for the trouble and upset caused by their failure to get 
back to him. But they maintained that the decision to cancel the policy had been justified and 
refused to reinstate Mr Ss cover.
Mr S wasnt happy with this and brought his complaint to us. Our investigator looked into it 
and didnt think Saga had done anything wrong.
Mr S disagreed and asked for a final decision from an ombudsman.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Its important to set out the facts here  which are not in dispute.
Sagas renewal notice of 17 November 2021 asked Mr S to check his policy details - and to 
check that his payment details were still correct. 
The email of 7 December said the policy was about to renew. Again, it asked Mr S to check 
the policy terms and his payment details.
Saga had Mr Ss old card details. He didnt update them with Saga when he lost and 
replaced his card. So obviously, when Saga went to collect payment after renewal, they 
couldnt.
Saga sent emails and letters (by recorded delivery) to Mr S - on 11, 18 and 25 December 
2021 - telling him the payment had failed and asking him to make arrangements to pay his 
premium for the year. They advised him if he didnt contact them to arrange payment, the 
policy would be cancelled on 1 January 2022.
Mr S didnt replay to those messages  and the policy was duly cancelled.
Mr Ss main objection appears to be to the email of 7 December, which was headed Youre 
covered for another year. Mr S says he wasnt in fact covered at that point and the email 
header was misleading.
If Mr S had opened and read the email, I think hes willing to admit that the situation would 
have been completely clear to him.
I would also point out that the heading itself wasnt misleading. Mr S was covered for another 
year, his policy was renewing. His policy was, in fact, renewed on 10 December 2021. He 
wasnt covered for the year only because he failed to pay his premium.
Mr S was asked to check his card and payment details in both messages before renewal. 
And when the payment failed, Saga tried to contact Mr S three times for payment before 
cancelling the policy.
That being the case, its difficult for me to conclude that Saga did anything wrong in their 
handling of Mr Ss renewal or in later cancelling it.
Mr S now has cover elsewhere, as I understand it. So, he no longer wishes Saga to reinstate 
his policy. Saga have compensated Mr S for their failure to respond as promised to his call in 
January 2022. And Saga were entitled to charge Mr S in January 2022 for the time on cover 
and for cancellation fees.
Mr S is concerned that because of the confusion around the renewal, he spent some time 
without any cover and exposed to quite significant risk. However, given the facts as set out 
above, I cant reasonably blame Saga for that. And in any case, nothing happened that might 
have caused Mr S to make a claim in the relevant (very brief) period.
In summary, I cant reasonably conclude that Saga treated Mr S in any way unfairly or 
unreasonably when they renewed and then cancelled his policy. 
Mr S didnt read and/or respond to their (perfectly clear) communications in November and 
December 2021. And he failed to make proper arrangements to pay his premium, despite 
being reminded on several occasions. Mr S knew hed replaced the relevant bank card  
Saga did not.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I dont uphold Mr Ss complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 17 February 2023.
 
Neil MarshallOmbudsman