DRN-3454631
The complaint
Mrs R (through a representative) has complained that Indigo Michael Limited (trading as 
Safety Net Credit (SNC)) didnt complete enough affordability checks before approving her 
Safety Net facility. 
What happened
Mrs R approached SNC for a Safety Net facility in November 2017. This was a running credit 
account where a consumer could either request funds up to their credit limit, or funds would 
be deposited into their bank account once their account balance fell below a safety net 
amount of the customers choosing. Mrs R was not advanced a payday loan. 
Mrs R was initially given a facility with a £500 credit limit in November 2017. Her limit was 
increased on a further five occasions with her final increase  taking the credit limit to £1,000 
in May 2018. 
Mrs R had some problems repaying her facility and SNC has told the Financial Ombudsman 
that it outsourced the collection of the balance to a third party. It has also told us that as of 
January 2022 Mrs R still had an outstanding balance of £1,134.17.
One of our adjudicators looked at Mrs Rs complaint. He thought it was reasonable for SNC 
to have granted the facility. But the adjudicator also concluded that the credit limit in 
April 2018 shouldnt have been granted for the following reasons.
Mrs Rs credit limit had now almost doubled what she started off with. 
Mrs R would frequently repay the facility in full each month before quickly returning 
for further borrowing and so she wasnt using the facility as SNC had intended. 
The bank statements that SNC had access to showed it that Mrs R was making 
repayments to at least three different third-party collection firms. 
Further indicators of financial difficulties including evidence of Mrs R being charged 
unauthorised overdraft fees and returned payment fees. 
There was evidence which showed Mrs R was using high-cost short-term credit. 
Mrs Rs representative acknowledged receipt of the adjudicators assessment but no further 
comments were provided.
 
SNC disagreed with the assessment. In summary, it didnt make any points about the 
outcome that was reached. Instead, it focused on whether the Financial Ombudsman had 
jurisdiction to consider the complaint. In summary it said: 
It hasnt received proper authorisation from Mrs R to allow her representative to deal 
with the case.
SNC says that due to concerns over the representatives authorisation no valid 
complaint has ever been made which is why no final response has been issued. 
SNC therefore says it doesnt believe the Financial Ombudsman has jurisdiction 
because no final response has been issued and so doesnt constitute a complaint as 
laid down by the rules (DISP). 
Although Mrs Rs representative has provided a wet signature SNC doesnt have 
anything to compare it too.
The approach SNC takes to verify with a consumer is reasonable and has her 
privacy and data protection in mind.
SNC has had concerns about the authority given and this has been backed up by the 
content of a Dear CEO letter from the industry regulator.
The adjudicator responded to SNCs concerns. He explained SNC had been given more 
than eight weeks to investigate Mrs Rs complaint following the representatives complaint 
and from when we informed SNC that the complaint would be taken on and progressed. 
As no agreement could be reached the complaint has been passed to me for a decision.
Why I can look at this complaint
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments provided by SNC as to why it 
considers this complaint to be outside of the Financial Ombudsman Services jurisdiction. 
Ive thought careful about what SNC has said, but like our adjudicator explained, Im not 
persuaded there is any reason why the Financial Ombudsman cant consider this complaint. 
It is disappointing that SNC has taken the stance that it has in relation to this particular 
jurisdiction issue considering that, in my view, it is patently incorrect and is therefore simply 
delaying the resolution of this complaint.
SNC has clearly had significantly longer than the eight weeks afforded to it by the Dispute 
Resolution (DISP) rules to investigate and issue a final response to this complaint. Mrs R 
complained through her representative to SNC in January 2021 (Ive seen nothing to 
persuade me Mrs R hadnt correctly authorised her representative), the complaint was 
referred here on 9 June 2021, and the Financial Ombudsman then wrote to SNC on 10 June 
2021 explaining the complaint was now being taken forward. 
It is now nearly a year later and over a year since the complaint was originally made, but the 
firm nonetheless disputes that it has had eight weeks to consider the complaint. This is 
clearly wrong in my opinion.
SNC has had more than eight weeks in which to investigate the complaint and issue a 
response. Im therefore satisfied that the Financial Ombudsman has jurisdiction to consider 
this matter in accordance with DISP and can proceed to issue a decision on the merits of 
Mrs Rs complaint. 
 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive also taken into account the law, any relevant regulatory rules and good industry practice 
at the time the facility was provided. 
To start with, Mrs R wasnt given a payday loan. Instead she was provided with a credit 
facility where there was an expectation it would be repaid within a reasonable period of time. 
Interest is charged on any balance at 0.8% per day for the first 40 days following the 
drawdown. After the 40 days, a consumer will pay no further interest on that drawdown. Throughout the lifetime of a consumer having the facility SNC maintains read-only access to 
their bank statements, in order to allow it to monitor a consumers finances and to allow it to 
carry out additional affordability assessments. 
Finally, Mrs Rs expected repayment would be calculated to be 5% of the amount due plus 
any interest, fees or charges. But, a minimum amount of £20 would be expected to be paid. 
Therefore, when Mrs Rs facility was approved for £500 SNC needed to satisfy itself that 
Mrs R would be in a position to make the repayment of £20, by carrying out a proportionate 
check. 
In this case, SNC had a fairly good idea of Mrs Rs income and expenditure because it had 
read only access to her bank statements for the 90 days preceding the facility being granted. 
It then used an algorithm to establish what Mrs Rs income and expenditure was, after 
completing this check, in this case, SNC was satisfied that Mrs R could afford the minimum 
repayment towards the facility.  
It also carried out a credit search before the facility was granted. Ive considered the 
summary of results SNC has provided, and there doesnt appear to have been anything in 
those results which wouldve led SNC to either decline the application or prompt it to have 
carried out further checks before the facility was approved. 
To begin with, it would appear Mrs R seems to accept our adjudicators opinion, that SNC 
wasnt wrong to approve her running credit facility. For the avoidance of doubt, I also dont 
think SNC was wrong to have initially granted the facility.
So, this decision will focus on whether SNC did enough to monitor Mrs Rs facility whilst she 
held it and whether there was a point which SNC should have halted any further borrowing 
on it.
Although I dont think SNC was wrong to have initially granted the facility, I do think, like the 
adjudicator it was unfair for it to have allowed Mrs R to continue to use the facility after 
8 April 2018.  I agree with the adjudicator that the bank transaction data SNC had access to 
along with the way she was using the account indicated she wasnt using it in a sustainable 
manner. Ill explain below why I think this is the case.  
At the time, and during the use of the facility, SNC was regulated by the Financial Conduct 
Authority. The guidance and rules for credit providers has been laid out by the FCA in its 
Consumer Credit Sourcebook (CONC). I think it reasonable to see what the FCA has said in 
CONC and how it applies to this case. 
CONC (6.7.2) SNC had to:
[A firm must] monitor a customers repayment record and take appropriate action 
where there are signs of actual or possible repayment difficulties
And CONC 1.3 outlines some examples of what financial difficulties (which, of course, 
would be intrinsically linked to, and at the heart of, any repayment difficulties) may look like 
 but CONC 1.3 makes it clear the list is not exhaustive. 
So CONC sets out that SNC was required to monitor Mrs Rs use of the facility and then 
CONC 1.3 provides indications which could suggest that a customer was in financial 
difficulty.SNC has had a good indication of Mrs Rs actual financial position, because throughout the 
time of her having the facility it had read-only access to her bank account. By 8 April 2018 I 
think SNC had seen enough to have realised that Mrs Rs repayment of the facility was now 
unsustainable. 
In order to see whether I think it was fair to allow Mrs R to continue to drawdown, Ive 
considered the relationship between when repayments were made to SNC, the value of 
those payments and then when Mrs R returned for further borrowing. After all, if Mrs R was 
drawing down similar sums within days of SNC taking a payment from her account this ought 
to have indicated that SNC was causing her to once again borrow the funds that SNC had 
just taken. 
By monitoring the facility  as it was required to do, SNC wouldve realised that Mrs R would 
repay her facility in full, and then within a day or so, shed start drawing back up towards her 
credit limit. So, the larger her credit limit increased to, the larger her monthly repayments to 
SNC became. For example, after the credit limit increase occurred Mrs R paid SNC at the 
end of April 2018 nearly £1,300.
And in other months  such as March 2018 Mrs R would pay on or around the minimum 
repayment but then immediately drawdown unavailable credit she had. Again, as with paying 
the facility in full each month, I think this is a further sign that even these smaller payments 
werent affordable for her because she quickly needed further funds to cover the whole in 
making the repayment was leaving in her finances. 
In addition, Mrs Rs income remained consistent at around £2,700 per month, and I can see 
from her bank statements that just the repayments to the direct debits and standing orders 
came to around £1,700 per month. 
This left Mrs R around £1,000 to cover the other costs that I can see in her bank statements 
such as her petrol costs and food. So, her disposable income, wouldve been smaller than 
this. Which given the amount that Mrs R was repaying to SNC each month ought to have led 
SNC to conclude that Mrs R may not have had enough money to afford the credit limit 
increase especially, as the limit had almost doubled in a fairly short period of time. 
At this point, when the credit limit increased I dont think it was reasonable for SNC to have 
believed that Mrs R would repay the facility over a reasonable period of time, instead, I think 
its far more likely that Mrs R would borrow the funds over the course of the month and then 
have to repay the balance in full. 
This in effect, mean that due to Mrs R making full repayment, she had to borrow again from 
SNC in order to cover her hole in the finances.
When considering all of the information SNC had available to it about Mrs Rs circumstances 
along with the payments SNC was collecting each month, I think by 8 April 2018, it was clear 
that the facility had become unsustainable - and simply collecting the full outstanding 
balance on the account and then allowing Mrs R to once again drawdown the funds that had 
been recently collected was detrimental to her financial situation. But instead of doing this 
SNC increased his credit limit. This meant that it would lead to taking even larger payments 
from Mrs Rs account thus leaving a greater hole in her finances.
On top of this, SNC wouldve been aware that Mrs R had one outstanding short-term payday 
loan and was making a number of repayments each month to three different debt collection 
agencies  further indication that Mrs R had relatively recent debt that she had struggled to 
repay. Overall and having thought about everything I think that SNC shouldve proactively 
intervened and contacted Mrs R to arrange for her to repay what she owed within a 
reasonable period of time. 
Putting things right
If the debt has been sold to a third party, SNC should, if it wishes, buy the debt back and 
then carry out the redress below. If it isnt able to, or doesnt wish to buy the debt back then it 
needs to work with the third party to achieve the same results.
A) Remove all the unpaid interest, fees and charges from the account from 8 April 2018.
B) Treat all payments Mrs R has made towards their account since 8 April 2018 as 
though they had been repayments towards outstanding principal.
C) If at any point Mrs R wouldve been in credit on her account after considering the 
above, SNC will need to refund any overpayments with 8% simple interest* 
calculated on these payments, from the date they would have arisen, to the date the 
refund is paid.
D) If there is an outstanding principal balance, then SNC can use any refunds calculated 
as part of C to repay this. If a balance remains after this then SNC should try to 
agree an affordable repayment plan with Mrs R. If SNC has previously written-off any 
principal, then it shouldnt pursue outstanding balances made up only of principal it 
has already written-off.
E) SNC should remove any adverse payment information recorded on Mrs Rs credit file 
from 8 April 2018.
*HM Revenue & Customs requires SNC to take off tax from this interest. SNC must give 
Mrs R a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if she asks for one.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained above, Im upholding Mrs Rs complaint in part.
Indigo Michael Limited should put things right for Mrs R as set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs R to accept or 
reject my decision before 10 June 2022.
 
Robert Walker
Ombudsman