DRN-3545345
The Complaint
Ms D says that Loans to Go Limited (L2G) lent to her irresponsibly when she was granted a
personal loan on 31 March 2020.
Background to the Complaint
L2G provided Ms D with a £250 loan repayable over 18 months at £57.14 a month. The
Annual Percentage Rate (APR) was 1,019.2% and the total amount repayable after interest
and costs was £1,028.52.
On 4 May 2020 Ms D made a complaint about L2Gs decision to lend to her  arguing,
amongst other things, that it was unaffordable.
L2G issued its final response to Ms Ds complaint on 1 June 2020 rejecting it and providing
her with a settlement figure if she wanted to settle the loan early. So, she referred the
complaint to the Financial Ombudsman Service. In an accompanying email, she said that
she had been in an Individual Voluntary Arrangement (IVA) since October 2019. She had
lost her job and had little money coming in from zero hours agency work to make ends meet
until her new job started. So, she wanted an apology from L2G for lending to her
irresponsibly and she wanted it to freeze the interest on her loan so that she could pay it
back.
The complaint was looked at by an investigator who, having confirmed that Ms D was in an
IVA when the loan in question was granted, asked L2G if it wanted to reconsider its position 
on the complaint. L2G said that Ms D didnt disclose that she was in an IVA. The results of 
its credit search gave no indication she was in one. And as Ms D had to declare during its 
online application that she wasnt subject to an IVA before being able to proceed with her 
application, L2Gs position hadnt changed.
The investigator then asked Ms D if she could provide a copy of her credit file. The
investigator didnt get the information she asked for. So, she went on to reject the complaint 
in light of the information she had.
In response, Ms D provided the investigator with a copy of her credit file not long after the 
initial assessment. And in light of what the investigator now knew, she changed her mind. 
She found that L2Gs checks werent reasonable and proportionate. And she concluded that, 
if L2G had carried out such checks, it would have discovered that she was unlikely to make 
her repayments sustainably given the significance of the financial difficulty she was in  
which included:
being in an IVA;
being in four months of arrears on one credit card and five months in arrears on another;
and
going into default on a number of accounts.
L2G disagreed. It argued that it had carried out a full credit search before it lent to Ms D and
it wasnt fair to hold it responsible for missing information when it got the results of that
search. The results didnt disclose Ms Ds IVA nor did she disclose the fact that she was in 
one during the course of her application.
The investigator wasnt persuaded by L2Gs response to her assessment. She thought that
the results of L2Gs credit search contained very little information and didnt provide a
complete picture of Ms Ds financial history in the lead up to the loan. The fact that she had
such a clear credit file raised questions about why she approached L2G for a loan when, in 
light of her financial circumstances according to its credit search, she could have gone 
elsewhere or used existing credit. And for this reason, the investigator thought that L2G 
ought to have explored Ms Ds means of repayment more thoroughly by asking her for a 
copy of her full credit file for example.
As L2G and the investigator couldnt agree, the complaint was referred for an ombudsmans 
decision  which is why it was passed to me.
I issued a Provisional Decision (PD) and shared with Ms D a copy of L2Gs credit search. 
In summary, I thought that L2G had proceeded to grant Ms D the loan after carrying out 
proportionate checks. And in light of what it knew about her financial circumstances, I 
thought it had reasonably relied on the information it had, such that it hadnt done anything 
wrong by lending to her as it didnt look like the loan was unaffordable for her. 
L2G had nothing further to add in response to my PD. Ms D disagreed. She said that she 
had given her full address history along with her current address during her loan application. 
She also said that she had declared all of her expenditure  which doesnt seem to have 
pulled through on L2Gs system. 
Ms D also made the point that there was nowhere during L2Gs online loan application form 
to declare her IVA. And had it simply searched the Insolvency Register, it would have seen 
that she was in one.
In addition, Ms D suggested that she had contacted L2G within 14 days of having taken the 
loan to pay it off but wasnt able to do so. She then said that she also tried for months to 
negotiate a settlement with L2G without success.
The investigator now responsible for this complaint shared with Ms D a screenshot of her 
declared income and expenditure as recorded on L2Gs internal system. The investigator 
also asked Ms D to confirm where she was living when she entered into her IVA.
In response, Ms D said that she was officially living at a different address to the one she 
declared during her L2G loan application. But she said that her address history held by L2G 
was incomplete as she had to provide three years worth of addresses. She also said that 
the information held by L2G on her income and expenditure didnt include £300 for rent or a 
couple of other bits  including utilities and her IVA payments.
As a result, the investigator asked L2G to explain how its credit searches worked and 
confirm whether its internal records captured everything Ms D had declared during her loan 
application  which it confirmed they did. And when L2G explained how its credit searches 
worked, it said that the information provided by applicants was what was used by its system 
to carry out an automatic search.
The investigator also asked L2G if it had any records of any contact from Ms D once she had 
been granted the loan. But it said that it didnt.
As the deadline for responses to my PD has now passed, the complaint was returned to me to consider it for a Final Decision. 
My Findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
When the evidence is incomplete, inconclusive, incongruent or contradictory, Ive made my 
decision on the balance of probabilities  which, in other words, means Ive based it on what 
I think is most likely to have happened given the available evidence and the wider 
circumstances.
And having taken into account everything I need to consider, including Ms Ds concerns 
throughout this complaint, I still dont think it should be upheld. 
I realise that this will be disappointing for Ms D. She clearly feels strongly about this 
complaint. But I hope shell understand my reasons for reaching the conclusion I have.
Broadly speaking, there remain a number of overarching questions that I need to consider 
when deciding a fair and reasonable outcome here:
1. Did L2G carry out reasonable and proportionate checks to satisfy itself that Ms D was
likely to have been able to repay the borrowing in a sustainable way?
i. If L2G had carried out such checks, did it lend to Ms D responsibly using the 
information it had?
Or
ii. If L2G didnt carry out such checks, would the requisite checks have demonstrated 
that Ms D was unlikely to have been able to repay the borrowing in a sustainable 
way?
2. If relevant, did Ms D lose out as a result of L2Gs decision to lend to her?
Did L2G carry out reasonable and proportionate checks?
L2G says that it agreed to lend to Ms D after she provided details of her monthly income and
expenditure. It says that it used an online income verification tool to verify her monthly
income as a minimum of £1,220.73 (compared to the £1,500 she declared during her
application) and, after reviewing her expenditure and credit file, L2G says that it made an
upward adjustment to her expenditure from £150 to £1,013.50. It also says that it added a
10% buffer to Ms Ds verified expenditure to account for fluctuations in her monthly income
or expenditure. And on that basis, as the loan repayments of £57.14 were still affordable,
L2G says it was reasonable to lend to her.
On the other hand, Ms D says that she should not have been lent to by L2G because she
was in an IVA  which should have been clear from her credit file.
I accept, as I did in my PD, that Ms Ds actual circumstances when L2G lent to her are more 
accurately reflected by the copy of her credit file she provided the investigator with. And, for 
that reason, I still dont doubt that she was in a very difficult predicament when she turned to 
L2G for a loan. However, as I also said in my PD, its only fair and reasonable to uphold a complaint about 
unaffordable lending if the business against whom the complaint is made is found to have 
done something wrong when it made its decision to lend. And on this occasion, I still dont 
think L2G did anything wrong when it decided to lend to Ms D. 
Ms D declared a monthly income of £1,500 (from full-time employment that she said had 
started in December 2019) and £150 in expenditure  which was broken down into £50 on 
groceries and £100 on utilities each month. But, as I said in my provisional findings, it didnt 
look like she declared much more than that  including any of the credit commitments that 
contributed to her going into the IVA that she now says L2G should have known about.
In response to my PD, Ms D says that she had declared all of her expenditure  including 
£300 for rent and a couple of other bits, like utilities and her IVA payments. Its possible 
that the information she now says she declared during her application didnt pull through to 
L2Gs internal system as she suggests. But even if thats what happened (which I make no 
formal finding on here as I dont need to), I dont think it makes a difference to the conclusion 
I reached in my PD. As I said in my provisional findings, L2G didnt rely solely on what it was 
told by Ms D in relation to her income and expenditure. It made a downward adjustment to 
her income and a significant upward adjustment to her overall expenditure. And so, its 
decision to lend to her was already based on the possibility that her income was lower, and 
her expenditure was higher  as she now suggests.
Ms D also says that, had L2G simply searched the Insolvency Register before lending to her, 
it would have discovered that she was in an IVA. 
I can understand why Ms D makes this point. However, L2G carried out a credit search 
before lending to her. And as the results of that search didnt throw up anything alarming 
about her financial circumstances, including the existence of her IVA (the reasons for which 
Ill come onto below), I cant see why it would have been necessary of L2G to go one step 
further and search the Insolvency Register or, more generally, go beyond the checks it 
carried out at such an early stage in the lending relationship.
 
So, given the size of Ms Ds prospective repayments to the loan and the stage of her lending 
relationship with L2G, I didnt and still dont think it was unreasonable of L2G to make its 
lending decision on the basis of the adjustments it made to Ms Ds declared income and 
expenditure coupled with the information it obtained from its credit search. 
I can understand why some might question why a prospective borrower with what seems to
have been a largely unblemished credit file would have borrowed a relatively small sum of
money repayable at an interest rate of over 1,000% if the practical reality of their financial
circumstances werent worse than they looked. But people make all sorts of decisions for all
sorts of reasons. And it isnt for me to impose my own view on the merits of applying for a
loan like the one in question only to then conclude that L2G should have carried out more
detailed checks on that basis alone. 
Nonetheless, L2G didnt satisfy its obligation to lend responsibly to Ms D by simply 
requesting a proportionate amount of information from her before making its decision to lend.
Once it got the information it thought it needed, it then had to evaluate it because it still had 
to reasonably assess whether she could afford to meet the loan repayments in a sustainable
way over the term of the loan.
Did the Business lend to Ms D responsibly using the information it had?
I continue to recognise that there are significant differences between the results of L2Gs 
credit search in March 2020 and the more recent copy of Ms Ds credit file that she provided the investigator with. But, as I said in my PD, it seems to me that the differences can be 
explained by one of Ms Ds previous addresses  which, being the address she was 
registered as living at when her financial circumstances deteriorated and she entered into 
her IVA, was included in her own copy of her credit file but wasnt included in the results of 
L2Gs credit search.
Ms D says that she provided L2G with a breakdown of all of her addresses because she had 
to provide a three-year history. But, without any other evidence to reliably corroborate that 
account, I find it difficult to reconcile with the information captured by L2G before it lent to 
her. 
The results of L2Gs credit search did return the result No data held for the purpose of an 
Electoral Roll  Date of Birth Check. And with that being the case, the report went on to say 
the following: If No, query with customer and check if DOB matches insight or refer to Risk. 
L2G says that it didnt query this particular part of its search results with Ms D because page 
two of the results confirmed her address and date of birth  which I can see that it did.
L2Gs internal records also indicate that it carried out a ZVA Transaction Check before it 
lent to Ms D to make sure that the bank details she provided it with during her loan 
application were registered to the address she declared during her application as her current 
address. And as the results of that check returned positive matches (i.e. the bank details 
provided by Ms D matched her declared address), it remains the case that I cant see any 
obvious discrepancy in relation to her declared address in the results of L2Gs credit search 
that ought reasonably to have prompted it to broaden its search  such that I still think Id be 
applying the benefit of hindsight unfairly if I were to now use Ms Ds own (and more recent) 
copy of her credit file to argue that L2G was wrong to lend to her.
On balance, therefore, I still think L2G relied reasonably on the information available to it at 
the time of its decision to lend to Ms D. And given the size of her prospective loan 
repayments relative to her disposable income (as adjusted by L2G), I still dont think they 
looked unsustainable in light of what L2G knew  such that it shouldnt have granted her the 
loan. 
With that said, L2G has certain obligations under CONC 7 to treat its customers in default or 
in arrears difficulties with forbearance and due consideration. In response to my PD, 
Ms D says that she (1) contacted L2G within 14 days of having taken the loan to pay it off 
but wasnt able to do so and (2) tried for months to negotiate a settlement with L2G without 
success. But there isnt any record of such attempts in and amongst L2Gs contact notes. 
And as she hasnt provided any other evidence of those attempts, I cant see anything that 
reliably corroborates what she says. 
L2G says that its willing to arrange with Ms D an affordable repayment plan for what 
remains of her outstanding balance. But in light of what it now knows about Ms Ds financial 
circumstances, I hope it will give further thought to its obligations under the relevant 
provision.My Final Decision
For the reasons set out above, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms D to accept or 
reject my decision before 12 August 2022.
 
Morgan Rees
Ombudsman