DRN-2195233
The complaint
Mrs E is unhappy with Vanquis Bank Limiteds response to her complaint about a transaction 
on her credit card account that she says she didnt make or authorise. The bank has 
declined to refund her.
What happened
Mrs E noticed a transaction on her statement that she didnt recognise. It was for £394.15 
paid to a pizza restaurant. She was sure she hadnt made the transaction and so reported it 
to Vanquis as fraudulent.
Vanquis looked into the transaction but said it would be holding Mrs E responsible for it. It 
said the correct card details had been used to make the purchase through the pizza 
restaurants website. Vanquis also said the transaction had required approval by way of a 
one-time passcode (OTP). Its records showed the OTP had been sent to Mrs Es registered 
mobile number and that the reply had come from the same number.
Mrs E had said that no one else had access to her card or her mobile phone. And so 
Vanquis couldnt determine how a third party could have placed the order without Mrs E 
being aware or giving authorisation. 
One of the details that was communicated to Mrs E was that the transaction appeared to 
take place in Bournemouth. Mrs E said that couldnt have been her as she lived and worked 
miles away from there. But Vanquis didnt change its answer.
Mrs E was unhappy with the response and so brought the complaint to our service. One of 
our investigators looked into what had happened and didnt find Vanquis had acted unfairly. 
She could see evidence to support Vanquis position on the use of the card details and also 
the sending and receiving of the OTP. In light of such evidence our investigator was also 
unable to see how a third party could have carried out the transaction without Mrs Es 
knowledge. She didnt recommend the complaint be upheld.
Mrs E didnt agree with the investigators opinion and so the case has been passed to me for 
a final decision. Mrs E, in her response to our investigator, said that she and her husband 
had both been at work at the time transaction took place and that her daughter had been at 
school. And so she couldnt see how anyone could have accessed her card or her phone. 
She also said there was no record of any OTP on her phone, despite what the bank had said 
about one being sent and received.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so Im not upholding it. Ill explain why.
The regulations of particular relevance to this case are the Payment Service Regulations 
2017. Broadly speaking, they set out the situations in which a customer will be responsible 
for transactions on their account and when the bank will be. Generally, when it can be shown 
a transaction was authorised by a customer, they will be responsible for it. That will include 
times when a customer has given permission to someone else to use their account.
My role is to consider whether Vanquis has acted fairly and reasonably in holding Mrs E 
responsible for the disputed transaction of £394.15. In doing so I must consider whether it 
has sufficient evidence to show that she more likely than not authorised the spending. 
Im not able to determine exactly what happened. I must consider the evidence available to 
me and use it to reach a conclusion on whether I think the banks actions have been fair. 
This means I cant tell Mrs E for certain how the transaction came to be placed. Only why I 
believe its fair and reasonable for Vanquis to hold her responsible for it.
Ive seen persuasive evidence from Vanquis that supports its position that the correct card 
details were used and that an OTP was sent and responded to. The evidence also shows 
that Mrs Es genuine mobile number was used by Vanquis. Theres nothing to suggest her 
number was changed, temporarily or otherwise. 
Mrs E has said that she and her husband were both at work when the transaction was 
processed. And her daughter was at school. Mrs E has further explained that her card and 
phone would have been in her possession. I can see why that would mean she struggles to 
see how anyone could have gained access to them.
I am of the same mind as Mrs E here. It doesnt seem possible, or at least highly unlikely, 
that someone would have been able to gain access to Mrs Es card details, place an order 
for the pizzas and respond to an OTP without her noticing. But its because there isnt a 
reasonable explanation for how that might have happened that I have to agree the bank has 
acted fairly and reasonably in holding her responsible for the spending. The evidence 
doesnt point to or allow for any other reasonable explanation. And so I wont be telling 
Vanquis to refund the transaction.
Mrs E has questioned how and why someone might spend so much money on pizza. I would 
agree it does seem unusual. But it doesnt give me grounds upon which to uphold her 
complaint.
Ill also note here that I think there may have been some confusion created with the location 
of the pizza restaurant. There doesnt actually seem to be evidence of it being in 
Bournemouth. It doesnt seem possible to determine where the pizzas were actually ordered 
from. The records show the order was placed online and so it seems more likely than not 
that any reference to a location in the records is only tied to where the processing of the 
payment might have taken place. Not to where the pizzas were actually dispatched from. 
That said, even if the pizzas were ordered from or delivered to an address miles from where 
Mrs E lives, the significant and persuasive evidence around the card usage and OTP would 
still not be overcome and the outcome would remain the same.
Im sorry to have to deliver this news to Mrs E. Shes come across as very genuine in her 
correspondence with us. Matters of fraud are always distressing and if shes genuinely had 
money stolen from her and has no idea how I can only imagine it must be even more 
upsetting. But, as Ive said, I must deliver the fair and reasonable outcome that the evidence 
supports.
My final decisionI dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs E to accept or 
reject my decision before 11 February 2021.
 
Ben Murray
Ombudsman