DRN-3150168
The complaint
Mr J complains about a delay transferring his stocks and shares ISA to Virgin Money Unit 
Trust Managers Ltd (Virgin Money). 
What happened
In a form dated 5 April 2020, Mr J asked Virgin Money to transfer a stocks and shares ISA 
he had with another provider to Virgin Money. The transfer was completed on 17 June. 
Mr Js complaint is that the transfer took too long. Guidelines say it should have been no 
more than 30 days. And he feels Virgin Money only started working on the transfer after he 
called them in May to chase it up. 
Virgin Money have given a detailed account of the work they did on the transfer. The delay 
seems to have come about when the previous ISA provider wrote to Virgin Money asking for 
some account details. Virgin Money replied, but it seems that letter wasnt received. 
In response to Mr Js complaint, Virgin Money accepted thered been a delay  but only a 
small bit of it was caused by them. They felt they should have resent their account details 
within a couple of days of receiving a letter from the previous ISA provider saying they were 
still outstanding. As it was, it took them five working days to resend the details. 
Virgin Money paid £50 compensation to Mr J for that delay. But they noted hed been able to 
buy more units in his chosen investment than he would have been if thered been no delay. 
Mr J didnt accept Virgin Moneys position, and brought his complaint to us. Our investigator 
described the timeline of events shed seen, and explained how she felt Virgin Money had 
taken reasonable steps  including repeatedly chasing up the transfer with the previous ISA 
provider  to help with the delay. She felt this  plus the offer Virgin Money had already 
made  meant nothing more needed to be done to resolve the complaint. 
Mr J didnt agree, and questioned Virgin Moneys version of events. He said he wanted the 
case looked at again by an Ombudsman.
The case has therefore come to me for a formal decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I can see why Mr J is upset  his ISA transfer was delayed. But Ill explain 
why I find Virgin Money have done enough to acknowledge their part in that. 
As Ive noted above, most of the delay here was that the previous ISA provider needed 
Virgin Moneys account details before theyd transfer Mr Js money over. I can see the 
previous provider requested those details in a letter to Virgin Money dated 21 April. Virgin 
Money say they received that on 28 April, and replied on 30 April. 
Thats a reasonable timescale for responding, and if the previous provider had received 
Virgin Moneys letter, I think it likely there wouldnt have been a significant delay here. But 
unfortunately, it appears the letter wasnt received. 
That may be because theres a discrepancy in the address Virgin Money used when 
contacting the other ISA provider. Virgin Money were initially using address details held on a 
national ISA manager database  a PO Box ending in 91. But the later successful letter 
used the address on the letterheads for the other provider  a PO Box address ending 92. 
Its notable though that the previous ISA provider appears to have received Virgin Moneys 
first letter about the ISA transfer, which was also sent to the 91 PO Box. And both 
PO Boxes are linked to the same company, just different parts of it. So it may be the post did 
arrive, it just wasnt handled in a particularly proactive way by the other ISA provider. 
In any case, Virgin Money could reasonably expect the other ISA provider to have kept their 
details up to date on the national database. I accept that seeing the 91 PO Box on the 
database led Virgin Money to contact that address. 
So although the post didnt arrive, and was addressed to a different address to the one listed 
on the other providers letter heads, I dont consider Virgin Moneys use of the different 
address as unreasonable. It follows that I find the delay caused by the post not arriving with 
the other provider isnt Virgin Moneys responsibility to put right. 
When Virgin Money resent their letter to the previous ISA provider in June, they used the 
92 address. That letter reached the previous ISA provider, and the transfer was completed 
shortly after. But I agree the timescale for Virgin Money resending the letter after being told 
to use the 92 address was slightly slower than it could have been. 
I also accept though that the brief delay didnt cause the losses Mr J feels hes suffered as a 
result of the overall delay to this transfer. I find Virgin Moneys offer to resolve this brief part 
of the delay did enough to acknowledge the impact it added to the situation, rather than 
trying to compensate for all of Mr Js dissatisfaction. 
And while I appreciate Mr J feels Virgin Moneys responses to his complaint should count 
against them, Ive decided to base my conclusions just on what I can see relating to the ISA 
transfer. The handling of Mr Js complaint isnt a factor in my decision making. 
My final decision
For the reasons above, Ive decided not to uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr J to accept or 
reject my decision before 3 January 2022.
 
Paul Mellor
Ombudsman