DRN-3213191
The complaint
Mr H has complained that Insurance Factory Ltd (IFL) didn't give him enough information 
about his future premiums when it sold him a pet insurance policy.
 
Provisional findings 
On 22 November 2021 I issued a provisional decision. For ease I've copied the relevant 
extracts below. I said:
What happened
IFL sold Mr H a lifetime pet policy for his dog in 2019. At that time his annual premium was 
around £234. The policy renewed in 2020 and the premium increased to around £283. 
During that policy year Mr H claimed for vets treatment for his dog. When his policy renewed 
in 2021 his premium had increased to around £581.
Mr H complained. IFL acknowledged it could have done more when it sold the policy to 
make Mr H aware that it could be subject to such significant premium increases. So IFL paid 
him £80 compensation because it hadn't done that.
Mr H brought his complaint to us. He told us his complaint was in two parts:
IFL didn't make him aware that his premium could increase so significantly.
The scale of the increase wasn't fair.
One of our investigators looked into the complaint. He considered both points against the 
policy insurer, which is a different business to IFL. He said that while he felt it had calculated 
the premium fairly It could have done more to let Mr H know, at the point of sale, that the 
premium could be subject to a significant increase. So he said the insurer should increase 
the compensation from £80 to £200 in total.
The insurer didn't agree so the complaint was passed to me to decide.
For the reasons set out below I decided that Mr Hs complaint about the information given at 
point of sale should be set up against IFL rather than the policy underwriter.
What Ive provisionally decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
IFL is an insurance broker and intermediary not an insurer. So it sells policies and might help 
with their admin. But it doesn't provide the cover itself. That is the responsibility of the 
insurer.
IFL sold the policy to Mr H. When it did so it was acting for itself as a broker. So any 
complaint about the sale of the policy would remain IFLs responsibility. But IFL also 
administers the policy. But when it does so, it acts on behalf of the insurer. So any complaint 
about the administration of the policy, including decisions about the calculation of the policy 
premium, remains the responsibility of the insurer. Thats the case, even where IFL has 
taken that action on behalf of the insurer.
In this case there are two distinct complaints. First, when IFL sold the policy to Mr H it didn't 
let him know that his policy might be subject to significant increases. That complaint is 
against IFL itself and doesn't involve the insurer. And thats what Ive dealt with below.
The second complaint is about the scale of the premium rise. That complaint remains the 
responsibility of the insurer. So, as that is a separate business to IFL and weve looked at 
that complaint under a separate reference number, I don't intend to comment further on that 
point in this decision.
IFL has previously acknowledged that it didn't do enough to let Mr H know that his policy 
might be subject to significant premium increases. And its offered him £80 compensation.
So, the key thing for me to consider now is whether or not its done enough to put things 
right. And, after thinking about this very carefully I don't think it has.
Lifetime pet policies of the type that IFL sold to Mr H tend to be comprehensive in nature. 
And their key selling point is that they will cover pets for ongoing medical problems they 
might develop after the policy has been taken out. So they tend to be more expensive than 
other policies available on the market.
Premiums for pet policies will usually increase as the pet ages. But, particularly for lifetime 
policies, its also usual for the premium to increase in response to a claim. That is, once a 
pet has a medical condition its likely that it poses a higher risk to the insurer. And, as a 
result, the insurer will reflect that increased risk in the premiums they charge going forward. 
So its important that potential policyholders are aware of that when they buy the lifetime 
policy.
In this case IFL has accepted that it didn't do enough to make Mr H aware of this potential 
for steep premium increases when he took out the policy. So I need to think about what is 
fair redress to put things right.
Mr H didn't have to buy a lifetime policy. He could have bought a cheaper yearly policy. But 
those policies don't usually cover any pre-existing conditions. So, once a pets suffered with 
a medical issue, the yearly policies won't cover that problem in later years. As a result, if a 
pet needs ongoing treatment over a number of years, the policyholder will have to bear the 
full cost of that treatment even if they have a policy in place.
In this instance it seems Mr H was looking for a lifetime policy. And he was clearly happy 
enough with the initial premium IFL quoted, as he bought the policy. And as premium rises of 
this type are common across the market I think its likely that Mr H would have still bought 
the policy IFL sold to him, as thats the type of policy he was looking for. So I don't think hed 
have done much different if IFL had given him more information at the point of sale.
But I can understand that, when his premium increased fairly dramatically in 2021, it came 
as something of a shock to him. However, if IFL had given him more information at the 
outset about the likely effect of claims on premiums, then that would have been something 
that he was expecting to happen. And, had that happened, he wouldn't have been so 
surprised and upset by the increase, as he was. So to address his distress and 
inconvenience arising from that I think its fair that IFL pays him a total of £200 
compensation. And, as it has already paid him £80 it needs only pay him a further £120.Developments 
IFL referred to a comment I had made in another decision in which I considered Mr Hs 
complaint against the policy insurer. In that decision I said:
I note that when Mr Hs policy was due for renewal in 2020, the renewal invitation [the 
insurer] sent to him said that premiums were likely to increase as his dog got older and that 
this increase will be significant if you have claimed. So I think [the insurer] did give Mr H 
some warning that his future premiums might be subject to a considerable rise.
IFL said that I was mistaken to say that the insurer had warned Mr H at renewal in 2020 that 
his premium might increase. It said it was its (IFLSs)  and not the insurers  responsibility 
for sending that information to Mr H. So it said it had given Mr H warning that his premium 
could be subject to increase.
IFL repeated that it had agreed it could have been clearer, at the point of sale in 2019, about 
the potential for premium increases but had paid £80 compensation to address that. It added 
that at renewal in 2020 it made Mr H aware that his premium could be subject to increase. It 
said that at that point he hadn't made a claim so could have looked elsewhere for a policy 
but instead chose to renew. So it doesn't think that Mr H would have been surprised by the 
increase in premium the following year. 
Mr H didn't provide any further comment. 
 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
 While Ive noted IFLs points in response to my provisional decision they don't persuade me 
to change my findings . As I've said above, the complaint against IFL concerned its failings 
at the point of sale and the impact on Mr H of those failings. I was aware of the content of 
the 2020 renewal notification when I arrived at my provisional findings about IFLs actions 
and the impact on Mr H. And regardless of who is responsible for issuing that renewal 
information, while it might have offered some mitigation, I don't think it went far enough to 
significantly lessen the shock Mr H experienced when his premium rose so dramatically the 
following year. So that was something I had already factored in when drafting my provisional 
decision.
When coming to that conclusion I considered that, when choosing a lifetime policy, I think 
most consumers will carefully consider its costs and benefits at the point of sale. Thats so 
that they can decide if that is the appropriate policy for them for the lifetime of their pet. And, 
having chosen the appropriate policy, I think many consumers would be likely to give less 
weight to the information given to them at renewal, as theyve already bought a policy they 
expect to have for their pets entire life. So Im satisfied that IFLs admitted failings at the 
point of sale did cause Mr H some unnecessary shock. And, for the reasons I gave in my 
provisional decision, I remain persuaded that its fair and reasonable that IFL should 
increase the compensation payable to Mr H to £200.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above I uphold this complaint. I require Insurance Factory Ltd to pay 
Mr H a further £120 compensation to address his distress and inconvenience.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 11 January 2022.
 
Joe Scott
Ombudsman