DRN-3734345
The complaint
Mr H is unhappy with a conditional sale agreement he took with Moneybarn No. 1 Limited. 
He says he couldnt afford the borrowing when it was given as he had too many other 
commitments.
What happened
In December 2018 Mr H acquired a used car funded by a conditional sale agreement with 
Moneybarn. The car cost £13,495 and Mr H agreed to make repayments of £548.60 per 
month over 38 months.
Mr H says he got into difficulty with the lending and had to borrow money from other sources 
to make the repayments. He says Moneybarn shouldnt have lent to him.
Mr H complained to Moneybarn. It issued its final response in March 2022. It said, in 
summary, that it did various checks on Mr Hs finances before it lent to him. It said while it 
saw defaults on Mr Hs credit file, it was satisfied these amounts were being repaid. It said it 
could see a County Court Judgement (CCJ) against Mr H, but this was from nearly three 
years prior to the application. And it said it was happy Mr H had enough disposable income 
to afford the lending.
Mr H was unhappy with this and brought the complaint to our service. Our investigator 
issued an opinion. She said, in summary, that she didnt think Moneybarn had done 
sufficient checks at the time to ensure the borrowing was affordable for Mr H. But, she said 
having reviewed further information, that if Moneybarn had done further checks, these 
wouldve shown Mr H could afford the repayments.
Mr H said he didnt agree with the opinion. So, the case has been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I dont think this complaint should be upheld. Ill explain why.
Mr H complains about a conditional sale agreement. Entering into consumer credit contracts 
such as this as a lender is a regulated activity, so Im satisfied I can consider Mr Hs 
complaint about Moneybarn.
We explain how we handle complaints about irresponsible and unaffordable lending on our 
website. Ive used this approach to help me decide Mr Hs complaint. 
Moneybarn needed to carry out proportionate checks to be able to understand whether any 
lending was affordable for Mr H before providing it.
So, what I need to consider here is whether Moneybarn did reasonable checks at the time to 
make sure the lending was affordable. If I think it didnt, I need to consider what 
proportionate checks wouldve shown and what shouldve happened. And, I need to think 
about whether Moneybarn acted unfairly in any other way, or if there was any other reason it 
wouldve been irresponsible to lend to Mr H.
Our website sets out what we typically think about when deciding if a lenders checks were 
proportionate. Generally, we think a lender might have needed to do more if information from 
the time suggested further information was needed about a prospective borrowers ability to 
repay. For  example, if a borrowers income was low, the amount lent was high or the 
consumer had a significantly impaired credit history. Ive carefully thought about what this 
means for Mr Hs case.
Moneybarn has explained before it lent to Mr H it ran a full credit search. It said it verified his 
income and assessed that this was in line with the occupation he told them about. It said it 
used information from another source to estimate Mr Hs expenditure. And it said it looked at 
Mr Hs other borrowing at the time. 
Following these checks, Moneybarn said it was satisfied Mr H had enough disposable 
income to afford the borrowing.
Moneybarn has commented that Mr H had a CCJ and had defaulted on some previous 
borrowing. Mr H hasnt disputed this. Moneybarn said the CCJ was from 33 months prior. It 
said the most recent default was from five months prior and was being paid towards. I dont 
think, on balance, that given it was from some time ago, this adverse information from Mr Hs 
credit file meant, on its own, that it was irresponsible for Moneybarn to lend to him. 
But I do think, given the amount Mr H was borrowing and the time he took the borrowing 
over, that this information should have prompted Moneybarn to look into Mr Hs outgoings in 
more detail. I dont think estimating his expenditure using a third party was enough to 
reasonably say the lending was affordable for Mr H.
In summary, Im satisfied Moneybarn shouldve done further checks at the time. So, what I 
now need to consider is what these checks wouldve shown, had Moneybarn looked into 
things in more detail.
Mr H has provided bank statements from around the time the lending was approved. These 
show his income was higher than what he told Moneybarn about. Taking into account all of 
Mr Hs committed spending, Im satisfied these statements show a disposable income that 
meant he wouldve been left with funds to spare once the new repayments were taken into 
account.
Ive noted Mr Hs bank statements from the time do show some payday loans. But, the 
statements show payments being made towards these, not Mr H borrowing further funds. So 
it appears these were being repaid. The statements do also show two direct debits that are 
returned. But, these were both then paid within a few days.
Considering everything here, I dont think Moneybarn did reasonable and proportionate 
checks at the time to ensure the lending was affordable for Mr H. But, Im satisfied that had it 
done further checks, these wouldve shown the lending was neither irresponsible to give to 
Mr H, nor unaffordable for him.
Ive carefully considered everything Mr H has said in relation to this complaint. But I dont 
think Moneybarn needs to take any action here.My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 29 December 2022.
 
John Bower
Ombudsman