DRN-2698751
The complaint
Mr C complains about Provident Personal Credit Limited trading as Satsuma. Mr C says he 
was unable to make the repayments into the loan in full when he became unemployed. He 
says he wanted to make a lump sum repayment of £500 in order to settle the loan. But, as 
this was less than the amount Satsuma says he owed, it didnt accept this. Mr C thinks this is 
unfair. 
What happened
This complaint is about one instalment loan Satsuma provided to Mr C in December 2017. 
Mr C borrowed £1,850. He was due to make 12 repayments of £307.10 which meant he had 
to repay Satsuma a total of £3,685.20. 
Mr C was able to make the repayments in full for the first five months. But due to some 
personal and related financial problems, which included being made unemployed, he was 
unable to make the repayments going forward. 
At first, Mr C and Satsuma agreed that he would make repayments of £50 a month. 
However, Mr C also asked to be able to repay a lump sum to close the loan. After some 
correspondence Mr C offered to pay £500. Satsuma didnt accept this. It said that his 
account balance was £1,346.70 and the early settlement balance was £1,144.69. Mr C didnt 
want to repay this amount and he made his complaint to Satsuma.
I understand that Mr C didnt make any further repayments into his loan and that the 
outstanding loan amount has now been passed to a third-party collection agency. 
Our adjudicator didnt uphold the complaint. He thought that Satsuma had acted reasonably 
when it arranged a repayment plan given Mr Cs circumstances. And it didnt have to accept 
the amount Mr C offered to settle the loan. 
Mr C disagreed with the adjudicators opinion. He thought a lower settlement figure would be 
fair. As no agreement has been reached the complaint has been passed to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about short term and high cost lending  
including all of the relevant rules, guidance and good industry practice  on our website. 
Applying this to the circumstances of this particular complaint, I have reached the same 
outcome as our adjudicator, for essentially the same reasons.
Mr C and Satsuma entered into an agreement when Mr C took the loan. Mr C would receive 
the loan amount. In return he agreed to make the scheduled repayments. I appreciate his 
circumstances meant that this was difficult for him at times, but this doesnt mean that 
Satsuma was acting incorrectly when it requested that he repay the full amount, or the early 
settlement balance. Rather than the £500 that Mr C offered. 
I accept that Mr C informed Satsuma that he was in financial difficulty. So, Satsuma had an 
obligation to have treated Mr C fairly and to exercise forbearance. But I think its reasonable 
to say that Satsuma did this when it arranged the repayment plan. And it seems it was willing 
to continue to allow Mr C to keep to this plan, going forward. That is, it was prepared to work 
with Mr C to help him repay what he could afford on a regular basis. I think this is the right 
approach here. But its reasonable to say that Mr C only wanted to repay £500. So this didnt 
go ahead. 
So, overall, I think Satsuma acted fairly when it was dealing with Mr C in respect of his 
repayment problems. Im not upholding his complaint about this issue. But I would remind 
Satsuma of its obligation to treat Mr C fairly when working towards repaying the outstanding 
balance. 
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I dont uphold Mr Cs complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 23 April 2021.
 
Andy Burlinson
Ombudsman