DRN-3242116
The complaint
Miss B and Mr H complain about how National House-Building Council have dealt with a 
claim they made under a warranty policy.
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them in detail 
here. Instead I will focus on giving my reasons for my decision.
This claim has been ongoing for some time however this decision only relates to matters that 
were dealt with in the final responses dated 18 December 2019 and, 26 March 2020.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Miss B and Mr H have made considerable submissions in bringing their complaint and I 
understand they feel very strongly about it. Whilst I dont intend to respond in similar detail, I 
can assure them I have read all their correspondence and taken it into account when making 
my decision. So, if I dont mention any particular point or piece of evidence it isnt because I 
havent seen it or thought about it. Its just that I dont feel I need to reference it to explain my 
decision. I hope Miss B and Mr H dont take this as a discourtesy; it is just a reflection of the 
informal nature of our service.
Having considered all of the evidence available to me, I agree with the outcome reached by 
the investigator for the following reasons:
It isnt in dispute that this claim has gone on for longer than needed, many issues 
have been encountered, different contractors have been appointed and removed 
from site, repairs havent gone to plan and considerable distress and inconvenience 
has been caused to Miss B and Mr H.  They have also pointed out why they have felt 
unable to stay in the property at times and the considerable effort that they have had 
to go to in order to make their complaint about NHBC.
Previous complaints have been made and addressed by NHBC and settlements 
have been made covering some of the above issues, such as alternative 
accommodation, removal and storage of items, inventory checks, council tax, rental 
of a parking space and costs of dismantling and reconstructing furniture and cleaning 
and redecoration costs. £1,500 compensation has also previously been offered to 
reflect matters of poor service to that date. I wont be considering any of those 
matters in this decision and they are complaints that are dealt with under another 
reference at this service. 
NHBCs final response of 26 March 2020 mentions a comment a case handler made 
about the previous alternative accommodation payment and there being a question 
about whether the payment has been used as intended. But, as this primarily 
concerns a matter that was addressed in full in a previous final response, I will not be 
revisiting the matter of that payment here. NHBC has explained the comment was 
made based on the information given to that case handler, and I accept this 
explanation. 
NHBC has now made an uplift in payment to the cash offer previously made for 
outstanding cleaning and redecoration works alone, to reflect the fact prices have 
increased since the offer was originally made. I think this is fair and reasonable, it 
isnt my role to decide what amount should be paid to Miss B and Mr H for each issue 
and in any event that is something covered under a previous final response. Cash 
settlements are usually made at the rate it would cost an insurer to complete works, 
and we dont usually consider this to be unreasonable. I wont be interfering in those 
costs here.  
NHBC has offered a further payment of £500 for alternative accommodation to reflect 
the inconvenience of the work mentioned in the point above. I think this is reasonable 
in the circumstances as the property would technically remain habitable as per the 
policy terms.  therefore, there would be no requirement for NHBC to make such a 
payment. 
NHBC investigated Miss B and Mr Hs concerns about the claims handler and 
explained its reasons why they would not be replaced. I think NHBC has acted 
reasonably here. The decision of who should handle the claim is NHBCs alone and 
this isnt something this service would get involved in. While I appreciate Miss B and 
Mr Hs reasons for wanting the claims handler changed, Im satisfied NHBC have 
explained why that would not happen.
A vase was broken in the process of some repairs being undertaken, NHBC offered 
£500 for this, in light of the fact Miss B and Mr H havent been able to substantiate its 
value. I think this is a fair and reasonable offer. If Miss B and Mr H wish to negotiate 
this further with NHBC then that is open for them to do if NHBC are receptive.
Miss B and Mr H have said the repairs failing caused further damage to their property 
and there are other matters that remain outstanding such as issues regarding the 
capping, plastering of ceilings, cleaning of the glass panels and general cleaning of 
the site. NHBC have now offered to revisit the property to see what else needs to be 
done. I think this is a reasonable course of action. 
Miss B and Mr H have said that they dont feel it is reasonable that this service 
should suggest they continue to correspond with NHBC going forward given what 
has happened in the past. However, this service does not act as a claims handler 
and nor do we appoint third party mediators. While I acknowledge what has 
happened in the past as has been less than ideal, going forward, both parties need to 
find a way to work together to resolve the outstanding issues and bring this claim to a 
conclusion. If Miss B and Mr H feel they are no longer able to deal with the claim 
themselves they could arrange for a representative to act on their behalf and liaise 
with NHBC, however I wouldnt expect NHBC to cover any costs relating to this. 
NHBC have offered a further £1,500 compensation to reflect the ongoing issues the 
claim has caused (making £3,000 total over the course of the claim). Considering 
what has happened, and while I appreciate why Miss B and Mr H may feel this far 
from reflects the trouble and upset, they have been caused, I do think it is a fair and 
reasonable amount. It is not the role of this service to make awards intended to 
punish or fine a business for getting something wrong, nor does it award 
compensation in the region of what a court may award for damages.  I think NHBC has taken into account how severely Miss B and Mr H have been impacted by the 
poor handling of the claim and have fairly compensated them for this. Complaining 
itself is one of lifes natural inconveniences and therefore I wouldnt look to increase 
any compensation award simply because of this. 
For the reasons above, I do not uphold this complaint.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold Miss B and Mr Hs complaint against National 
House-Building Council.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss B and Mr H 
to accept or reject my decision before 6 April 2022.
 
Alison Gore
Ombudsman