DRN-4476956
The complaint
Mr F says that JAJA FINANCE LTD, who now have responsibility for his Post Office credit
card account, unfairly declined his claims under the Consumer Credit Act 1974 (the CCA) in
relation to a timeshare product he was sold in November 2012.
Mr F has been represented by a professional representative who Ill call PR and he entered
into the timeshare agreement with his partner, but as the finance agreement was in his sole
name, I will refer only to Mr F or his representatives in this decision. I mean no disrespect to
Mr Fs partner when doing so.
What happened
I issued a provisional decision on this complaint earlier in the year. An extract from that 
provisional decision is set out below.
In November 2012 Mr F relinquished a trial timeshare agreement with a supplier Ill call Ab
and exchanged it for points to be used towards a more permanent timeshare product with
the same supplier. The balance was to be paid in instalments using his then Post Office
credit card.
In November 2018 Mr F complained to JAJA about problems he had encountered with the
timeshare product. He said it had been misrepresented to him because he was promised
hed be able to book resorts worldwide but subsequently discovered he could only book
holidays in Asia, and accommodation elsewhere was provided at additional cost through a
third party company. He said he was not told maintenance fees would increase but they had.
He also said the purchase was very pressured and he wasnt afforded time to consider the
paperwork.
JAJA didnt think Mr Fs claim about his November 2012 payment had been made in time
and they suggested it was time barred under the Limitations Act 1980 (LA). They didnt
uphold his claim under section 75 of the Consumer Credit Act 1974 because they said there
wasnt a relevant debtor-creditor-supplier link.
Mr F, therefore, referred his complaint to this Service. Our investigator thought it was
unnecessary for her to consider the d-c-s link in detail as she didnt think a claim for
misrepresentation under section 75 could succeed.
PR didnt agree with the investigators view. They thought she hadnt given sufficient weight
to Mr Fs testimony and explained that this Service had supported consumers claims in the
past where documentary evidence was to the contrary but they, nevertheless, had accepted
the consumers oral submissions. They asserted that Mr F had been persuaded to purchase
his timeshare because of the verbal representations of Ab and that the claim should
therefore succeed. They therefore asked for a decision by an ombudsman.
What Ive provisionally decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im issuing a provisional decision here as its been some time since the investigator provided
her view and I cant see weve responded to all of the issues in the case.
Im required by DISP 3.6.4R of the Financial Conduct Authoritys (FCAs) Handbook to take
into account the relevant, laws and regulations; regulators rules, guidance, and standards;
codes of practice and, when appropriate, what I consider to have been good industry
practice at the relevant time.
The Financial Ombudsman Service is designed to be a quick and informal alternative to the
courts under the Financial Services and Markets Act 2000 (FSMA). Given that, my role as an
ombudsman is not to address every single point that has been made. Instead, it is to decide
what is fair and reasonable given the circumstances of this complaint. And for that reason, I
am only going to refer to what I think are the most salient points. But I have read all of the
submissions from both sides in full and I keep in mind all of the points that have been made
when I set out my decision.
The Consumer Credit Act (CCA) 1974 and section 75
When something goes wrong and the payment was made with a fixed sum loan, as was the
case here, it might be possible to make a section 75 claim. This section of the CCA says
that in certain circumstances, the borrower under a credit agreement has a right to make the
same claim against the credit provider as against the supplier if there's either a breach of
contract or misrepresentation by the supplier.
One of those circumstances is that there needs to be a valid debtor-creditor-supplier
relationship, and here JAJA argues that there isnt because the company Mr F paid doesnt
appear to be the supplier, so JAJA, as creditors, dont have a relationship with the supplier.
There may be occasions where a creditor sends money to an associate of the supplier and
the relationship remains intact, but Ive not found it necessary to consider that here currently
as, regardless, I dont think the claim for misrepresentation under section 75 would be likely
to succeed if a court considered it.
Misrepresentation is, in very broad terms, a statement of law or of fact, made by one party to
a contract to the other, which is untrue, and which materially influenced the other party to
enter into the contract.
This wasnt Mr Fs first transaction with the supplier. He was two years into a three year trial
arrangement by the time he signed up for this agreement. By then I think Mr F would be well
aware of how the general timeshare product scheme worked. Its unfortunate, but perhaps
understandable given the age of this agreement, that Ive not been provided with all of the
contractual documents that should have been available in this case. Ive not for instance,
had sight of the Club Rules mentioned in the Annual Ownership  New Owners
Declaration. Given this Services experience with similar cases, I think they would have
been likely to have shed more light on the maintenance fee structure, but on the basis of
Mr Fs testimony alone Im not persuaded he was given a false statement of fact about those
maintenance fees and their future level. I think his experience with this supplier and with the
trial membership would have been likely to have given him an understanding of how those
fees, if any, worked.
While Mr F says he wasnt made aware accommodation wasnt available outside of Asia
through Ab I can see the Annual Ownership  New Owners Declaration suggests
otherwise. It says:I understand that (Ab) is able to offer only Resorts in certain locations as per the (Ab)
Destination Website.
On balance I find the documentary evidence more persuasive than Mr Fs uncorroborated
testimony here, and I dont think a court would consider there was sufficient evidence of
misrepresentation.
The claim under section 140A of the CCA
Mr F says he wasnt afforded sufficient time to consider the paperwork and that he was put
under undue pressure to agree to the purchase. He raised that under section 75, but I dont
think they are issues that could be considered under that section of the Act as theyre not to
do with a breach of contract or misrepresentation. I think they are better considered under
section 140A.
Section 140A CCA looks at the fairness of the relationship between a debtor and creditor
arising out of the credit agreement (taken together with any related agreement).
Section 56 of the CCA is relevant in the context of section 140A of the CCA as the pre-
contractual acts or omissions of the credit broker or supplier will be deemed to be the
responsibility of the lender, and this may be taken into account by a court in deciding
whether an unfair relationship exists between Mr F and JAJA.
Mr F had already attended a presentation with the same supplier when he signed up for his
trial membership. So, I think he would have been likely to have had an understanding of the
approach that would be taken. I dont think Ive been provided with sufficient information to
suggest Mr F didnt understand he didnt have to say yes to the agreement or that he didnt
understand he could walk away without entering into it.
Overall, Im not persuaded that Mr Fs ability to exercise choice was  or was likely to have
been  significantly impaired.
My provisional decision
Im not expecting to uphold this complaint.
Further evidence and/or information
Neither Mr F nor JAJA provided any further evidence or information.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive not been provided with any additional evidence or information that would lead me to 
change my provisional decision. My provisional decision, therefore, becomes my final 
decision on this complaint.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above, I dont uphold this complaint.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr F to accept or 
reject my decision before 22 December 2023.
 
Phillip McMahon
Ombudsman