DRN-3947860
The complaint
Ms H complained about an unfair settlement on her escape of water claim under her home 
insurance policy with Red Sands Insurance Company (Europe) Limited (Red Sands).
What happened
In December 2021, Ms H experienced a significant leak when a water pipe burst in her living 
room on the ground floor of the property. Extensive damage was caused in several rooms.
Ms H has made a claim on her policy, but she is unhappy with the settlement Red Sands 
offered (£15,000). She says the costs of the works she had done was £37,000, which left her 
out of pocket. Ms H says Red Sands have been trying to avoid liability and have asked her 
lots of questions which she says shes answered.
Red Sands said when Ms H took out her policy she confirmed that she was not carrying out 
any building work at her home. However, Red Sands said when they started the validation of 
the claim, it became apparent Ms H was upgrading her home and there were extensive 
works taking place. It was during these works when the leaking pipe was discovered.
Red Sands said it made the offer of £15,000 on the basis Red Sands did not accept cover 
on a property undertaking works. It said whilst invoices have been provided by Ms H, these 
do not sufficiently evidence or clarify the specific claim related repairs as opposed to the 
wider upgrade works she was having completed.
Our investigator decided not to uphold the complaint. He thought Red Sands had reasonably 
followed the expert opinion of its loss adjuster and provided a settlement in line with the 
estimated policy limit. Ms H disagreed, so the case has been referred to an ombudsman. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I dont think this was a straightforward claim for Red Sands to validate. In a normal claim, 
after the insured event, the damage would be reviewed by a loss adjuster. He would outline 
a settlement to the policyholder  either the insurer would arrange for the damage to be 
repaired or a cash settlement would be offered.
In these circumstances, Ms H was already having extensive works carried out  it was 
during these works where the leak was identified. So, the claim is complicated in two ways: 
Firstly, Ms H was having significant work done to her home, which was contrary to what she 
told Red Sands when she took out her policy. So, the risk Red Sands thought they were 
taking on when providing insurance cover was different. This can sometimes lead to 
insurance policies been cancelled or a reduced pay-out been made as the risk was 
misrepresented when the cover was taken out.
Secondly, Red Sands couldnt review easily what repairs were needed as Ms H was part 
way through wider upgrade works. It was difficult to hive out what the repair costs wouldve 
been. It couldnt appoint its own contractors to do the work (which wouldve been at a lower 
cost) as Ms H chose to continue with her own contractors. I understand Ms H wouldnt 
wanted to pause her work for long as she had contractors already engaged.
So, understanding these complications is important. On the first one, Red Sands couldve 
tried to decline the claim as the risk was misrepresented from the outset. It didnt, which I 
think was a fair approach to take in these circumstances. So, I have considered whether Red 
Sands has taken a fair approach in determining what is a reasonable settlement amount in 
these circumstances.
The loss adjuster made an initial assessment of the damage in January 2022. At this point, I 
can see Red Sands flagged up to Ms H that all her claim wouldnt be covered. Specifically, it 
set out that repairs to the burst pipe werent covered by the policy. Ms H chose to have the 
pipe re-routed to avoid longer term issues. Red Sands again pointed out this wasnt covered 
by the policy. I think this was pro-active of Red Sands to set out the expectations of what the 
policy was designed to cover.
Towards the end of February 2022, Ms H employed her own contractor to manage the 
drying out of the property and she said all work after this point was solely related to the 
repair from the leak. The loss adjuster appointed a contractor in March 2022 to review the 
drying out works and to review the schedule of works proposed. I can see Ms H was 
unhappy with the time this review took. This is longer than I wouldve expected, but I can see 
two employees were ill during this time. I also have read the review. It is extremely detailed 
and thorough, so I think it wouldve taken some time to compile. So given these facts, I think 
the timeline was understandable.
I have considered the report, to see whether I think Red Sands has made a reasonable offer. 
The report is provided by an expert and is well reasoned, so I find it persuasive. The expert 
has estimated the costs for the repair the damage as £11,313.33 plus VAT. This appears to 
be based upon some of the cost analysis by Ms Hs own contractor. Red Sands offer is 
£15,000, so seems reasonable based upon the cost review by its expert.
Its difficult to say for certain whether £15,000 covers all the repair costs. However, Ive 
made my decision based upon the evidence thats available. I think based upon the 
information in Ms Hs contractors report and the loss adjusters contractors report, it seems 
a fair estimate for what the repair aspect of the work was. I think its reasonable given the 
misrepresentation by Ms H when taking out her policy and the limitations placed on Red 
Sands in validating the damage and not been able to authorise its own contractors to do the 
work. Therefore, I dont uphold this complaint.
Ive noted that Red Sands havent closed the door on Ms H. It said if she can provide well-
reasoned analysis by an expert to demonstrate that the specific repair costs for the damage 
following the leak were higher, it would re-consider this. I think this is reasonable in the 
circumstances.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. I dont require Red Sands Insurance 
Company (Europe) Limited to do anything more.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms H to accept or 
reject my decision before 10 April 2023.
 Pete Averill
Ombudsman