DRN-2376711
The complaint
Mr D complains that esure Insurance Limited mishandled his claim on his motor insurance 
policy.
What happened
Mr D had a motor insurance policy under which esure was responsible for dealing with 
claims. Where I refer to esure or the insurer, I include claims-handlers and others insofar as I 
hold esure responsible for their actions.
In November 2019, Mr Ds vehicle was damaged in an accident. The insurer decided to write 
off the vehicle as a total loss. By an email dated 25 November 2019, esure said the pre-
accident value of the vehicle had been £330.00 and it would deduct an excess of £250.00. It 
sent Mr D a cheque for £80.00.
 
Unhappy with that, Mr D brought his complaint to us on 5 December 2019.
By a final response dated 9 December 2019, esure said its pre- accident valuation of the 
vehicle was £340.00. On about 13 December 2019, Mr D received a cheque for a further 
£10.00.
our investigators opinion
Our investigator recommended that the complaint should be upheld in part. She thought that 
esures valuation was too low. She recommended that esure should increase the valuation 
to £545.00.
my provisional decision
After considering all the evidence, I issued a provisional decision on this complaint to Mr D 
and to esure on 6 November 2010. I summarise my findings:
esures pre-accident valuation of £340.00 was more than fair and reasonable.
I didnt find that esure treated Mr D unfairly by writing his car off and applying the 
excess of £250.00. 
Subject to any further information from Mr D or from esure, my provisional decision was that 
I wasnt minded to uphold this complaint. I didnt intend to direct esure Insurance Limited to 
do any more in response to this complaint.
Mr D disagreed with the provisional decision. He says it is unfair.
esure hasnt responded to the provisional decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr Ds car dated from about 2004. Hed had it for about four years according to the policy 
schedule dated September 2019.
The policy provided that each claim was subject to an excess of £250.00. That applied 
whether or not the claim was Mr Ds fault. The excess would be an uninsured loss which 
Mr D could recover from any other party who was at fault for the damage (or that partys 
insurer).
The policy provided that  in the event of damage  esure would either repair the vehicle or 
pay its pre-accident market value. The esure policy document included a term as follows:
 well decide which method to use to settle your claim. 
Ive noted the make, model, age and recorded mileage of Mr Ds car. From the photographs, 
I find that it was in below average condition for its age and mileage before the accident in 
November 2019. It had already suffered accident damage that hadnt been repaired.
Ive placed weight on the figures in the industry guides. My reading of the guides is as 
follows:
Glasss  £1,235.00
Parkers £1,580.00
CAP £1,484.00
(average of above £1,433.00)
However, those figures are for a vehicle that is in below average condition - but no worse 
than that. The figures dont reflect a vehicle that is damaged and unrepaired. Also, those 
figures dont reflect a vehicle that has previously been written off. 
Mr D sent us photographs showing damage to the rear bumper of his vehicle. I think that 
was to show the damage caused in the accident in November 2019.
But esure later sent us about twenty photographs showing separate damage including to the 
front bumper, the bonnet, the rear right wheel arch and the rear right corner level with the 
boot lid. I find that this damage had already occurred before the accident in November 2019- 
and had already devalued the car.
More recently esure sent us a detailed estimate of £3,806.00 to repair that old damage.
Our guidance on vehicle valuation recognises that a vehicle that has already been written off 
carries a stigma that devalues the vehicle. If there were enough evidence that Mr Ds vehicle 
had been written off before November 2019 and he knew about it, then I wouldve deducted 
about 20% from the figures in the trade guides. 
The insurer has suggested that the car had already been written off before November 2019. 
That would be an easy matter for the insurer to demonstrate from the motor industry 
database. As it hasnt done so, Im not persuaded that the vehicle had been written off 
before November 2019  or that Mr D knew about it.
The insurers final response contained a link to our guidance on vehicle valuation. But the 
final response applied trade values whereas we apply retail values and make adjustments 
for any previous damage. So the final response was less than transparent. I dont condone 
that. But the important question for Mr D is whether £340.00 was fair and reasonable.Our guidance recognises that owners of older vehicles may choose not to incur the cost of 
repairing cosmetic damage  but that choice will devalue the vehicle. We often say that its 
fair to deduct 50% of the estimated cost of repairs from the valuation. 
Ive weighed up the trade guide figures averaging £1,433.00, the photographs of the 
damaged vehicle and the estimate of £3,806.00 for repairing the old damage. 
Half that estimated cost would be about £1,900.00 and deducting that would give a negative 
or at least a nil valuation. So in my view, esures pre-accident valuation of £340.00 was more 
than fair and reasonable.
I keep in mind the policy terms Ive mentioned. None of them is unusual or unfair to Mr D. So 
I dont find that esure treated Mr D unfairly by writing his car off and applying the excess of 
£250.00. 
From the valuation of £340.00, esure deducted the £250.00 excess and sent Mr D cheques 
for the balance of £90.00. So I dont find it fair and reasonable to direct esure to pay any 
more or to do anything further in response to this complaint.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. I dont 
direct esure Insurance Limited to do anything further in response to this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision before 5 January 2021.
 
Christopher Gilbert
Ombudsman