DRN-2185531
The complaint
Mr K complains about the renewal of his health insurance with AXA PPP Healthcare Limited.
What happened
Following the renewal of Mr K's health insurance in 2017 he complained about what he 
termed misleading information on his 2017 renewal letter, lack of transparency and the 
"arrogant and overbearing attitude" of a sales adviser at the 2016 renewal.
2017 renewal letter
Mr K was unhappy that the renewal letter (for renewal due on 20 January 2017) included the 
following:
"Why has my subscription changed? 
Health insurance subscriptions aren't set at the price you paid when you first took them out 
so the price will rise over time and usually on a yearly basis. Whichever health Insurance 
provider you choose and whichever plan you select, your subscriptions are likely to rise each 
year above the rate of general inflation. Methods for diagnosing conditions become more 
advanced, equipment once described as state-of-the-art becomes commonplace and 
treatment that is innovative, even experimental, can be available to you privately. We 
regularly update our plans to make these developments available to you. Unfortunately, as 
we get older, we're more likely to need treatment and subscriptions increase to reflect this. 
And of course, if your subscription includes Insurance Premium Tax, this has increased 
twice in 12 months".
Mr K felt the last sentence of this, about Insurance Premium Tax (IPT) was misleading.  
While IPT had increased twice in 12 months, in November 2015 and October 2016, only one 
of those increases had happened since his last renewal. So, only the latter increase, of just 
half a percentage point, would have contributed to the increase in his premiums at that 
renewal.
AXA said the statement about IPT was factually correct. But Mr K felt that in the context of 
his renewal letter and the question it was supposed to be answering, as quoted above, the 
statement was misleading.
Lack of transparency
Mr K says the available excess options used to be shown in the policy handbook that was 
sent to him at renewal. But that from 2012 onwards this was taken out, so he was unaware 
when the excess options had changed, which they did in 2013. Had he realised this, he says 
he would've increased his excess in order to reduce his premiums, which he did in 2014 
after speaking to AXA and becoming aware of this option.
Mr K says that AXA told him one of the reasons for this change was to simplify the 
information given in the handbook, as some customers had said that it contained too much 
information. But Mr K feels this makes no sense, given the handbook is about 60 pages long 
and the information in question could be provided in one line.
Mr K would also like information that would allow him to verify that the increase in his 
premiums has been calculated correctly. He is unhappy at having to call AXA to ask about 
this and generally isnt reassured by the explanations he receives.
2016 renewal call
Mr K says the sales adviser he spoke to in 2016 was arrogant and overbearing, argued with 
him and repeatedly told him he was wrong. He also says the adviser made some comments 
that he felt were political and inappropriate. Mr K says this was the most unpleasant and 
stressful interaction he's experienced with a service provider.
Because Mr K's policy renews in January, he receives the renewal invitation in December.  
The issues he has complained about have contributed to him experiencing heightened 
stress levels over the Christmas and New Year period. He has been a customer of AXA for 
30 years and feels his feedback, which is intended to help AXA improve its service, is just 
ignored.
AXAs complaint handler said, having listened to the phone call in 2016, they found the 
adviser was "polite and courteous throughout the call. He took the time to address your 
queries in detail for you and treated you with the respect all of our members deserve".
Our investigator didn't uphold the complaint. Mr K disagreed, so I've been asked to make a 
decision.
I issued a provisional decision, which explained that I was planning to award £250 
compensation relating to Mr Ks complaints about the 2017 renewal letter and 2016 renewal 
call. 
AXA initially responded to say it disagreed. But following a further explanation of a couple of 
aspects of my provisional decision, AXA said it accepted my proposed award of £250. 
Mr K did not provide any further information or comments.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
My final decision is in line with my provisional one. And Ive decided to direct AXA to pay 
Mr K £250 compensation. I explain my reasons below.
2017 renewal letter
AXA says the information in the renewal letter about IPT was factually correct. But Mr K said 
it was misleading in the context in which it was presented. 
Having thought about this very carefully, I've come to the conclusion that both AXA and Mr K 
are right. The sentence about IPT was factually correct - it had increased twice within twelve 
months. But, in the context this information was presented (being part of the renewal 
invitation and given the specific question it was supposed to be answering), it was 
misleading. I think that Mr K quite reasonably interpreted this as saying that both IPT 
increases contributed to the increase in his renewal premiums that year.As such, I've decided that the information provided wasnt clear, fair, and not misleading - 
which is how AXA is required to communicate with its clients according to the regulator's 
principles for businesses. AXA didnt agree that the context in which this information was 
presented made the statement misleading and this has caused Mr K frustration and 
inconvenience. In part because he's felt the need to take the matter further as part of this 
complaint.
While Mr K would like AXA to apologise for this, I am not going to direct it to do so. I think a 
forced apology would come across as an empty gesture. However, I have decided to include 
some compensation for the frustration and inconvenience in the overall compensation award 
of £250. Of course, should AXA wish to apologise to Mr K, it is free to do so.
Lack of transparency
I've decided not to uphold this part of the complaint. But I can understand Mr K's frustration. 
The annual increase in Mr Ks premiums is often significant, which is not unusual with this 
type of policy. So, Mr K wants to make sure it has been calculated correctly and fairly. He 
wants to be aware of his options in terms of excesses and (I assume) levels of cover, which 
could help him reduce his premiums. And, because of his previous experiences when talking 
to AXA over the phone, he'd prefer to have the information to hand with his renewal 
invitation or available online, rather than having to call AXA to try to obtain this.
Having said this, it isn't for me to dictate to AXA what information it provides its customers or 
how it does this. It is up to AXA to make those decisions. In terms of excess and cover 
options, I think it is sufficient for AXA to state in its renewal documents (as it does) that there 
are options available and that Mr K can call in to discuss those. I appreciate that isn't Mr K's 
preference. But he has provided his feedback to AXA, and I think that's all he can do.
In terms of checking whether the increases have been calculated correctly, I think this is 
difficult. AXA considers the detail of this to be commercially sensitive, and thus wont share it 
with customers. Mr K thinks AXA could share some more information in this area, specifically 
what difference his increasing age makes to the premium. But again, I think it is for AXA to 
decide how much of this information it shares with its customers. 
2016 renewal call 
I have set out above what Mr K and AXA have said about this call. It seems that AXA was 
able to access and listen to a recording of the call before responding to the complaint. And 
its view of that call was very different to Mr K's description of it.
Now, however, AXA has told us that it is no longer able to retrieve the call recording. So, I 
am unable to listen to it and form my own opinion about what happened. I appreciate that 
technology is imperfect, and sometimes files can be inadvertently corrupted or destroyed. 
But AXA's representative has told us that this is a known issue that happens occasionally.  I 
have taken into account AXAs complaint handler's view of the call as quoted above, the 
notes from when this was listened to and the comments AXA has made about this issue. But 
I'm still inclined to award £250 compensation overall.
Because of this, I am inclined to take at face value Mr K's description of the impact of call. 
He said it was the most unpleasant and stressful interaction hes experienced with a service 
provider. So, I've factored this into the overall compensation of £250.Putting things right
To put things right, AXA should pay Mr K £250. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, Ive decided to uphold this complaint. AXA PPP Healthcare 
Limited should put things right as set out above. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr K to accept or 
reject my decision before 6 October 2020.
 
Phillip Lai-Fang
Ombudsman