DRN-3323506
The complaint
Mr G complains that Lloyds Bank PLC blocked his account and made him come into branch 
before the block was removed. Hes also unhappy with the way he was treated when he was 
in branch.
What happened
Mr G tried to make a payment of £4,000 to pay for some building work he was having done 
on his house. But Lloyds stopped the payment and applied a block to Mr Gs account, as it 
was concerned he may have been the victim of fraud.
When Mr G called to ask for the block to be removed and his payment to be put through, he 
was told he needed to go into his local branch and discuss it with them before the block 
could be removed. Mr G told Lloyds that he was vulnerable and disabled and so it was very 
difficult for him to go into branch, but Lloyds still said he needed to go in.
Mr G went into branch and explained why he was making the payment, but Lloyds still had 
concerns. Mr G was in branch for a number of hours and was ultimately asked to come in 
again the following day, when the branch arranged for the police to speak to him about the 
payment too. After the police spoke with him, the block was removed.
Mr G complained as he didnt think Lloyds had any reason to block his account. He also 
complained about the amount of time he had to spend sorting the matter out  both in 
branch and one the phone  and that he had to talk about what he felt were his private 
matters. And he said the branch manager had been anti-Semitic and homophobic towards 
him.
Lloyds investigated but said it had stopped the payment and applied the block to try to 
protect Mr G from possible fraud. It also denied its staff had been abusive to Mr G and said 
they had treated him with respect and care, but offered him £40 plus phone costs for the 
inconvenience hed been caused. Mr G wasnt satisfied with Lloydss response, so referred 
his complaint to our service.
One of our investigators looked at Mr Gs complaint. They felt Lloyds had acted reasonably 
in blocking Mr Gs account and asking him to come into branch, but that he wasnt treated 
fairly when he was in branch. And they recommended that Lloyds pay Mr G £300 
compensation for the distress and inconvenience he was caused as a result. Mr G disagreed 
with our investigator, so the complaint has been passed to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr G has several other complaints against Lloyds, and has mentioned a number of different 
issues when discussing this case. But, to be clear, my decision on this complaint will only be 
looking at Lloyds actions in blocking his account, asking him to come into branch and then 
how he was treated while in branch.
Blocking Mr Gs account
Lloyds has a responsibility to monitor its customers accounts and any payments made or 
received, in order to counter various risks  including anti-money laundering, countering the 
financing of terrorism and preventing fraud and scams. Its also expected to have systems in 
place to look out for unusual transactions, or other signs that its customers are at risk of 
fraud.
I appreciate that Mr G doesnt think that the payment of £4,000 he was trying to make to pay 
for building work was unusual or that he was at risk of falling victim to a scam. But, given the 
responsibilities mentioned above and the size of the payment, I dont think its unreasonable 
that Lloyds thought there could be a risk of a scam here. And so I dont think its 
unreasonable that Lloyds stopped the payment and blocked Mr Ss account until it could 
speak to him about the payment.
Asking Mr G to come into branch
Once a bank has identified that one of its customers could be at risk of falling victim to a 
scam, it will then usually ask the customer further questions about the payment in order to 
clarify what is going on. These questions will sometimes be asked over the phone, or 
sometimes the bank will ask the customer to come in to branch to have a face-to-face 
conversation about the payment.
Mr G called Lloyds after the payment was stopped, spoke to Lloyds fraud team and was 
asked further questions about the payment. But, given some of the information Mr G gave 
the fraud team about the circumstances surrounding the payment, I dont think its 
unreasonable that Lloyds still had some concerns.
A face-to-face conversation can make it easier to explain risks to a customer or to 
understand their circumstances better. And it can be particularly useful if a bank is worried a 
customer is being coached or pressured about a payment in any way. So I think its 
reasonable that Lloyds thought this would be useful in these circumstances.
Mr G told Lloyds he was vulnerable and disabled and so it would be difficult for him to go into 
branch. But he also told them several times that he regularly went into his local branch and 
was well-known there. So I think its reasonable that Lloyds thought going into branch 
wouldnt be a significant inconvenience for him, and so still asked him to go in.
How Mr G was treated in branch
When Mr G went into branch, he spoke to several members of staff and the branch manager 
about the payment he was trying to make. But he was in branch for a number of hours and 
its not clear why these conversations took so long. And, from what Mr G has said to us and 
the conversations he later had with Lloyds over the phone, its clear he was upset he had to 
talk about what he felt were private matters, and didnt fully understand what was going on or 
why he was in the branch so long. So I think its likely Lloyds didnt explain the situation 
clearly enough to him when he was in branch  and that this meant the meeting went on 
longer than it needed to and caused Mr G considerable distress.
Having listened to the phone calls Mr G had with Lloyds while this was going on, I also think 
Lloyds failed to understand some of the information he was giving it and didnt listen clearly 
to the points he was trying to make. And that this also caused Mr G distress.As Lloyds still had concerns about the payment, it wanted to arrange for the police to speak 
to Mr G. And while, for the same reasons as above, I think it was reasonable that Lloyds had 
these concerns, the length of time the conversations took in branch meant that Mr G had to 
come back in the following day to speak with the police. And I think having to come back the 
following day, rather than getting everything sorted on the same day, caused Mr G 
unnecessary inconvenience.
I dont think Lloyds was entirely at fault for the amount of time the conversations took as, at 
least on the phone, Mr G often starts talking about other, unrelated issues that happened at 
different times  and I think this will have added to the confusion. But I do think Lloyds failed 
to explain the situation clearly or fully understand some of the information Mr G was giving, 
and that this caused Mr G considerable distress.
Based on the evidence Ive seen, I think Lloyds should pay Mr G £300  as I think this 
amount would be fair and reasonable compensation for the distress and inconvenience it 
caused him.
Mr G has also raised that the branch manager was anti-Semitic and homophobic towards 
him. Its not for our service to decide if a business has breached the Equality Act 2010 or 
discriminated against someone  that is a matter for a court. Although I can take into 
account the Equality Act 2010 where it is relevant when considering whether a business has 
acted fairly and reasonably. Ive seen detailed and consistent statements from members of 
the Lloyds branch staff which contradict what Mr G says happened, and say the branch 
manager wasnt abusive towards him. So, taking into account what Lloyds and Mr G have 
said, I dont think I can conclude on a balance of probabilities that a member of Lloyds staff 
was abusive towards Mr G or that being homosexual and Jewish played any part in the way 
he was treated. And so I dont think it would be fair to require Lloyds to pay any further 
compensation as a result.
My final decision
I uphold Mr Gs complaint and require Lloyds Bank PLC to pay him £300 compensation.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision before 24 June 2022. 
Alan Millward
Ombudsman