DRN-3673782
The complaint
Mr H and Miss C have complained about delays with a mortgage application they made to 
Santander UK Plc.
What happened
Mr H had a mortgage with Santander that he held jointly with his ex-wife. He wanted to 
remove his ex-wife from the mortgage and add Miss C.
I wont detail the full circumstances of what happened as it is extensive and not in dispute. 
Suffice to say Santander has admitted that it didnt handle things well and that it caused a 
delay of around four months.
Santander issued a response to Mr H and Miss Cs complaint on 6 January 2020. That 
complaint encompassed various complaint points and whilst it didnt uphold most of them it 
did uphold the main thrust of the complaint which was about the delay. It offered £650 
compensation and said it would pay compensation for the period from July 2019 until the 
mortgage completes (the compensation would be the difference between the standard 
variable rate that Mr H was paying, and any preferential interest rate Mr H and Miss C would 
transfer their new mortgage onto after completion). That letter said Mr H and Miss C had six-
months to refer their complaint to this service.
In May 2020 the mortgage offer was due to expire and Santander extended it by two 
months, and the mortgage then completed in July 2020. When Mr H and Miss C asked about 
the backdated interest calculation after completion they were told that Santander wasnt 
willing to offer that due to how long it took for the mortgage to complete. A new complaint 
was raised about that and a couple of other points.
Santander responded to that complaint on 20 August 2020, and it said that it was no longer 
willing to backdate the interest as that was offered to compensate for Santanders delays 
and it had been under the understanding that the mortgage would complete imminently. 
Again the letter said Mr H and Miss C had six-months to refer their complaint to this service.
The referral was made on 26 August 2020 and Santander said it wouldnt give its consent for 
us to consider the January 2020 complaint response because that hadnt been referred to us 
in time. It did however say that it should have stood by a backdate of interest for the four 
months that it delayed matters, and amount it calculated to be around £550.
I issued a decision about our jurisdiction in April 2022 setting out which parts of this 
complaint we could consider.
Our investigator then considered those points. He said Santanders offer to put things right 
was fair and he didnt recommend that anything further needed to be done.
Mr H and Miss C didnt agree and so the case has been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr H and Miss C have set out their account in considerable detail. I trust they wont take it as 
a discourtesy that Ive condensed their complaint in the way that I have. Ours is an informal 
dispute resolution service, and Ive concentrated on what I consider to be the crux of the 
complaint. 
Although Ive read and considered the whole file Ill keep my comments to what I think is 
relevant. If I dont comment on any specific point its not because Ive not considered it but 
because I dont think I need to comment on it in order to reach the right outcome
Santander has accepted it got things wrong and so I dont need to make a finding on that. All 
I need to consider is whether its offer to put things right goes far enough  Mr H and Miss C 
dont think it does.
Mr H and Miss C have said we should listen to all the calls between Mr H and Santander as 
well hear the complete desperation in his voice.
Whilst I acknowledge Mr H and Miss Cs request, this service is impartial between, and 
independent from, consumers and businesses. What this means is that we dont represent 
either party, and I dont act under eithers instructions or take directions on how a complaint 
will be looked at. It isnt in dispute that Santander didnt handle this well. It also isnt in 
dispute that this impacted Mr H and Miss C.
Mr H and Miss C said one call referenced backdated interest of £1,500 plus, which is 
another reason why the offer of £550.68 is unacceptable.
If Santander gave incorrect information to Mr H and Miss C about the amount of backdated 
interest, this is what we call a misrepresentation. When were looking at complaints about 
misrepresentation we consider the appropriate remedy is to place the consumer in the 
position they would be in if the incorrect information hadnt been given. We dont put them in 
the position they would be in if the misinformation had been correct (that is, that a higher 
amount of redress was due), or in a position where theyve gained from this misinformation
Had the misrepresentation not happened Mr H and Miss C would have been given the 
correct information about the amount of redress due. So the appropriate remedy is to put 
Mr H and Miss C in that position  that is, for them to receive the correct amount of redress  
which is what Santander has already offered to do. 
Santanders offer of £550.68 is in recognition of delays  it is the difference in interest that 
was charged, and that would have been charged on the lower interest rate - between July 
and November 2019. The initial application that was made in April 2019 was declined as it didnt pass an 
affordability check. At the end of June 2019 Mr H approached Santander again because 
Miss C was in receipt of a pay rise, and they said they were able to pay £20,000 off the 
mortgage to reduce the outstanding balance. Santander considered a revised application 
and a mortgage offer was issued in November 2019  that is where the delays took place.
Having considered everything I agree that Santander should pay redress for the delay 
between July 2019 and November 2019 as it should have been in a position to issue a 
mortgage offer much sooner than it did. Im satisfied that £550.68 is fair for that period. 
Santander isnt liable for the time things took after November 2019 as it had produced a 
mortgage offer, and anything that happened after that was outside of its control.
Santander has admitted it gave incorrect information to Mr H and Miss C when it told them 
they could apply online for a new product when the transfer of equity completed. 
Unfortunately an online application couldnt be made as the mortgage had only just 
completed, instead the product switch had to be carried out over the phone. Mr H and 
Miss C always needed to apply over the phone, which they did, albeit they were led to 
believe for a short time that they could apply online instead. Santander apologised for that 
mistake and Im satisfied that is enough.
Mr H and Miss C have said the total amount theyd accept in compensation is £10,000 which 
theyve broken down to £1,750 for financial hardship, and £8,250 for personal hardship. 
They said theyd also welcome confirmation of the steps put in place to ensure this doesnt 
happen to anyone else.
Whilst I acknowledge how frustrating it is when a business makes mistakes, mistakes do 
happen. Santander has accepted it let Mr H and Miss C down and it has apologised for that 
and offered compensation in respect of their financial loss. 
Mr H and Miss C say £650 isnt enough compensation, and they instead want £8,250. Its 
not our role to fine or punish a business and our awards arent punitive. Clearly no amount of 
compensation can change what happened, and the amount of compensation Mr H and 
Miss C have requested isnt proportionate to what happened.  
Ive listened to some of the many calls that took place and it is clear from those how this was 
affecting Mr H. I have to keep in mind that this application was outside of Santanders 
lending criteria and it was trying to find a way to approve it to help Mr H and Miss C. That 
said, as Ive already explained, Santander didnt handle this at all well and that did cause 
additional distress to Mr H.
I understand Mr H and Miss C want confirmation of the steps that have been put in place to 
stop things like this happening to other customers in the future. Were not the regulator and 
so Ive no power to do that. If Mr H and Miss C think Santander  and other lenders  should 
review their procedures then thats a matter they can take up with the regulator (the 
Financial Conduct Authority) directly. The regulator doesnt deal with individual disputes, so 
it wont look at this specific complaint again, but it can look at the broader picture if it feels 
thats something that needs to be reviewed.
Although I recognise Mr H and Miss Cs strength of feeling - and whilst acknowledging what 
a difficult time theyve had  having considered everything very carefully Im satisfied the 
offer of £650 compensation and £550.68 for the backdated interest to be fair.My final decision
I uphold this complaint and order Santander UK Plc to pay to Mr H and Miss C a total of 
£1,200.68 - that is, £650 plus £550.68  (less any amounts already paid).
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H and Miss C 
to accept or reject my decision before 18 October 2022.  
Julia Meadows
Ombudsman