DRN-3118542
The complaint
Ms M complains that Zurich Assurance Ltd caused unnecessary delays when transferring 
her pension pot to another provider. Ms Ms pension pot fell in value while she was waiting 
for it to be transferred and, as a result, the annuity she received when she took her pension 
benefits was lower.
In order to put matters right Ms M wants Zurich to compensate her for the fall in the value of 
her pension pot and the trouble and upset this matter has caused.
What happened
In late 2019 Ms M wanted to transfer her pension pot to a new provider and use the funds to 
buy an annuity. Her pension pot was transferred to her new provider in early February 2020.
Zurich accepts that it caused a delay when transferring Ms Ms pension pot to her new 
provider. The value of Ms Ms pension pot fell during the period the transfer was delayed 
from £97,277.21 to £95,156.78.
In order to put matters right, Zurich asked Ms Ms new pension provider what the value of 
her annuity would have been if a pot of £97,277.21 had been used to buy the annuity. Zurich 
said it would compensate Ms M if she had suffered a loss. It also paid Ms M £90 for the 
trouble and upset its poor service had caused.
Unfortunately, despite being chased for a response several times by Zurich, Ms Ms annuity 
provider did not respond until August 2020. It said that if the higher amount (£97,277.21) had 
been transferred, her annuity would have been £73.44 per year more than the annuity she 
was actually receiving.
In order to put matters right Zurich paid Ms M a total of £1,318.93. It explained that it had 
calculated this figure based on the likely cost of providing the additional income each year 
for the rest of Ms Ms life, net of tax at 20%.
Ms M wasnt satisfied with the compensation offered by Zurich and referred the matter to this 
service.
Our investigator said he felt this offer was fair compensation for the loss of the annuity 
income Ms M had suffered. But he noted that Ms M had also received a lower tax-free lump 
sum than she would have done if the transfer had not been delayed.
He noted that the tax-free lump sum Ms M would have received would have been £530.11 
more if Zurich hadnt caused a delay when transferring her pension pot.
He said, in addition to the offer it had already made, Zurich should pay Ms M the £530.11 
she would have received in tax free cash, plus 8% simple interest to compensate her for the 
loss of the use of this money.
He also said he felt Zurich should pay Ms M a further £300, in addition to the £90 it had 
already paid, to compensate Ms M for the trouble and upset this matter had caused.
Zurich did not accept our investigators view. It said it was happy to pay Ms M a sum of 
£530.11, together with simple interest at 8% to compensate her for the lower tax-free lump 
sum she had received.
But it said it felt the additional £300 compensation, recommended by our investigator, for the 
trouble and upset this matter had caused Ms M was too high.
It accepted that it had caused a delay when transferring Ms Ms pension pot. But it said 
Ms Ms annuity provider had not responded promptly to its requests for information, so it 
hadnt been able to confirm whether Ms M had been financially disadvantaged until August 
2020 when it received the information from her annuity provider. It noted that it had told 
Ms M that it needed her annuity provider to provide information before it could confirm how 
much redress it needed to pay.
It said it understood that this delay had caused Ms M inconvenience, but it said it couldnt 
reasonably be held responsible for any delays caused by Ms Ms annuity provider.
It noted it had already paid Ms M £90 for its poor service and offered to pay Ms M a further 
£150, making a total of £240 for the trouble and upset its poor service had caused.
Ms M said she was not willing to accept Zurichs offer.
I issued my provisional decision on this complaint on 11 October 2021. In it I set out why I 
thought Ms Ms complaint should be upheld and how I considered the matter should fairly be 
settled. I also explained why I thought the increased offer Zurich had made to compensate 
Ms M for the trouble and upset this matter had caused her was fair in the circumstances of 
this complaint.
I noted that it was not in dispute that due to delays caused by Zurich Ms Ms pension pot 
was transferred to her annuity provider later than it otherwise would have been. Nor was it in 
dispute that the value of Ms Ms pension pot had fallen during this delay.
Zurich had already paid Ms M a lump sum to compensate her for the loss she had suffered 
in relation to the lower annuity she receives, as a result of the fall in the value of her pension 
pot. Following our investigators involvement, it had also agreed to compensate her for the 
shortfall in the tax-free lump sum she received.
What remained in dispute was how much Zurich should pay Ms M for the trouble and upset 
this matter had caused her.
From the information that had been provided to this service I said I could see that Zurich had 
contacted Ms Ms annuity provider five times, asking for information on what Ms Ms annuity 
would have been if the transfer of her pension pot hadnt been delayed, before it received a 
response. It first contacted Ms Ms annuity provider in mid-February 2020 but didnt receive 
the information it required until early August 2020.
I said I appreciated this would only have added to Ms Ms frustration, but I said I couldnt 
reasonably hold Zurich responsible for delays caused by Ms Ms annuity provider.
Having carefully considered the matter I said I thought Zurichs offer to pay Ms M a further 
£150, in addition to the £90 it had already paid, for the trouble and upset this matter had 
caused was fair and reasonable.I explained that in reaching this view I had taken into account that Zurich had already agreed 
to pay Ms M simple interest at 8% per year on the tax-free lump sum due to her (from the 
date Ms M should have received her tax-free lump sum) to compensate her for the loss of 
the use of this money.
I said I was also mindful that Zurich had confirmed to Ms M that she would not be financially 
disadvantaged as a result of the delay it caused when it transferred her pension pot. So, 
although I appreciated the delays were frustrating, I thought Zurich had taken reasonable 
steps to reassure Ms M that she would not suffer a financial loss as a result.
Zurich accepted my provisional decision, but Ms M didnt. 
Ms M said she had to transfer her pension pot from Zurich because it didn't offer annuities. 
She said she felt Zurich had all the information it needed as it knew how much her pension 
pot would have been if the transfer hadnt been delayed. As this was the case, she said it 
hadnt needed to chase her annuity provider for information and therefore shouldnt have 
delayed paying her the compensation she was due. 
Ms M also said she felt the compensation for the trouble and upset this matter had caused 
her didnt reflect the impact the situation had on her, or the time she had spent trying to 
resolve the matter.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so I remain of the view that the £150, in addition to the £90 Zurich has already 
paid Ms M, for the trouble and upset this matter has caused, is fair and reasonable. Ill 
explain why.
Ms M says she feels that Zurich had all the information it needed and therefore shouldnt 
have delayed paying her the compensation she was due. I appreciate Ms Ms position, but 
unfortunately Zurich did need her annuity provider to work out how much the pension Ms M 
would have received each year if the higher amount had been transferred. This wasnt 
something Zurich could calculate itself.
I do understand that the delay was frustrating for Ms M, but as I set out in my provisional 
decision, I think Zurich took reasonable steps to reassure Ms M that she would not suffer a 
financial loss as a result of the delay. And I cant reasonably hold it responsible for the 
delays caused by Ms Ms annuity provider.
Putting things right
In order to put matters right, my decision is that Zurich should:
- pay Ms M £530.11, plus 8% simple interest on this amount from the date Ms M should 
have received her tax-free cash to the date of my final decision; and
- pay Ms M a further £150, in addition to the £90 it has already paid Ms M, for the trouble 
and upset this matter has caused her.
My final decisionMy decision is that I uphold this complaint. In order to put matters right Zurich Assurance Ltd 
should pay Ms M the redress as set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms M to accept or 
reject my decision before 26 November 2021.
 
Suzannah Stuart
Ombudsman