DRN-3433215
The complaint
Miss E complains Funding Circle Ltd allocated a loan into her crowdfunding account which 
had payment issues. She says failings in the allocation system led her to being exposed to 
the loan and caused her a loss.
What happened
Miss E holds a crowdfunding account on Funding Circles peer to peer (P2P) lending 
platform. It is an automated account where loan parts are bought and sold on behalf of Miss 
E based on a set criteria  including risk profile. Miss Es account had a balanced risk profile 
 meaning she could be allocated loans across the full range of risk categories (A+ to E 
rated loans).
The loan subject to the complaint was first accepted on Funding Circles platform in 
September 2016. On 30 November 2016, £19.48 from Miss Es funds were allocated to the 
loan by Funding Circle. On 5 December 2016, Funding Circle posted an investor loan 
comment to say the borrowers direct debit had been cancelled and therefore its December 
repayment was not received on time. The borrower continued to make payments (some 
partial) for a few months, but the loan remained in arrears until July 2017 when it was 
defaulted. Funding Circle started proceedings to recover funds. In June 2021, it sold the debt 
to a third party and confirmed there would be no further recovery payments.
In May 2021, Miss E complained to Funding Circle as she didnt believe the loan should 
have been allocated to her  so she shouldnt have to accept the losses she experienced. 
Funding Circle didnt uphold the complaint. It said when the loan was allocated the borrower 
was up to date with its repayments. It acknowledged the direct debit was cancelled meaning 
December's repayment was not received on time. Whilst it appreciated Miss Es frustrations, 
it said at the point the loan was acquired on her account the November payment had been 
made and therefore the loan was 'live'. It explained the account automatically prevents loans 
classed as late being allocated. But as this loan was not late it was eligible to be sold on 
the secondary market, and this is in line with the terms and conditions. 
Miss E wasnt happy with the response, so she referred her complaint to this service for an 
independent review. 
One of our investigators looked into the complaint. He didnt think it should be upheld. In 
short, he said that he hadnt found Funding Circle acting incorrectly allocating the loan to 
Miss Es account. He said at the point the loan was purchased, it did have a 'Live Status', as 
it had not breached any of the account conditions, so he was satisfied that the loan was 
eligible to be sold and allocated to Miss Es account. He noted the concerns that the 
borrower cancelled the direct debit on 29 November 2016. But he found this does not affect 
the loan status as it is only missed repayments that effects the status of the loan.
Miss E disagreed with our investigators view. In summary, she said
- Funding Circles systems were not robust enough to account for the fact a loan that is 
late five days before payment shouldnt enter an investors account.
- Her complaint is that the manual payment was not made on the day the direct debit 
should have been made  so it was late at the time of being sold to her.
- The fact that the 4 November (relating to Octobers interest) was received on the 30 
November is irrelevant because the 4 December payment (relating to Novembers 
interest) was late as at the 29 November (five days prior to scheduled payment date 
as per the Funding Circles terms) which was one day before it was sold to her.
- Miss E made reference to another decision issued by this service and said this 
supports the claims shes made about how Funding Circle dealt with the selling of a 
loan parts and its payment system. 
As Miss E didnt accept the investigators opinion, the complaint has been passed to me to 
reach a final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The crux of Miss Es complaint is about whether Funding Circle has acted correctly and 
treated her fairly when allocating a loan to her P2P crowdfunding account through the 
automated allocation process. Miss E says the payment status of the loan at the time it was 
allocated to her meant Funding Circle should never have allowed her account to invest in the 
loan. 
In reaching my decision, Ive reviewed Funding Circles terms and conditions. Ive also 
considered Funding Circles wider obligations. At the time of Miss E was allocated the loan, 
Funding Circle was authorised and regulated by the FCA. The relevant rules and regulations 
FCA regulated firms are required to follow are set out in the FCAs Handbook of rules and 
guidance. The FCA Principles for Business (PRIN) set out the overarching requirements 
which all authorised firms are required to comply with. PRIN 1.1.1G, says The Principles 
apply in whole or in part to every firm. The Principles themselves are set out in PRIN 
2.1.1R. The most relevant principles here are:
PRIN 2.1.1R (2) A firm must conduct its business with due skill, care and diligence. 
PRIN 2.1.1R (6) A firm must pay due regard to the interests of its customers and 
treat them fairly. 
Funding Circle was also required to act in accordance with the rules set out in the Conduct 
of Business Sourcebook (COBS). And the most relevant obligations here is:
- COBS 2.1.1R (1) A firm must act honestly, fairly and professionally in accordance 
with the best interests of its client. 
And Ive borne in mind that the FCAs consultation papers on loan-based (peer-to-peer) and 
investment-based crowdfunding platforms.
The risk profile set on Miss Es account meant the loan in question on face value did meet 
the correct criteria to be allocated to her account. But Miss E has pointed to the payment 
history of the loan, specifically the period just before she was allocated the loan and says the 
payment status was Late. She says this meant, according to Funding Circles terms a loan 
with this status should have been excluded from re-sale. Funding  Circle have confirmed it is 
not possible to sell or purchase loan parts on the secondary market with the following 
statuses:Late status (borrowers are in arrears or have missed repayments).
Live status, no risk band (borrowers that have had a credit event occur so the risk 
band has been removed as the risk no longer reflects the risk at origination).
Processing status (borrower within the direct debit cycle and the direct debit has not 
yet been received).
Live status, only 1 repayment remaining (borrower is in their final month's repayment 
and this is not beneficial for another investor to acquire with so little interest to 
receive).
Ive looked at the circumstances of how Miss E came to invest in the loan in question. I note 
the following information about the timeline of events:
The repayment date for the loan was 4th day of the month.
The borrower didnt make the payment that was due on the 4 November 2016. 
On 9 November 2016, the payment status for loan was amended by Funding Circle 
to show it was late.
On 23 November 2016, Funding Circle says it received payment from the borrower 
for the outstanding amount due.
On 29 November 2016, the borrower cancelled the direct debit.
On 30 November 2016 at 9:21am Funding Circle posted a message to say  
"November payment has been received and will be distributed to investors today." 
On 30 November 2016 at 10:38am, Miss Es funds were used to purchase a loan 
part  and the loan was added to her account.
As mentioned above, Funding Circle accept a loan with a late status should not be 
allocated to investors. But it maintains that this loan wasnt late when it was allocated to Miss 
Es account. Miss E disputes this. Having considered the evidence available and with 
reference to the above timeline, I dont think Funding Circle has treated Miss E unfairly or 
made an error when it allocated the loan to her account. Ill explain why.
It is not in dispute that the borrower was late with the payment that was due on the 4 
November 2016. While the status was showing as late the loan shouldnt be allocated to 
investors accounts. But the evidence Ive seen supports that the borrower did make this 
payment before the loan was allocated to Miss Es account. The update in the morning of 30 
November came before Miss E was allocate the loan. Im satisfied this means it is 
reasonable for Funding Circle to say the loan was no longer late. While I appreciate the 
direct debit had been cancelled by the borrower, I dont think this in itself means that the loan 
shouldnt have been allocated to Miss E  especially when Ive accepted that the loan 
repayments had been brought up to date by this point. 
I acknowledge that a further payment was due on 4 December 2016. Miss E says this was 
late as no manual payment was made on the day the direct debit should have been made  
which she believes should have been collected on 29 November 2016. She says the 4 
December 2016 payment was due on the 29 November 2016 because this was five days 
prior to scheduled payment date. She has rereferred to Funding Circles borrower terms and 
conditions. She says as she was allocated the loan one day after this Funding Circle have 
made an error. 
Funding Circle say when the monthly payment becomes due (i.e. 4th of the month) the loan 
enters a Processing status. It says the processing status starts from the day the payment is 
due (if the payment is not received and allocated on the due date) and lasts for five days 
after that. After five days the status changes to late if no payment has been allocated. So it 
maintains that the loan status wasnt late on 30 November as the next payment wasnt due 
at this point.Ive reviewed the borrower terms and conditions which are relevant to the time the loan was 
allocated to Miss Es account. These say:
We will collect the repayment amount due up to 5 days before the date specified in the Loan 
Contract in order to ensure that funds are received and distributed to investors.
This supports that it wouldnt be reasonable to say the loan was late on 30 November 2016. 
It was within the five days of the payment date of 4 December, so at this stage it wasnt late. 
And in any case, I dont agree that a payment could be considered late before the date it 
was due. While Miss E has referred to different borrower terms and conditions, these appear 
to post-date the scenario Im considering. But in any case, I dont think the available 
evidence supports that it is reasonable to conclude that the loan could be considered late 
when it was allocated to her.
Miss E has also referred to another decision issued by this service. I have considered the 
points she raises here. But each case needs to be considered on its own merits and the 
individual facts of the cases are different. I havent found anything from her comments that 
would change my thinking on this complaint.
Ultimately, Ive found that that the borrowers payments were up to date before the loan was 
allocated to Miss Es account. While the direct debit had been cancelled shortly beforehand, 
I dont find this in itself means she has been treated unfairly. I also need to reach a decision 
on the evidence at the time it was allocated without the benefit of hindsight. So, the fact the 
loan eventually went into default doesnt mean Miss E must have been treated unfairly when 
the loan was allocated to her. 
Having reviewed the circumstances of this loan and the relevant evidence, I dont find that 
Funding Circle is responsible for the losses Miss E has incurred. Ive found that Funding 
Circle did act in a fair and reasonable way when allocating to the loan to her account. 
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss E to accept 
or reject my decision before 22 October 2022.
 
Daniel Little
Ombudsman