DRN-3375312
The complaint
Mrs D complains Halifax unfairly declined her application to extend the term of her mortgage 
and about the service they provided. 
What happened
In 2005 Mrs D took out an interest only mortgage of around £116,000 with Bank of Scotland 
trading as Halifax (Halifax) over a term of 20 years. In March 2020 Mrs D applied to extend 
the term of her mortgage by 17 years. The Halifax mortgage adviser passed details of      
Mrs Ds repayment vehicle to their review team. When the adviser didnt hear back, he 
thought Mrs Ds application had been accepted. She noticed from a mortgage statement 
later that the term hadnt been extended and she complained.
Halifax said the investments Mrs D planned to use to repay the mortgage and her income 
didnt meet their criteria for agreeing to a term extension. They acknowledged their mortgage 
adviser should have let Mrs D know her application would need to be reviewed before it was 
accepted. And they should have told her the application had been declined. They paid Mrs D 
£300 compensation for the poor service theyd provided.
Mrs D was unhappy with Halifaxs response and brought her complaint to the Financial 
Ombudsman. Our investigator didnt think the term extension would have been in Mrs Ds 
best interests and felt Halifax had done enough to put things right. Since Mrs D didnt agree, 
Ive reviewed her complaint afresh to come to a final decision.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The starting point here is that Mrs D agreed to repay her mortgage at the end of the term 
and its reasonable for Halifax to expect her to repay it. However, where a borrower expects 
to have difficulty in repaying their mortgage, wed expect them to discuss that with their 
lender. And wed expect the lender to give fair consideration to how they can resolve things. 
Mrs D sensibly contacted Halifax to discuss her situation well before the end of her mortgage 
term. I can understand it was disappointing when Halifax declined her application to extend 
the term.
Halifax explained Mrs D didnt meet their criteria for the term extension she requested 
because her planned repayment vehicle didnt have a set end date and her income didnt 
meet their criteria. Under the relevant mortgage rules Halifax werent obliged to apply the 
strict requirements about affordability and acceptable repayment strategies relating to more 
recent mortgages when considering a term extension. They could agree to extend the term 
provided it was in Mrs Ds best interests to do so. But Halifax could take into account how 
she planned to repay the mortgage and what she could afford when considering whether the 
term extension was in her best interests. And the rules dont require Halifax to agree to make 
a change to her mortgage even in those circumstances, although Id expect them to treat her 
fairly and reasonably.
Ive thought carefully about whether extending the term would be in Mrs Ds best interests. I 
can understand why she feels a 17-year extension on an interest only basis would suit her 
situation. It wouldnt take her beyond current state pension age or her planned retirement at 
the age of 70. And shed continue to have the flexibility to make overpayments and reduce 
the mortgage balance as shes done over the last few years. But theres a risk Mrs Ds 
circumstances could change over such a long period and she might not be able to continue 
to reduce the mortgage at the rate shes been managing.
Mrs Ds reluctant to use her investments to repay her mortgage. I understand shell incur 
penalties withdrawing funds. But she has time before her mortgage term ends to look at the 
most cost-effective way of doing that. 
Mrs Ds accessed her investments previously for other things; and shes acknowledged the 
value of her investments could fall by the time she has to repay her mortgage. Its possible 
the level of her investments would reduce over a 17-year term meaning thered be less 
available to pay off her mortgage. And, whilst the value of her property could increase, thats 
not certain - it could also reduce in value. So, theres a risk shed end up with a higher 
shortfall than she has currently, which could make buying another property more difficult 
later on. And, in the meantime, Mrs D would be paying more interest over a much longer 
period. 
Overall, if Halifax agreed Mrs Ds request, I think theres a reasonable prospect shed be in a 
worse position to the one she will be in when her term comes to an end in a few years time. 
By the end of the extended term, shed be approaching retirement and might have fewer 
options available to her. On balance, I dont think its in Mrs Ds best interests to extend her 
mortgage on the basis she requested. 
I dont think it would be fair to require Halifax to agree Mrs Ds request. I can understand 
they might be concerned Mrs D could stop overpaying and her investments could reduce 
further, increasing the possible shortfall. Theyre entitled to expect the mortgage to be 
repaid. And I dont think its fair they should have to wait for payment when Mrs D has the 
means to pay at least part of the mortgage off with her existing investments when the term 
ends in a few years time. 
Bearing everything in mind, I think Halifax considered Mrs Ds application fairly and it wasnt 
unreasonable for them to decline it. Id encourage the parties to continue to discuss her 
options. They might include, for example, a shorter term extension on repayment terms for 
the balance owing once shes repaid part, if thats affordable for Mrs D. But Id encourage 
Mrs D to seek independent financial advice about whats most suitable for her 
circumstances. 
I can understand Mrs D was disappointed when she found out her application had been 
declined. She was put to the trouble of raising her concerns with Halifax, which I understand 
will have been inconvenient and upsetting. But, I think the £300 Halifax paid her is fair to put 
things right. So, I wont ask Halifax to pay Mrs D any additional compensation.
Considering everything, whilst I understand Mrs D will be disappointed, I dont uphold her 
complaint.
My final decision
Bearing everything in mind, for the reasons Ive explained, I dont uphold Mrs Ds complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs D to accept or 
reject my decision before 9 May 2022. 
Julia WilkinsonOmbudsman