DRN-3738860
The complaint
Mr B complains that Citibank UK Limited (Citibank) didnt process his inward payment.
What happened
On 9 May 2022, Mr B made a payment of USD120,000 from his UK bank account to his UK 
Citibank account. The funds were needed for a property purchase due to complete on 3 
August 2022. The funds were credited to his Citibank account on or around 9 August 2022.
Mr B complained. He said the delays were unacceptable. He had called both the remitting 
bank and Citibank to find out what had happened. He said the remitting bank had provided 
all the information needed to trace the payment, but Citibank had been very unhelpful. He 
had emailed and / or called up to 50 times but had got nowhere. At the time of his complaint 
to Citibank (20 May 2022) and to our service (21 June 2022), he was concerned he wouldnt 
have sufficient money to complete a property purchase, and this would lead to either the loss 
of the property, or financial penalties.
Citibank replied to Mr B on 31 May 2022 and said Mr B had used the wrong Swift code and 
therefore the payment may have been misrouted. They said theyd continue to try to trace it.
Mr B brought his complaint to us. Our investigator upheld his complaint. She could see the 
payment was credited to the beneficiary bank on 9 May 2022. During our investigation, on 9 
August 2022, Mr B confirmed he had just received the money into his Citibank account but 
with no explanation from Citibank as to what had happened. She said Citibank hadnt 
responded to our requests for information, and so she had to conclude the funds had been 
held in a holding account. She also had to conclude that Citibank shouldve done better with 
their communications and tracing of the payment. She said Citibank should pay 
compensation of £300.
Mr B accepted our investigators view, but Citibank didnt respond to it, despite being chased 
twice. And so, as part of our process, Mr Bs complaint came to me to make a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I can see that we asked Citibank for an explanation as to what had happened. Citibanks 
final response dated 31 May 2022 said Mr B used the wrong Swift code. But Mr B told us he 
had used the same code on a previous payment and that was successful  so he said that 
couldnt be the case. Citibank showed us that they were trying to trace the payment within 
the bank through May 2022  we saw a number of internal emails. We asked Citibank about 
the payment and what had happened but received no meaningful information. And  
Citibank didnt respond to our investigators view.
And therefore, in this case, I must decide on the balance of probability  about what 
happened. And that is  that the payment must have been held in a suspense account 
somewhere in Citibank for the period of three months. And  we couldnt see any evidence 
that Citibank urgently addressed the tracing of Mr Bs payment, certainly after the end of 
May 2022. We couldnt see any communications to Mr B from Citibank (other than the final 
response). 
In the event, Mr B received the money into his Citibank account after three months, but 
without any explanation or communication. Mr B had the considerable worry about where his 
funds were for up to three months, and whether he could finance the purchase of the 
property on 3 August 2022. He told us he managed to find other ways to finance the 
purchase  so the financial impact was mitigated. He also had the hassle of calling and 
emailing Citibank (he says 50 times) over the period.
And therefore, I agree that payment of compensation of £300 is right for what happened. 
Following our investigators view on 19 August 2022, its not clear if Citibank have paid this  
but this decision directs this to be paid if not.
My final decision
I uphold this complaint. Citibank UK Limited must:
Pay compensation of £300 to Mr B for distress and inconvenience.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 23 November 2022.
 
Martin Lord
Ombudsman