DRN-3881775
The complaint
Mrs S, acting on behalf of the estate of her husband, Mr S, complains that they were mis-
sold a timeshare product and that he was mis-sold the loan used to pay for it. The loan was 
provided by Clydesdale Financial Services Limited, which trades as Barclays Partner 
Finance and which Ill refer to as BPF. Mrs S is represented by a claims management 
business, which Ill call P. Where I refer to submissions made by Mr S and/or Mrs S, I 
include those made on their behalf.
What happened
In December 2010 Mr and Mrs S bought a Diamond Resorts timeshare product with the aid 
of a loan provided by BPF. The loan was provided to Mr S, as sole borrower.
In or around May 2018 Mr and Mrs S complained to BPF. They said that the timeshare 
product had been misrepresented to them and that the loan agreement created an unfair 
relationship. They have also said that they were pressured into agreeing to buy, that the 
seller was in breach of relevant regulations, that BPF was guilty of procuring a breach of 
fiduciary duty and that BPF did not properly assess whether the loan was affordable. 
BPF did not uphold the complaint, in part because of the time which had passed since the 
sale. It noted too, however, that there was little supporting evidence; it also challenged large 
parts of Ps legal analysis. 
P referred the matter to this service. In September 2020 Mr S passed away. Mrs S arranged 
for the loan to be repaid. 
The investigator who was dealing with the complaint considered the effect of Mr Ss death on 
the complaint and was satisfied that Mrs S had the necessary authority to pursue the 
complaint for the estate. The investigator therefore issued a preliminary assessment, but did 
not recommend that the complaint be upheld. 
Mrs S did not accept the investigators assessment and asked that an ombudsman review 
the case. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I shall deal first of all with Mrs Ss authority to represent the estate.
The loan was provided to Mr S alone, although the timeshare contract was a joint one. So, 
only he had a relationship with BPF. Mr S left a will appointing Mrs S as his executrix and 
leaving his estate to her. His estate includes any claim he might have against BPF. Mrs S 
has not obtained a grant of probate, but she has said that Mr S's estate was worth less than 
£5,000. She has also confirmed that she wants to continue with the complaint. I am satisfied 
therefore that I can consider it. 
As a general point, I note that there is very little evidence to support the submissions which 
P has made on behalf of Mr S and, since September 2020, Mrs S. Indeed it is not even clear 
what type of timeshare product Mr and Mrs S purchased. Be that as it may, both P and this 
service are familiar with Diamond Resorts standard documentation. 
The complaint about the credit assessment
Our own rules say that we cannot generally consider a complaint unless it is referred to us 
within six years of the event complained of or, if later, within three years of the date on which 
the complainant knew, or ought reasonably to have known, that he had cause for complaint.  
The event complained of in this case is the credit assessment that BPF carried out (or did 
not carry out) in December 2010. It was not until May 2018 however that any complaint was 
made. It is possible therefore that this part of the complaint was referred outside the time 
limit set by our rules. 
But, even if I were to conclude that we do have power to consider this part of the complaint 
(perhaps because Mr S did not know what BPF should have done to assess affordability), 
there is no evidence that Mr S could not afford to repay the loan. That indicates to me that a 
more thorough assessment of his income and expenditure in 2010 is unlikely to have 
resulted in a different lending decision. His position would have been the same, and so any 
failure on the part of BPF has not caused any loss. 
Sections 56 and 75 of the Consumer Credit Act  
Under section 56 of the Consumer Credit Act 1974 statements made by a broker in 
connection with a consumer loan are to be taken as made as agent for the lender.  
In addition, one effect of section 75 of the Act is that a customer who has a claim for breach 
of contract or misrepresentation against a supplier can, subject to certain conditions, bring 
that claim against a lender. Those conditions include:
that the lending financed the contract giving rise to the claim; and 
that the lending was provided under pre-existing arrangements or in contemplation of 
future arrangements between the lender and the supplier. 
BPF says that the seller of the timeshare did not act as its agent and that all payments were 
to be made to a trustee, not to the seller. The lending was not therefore provided under 
arrangements with the seller, but with the trustee. 
My understanding however is that cash and card payments were generally made to the 
trustee. Where customers took out loan finance, however, BPF (in common with other 
lenders) paid the seller (or a company closely linked with the seller) directly. I think that is 
probably what happened in this case. If thats the case, the necessary arrangements were in 
place for section 75 to apply. I have therefore considered what the position might be if Mrs S 
were to bring a claim against the seller. 
Misrepresentation
A misrepresentation is, in very broad terms, a statement of law or of fact, made by one party 
to a contract to the other, which is untrue and which induces the other party into the contract. 
However, under the Limitation Act 1980 an action (that is, court action) based on 
misrepresentation cannot generally be brought after six years from the date on which the 
cause of action accrued. Any statements which might have induced Mr and Mrs S into the timeshare contract were made on or before 17 December 2010. They did not however raise 
any complaint with BPF until May 2018, more than seven years later. I think it very likely 
therefore that a court would conclude that any claim for misrepresentation was made outside 
the time limit in the Limitation Act. 
I stress that it is not for me to decide whether any underlying claim is now out of time under 
the Limitation Act. Rather, I must decide whether the response of BPF to the claim under 
section 75 was reasonable. Given the real possibility that a court would say that the claims 
are time-barred, I think it was. 
Breach of contract 
P has said that the timeshare business intends to sell much of its resort portfolio in the next 
few years. This, it says, will make it difficult to people such as Mrs S to secure 
accommodation, in breach of the sellers contractual commitments to her. 
It does not seem to me however that the mere possibility of a breach of contract at some 
point in the future could give rise to a claim now. I do not therefore need to consider whether 
any such breach might result in a claim against BPF under section 75. 
Section 140A claims
Under section 140A and section 140B of the Consumer Credit Act a court has the power to 
consider whether a credit agreement creates an unfair relationship and, if it does, to make 
appropriate orders in respect of it. Those orders can include imposing different terms on the 
parties and refunding payments.
In considering whether to make an order under section 140B, a court can consider any 
connected agreement. In this case, that could include the timeshare agreement.  
The usual time limit for these types of claims under the Limitation Act is six years from the 
time the relationship between the parties ended. The loan agreement in this case was repaid 
relatively recently. 
On the basis of what I have seen, however, there are no grounds on which I think I could 
properly conclude that there is an unfair relationship in this case. 
As I have said, there is no evidence to support any of the allegations made by P. The 
timeshare seller was not in a fiduciary relationship with Mr and Mrs S and was not giving 
them financial advice; it was selling a product and introducing BPF as a potential lender, if 
Mr and Mrs S wanted a loan to finance the purchase. 
There was no obligation to provide details of any commission paid, and there is no 
suggestion that Mr S asked about it.
I also note that Mr and Mrs S were given 14 days in which to withdraw from the timeshare 
agreement, in line with The Timeshare Regulations 1997, which applied at the time. P has 
not explained why, if its clients felt they had been subjected to undue pressure to make a 
purchase, they did not exercise that right. 
I have no power to make orders under section 140B of the Consumer Credit Act. I must 
decide this complaint by reference to what I consider to be fair and reasonable in all the 
circumstances. In doing that, I must have regard to relevant law, including relevant 
provisions of the Consumer Credit Act. And I could, where appropriate, make awards 
requiring lenders to, for example, accept reduced loan payments or make refunds. I do not believe however that it would be fair or reasonable to do so in this case.     
My final decision
For these reasons, my final decision is that I do not require Clydesdale Financial Services 
Limited to do anything more to resolve this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask the estate of Mr S 
to accept or reject my decision before 28 June 2023.
 
Mike Ingram
Ombudsman