DRN-3850744
The complaint
Miss C complains Hargreaves Lansdown Asset Management Limited (HLAM) took too long 
to give her access to her account and to transfer cash from there to her bank account.
What happened
Miss C was locked out of her online account. She has said this was despite inputting the 
right details and not trying as many times as the system told her she had. She was told a pin 
code would be sent to her by first class post the next day to allow her to reset her details. 
She wouldnt have account access until that happened. 
Miss C spoke to HLAM the next day and it told her the pin had been sent out first class. She 
mentioned her post was very unreliable - so she might get the letter the next week, but it 
might be the week after. HLAM told her to call back if she hadnt received the pin by the 
middle of the following week. It was a Friday and the following Monday was a bank holiday, 
so if the pin didnt arrive on Saturday it would arrive on Tuesday at the earliest.
Miss C called HLAM the following Wednesday to say the pin hadnt arrived. She questioned 
whether the pin could have been sent first class or on the day HLAM had said. She asked 
and HLAM agreed that a pin be sent to her special delivery. But HLAM didnt send this pin.
Miss C also asked to withdraw cash from her account and HLAM told her she could not and 
would need instead to wait for the pin to arrive the next day and call then. Miss C wasnt 
happy with this and remained concerned that the pin would not arrive the next day. HLAM 
invited Miss C to speak to a member of the withdrawal team about her cash withdrawal 
request. Miss C wanted her concerns to be escalated to someone more senior instead. 
HLAM escalated Miss Cs concerns to a more senior staff member who then offered Miss C 
a way to withdraw her cash. She was told to write a letter and write her name and signature 
and send this by email to HLAM. The money would be paid the next day to her nominated 
account. Miss C said she would send the email. She asked that HLAM reply with an email 
acknowledgement, to which HLAM agreed after some discussion. HLAM actually phoned her 
back when it received her email because it had a typed signature rather than a written wet 
signature. It told her it needed a wet signature to release funds. Miss C then sent a written 
letter with a written wet signature and HLAM paid the funds the next day (Thursday).
That same Thursday, Miss C emailed HLAM about not receiving the pin by special delivery. 
HLAM has told us it would not send a pin by special delivery in response to an email request 
as it needed this to be requested by phone. Miss C didnt call again but HLAM relented and 
sent a pin by special delivery on the following Monday which Miss C received the day after. 
Our investigator looked into the complaint and thought, in brief:
It took around 12 days for Miss C to receive the pin and gain access to her account, 
which was too long. HLAM was at fault and £100  which is the amount it had offered 
Miss C  wasnt enough to reflect the distress she had experienced. So HLAM should 
pay her £300 instead. This takes into account that HLAM also wrongly told Miss C she 
couldnt withdraw cash without the pin and then caused more inconvenience during the 
cash withdrawal process by only telling her later that a wet signature was required.
Miss Cs reply said, in brief summary:
She has never received the first pin HLAM sent by first class post. HLAM twice told her it 
had sent a pin by special delivery when it hadnt. Meanwhile she was losing money on 
her shares as she couldnt access them. When HLAM finally did send the pin by special 
delivery, she got it the next day. 
HLAM initially told her in the Wednesday call that she couldnt withdraw funds and shed 
only been offered a facility to do so after she escalated the issue. She had been told 
HLAM could pay the funds if she sent an email, which she did, but was told later that she 
needed a wet signature by which time it was too late to receive the funds that day. 
Not being able to access her account had distressed and upset her a lot. The situation 
has been detrimental to her health and disruptive for her as well as embarrassing. The 
cost of addressing this situations impact on her could be hundreds of pounds with 
consequential losses of potentially thousands of pounds if her studies are affected. 
HLAMs reply said, in brief summary: 
It sent a pin automatically by first class post when the account was locked, so it would be 
wrong to say it didnt send a pin for 12 days.  It cant be responsible for postal delays. It 
should have sent a pin again by special delivery when Miss C called on the Wednesday -
and didnt until the following Monday - but the £100 it offered was fair and reasonable for 
this. Miss C hadnt asked to withdraw the money before her Wednesday call and her call 
was received after the 12-noon deadline for processing same-day withdrawal requests. 
Her withdrawal request was processed the next day and couldnt have been done earlier.
Miss C later indicated shed be willing to accept our investigators recommendation. But as 
HLAM hadnt agreed, the case was referred for a final decision. HLAM later indicated it 
would accept our investigators recommendation, but Miss C asked that the complaint be 
referred to an ombudsman. 
As the complaint wasnt resolved informally, it has been passed to me for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive arrived at the same conclusion as our investigator - and for broadly the 
same reasons. 
Its clear Miss C wanted and HLAM undertook to send the pin by special delivery during her 
call on the Wednesday following her account having been locked. This was overlooked by 
HLAM after Miss Cs call was escalated. HLAM accepts it didnt send it until the week after.
During that same call HLAM did offer to pass Miss C to a withdrawals team, but only after it 
had told her she couldnt withdraw funds and she in turn had made clear she wasnt willing to 
accept this answer. The fact Miss C was able to withdraw funds shows HLAM was wrong to 
say she could not, although I dont overlook HLAMs suggestion that the process it offered 
Miss C was one used exceptionally and offered at its discretion. I think HLAM then did make reasonable efforts to assist Miss C with the withdrawal process. 
It is clear its message that she write her signature in her emailed withdrawal request, did not 
successfully convey to her that a written or wet signature was needed. But HLAM did call 
her back when it received her email without that signature, and as a result she sent a new 
request with the required signature. The withdrawal was then processed, with payment on 
the following day - and HLAM made no suggestion during the calls that payment could be 
made more quickly than that.
Our investigator didnt recommend HLAM compensate Miss C for any losses arising from 
her not being able to trade while she was awaiting the pin. Ive seen insufficient evidence of 
her attempting during that period to carry out any particular trade or trades. Id mention that 
the period Im considering in this respect is the period after Miss C called to request the 
special delivery of the pin and before she received it. Miss C has also told us she could have 
traded by phone, although she has explained that trading online allows her to make trades 
herself and time them as she thinks best  in a way that phone trading doesnt. 
I accept what Miss C says about her trading preference but in light of all Ive said above Im 
not persuaded HLAMs failings were the cause of trading losses or missed profits Miss C 
may have experienced in the period after she requested the pin. On the other hand, I do 
think HLAM should compensate Miss C for distress and inconvenience its failings caused. In 
my view £300 is fair and reasonable compensation for this in the particular circumstances of 
this case. I would emphasise that although Ive not set out everything that has been said in 
detail above, in reaching my view Ive considered all that both parties have said and sent us.
So I uphold Miss Cs complaint on the basis and to the extent Ive said above.
Putting things right
To compensate Miss C for distress and inconvenience arising from the matters above, 
Hargreaves Lansdown Asset Management Limited should pay Miss C £300. If it has already 
paid Miss C any redress for her complaint, it may deduct this redress from my award above. 
My final decision
I uphold Miss Cs complaint. Hargreaves Lansdown Asset Management Limited should put 
things right by doing what Ive said above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss C to accept 
or reject my decision before 9 January 2023.
 
Richard Sheridan
Ombudsman