DRN-3453228
The complaint
A charity that Ill refer to as S has complained that QIC Europe Ltd (QEL) unfairly turned 
down its business interruption insurance claim. 
What happened
S held a business interruption insurance policy with QEL. It claimed on its policy after it was 
impacted by Covid-19 and the Governments response to the pandemic. 
QEL turned down the claim as they didnt think it was covered by the policy. 
Unhappy with QELs response, S brought its complaint to our service. It said Covid-19 had 
caused damage to its property and so the interruption to its business should be covered. It 
also said that access to its property had been denied and Covid-19 couldnt be on the list of 
covered diseases as it wasnt known about when the policy was drafted. 
Our investigator looked into Ss complaint but thought QEL had acted fairly and reasonably 
in turning down its claim.
S asked for an ombudsmans decision.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im sorry to hear that the pandemic and the Governments related actions have had an
impact on Ss business. However, I wont be upholding its complaint. Ill explain why.
Business interruption insurance offers protection from risks common to a business, but
different policies can provide different types of cover. What is and isnt covered is set out in
the policy terms and conditions. Ive therefore looked carefully at this particular policy to see
if QEL have acted fairly, reasonably and in line with the terms and conditions of the policy
when declining Ss claim.
Damage
The core business interruption section of Ss policy says that it will cover business 
interruption or interference as a consequence of any of the Contingencies set out below.
The contingencies are:
1. Any Damage as insured by the Property Damage All Risks Section of this 
Policy.
2. Explosion of any boiler or economiser on the Premises.
3. Any Damage occasioned in the course of theft but excluding loss due to the     
theft of property 
4. Additional Coverages as otherwise extended under this Section
The policy defines damage as Accidental physical loss or destruction or damage 
including any consequential loss arising therefrom. 
Points 2 and 3 clearly dont apply here so I will explain why 1 and 4 dont provide cover. 
For cover to apply under 1, the interruption to Ss business would need to be as a result of 
damage as insured by the property damage all-risks section of the policy. The property 
damage all-risks section sets out that it covers property insured. Property insured is defined 
as Buildings Contents Stock and other Items defined in the schedule.
I havent seen anything to persuade me that the interruption to Ss business was caused by 
damage to property insured. In reaching this decision, amongst other things, Ive considered 
relevant law. In considering this point I think TKC London Ltd v Allianz Insurance PLC [2020] 
EWHC 2710 (Comm), Merlin v British Nuclear Fuels Plc [1990] 2 QB 557 and Hunter v 
London Docklands Development Corporation [1996] 2 WLR 348 are relevant.
I think that, for damage to have occurred, there would need to be a physical change or 
altered state to Ss insured property, which made it less valuable and I havent seen anything 
to indicate that Covid-19 caused a physical change or altered state to Ss insured property. 
Alternatively, its possible damage could be said to have occurred if specialist cleaning was 
required to remove the cause of potential damage.
Its possible that SARS-CoV-2 (the virus that causes Covid-19) was present in Ss premises.
However, the Governments guidance on cleaning in non-healthcare settings doesnt 
recommend any cleaning by a specialist. Theres no evidence of an excessive amount of
SARS-CoV-2 on Ss property. And the presence of any particular virus doesnt automatically
amount to damage. So, I think it was fair and reasonable for QEL to find that this section of 
the policy didnt provide cover. 
Point 4 refers to the extensions to the core cover. I will comment on the extensions for denial 
of access and diseases below as these are the extensions S has referred to. 
Denial of access
This extension covers business interruption or interference as a result of:
Damage to property within 1,000 metres of the Premises which shall 
prevent or hinder the use of or access to the Premises or property of the 
Policyholder whether the Policyholders property is damaged or not
For this to provide cover the interruption to Ss business would need to be due to damage, as 
defined by the policy, to property within 1,000 metres of Ss premises which prevented or 
hindered use of its premises. I think it was reasonable for QEL to find that this didnt provide 
cover. I say this because I dont think the interruption to Ss business was due to damage to 
property within 1,000 metres of Ss premises for the reasons explained above.
Diseases
The relevant part of this extension covers interruption to Ss business due to: a specified 
disease manifested by any person at the premises; an outbreak of a specified disease within 
one mile of the premises; or cancelled bookings for accommodation in consequence of the outbreak of a specified disease. The policys definition of a specified disease sets out a list of 
covered diseases, which doesnt include Covid-19. 
Given Covid-19 might not have been in existence at the time the policy was drafted, I 
wouldnt expect it to be included in the list of diseases. But there were similar policies on the 
market that provided cover in the circumstances of the pandemic, for example policies which 
covered all notifiable diseases as set out and updated on a Government-defined list. Ss 
policy is not like this  it sets out a defined list of the diseases which are covered. And there 
is nothing in the wording of the policy which implies it would provide cover for any new 
diseases which might emerge. So, I dont think the policy can fairly be read as covering all 
and any new diseases and therefore this doesnt provide cover for Ss claim.
I recognise this isnt the outcome S was hoping for but, having considered the matter very 
carefully, I cant fairly require QEL to pay Ss claim. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask S to accept or 
reject my decision before 22 June 2022.
 
Sarann Taylor
Ombudsman