DRN-4088471
The complaint
Mr D has complained that the gambling block added to his account by Monzo Bank Ltd 
(Monzo) failed to stop gambling transactions from leaving his account. 
Background
Mr D has an account with Monzo. In May 2021 he contacted the bank to make it aware he 
had a compulsive gambling problem and to find out what support the bank could provide 
him. At that time blocks were added to his account to prevent him from being able to make 
future online gambling payments. 
Unfortunately, the blocks applied didnt stop Mr D from being able to gamble as he was still 
able to use some gambling websites despite the block being in place. He has said that this is 
a failure on the part of Monzo, hed been guaranteed the blocks would work, and so he 
wants the bank to refund all of his gambling losses from May 2021. 
In addition, Mr D has said that when he complained to Monzo about these problems he was 
left waiting an unreasonable amount of time for a response or any support. 
Monzo has said that it explained to Mr D in May 2021 that the gambling block could be 
useful but that it wasnt guaranteed to stop all gambling transactions. Blocks like the ones it, 
and other banks, offer have limitations and are dependant on the gambling merchant 
presenting its transactions in a specific way. So, it didnt uphold that part of Mr Ds complaint. 
However, it did agree that at times Mr D was left waiting too long when he asked for help or 
made his complaint and for those delays it offered him £25 compensation. 
Mr D didnt accept Monzos response and brought the complaint to our service. One of our 
adjudicators has looked into Mr Ds complaint and didnt uphold it. They said that Monzo had 
clearly explained the blocks were imperfect and may not work on every transaction and so 
they didnt think the bank had made any error. 
Mr D remained unhappy with the response and asked for an ombudsman to review his 
complaint and so it has been passed to me to consider. 
My findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so I agree with the conclusions reached by our adjudicator and for much the 
same reason. I appreciate this will be disappointing for Mr D so Ive set out my findings 
below so he can see why Ive reached the outcome I have. 
Gambling blocks, such as the one Monzo offer, are imperfect tools. They rely on gambling 
merchants to use specific UK merchant codes in order for the transaction to be recognised 
as gambling. If the merchant, for any reason (such as they are based outside of the UK or 
offer multiple services such as gaming as well as gambling), uses a different merchant code 
they will be able to circumvent the block. This is because the block is essentially an 
algorithm designed to stop transactions with the UK gambling code. If that code is not 
present the algorithm doesnt know the transaction is linked to gambling and will allow it to 
be debited from the account. 
Monzo has confirmed that when the block was applied in May 2021 its limitations were 
explained to Mr D. And Mr D doesnt contest this but does think that a single warning isnt 
sufficient. However, I also know that if you access the gambling block in your Monzo app it 
fully explains that there are limitations to the block and that it may not work all of the time. 
And I can see that when Mr D queried why gambling transactions had been paid from his 
account Monzo again clarified the limitations on how the block worked. So, I cant 
reasonably say Monzo failed to explain that the gambling tool, while potentially helpful, 
wasnt guaranteed to work all of the time. And so, I dont think the bank made a mistake in 
relation to the information it gave Mr D and I cant uphold his complaint on that basis. 
Mr D has also complained that Monzo took too long to respond to his complaint and his 
online messages in general. Monzo has confirmed that while it did respond to Mr D within 
the time frames set out by the regulator, it agreed at times it didnt respond to his online 
messages as quickly as it should have. For those delays it offered Mr D £25 compensation, 
which I think is reasonable in the circumstances. 
So, for the reasons set out above Im not upholding Mr Ds complaint and I dont think Monzo 
needs to do anymore in relation to it. 
My final decision
For the reasons set out above I dont uphold Mr Ds complaint against Monzo Bank Ltd. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision before 21 July 2023.
 
Karen Hanlon
Ombudsman