DRN-3377683
The complaint
Mr A complains that National Westminster Bank Plc failed to refund a transaction he didnt 
recognise.
What happened
Mr A was attempting to withdraw money from an Automated Teller Machine (ATM) when he 
experienced difficulties with it. The ATM didnt dispense the funds hed requested (£10). Mr 
A explained how he tried his card and personal identification number (PIN) with the ATM on 
several more occasions without success. Mr A then left the ATM with his card.
A few days later when Mr A was checking his account he noticed that £250 had been 
withdrawn via the ATM and didnt recognise making this transaction. Mr A contacted 
NatWest about the issue and they looked into the withdrawal. 
NatWest didnt own the ATM, so asked the machines operator for information about what 
happened. NatWest received confirmation from the ATM owner that the funds were properly 
dispensed and there were no reported problems with the machine. NatWest informed Mr A 
that they wouldnt refund him.
Mr A complained to NatWest about this and NatWest upheld their position and declined to 
make any refund, so Mr A brought his complaint to the Financial Ombudsman Service for an 
independent review.
Mr As complaint was looked into by one of our investigators who asked for information from 
both parties. Mr A explained what had happened and NatWest provided information from the 
ATM operator. Overall, our investigator thought the evidence showed the ATM was working 
properly and the withdrawal was made by Mr As card, so didnt uphold his complaint.
Mr A disagreed with the outcome and wanted a further review of his complaint, commenting 
that the ATM operator received poor reviews about their ATMs and he never withdraws £250 
at a time.
Mr As complaint has now been passed to me for a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I dont think it was unreasonable for NatWest to hold Mr A liable for the 
withdrawal and Ill explain why.
When Mr A reported the unrecognised withdrawal to NatWest, they contacted the operator of 
it to check the audit records from the ATM. The operator provided records of activity of Mr 
As debit card and included transactions both before and after Mr A used the ATM. Their 
records didnt indicate there had been a problem.
The audit details showed Mr As card was entered into the ATM and a balance check was 
carried out. The card was withdrawn and a few seconds later it was re-entered into the ATM 
and £250 was requested. The ATM shows the money was successfully dispensed and the 
sequential counter of the notes shows that 12 x £20 and 1 x £10 note were dispensed, and 
the card returned. The ATM then shows the debit card being put back into the ATM and after 
the PIN is entered, the procedure is cancelled, and the card returned.
In light of Mr As comments about the performance of the ATM operator, I asked for further 
information about the ATM and whether any foreign devices had been detected at that ATM. 
These devices are often referred to as cash traps and can be attached to machines by 
thieves to divert funds. The ATM operator was able to confirm that there were no reports of 
devices attached to the ATM Mr A used or another one operated by the same company that 
was nearby. Internal records were also checked to see if anyone else had reported similar 
issues and nothing was found.
The ATM operator was able to confirm the machine was physically checked a few days after 
Mr As use of it and found to be working properly. The various amounts of cash left in the 
machine tallied with what had been dispensed. Effectively the machine balanced.
So, the evidence Ive been able to examine shows the ATM was working properly and the 
£250 was dispensed. I cant know what happened when Mr A was at the ATM, but as he 
took his card after the ATM showed the funds were dispensed, I dont think its likely they 
were taken by anyone else near the machine. 
Taking everything into account, I think it was reasonable for NatWest to hold Mr A liable for 
the £250 withdrawal and I wont be upholding this complaint.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision before 8 July 2022.
 
David Perry
Ombudsman