DRN-1859137
The complaint
Mr and Mrs H complain that Clydesdale Bank trading as Yorkshire Bank didnt change Mrs 
Hs address as she requested  and some statements were sent to the wrong address. She 
says when she told Yorkshire, it delayed sorting that matter out. As result, Mrs H wants to 
close all of the accounts she holds with Yorkshire and that includes the joint mortgage with 
Mr H. Mr and Mrs H want Yorkshire Bank to waive the early repayment charge (ERC) and 
any other fees that would apply if they repaid their mortgage.
What happened
In February 2019, when Mrs H moved to a new house, she told Yorkshire to update her 
address on all of her accounts. But it didnt do this for three accounts. In November 2019, 
when she complained, she was told Yorkshire would put things right. But it didnt do so until 
February 2020. Mrs H says she has lost trust in Yorkshire and wants to close all her 
accounts with it, including the mortgage she holds with her husband. She wants Yorkshire to 
waive the ERC and any other fees for repaying the mortgage.
Our investigator thought that the steps that Yorkshire had taken to put things right was fair. 
He didnt think the mistakes that Yorkshire made would mean it had to waive the ERC.
Mrs H responded to say that £75 wasnt a reasonable amount in view of the mistake. She 
said no monetary amount could compensate her for the sleepless nights she had wondering 
what Yorkshire was going to do wrong next.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
It isnt in dispute that Yorkshire made a mistake in not updating Mrs Hs address. So all that 
is left for me to do it to decide what is a fair and reasonable way to put things right in view of 
what happened. 
I have asked Mrs H for some additional information so I could understand more clearly the 
circumstances surrounding this matter and the impact on her and Mr H. Despite reminders 
Mrs H hasnt given me that information. Under our rules it is for me to set time limits on any 
aspect of the consideration of a complaint. If either a business or a complainant fails to 
comply with a time limit, I can proceed with consideration of the complaint. I may also reach 
a decision on the basis of what has been supplied.
Mrs H says that it wasnt fair for Yorkshire to break the data protection rules. Everyone 
accepts that Yorkshire sent statements to the wrong address. Although its not clear how 
many actually reached the wrong address bearing in mind that Mrs H was having her post 
redirected during the period in question. Presumably, she would have received a redirected 
statement and would have seen that the address had not been updated. Nevertheless, 
Yorkshire has made a mistake. When a business has made a mistake, I look to put the 
consumer back in the position they would have been in had the mistake not occurred. 
Mrs H has not claimed any financial loss  rather she says the potential breach of 
confidentiality had caused her a lot of worry and sleepless nights. While I appreciate the 
clarification that Mrs H gave me on 1 October 2020, I needed more information from her to 
understand the extent of Yorkshires mistake and the impact on her. But in the absence of 
that information, I consider that the amount Yorkshire has paid of £75, along with correcting 
her address, is a fair way to resolve this complaint.
When Mr and Mrs H took out the mortgage they accepted its terms. That included an ERC 
that was payable until 31 January 2024. The ERC is set out clearly and prominently in the 
mortgage offer. And it was fair and reasonable for Yorkshire to look to apply the ERC if the 
mortgage was repaid, in line with the offer Mr and Mrs H accepted. I cant see how it would 
fairly be required to waive the ERC, even taking into account the mistakes it made.
I accept that Mrs H has lost trust in Yorkshire because of what happened. But that doesnt 
mean that it isnt entitled to charge an ERC if Mr and Mrs H repay their mortgage during the 
tie-in period.
My final decision
My final decision is that the amount Clydesdale Bank Plc trading as Yorkshire Bank has 
already paid Mr and Mrs H of £75 is a fair way to resolve the complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs H and Mr H to 
accept or reject my decision before X X  2020.
 
Ken Rose
Ombudsman