DRN-1740854
The complaint
Mr D complains that Capital One (Europe) Plc (Capital One) mis-sold him a payment 
protection insurance (PPI) policy alongside a credit card.
What happened
In 2001 Mr D took out a credit card with Capital One and at the same time he took out a PPI 
policy to protect his repayments. A successful claim on the policy would have covered his 
repayments for periods of time if he lost his job or if he was unable to work due to accident 
or sickness.
When Mr D complained to Capital One that the policy was mis-sold it didnt agree. It also 
considered if any excess commission and profit share that had been part of the premiums he 
had paid needed to be refunded but said this requirement did not apply to the circumstances 
of Mr D account. 
Mr D wasnt happy with what Capital One had said and brought his complaint to this service. 
Mr D is represented by a third party. 
Our adjudicator didnt think the complaint should be upheld. Mr D disagreed and asked for 
an ombudsman to look at his complaint.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. 
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding Mr Ds complaint.
Mr D says he didnt know the PPI had been added to his account, he was unaware it was 
optional, it wasnt suitable for his circumstances and it wasnt required.  
Mr D took out the PPI at the same time he applied for his credit card and this was done over 
the Internet. To do this Mr D completed various screens and submitted his application on-
line and then the information was put into an application form that was sent to him to check 
and for his signature. Capital One has provided a copy of the application process screens for 
an Internet application and also a copy of the Credit Agreement sent to Mr D that he signed 
and returned. 
The Internet application screens had a specific section for the PPI. The initial screen set out 
basically what PPI was and the cost involved. It also referred to the full terms and conditions 
that were set out in full, underneath two boxes that indicated Yes or No to taking out the PPI.Either the Yes or No box had to be selected before the applicant could move on to the next 
section screen of the application form. Next to the Yes box it indicated the cost was £0.69p 
for every £100 of balance on the statement each month and explained the basic cover 
provided. It also stated that if ticking the Yes box, the applicant confirmed they had read and 
agreed to the Terms and Conditions. 
On his application Mr D ticked the Yes box. On the Credit Agreement sent to him to sign was 
a section indicating he had chosen the PPI and this summarised the cost and basic cover. 
Looking at the application process and the forms Mr D signed I think he was aware he had a 
choice whether to take out the PPI or not. He should also have been aware of the cost and 
the restrictions of the policy as the full terms and conditions were provided at the point of 
sale. 
In any event, I can see from the information provided Mr D met all the basic criteria to be 
eligible to take out the policy, such as his age and being in employment. Also he had no 
unusual employment conditions and no medical conditions that could have restricted claims 
on the policy. So, he wouldnt have been affected by any of the exclusions to or limits on the 
PPI cover even if they were not made totally clear to him. And have seen nothing to show 
the cost was not affordable.
Mr D had some employment benefits, but the policy would have paid out in addition to any 
work benefits he would have received, so allowing the income from his work benefits to pay 
for other household expenses. And Mr D has indicated he had no savings. So I think the 
policy would have provided a useful benefit to him. 
Taking account of everything I have seen, I dont think the PPI was mis-sold.
I have also considered if the rules relating to excess commission and profit share at levels 
over 50 % of the premium costs mean any commission refund is due. However, the rules 
and guidance put in place relating to this only affect credit taken out before 6 April 2007 if it 
was still running on 6 April 2008. As Mrs As credit card account closed on 1 April 2008 it is 
not caught by these dates the rules so no excess commission is due to be refunded.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive set out I dont think the PPI policy was mis-sold by Canada Square 
(Europe) Plc to Mr D.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision before 30July2020.
Chris Fraser
Ombudsman