DRN-3295728
The complaint
S complained that they had some insurance policies unfairly cancelled by British Gas 
Insurance Limited (British Gas) because of a misunderstanding in relation to a claim under 
their home emergency policy.
What happened
British Gas contractor was unable to complete some repair work to a leak under the policy 
and couldnt guarantee a return visit until two weeks or so later. To mitigate further damage 
from the leak and potential costs and after discussing it with British Gas, S arranged for his 
own contractor to do the repair and British Gas said it would consider reimbursement of the 
invoice once received.
S was unhappy with the workmanship from the contractor he appointed, so he only paid 
£252 against a quoted value of £552. As he wanted to get the worked completed quickly due 
to the requirements of the tenants, S appointed one of their own sub-contractors to finish the 
job.
S submitted an invoice to British Gas from his first contractor for the full value of the work, 
even though he only part paid it. But, when British Gas questioned it, he submitted an 
invoice for £552 from his sub-contractor instead (which S said they had mirrored the first 
contractors invoice). British Gas said when the invoice was submitted by S they didnt 
disclose the invoice was from S own company. However, S did disclose this when he was 
asked by British Gas later.  British Gas said if it had known this at the start it would 
immediately have declined his sub-contractors invoice. However, British Gas did pay £252 
as a gesture of goodwill for the costs of the first contractor.
British Gas said S hadnt declared the invoice wasnt from a third party (i.e. his own 
company) and the invoice was for the full value of works, when in fact another contractor did 
part of the works. So, British Gas said S had provided false and inaccurate information and 
under the terms and conditions of the policy it decided to cancel all the policies S had with it, 
refunding any premiums on a pro-rata basis.
S is unhappy with this outcome and would like his policies re-instated.
Our investigator decided to uphold the complaint. He didnt think S had set out to deceive 
British Gas and he thought it wouldve been more reasonable for British Gas to simply 
explain to S, it couldnt accept an invoice from his own sub-contractor. He said British Gas 
should reinstate or renew the policies with S. British Gas disagreed, so the case has been 
referred to an ombudsman. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
British Gas has cancelled all its policies which would be its right under the terms and 
conditions of the policy if S had provided it with false information. I have reviewed the 
information contained within this complaint and I dont think the information British Gas has 
provided is sufficient evidence to show S had submitted false information with the intention 
to deceive it, therefore, Im upholding this complaint. Ill explain why.
British Gas has said S knowingly submitted an invoice from one of its sub-contractors. I 
believe this to be true, I think S wouldve done. However, Im not persuaded that S wouldve 
known why this was an issue. I dont think it would be obvious to someone that it could only 
submit invoices for a claim from third parties. I havent seen any evidence provided from 
British Gas that this was clearly explained to S early in the process. I think its fair for British 
Gas not to accept the invoice if the policy sets out this limitation, but I dont think its 
reasonable for it to cancel all of S policies consequently.
British Gas thought S was trying to benefit by submitting an invoice for £552, rather than the 
£252 it had paid to the first contractor. It has suggested the cost of the job should be £229, 
but British Gas had attended once themselves and hadnt yet completed the job. I also dont 
think it has provided evidence to substantiate a much lower estimate.
The circumstances of this complaint developed as British Gas was unable to fulfil its 
obligations promptly under the policy. I think S has taken sensible actions to ensure it has 
provided a service to its tenants. There is evidence the original quote for the job was £552  
although only £252 was paid to the first contractor as the work was only part completed. S 
wouldve incurred additional expenses with his own contractor in getting the job completed. It 
doesnt seem unreasonable that these costs would be similar to the balance of the invoice 
not fully paid in the first place, so I think its possible the overall cost of the job was around 
£552 for S.
S has acknowledged its fair for British Gas to decline an invoice thats not from a third party. 
I think the £252 British Gas has reimbursed for the first contractor would be a fair conclusion 
to the claim. I dont think S was trying to financially benefit through their actions. So, I dont 
think cancelling all of S policies is proportionate action for what has happened. I dont think 
S started out to deceive British Gas. So, I dont think it was fair for British Gas to cancel the 
policies.
British Gas has mentioned previous claims it has been unhappy about. However, it hasnt 
provided any details of these and I think if it had a problem with these it shouldve dealt with 
them at the time. Its not reasonable to consider these in this complaint if this hasnt been 
properly raised with S.
As I dont think British Gas has acted fairly, I think British Gas should now contact S and 
agree the best way to reinstate these policies or renew these, so that S isnt financially 
penalised and continues to benefit from cover with British Gas.
My final decision
My final decision is I uphold this complaint. I require British Gas Insurance Limited to:
Contact S and agree the best way to reinstate these policies or renew them and 
implement this so that S isnt financially penalised and continues to benefit from 
cover with British Gas.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask S to accept or 
reject my decision before 4 May 2022.
 Pete Averill
Ombudsman