DRN-4376492
The complaint
Mrs R complains about the quality of a car supplied to her under a hire purchase agreement 
with BMW Financial Services (GB) Limited, trading as Alphera Financial Services 
(Alphera). 
What happened
In March 2022 Mrs R took out a hire purchase agreement with Alphera for a used car. The 
car was just over three years old and had travelled approximately 57,000 miles. The cash 
price was £13,749. Under the terms of the finance agreement, Mrs R was to pay 48 monthly 
payments of £248.86 followed by an optional final repayment of £5,644.73.
Mrs R says a fault light came on within a few days of having the car. She says she took it 
back to the supplying dealer on several occasions during the first six months due to ongoing 
problems with warning lights appearing on the dashboard. 
Mrs R has provided copies of paperwork the dealer gave her. This shows they sent the car 
to a manufacturers garage in April 2022 to be regenerated, and again in July 2022 for the 
DPF system to be replaced. Mrs R says she was provided with a courtesy car to use in the 
meantime. 
Mrs R told us that the car broke down on 7 October 2022 and wouldnt start. She says the 
dealer arranged for a manufacturers garage to diagnose what was wrong with it - and gave 
her a courtesy car just for the day this was carried out. She says the dealer then told her it 
would cost between £2,000£3,000 to repair the car, and that they wouldnt be prepared to 
pay for this.  
On 13 October 2022 Mrs R complained to Alphera that she wanted to reject the car due to 
the ongoing problems with it. Alphera issued their final response on 9 February 2023, 
agreeing that the car wasnt of satisfactory quality. They offered the following, at no cost to 
Mrs R:
The car to be repaired,
The replacement engine to come with a 12-month warranty,
The car to be serviced and an MOT completed before it was returned. 
Mrs R says she agreed to go ahead with this but continued to complain to Alphera that she 
hadnt been provided with a courtesy car. On 16 February 2023 Alphera agreed to refund 
four months payments to reflect the fact that she hadnt had a car to use. Mrs R says the 
dealer eventually provided her with a courtesy car on 3 March 2023. But she says this was a 
much smaller car with very little boot space.
Mrs R says she collected the car from the dealer on 13 April 2023. But she says she had to 
take it back again the following day due to a problem with the coolant. She says she was 
again provided with a much smaller courtesy car whilst repair work continued.  
After looking into what had happened, our investigator said he thought the original offer of a 
repair had been fair. But as the car had failed again the day after Mrs R collected it, he 
thought she should be given the right to reject it, bringing the agreement to an end.
The investigator noted that Alphera had issued a payment to Mrs R on 16 February 2023 to 
reflect her loss of use of the car up to that point. He thought they should ensure Mrs R 
received a refund of all payments shed made for the period up to 2 March 2023, and that 
they should add interest to the refunded amounts.
Although a courtesy car was provided on 2 March 2023, the investigator didnt think this was 
to the same specification as the car Mrs R was paying for. So, he said Alphera should refund 
20% of the monthly payments shed made since that date. 
The investigator said Alphera should remove any adverse information that had been 
recorded on Mrs Rs credit file about the agreement. And he thought they should pay Mrs R 
£500 compensation for the distress and inconvenience shed been caused. 
Mrs R accepted our investigators view. Alphera didnt respond, so the case was escalated 
for an ombudsman to make a final decision as to how the complaint should be resolved. 
Whilst waiting for the case to be allocated to an ombudsman, Mrs R gave us an update. She 
told us the dealer had got in touch with her on 27 June 2023 to say the repairs had been 
completed. She says she collected the car because she needed something with enough 
space to carry her young children, their car seats, pram, and trike  but she still wanted to 
reject it.
My provisional decision
After reviewing the evidence, I issued a provisional decision saying:
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. 
The agreement Mrs R entered into was a hire purchase agreement, so Im satisfied that I 
can consider a complaint about it. Under this type of agreement Alphera is also the supplier 
of the car, so theyre responsible for a complaint about its quality.
The Consumer Rights Act 2015 (CRA) is relevant to this complaint. It says that under a 
contract to supply goods, theres an implied term that the quality of those goods is 
satisfactory. It goes on to explain that things like freedom from minor defects and durability 
can be aspects of the quality of goods. 
Was the car of satisfactory quality?
Ive seen copies of the dealers invoices relating to diagnostic and repair work carried out on 
the car within the first few months. These invoices show it was regenerated in April 2022 
because the exhaust light was flashing. And in July 2022 the DPF system was replaced due 
to the exhaust warning showing again.
I havent seen any evidence showing what caused the engine to fail less than three months 
later. Ive seen a copy of an invoice dated 12 October 2022 for diagnostic work carried out 
by the manufacturers garage, which records the car to have covered 62,237 miles by that 
point. It says:Found cam belt twisted, possibly snapped  Found 2 x rockers not seated correctly on 
valves, possible valve damage. Also found timing belt idler worn and hanging off.
In their final response letter, Alphera accepted that this issue meant the car wasnt of the 
standard Mrs R was entitled to expect under the CRA. As Ive seen no evidence to suggest 
otherwise, I agree that this engine failure was most likely to have been due to the car not 
having been of satisfactory quality when it was supplied. I think Mrs R was reasonably 
entitled to expect more than seven months and 5,000 miles use of the car before the engine 
failed.
Did Alphera do enough to put things right?
Alphera have provided a copy of their records, which Ive reviewed. Ive seen that, when Mrs 
R first complained to them about the ongoing problems with the car, she told Alphera that 
shed prefer to reject it. As shed already given the dealer more than one opportunity to 
resolve the issues with the car by that point, Im satisfied that she was entitled to exercise 
the right to reject.
Alpheras records show they spoke to Mrs R before formalising the offer set out in their final 
response letter. I think that approach was fair and reasonable. Alpheras records show Mrs R 
emailed her acceptance of this proposal on 1 February 2023 - and they acknowledged 
receipt of her acceptance that same day.  
As Mrs R had asked Alphera to repair the car, the CRA makes it clear that they must do so 
within a reasonable time and without significant inconvenience to her. Alpheras records 
show Mrs R called them four times in February 2023 for an update as to when the car would 
be returned to her. Ive seen that she repeatedly told them shed been without a car since it 
broke down, over four months earlier. 
Alpheras records show Mrs R chased them again on 3 March 2023, saying shed had to 
wait 40 minutes for an ambulance to take her mum to hospital because she had no car. Mrs 
R told us she was given a courtesy car later that day, after contacting the dealer direct. 
I dont think Alphera did enough here. By this point I think it was clear that they were in 
breach of their obligation to repair the car within a reasonable time and without significant 
inconvenience to Mrs R. So, I think she was entitled to exercise her final right to reject it. 
Mrs R has told us that she collected the car from the dealer on 13 April 2023. But she says 
she had to return it the next day because there was still a problem with it. Shes told us that 
she eventually collected it again on 28 June 2023. 
Mrs R told us that, on both occasions, she only agreed to pick the car up because she 
needed something big enough to transport her young children. She says she still wants to 
exercise her right to reject it due to all the problems shes had with it. Im satisfied that she 
had - and still has - the right to do so.
This means Alphera should make arrangements to collect the car and bring the agreement 
to an end. As Mrs R has continued using the car since it was repaired, I think its important 
for me to draw her attention to the term of the agreement that requires her to return it to 
Alphera in good condition. Her monthly rental payments will continue to be payable until the 
date the car is collected.
Mrs R told us that she had no car at all from 7 October 2022 until 3 March 2023. She says 
she had a very small courtesy car from 3 March 2023 and 28 June 2023. She says she 
didnt have the use of a car with the same amount of space in the boot until 28 June 2023.I think Mrs R should pay for the use shes had of this car before 7 October 2022 and after 28 
June 2023. But if Alphera havent already done so, they should refund the monthly payments 
Mrs R made for the period between 7 October 2022 and 3 March 2023. And they should 
refund 20% of the payments shes made for the period between 3 March 2023 and 28 June 
2023, to reflect the fact that she didnt have the use of a comparable car at that time. 
I think being supplied with a car that wasnt of satisfactory quality has caused Mrs R 
significant inconvenience, which has gone on for many months. She told Alphera that she 
didnt have a car at all for five months, which disrupted her work as well as causing practical 
difficulties with transporting her young children, their car seats, pram, and trike. 
And its clear to me that shes been caused considerable distress and upset due to the 
problems with this car. Ive seen evidence showing she repeatedly chased Alphera to try to 
get this situation resolved. She told us that having no car at all  and then a car that was too 
small for her needs  caused her a huge amount of stress and anxiety which shes found 
incredibly draining. 
So, I think Alphera should pay Mrs R £500 compensation for the distress and inconvenience 
shes been caused. 
For the reasons Ive explained, I intend to uphold this complaint and direct BMW Financial 
Services (GB) Limited, trading as Alphera Financial Services to:
Arrange to collect the car, on a date to be agreed with Mrs R and at no cost to her.
End the agreement, with effect from the date on which the car is collected.
Refund all monthly payments Mrs R has made for the period between 7 October 
2022 and 3 March 2023, if this hasnt been done already.
Refund 20% of the monthly payments Mrs R has made for the period between 3 
March 2023 and 28 June 2023.
Pay Mrs R interest on each of the above amounts to be refunded, calculated from the 
date of payment until the date of settlement at 8% simple per year. 
Pay Mrs R £500 for the distress and inconvenience shes been caused. 
Remove any adverse information thats been recorded on Mrs Rs credit file about 
this agreement.
If Alphera consider tax should be deducted from the interest element of the award, they 
should tell Mrs R how much theyve taken off. They should also give her a tax deduction 
certificate if she asks for one, so she can reclaim the tax if shes eligible. 
I invited both parties to send me any further information or comments theyd like me to 
consider. Mrs R said she was happy with the proposed outcome and had nothing further to 
add. Alphera didnt respond. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As no new information or comments has been provided in response to my provisional 
decision, I see no reason to change my mind. My final decision
For the reasons I explained in my provisional decision, I uphold this complaint and direct 
BMW Financial Services (GB) Limited, trading as Alphera Financial Services to:
Arrange to collect the car, on a date to be agreed with Mrs R and at no cost to her.
End the agreement, with effect from the date on which the car is collected.
Refund all monthly payments Mrs R has made for the period between 7 October 
2022 and 3 March 2023, if this hasnt been done already.
Refund 20% of the monthly payments Mrs R has made for the period between 3 
March 2023 and 28 June 2023.
Pay Mrs R interest on each of the above amounts to be refunded, calculated from the 
date of payment until the date of settlement at 8% simple per year. 
Pay Mrs R £500 for the distress and inconvenience shes been caused. 
Remove any adverse information thats been recorded on Mrs Rs credit file about 
this agreement.
If Alphera consider tax should be deducted from the interest element of the award, they 
should tell Mrs R how much theyve taken off. They should also give her a tax deduction 
certificate if she asks for one, so she can reclaim the tax if shes eligible. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs R to accept or 
reject my decision before 28 October 2023.
 
Corinne Brown
Ombudsman