DRN-3390492
The complaint
Mrs N complains that ReAssure Limited (at the time Legal & General) gave her 
unsuitable advice to transfer from her Occupational Pension Scheme (OPS) to a 
personal pension.
What happened
Mrs N was advised by L&G (now ReAssure  for ease of reference Ill only refer to ReAssure 
from now on) to transfer her OPS benefits into a Personal Pension with it in 1993. 
In October 1994, the then regulator, the Securities and Investment Board, set up an 
industrywide review of certain types of advice that was given between 29 April 1988 and 30 
June 1994. It was generally known as the "Pension Review". It aimed to address concerns 
about the possible widespread mis-selling of Personal Pension Plans between these dates. 
Where mis-selling was identified, the regulator set out the method and assumptions that 
firms had to use to determine the level of any redress due. The review was intended to be a 
one-off exercise to put right any damage caused by poor advice. Where compensation was 
offered, it was calculated based on the methodology and assumptions about what would 
happen between the review and retirement age. The assumptions and methodology were 
set by the regulator and businesses were required to follow them. 
ReAssure carried out a Pension Review for Mrs N in 2000, which it said was carried out in 
line with the guidelines set by the regulator. The review concluded that Mrs N had suffered a 
loss due to the advice to transfer out of her OPS. It offered Mrs N £3,492.13 to put things 
right and she accepted this in full and final settlement. 
More recently Mrs N complained that she should be put back in the position she wouldve 
been in had she remained in the OPS. But ReAssure responded to say that this transfer had 
already been considered and it wouldnt look at it again. Our investigator looked into matters, 
but he agreed that ReAssure didnt need to do anything further to put things right. However, 
Mrs N disagreed because at the time she felt pressured to accept the offer and it has 
become clear the offer was derisory. And shes lost out on a lot of benefits in retirement.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The crux of Mrs Ns complaint is that she was given bad advice by ReAssure and she will be 
worse off, for having left her OPS. However, this has already been considered under the 
Pension Review. Mrs N accepted this in full and final settlement of any claim against the 
business. And this is how the regulator directed businesses to look at mis-selling under the 
Pension Review. 
ReAssure accepted in 2000 that the advice Mrs N received may have been unsuitable and 
so calculated whether a loss had occurred. The intention was that the Pension Review would 
compensate Mrs N for the losses she would later experience when she came to retire. The 
regulator provided assumptions for firms to use when carrying out the loss calculations. 
These assumptions attempted to predict future loss by determining things like future 
investment returns. At the time most pension providers got specialist agencies to do much of 
the reviews. And businesses carrying out the reviews were subject to internal and external 
quality checks by the regulator. So, Im satisfied that the review was likely carried out 
correctly. ReAssure has also sent us the calculation from the time, whilst we dont have 
access to actuarial services to check these calculations, Ive looked at the calculation and 
cannot see any errors in the data input.
Unfortunately, the assumptions used in the Pension Review calculations havent in hindsight 
turned out as expected. Investment returns were much lower than predicted and annuity 
rates have fallen. This has meant many people have ended up with a shortfall in their 
Personal Pensions compared to what they wouldve got within the OPS. But the Pension 
Review was designed to be a one-off process which was based on what the regulator at the 
time considered to be a fair methodology, using reasonable assumptions for future growth 
rates. Its unfortunate that the expected growth rates havent come to realisation, and I 
sympathise with Mrs Ns position here. But this isnt a reason to undertake the Pension 
Review once again. It was designed to provide finality to both parties, so that a business 
such as ReAssure was able to provide redress for instances of mis-selling, but also so that it 
knew that it wouldnt have additional unknown liabilities in the future. This was important for 
the stability of the industry and consumer confidence in financial services more generally. 
But it was also designed to reassure consumers such as Mrs N that the error had been 
recognised and addressed at that point in time  as Ive said above, using what were 
considered to be reasonable assumptions - without the need to revisit the matter many years 
later. 
I appreciate that Mrs N felt she wasnt given much time to consider the offer but looking at 
the offer letter it was dated 16 January and Mrs N signed to accept the offer on 22 February 
 the deadline being 27 February. So, I think this was a reasonable amount of time. Mrs Ns 
also said she there was no mention of an alternative offer, so she felt it she had to accept it 
by the deadline. But the offer letter also set out that if Mrs N was unhappy with the offer she 
should let ReAssure know and a member of senior management would look into the 
concerns. And details were provided of our predecessor the Personal Investment Authority 
Ombudsman if she wished to complain. 
I am sorry to hear of the position Mrs N finds herself in because of the advice she received 
to transfer her OPS. And I can completely understand her frustration with whats happened 
since she accepted the offer  and her realisation that she will be substantially worse off in 
retirement. But as the transfer has been reviewed as it was required to be by the regulator at 
the time  which I think represented a fair and reasonable resolution to the issue then  
there isnt fair and reasonable grounds to look at redressing this matter again.
My final decision
For the reasons explained above, I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs N to accept or 
reject my decision before 24 June 2022.
 
Simon Hollingshead
Ombudsman