DRN-4132779
The complaint
Mr M complains about the service received from Idealing.com Limited when trying to access 
his online account.
What happened
Mr M was locked out of his online Idealing account after the password was entered 
incorrectly three times.
Idealing tried telephoning Mr M to restore access but the calls werent answered so they sent 
an email. Mr M replied asking to be called on a telephone number different to that registered 
on his account. Because the number didnt match the records from when the account was 
opened they asked Mr M to verify his identity by either sending a scanned copy of his 
passport or attending one of their offices. 
Mr M wasnt happy with either of those options so complained to Idealing who maintained 
their position and didnt uphold the complaint. Mr M then brought his complaint to this service 
where one of our Investigators looked into what happened. They thought Idealing had acted 
fairly and reasonably in the options given to restore access to the account. 
Mr M disagreed saying he wasnt sending a copy of his passport by email and that he didnt 
have the time nor the inclination to visit the Idealing office. Because an agreement couldnt 
be reached the matter has come to me for a decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr M has provided a lot of information about this complaint and I want to assure him that Ive 
read and considered everything that has been provided. 
I think its important to say that its not the role of this service to tell a business like Idealing 
what policies and procedures they should put in place. Instead I need to consider if a 
business has treated a consumer fairly and reasonably when implementing those policies 
and procedures. And looking at what happened here Im satisfied thats the case.
When dealing with our Investigator Mr M said they couldve sorted this out with one phone 
call anytime they felt like it, and have instead chosen to be difficult.
Idealing did try to telephone Mr M on more than one occasion using the number registered to 
his account. The reason Idealing have asked Mr M to verify his identity is because he asked 
them to call him on a different number to the one that was registered. Seeing that the 
telephone call is to unlock online access to his account, and a new telephone number was 
given for contact, I think verifying his identity is a reasonable request. Idealing are treating 
Mr M fairly by following their security procedures in order to protect access to his account. 
The two options given to Mr M are to either send a scanned copy of his passport or to attend 
an Idealing office. Mr M has said why he feels neither option is suitable to him. However I 
havent seen any persuasive reasons, such as vulnerability or accessibility needs, that would 
mean Idealing should treat him differently outside their usual policy. 
Mr M said that other businesses make it possible to reset passwords online, and Im sure 
that is true. But, as Ive said above, Idealing are free to set their own policies and 
procedures, which means they might be different from other businesses. This doesnt mean 
theyve done anything wrong. 
Having carefully considered everything Im satisfied Idealing are treating Mr M fairly and 
reasonably in verifying his identity in order to restore access to his account. So I wont be 
asking them to do anything further.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, my decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 19 June 2023. 
Warren Wilson
Ombudsman