DRN-4101305
The complaint
Mr M complains that West Bay Insurance Plc (West Bay) cancelled his motor insurance 
policy without notifying him. 
What happened
Mr M says he agreed a motor insurance policy with West Bay over the phone in September 
2022. In November he noticed a smaller amount than expected had been collected for his 
monthly premium. He contacted West Bay and was told he hadnt provided a V5 logbook, 
driving licence information, proof of his no-claims bonus (NCB) and proof of his address. 
Because of this his policy was due to be cancelled on 16 November.
Mr M says he was initially told over the phone when agreeing the policy that no further 
information was needed. He also says he received no letter or email from West Bay asking 
for this information. He couldnt provide the information in time to prevent the cancellation 
and says he is now being charged more for his insurance with another provider, because of 
the cancellation record. 
In its complaint response West Bay says its policy terms allow it to validate Mr Ms policy. It 
says it sent a letter by post on 20 October 2022 requesting information by 5 November. As 
no response was received it says it gave Mr M nine days notice that it would cancel the 
policy on 16 November. It says Mr M called on 11 November. West Bay told him he could 
prevent the cancellation by providing the information requested. 
West Bay says it followed its procedures correctly. But if Mr M provides the validation 
documents it requires it will remove the cancellation record currently held on the Consumer 
Underwriting Exchange (CUE) database. 
Mr M didnt think this was fair and referred the matter to our service. Our investigator didnt 
uphold his complaint. He says West Bays policy terms allow it to validate Mr Ms policy  
and he didnt respond to its request for information. He says it didnt act unfairly when 
cancelling the policy when this information wasnt provided. Our investigator thought West 
Bays offer to remove the cancellation record on provision of the requested documents was 
reasonable. 
Mr M didnt agree. He says hes paying more for his new insurance policy and doesnt want 
to risk sending personal information to West Bay. 
As an agreement couldnt be reached the complaint has been passed to me to decide.     
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so Im not upholding this complaint. Im sorry to disappoint Mr M but I will 
explain why I think my decision is fair. 
Ive read Mr Ms policy terms and conditions to understand what is expected to happen in 
these circumstances. The terms under the heading Cancellation say:
We may cancel your policy if there are serious grounds to do so such as non-payment, 
failure to provide requested validation documentation (proof of No-Claims Discount, Security, 
copy Driving Licences etc) Where we cancel we will provide seven days prior written 
notice to your last known address unless we are required to cancel earlier.
I acknowledge what Mr M says about the initial phone call when agreeing his policy. More 
specifically, that he wasnt asked to provide the information West Bay subsequently asked 
for. In response West Bay says it can make a validation request at any point during the 
lifetime of the policy.  
I dont doubt Mr Ms recollection of the initial call he had with West Bay. But I dont think it 
acted unreasonably when it later asked for documents to validate certain information about 
his policy.
West Bay has supplied copies of the letters it wrote to Mr M requesting supporting 
documentation. I can see these letters were addressed correctly. The dates on the letters 
correspond with the screenshots from West Bays system records. The records show these 
letters were generated and the correct notice was provided prior to cancellation. 
When Mr M called West Bay on 11 November 2022, he was told that he still had time to 
provide the requested documents. I acknowledge his comments that he couldnt provide this 
information in the five days remaining. However, I dont think West Bay acted unfairly here. 
Im satisfied that it provided written notice of the information it needed and gave the 
appropriate notice prior to cancelling Mr Ms policy. 
Ive thought about Mr Ms concern that hes paying more for his current insurance policy as a 
result of the cancellation record West Bay applied. However, West Bay confirmed in its 
complaint response that it will remove the cancellation record if Mr M provides the validation 
documents he was asked to provide. I dont think this is unreasonable. Mr M can then 
contact his current insurer to query his premium once the cancellation record has been 
removed. 
I understand Mr Ms concerns about providing this information to West Bay. But I dont think 
its unusual for an insurer to need sight of this type of documentation. Id expect West Bay to 
have processes in place to handle information securely. Ive no reason to consider this isnt 
the case. 
In summary although Im sorry Mr M was distressed when his policy was cancelled, I dont 
think West Bay acted unfairly when relying on its policy terms to take the action it did. So, I 
cant reasonably ask it to do anymore. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 9 August 2023.
 
Mike Waldron
Ombudsman