DRN-3720482
The complaint
Mr T has complained about the interest rates National Savings and Investments 
(NS&I) applied to his Guaranteed Growth Bonds (GGB) when he renewed them in 
2020 upon maturity.
What happened
Mr T had two bonds which were coming to maturity in December 2020. One on
11 December (account number ending 1845  Bond A) and the other on 12 December 
(account number ending 7356  Bond B). The auto-renewal option for both bonds was 
for a three-year term at an interest rate of 0.4%. The NS&I system allowed for a customer 
to go online to choose their options for maturing bonds a month before maturity.
After receiving the maturity letters in November Mr T went online to review the 
options available and was offered the following:
One-year term at 1.10%
Two-year term at 1.20%
Three-year term at 0.4% (the auto-renewal rate)
Five-year term at 1.65%.
On 16 November Mr T chose the following options online:
For Bond A he chose 
     £10,675.26 invested into a five-year term GGB at 1.65% 
  For Bond B he chose 
£7,472.68 invested into a one-year term GGB at 1.10%.
The interest rates that were actually applied were different:
For Bond A the interest rate was 0.55%
For Bond B the interest rate was 0.10%.
Mr T wasnt happy with the interest rates that were applied, and he raised a complaint.
In NS&Is final response letter it said:
On 11 and 12 November it had sent him secure messages confirming his 
two GGBs were coming up to maturity. When Mr T had gone online to 
make his choices on 16 November the website showed incorrect interest 
rates.
After the bonds matured Mr T was sent maturity statements confirming the 
new investments with the correct interest rates.
It offered Mr T the option to close his account without penalty and it offered its 
apologies and paid £30 into Mr Ts bank account for the inconvenience caused.
Mr T wasnt happy with the response and told us:
What NS&I had done may be illegal under online consumer contract law. 
NS&I should honour the interest rates he had committed to.
NS&Is application of its rules was one-sided. 
The point made about the maturity letters was irrelevant. His correspondence with 
NS&I was electronic. He had received an email saying his GGBs were coming up 
for renewal and was directed to the website. He had gone onto the website to 
renew his maturing bonds and selected the term lengths and the interest rates that 
were offered. He didnt read the letters that had been sent separately and even if 
he had, the interest rates may have changed in the meantime, and he questioned 
how was he to have known they were wrong when he applied online. 
Mr T also told us he had checked the terms and conditions and they were showing 
even higher interest rates so contacted NS&I via an online chat to let them know 
and the person he chatted to didnt understand what he was trying to say and 
closed down the chat.
Mr T had committed to the interest rates he was offered when he made his 
online selection. 
The option NS&I offered of closing his account would cost him hundreds of 
pounds over five years and he thought legally and morally NS&I should honour 
the original rates.
The investigator who considered the complaint thought that NS&I should do more than it 
had already offered. They said:
It had been agreed this was an error on NS&Is website but rather than asking 
NS&I to honour its mistake the investigator would consider what Mr T would have 
done if he had been provided with the correct information at the time he renewed 
his bonds.
Mr T had said that if he had known the actual rates he would likely have shopped 
around and thought that those comparable interest rates would have been about 
1% or more.
The investigator thought Mr T had lost out financially because of NS&Is error. 
The final response letter clarified the correct interest rates and it was the point 
at which Mr T could have moved his money to earn a better interest rate.
The investigator didnt think it was unreasonable for Mr T to have relied on 
the information he saw online.
As it couldnt be known what Mr T would have invested into if he had been aware 
of the correct interest rates, the investigator reviewed interest rates from the time. 
She thought for Bond A Mr T could have earned around 0.90% on a five-year 
bond. For Bond B he could have earned around 0.5% on a one- year bond.
The investigator said NS&I should pay those rates from the start date of the 
new bonds to one week after the final response letter was issued. 
The investigator also thought Mr T should not pay any exit fees if he chose to 
leave. In response to the investigator Mr T made some points:With reference to consumer finance law, surely this service had a role in 
upholding the law for consumers. Mr T had made an online contract with NS&I 
and why was it that NS&I could walk away from the contract.
He didnt think it was right to stop the higher interest payment in March 2021. Mr T 
had left his money in the bonds as he believed NS&I should honour the rates.
NS&I didnt agree with the investigator. In its response it said:
It didnt agree redress should be offered to one week after the final response 
letter was issued. It said that after maturity of the bonds it had sent Mr T maturity 
statements showing the correct interest rates and gave him the right to cancel 
within 30 days.
When Mr T called in December it had explained the difference in rates. 
It had offered Mr T cancellation in December, but he hadnt taken that option and 
the funds remained invested.
The second of our investigators who considered the complaint asked for further 
information from NS&I. And after reviewing the information received issued an additional 
opinion about the complaint. He said:
He remained of the opinion it wasnt unreasonable for Mr T to have relied upon 
the online interest rates at the time of the renewal and he thought it was fair to 
use the final response letter dated 18 March 2021 as notification of the correct 
rates that applied.
Mr T had been caused frustration and inconvenience and some financial loss and 
could have shopped around for a higher interest rate. But he also thought it 
wouldnt be fair to expect NS&I to provide the higher interest rate for the entire 
bond term after Mr T had been made aware he could cancel without charge.
He thought the £30 payment was fair for the inconvenience caused but that Mr T 
should be refunded the difference in interest rates between the start date of the 
new bonds in December 2020 and one week after the final response letter was 
issued  so 25 March 2021. Again, this was to allow a week for Mr T to shop 
around if he wanted to. He also thought Mr T should be able to exit without 
penalty.
NS&I didnt agree with the investigator:
Mr T called NS&I on 5 January 2021 requesting the cooling off period be extended 
until the complaint was investigated by NS&I, to which it agreed, as well as a 
penalty free exit in its final response. Mr T remained invested.
The maturity letters it said it sent in November included a summary box 
which confirmed the correct interest rates as did the maturity statements 
dated 9 and 14 December as well as including the cooling off period of 30 
days in the latter.
Both parties asked for an ombudsman to consider the complaint. And Mr T made 
some comments for the ombudsman to review:
Mr T didnt recall in detail the call of 5 January 2021 but thought that what NS&I 
had said made sense. He had not been told of the outcome to his complaint at 
that point and it would have been logical for him to ask for an extension to the 30-
day cooling off period until the outcome was known.
Mr T had remained invested as he hoped the ombudsman would find in his 
favour and compel NS&I to honour the interest rates that he had applied for.NS&I had agreed its website showed the wrong interest rates at the point of 
renewal. There was nothing in the terms and conditions tick box compelling Mr T 
to read the renewal letters or that NS&I could unilaterally break the online 
contract. The maturity letters were irrelevant as Mr T went straight to the renewal 
options on NS&Is website. And he reiterated the point about how he was to 
know the rates hadnt changed from when the letters were sent to when he went 
online  which he would expect to be more up to date than the letters.
Mr T said that he believed he had agreed to an unbreakable online contract and 
if NS&I was legally allowed to unilaterally change the contract they had with him 
then the investigators proposed solution was fair. But if NS&I was not legally 
allowed to change an interest rate unilaterally then it wasnt a fair outcome and 
he would welcome an ombudsmans view.
He felt strongly this service needed to take a view on the legality of what NS&I 
had done in changing the terms of the contracts.
As both parties requested the complaint be reviewed by an ombudsman, it was passed to 
me for decision. I issued my provisional decision explaining that I intended on reaching a 
different conclusion than the investigator. But I asked both parties to give me anything 
further they wanted me to consider before I issued my final decision. Heres what I said;
The contract
Mr T has requested that I consider whether NS&I was legally allowed to unilaterally 
change the contract he had with it when it altered its interest rates that applied to his 
renewed bonds. This services role is to decide whether a firm acted fairly and reasonably 
in the individual circumstances of a complaint. While its clear it would be for a court to 
decide whether a contract was formed, breached or how to remedy it  I consider it 
appropriate for me to have regard to the relevant law when considering what leads me to a 
fair and reasonable outcome.
And for Mr Ts complaint, the relevant law I have to take into account is contract law. I say 
this because I dont think its unreasonable to conclude  or that its disputed by the parties 
 that a contract was entered into between Mr T and NS&I when he renewed his bonds 
online. Mr T was offered interest rates specifically for his account and which he went onto 
accept. NS&I offered terms to Mr T and he accepted those terms.
I also think its reasonable to say that its accepted by the parties that NS&I made an error 
when it says it misquoted  on its website  the interest rates that would apply to the 
renewal of Mr Ts bonds. It acknowledged this in its final response letter to Mr Ts 
complaint. The error wasnt caused by Mr T.
So, this was an error made by only one of the parties. In other words, it was a unilateral 
mistake  or unilateral change  as referred to by Mr T in his response to the investigator. 
And inevitably, in some circumstances, a unilateral mistake can lead to an unfair 
advantage to one of the parties to the contract. That is the case here and that party is Mr 
T as NS&I has said the rates he renewed his bonds at should never have been offered 
and were higher than the rates that it actually offered.
Bearing the above in mind, I have gone onto consider the impact of this unilateral mistake 
on the outcome to Mr Ts complaint and what would be a fair resolution.
In order for a unilateral mistake to void a contract  which is effectively what NS&I wants 
to do here  there are two key points that need to be considered. The first is whether the mistake relates to the fundamental terms and conditions of the contract. And the second 
is whether, in this case, Mr T was aware of the mistake and used it to his advantage.
Did the mistake relate to the fundamental terms and conditions of the contract?
Here, the mistake related to the interest rates to be paid on the bonds being renewed. I 
dont think its unreasonable to conclude that the interest rates are fundamental to the 
terms and conditions of the contract for both parties.
From Mr Ts perspective, it was the sole purpose of the bonds. For him, in exchange for 
investing his funds with NS&I, he was to receive a fixed interest rate for a fixed term in 
return. Mr T has made clear he would have looked elsewhere  he would have shopped 
around or invested for a longer term with another provider  if the interest rates NS&I 
offered werent attractive. So, I think its reasonable to conclude that from Mr Ts point of 
view those rates were fundamental to the terms and conditions of the contract he entered 
into. It was his primary reason for investing with NS&I.
And equally I would say the same for NS&I. As part of its business, it needed to offer 
competitive enough interest rate returns for it to be an attractive opportunity for 
investors over and above other product providers.
Overall, Im satisfied both parties would have considered the interest rates being offered 
as fundamental terms and conditions of the contract.
The second key point that needs to be considered for a contract to be void due to a 
unilateral mistake is whether the other party was aware of the mistake, and then used it 
to their advantage in forming that contract.
Was Mr T aware of the mistake and did he use it to his advantage?
I need to consider whether the interest rates were so obviously wrong, that Mr T was 
aware of the fact but continued investing in any event, to his advantage and consequently 
to NS&Is disadvantage.
First, Ive considered the interest rates themselves and whether they were so 
fundamentally different to what was available in the market at the time so as to have 
caused Mr T alarm about their accuracy. Would those rates have appeared to Mr T as 
being a manifest error in that the rates quoted were so obviously wrong?
I think its fair to say Mr T did have questions about the interest rates being offered. As Ive 
mentioned above, he told us he had checked the terms and conditions at the time of the 
renewal in mid-November which he says he had to confirm he had read, and they were 
showing even higher interest rates. He told us he tried to tell NS&I  via its online chat 
system  that its online system was showing lower interest rates than its terms and 
conditions. But he said the person he chatted to didnt understand what he was trying to 
say, and the chat was cut off.
NS&I has referred to the maturity letters which were sent to Mr T in November 2020 which 
included the correct interest rates. Mr T has said they were irrelevant as he went online 
and relied on the rates that were quoted there. I dont think thats an unreasonable point to 
make. And as mentioned above, I accept his point that the rates could have changed 
between the time he was sent the maturity letters and when he applied online which no 
doubt he would have considered to be more up to date in any event. I also accept he could 
only select what he was offered when he went online, and I agree that he wouldnt know if 
NS&I were displaying incorrect interest rates when he made his choice.After reviewing the research carried out by the investigator  who established that for both 
a one- and five-year bond using deposit amounts of £5,000 or more and £10,000 or more 
Mr T could have earned around 0.90% on a five year bond and around 0.5% on a one-
year bond  I dont think the difference was so significant so as to make Mr T aware that 
they were obviously wrong and that he shouldnt commit to them.
And as evidenced by the varying rates Mr T was being quoted by NS&I online and in its 
terms and conditions etc, rates changes constantly, so any change from what he may 
have been quoted at the outset would not be unexpected, and I dont think would have 
caused concerns. In conclusion, I dont think that Mr T would have, or ought reasonably to 
known he was being offered mistaken terms.
Overall, Im satisfied Mr T did act in good faith when committing to the bonds and I dont 
think that as a result of his reviewing the interest rates he would or ought reasonably to 
have concluded they were wrong. I havent seen anything to suggest that Mr T was aware 
that the interest rates were wrong, and that he then went on to take advantage when he 
agreed to those rates.
Im satisfied that for both tests  whether the mistake related to the fundamental terms of 
the contract, and whether the Mr T knew (or ought to have known) of the mistake and 
used it to his advantage  neither have passed for the consideration of whether the 
contract could be voided by NS&I.
As Ive referred to above, I have to have regard to the relevant law when considering this 
complaint. But my remit is broader, taking account of all the circumstances to decide what 
is fair and reasonable. And having done so, here Im satisfied it wouldnt be fair for NS&I 
to avoid the agreement it made with Mr T to pay interest rates of 1.65% for Bond A and 
1.10% for Bond B. I accept it made a legitimate mistake, but both parties need to ensure 
they enter into agreements carefully. Ive not seen anything here to persuade me it would 
be fair or reasonable for NS&I to change the term it offered to Mr T and that he accepted, 
after the fact.
I have to reach an outcome that I think is fair and reasonable and in the particular 
circumstances of this complaint its the law that leads to the fair outcome. I dont think it 
would be fair and reasonable for NS&I to depart from the contract taking into account the 
two tests I have referred to. Im satisfied its important to be fair to both sides. And when a 
customer enters into an agreement in error, it isnt just the case they can back out. I think 
the same applies here so, I dont think it would be fair for NS&I to void the contract under 
similar circumstances such as are apparent here. I think the contracts Mr T entered into 
when he renewed his two bonds should stand.
Putting the matter right
Ive concluded that I dont think the tests have been passed that would allow NS&I to 
void the contracts it entered into with Mr T when he renewed his bonds. It follows, that 
Im currently of the opinion that it would be fair and reasonable for NS&I to honour 
those contracts  and the terms it agreed to  in November 2020.
In response to my provisional decision Mr T said he was happy with the outcome. And he 
confirmed that he remained invested in the five-year bond, the one-year bond having 
matured in December 2021. 
We didnt receive a response from NS&I. What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive reconsidered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. 
In my provisional decision I said that in the particular circumstances of Mr Ts complaint it 
was the relevant law  contract law  that I have to take into account, and which leads to the 
fair outcome. And in order for NS&I to void the contract the two elements of that law that I 
had to consider was whether the mistake related to the fundamental terms and conditions of 
the contract and whether Mr T was aware of the mistake and used it to his advantage.
In my provisional decision, I concluded that a unilateral mistake had been made by NS&I  
that was accepted by the parties  and that mistake related to the fundamental terms and 
conditions of the contract  the interest rates. I also thought Mr T acted in good faith when 
he entered into that contract and hadnt knowingly taken advantage of NS&Is error. And I 
am still of the opinion that is what is relevant to the complaint.
On a similar case NS&I sent me a screenshot of what customers would see when they 
renewed their bonds and I think its likely Mr T would have seen similar. When Mr T gave his 
instructions, the website explained that the interest rate could change before the maturity 
date and he would be given the rate on offer when the investment matures. The customer 
was asked to tick to confirm they read the terms and conditions. And Mr T would have seen 
the annotation This interest rate could change between now and your maturity date. We will 
give you the rate on offer when your investment matures.  
Ive carefully considered this point, but I dont think that the inclusion in the summary box 
that interest rates could change between date of application and date of maturity makes a 
difference to my decision in this case. I say this this because its known that the interest rates 
that Mr T was offered  and which I think he accepted in good faith  were actually offered in 
error. And I dont think it would be right for NS&I to rely on the summary box annotation to be 
a catch all for any potential errors it may make. I dont think that would be fair and 
reasonable to the consumer. 
I think it would be reasonable to apply warnings to interest rates which were correctly offered 
and then did fluctuate, but this is a different. Its not the case here that the interest rates 
offered to Mr T fluctuated between acceptance and maturity. Its the case that the interest 
rates he was offered were wrong in the first instance so it doesnt follow that those particular 
interest rates would fluctuate as they were outside of the rates that were actually being 
offered by NS&I.  
So, and referring back to the relevant contract law that Im of the opinion applies to this 
complaint, I remain of the view that the tests havent been passed that would allow NS&I to 
void the contracts entered into when Mr T renewed his bonds online. 
Putting things right
To put the matter right NS&I should honour the contracts entered into and the interest rates 
that Mr T agreed to when he went online to renew his bonds in November 2020. Those 
interest rates should be applied from the date the earlier bonds matured and the renewed 
bonds started in December 2020 to the date of maturity.My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained I uphold Mr Ts complaint and National Savings and 
Investments should put the matter right as detailed above. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr T to accept or 
reject my decision before 28 October 2022.
 
Catherine Langley
Ombudsman