DRN-4040024
The complaint
Mrs Bs complained that Aviva Life & Pensions UK Limited have unfairly declined the claim 
she made under the total permanent disability section of her critical illness policy.
What happened
In December 2012, Mrs B bought a life and critical illness policy from Aviva.  The policy term 
was five years  so it expired in December 2017.
Towards the end of the policy term, Mrs B was experiencing mobility issues which limited her 
ability to live independently.  So, in early 2017, she submitted a claim to Aviva under the 
total permanent disability section of her policy.
Aviva declined the claim.  They said Mrs B didnt meet the criteria for a claim under this 
section, because she could complete the tasks of daily work against which claims were 
assessed.  And they noted from Mrs Bs medical notes there were further treatment options 
to explore.  So they couldnt say her disability was permanent.
Mrs B complained about Avivas decision.  When Aviva didnt resolve the complaint to her 
satisfaction, Mrs B referred it to our service.  The complaint was considered by an 
ombudsman who didnt uphold the complaint.
In spring 2021, Mrs B submitted new medical evidence to Aviva and asked them to 
reconsider their previous claim decision.  Aviva said the policy had expired in December 
2017.  So they needed to consider whether the new evidence showed Mrs B met the policy 
criteria before then.  They said the new evidence Mrs B produced (a medical report from 
2020 and the result of an ultrasound scan done in 2021) didnt show this  so they didnt 
change their claim decision.
Mrs B wasnt satisfied with Avivas response and brought a new complaint to our service.  
Our investigator considered it and concluded Aviva didnt need to any more to resolve it.  He 
said he couldnt look at the original claim decision  only whether Aviva had considered the 
new evidence fairly against the policy terms.  He was satisfied theyd done this. 
Mrs B didnt agree with our investigators view.  So Ive been asked to make a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done that, Im not upholding Mrs Bs complaint.  I hope it will help her understand my 
decision if I explain my reasons for making it.
I cant reconsider any elements of Mrs Bs original complaint which the previous ombudsman 
looked at.  So, like our investigator, Ive confined my decision to considering how Aviva dealt 
with the evidence they received from Mrs B in 2021.
To make a claim for total permanent disability, the policy sets out that Mrs B must be unable 
to undertake at least three of six tasks of daily work.  That needed to be the case before 
the policy term expired in December 2017.
Information originally submitted confirmed Mrs B could not do two of the tasks (lifting and 
bending).   The 2020 medical report focused on two of the other six tasks (climbing and 
walking).  It concluded:
on the balance of probabilities, Mrs B is not able to complete four of the six tasks of 
activities of daily living [sic] before the age of 65.
Ive read the report carefully.  Its dated May 2020  approximately 2 years after the policy 
term expired and just over 18 months after Mrs Bs 65th birthday.  
And, while Ive noted the contents  in particular the conclusion quoted above  the doctors 
assessment is based on observation of Mrs B in 2020.  Ive also seen the tests werent fully 
carried out.  The doctor observed Mrs B walking for a shorter distance than the test required 
and noted that she could do this  albeit that it caused her pain.  So I cant conclude the 
examining doctor assessed Mrs B against the full policy criteria to reach the conclusion they 
did.
Most significantly, the report doesnt give any information about Mrs Bs abilities up to the 
end of the policy term in December 2017.  While the information Ive seen has left me in no 
doubt about Mrs Bs current difficulties, it doesnt persuade me they existed during the life of 
the policy.  So I cant say it was unreasonable for Aviva not to change their assessment of 
the claim.
Similarly, the ultrasound scan result records the position in April 2021.  It shows there had 
been deterioration in Mrs Bs joint since an X-ray done in 2016.  But it doesnt show that 
deterioration occurred before the end of 2017, or that the joint issue meant Mrs B fulfilled the 
policy criteria before the term expired.  
So I cant say Avivas assessment of the new evidence was unfair.  And that means I dont 
think they need to do any more to resolve Mrs Bs complaint.  
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, Im not upholding Mrs Bs complaint about Aviva Life & 
Pensions UK Limited.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs B to accept or 
reject my decision before 27 April 2023.
 
Helen Stacey
Ombudsman