DRN-1851792
 
The complaint
Mr L says Tesco Personal Finance PLC mis-sold payment protection insurance (PPI) 
alongside a credit card in December 1998.
What happened
In December 1998 Mr L applied for a Tesco credit card by post. At the same time, PPI was 
added to the account. The PPI would pay 10% of what Mr L owed when he stopped work for 
up to 12 months if he was off work sick or lost his job. The cost of the policy was charged to 
the account, so Mr L would repay this with interest in line with the accounts terms and 
conditions.
Mr L thinks the PPI was mis-sold.
Our adjudicator looked at the complaint and thought it should be upheld. Tesco didnt agree. 
The complaint has been referred to me to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding Mr Ls case.
Ive decided the complaint should be upheld. Ill explain why.
Based on what Ive seen, the PPI was added to the account at the same time as it started  
so I think its Mr L applied for the policy by post as part of the application for the credit. So I 
dont think Tesco advised Mr L to buy the policy. This means it didnt need to check if the 
PPI was right for Mr L  but it did need to make sure hed get the information hed need to 
work out for himself whether he wanted it.
Im not satisfied that Tesco made the terms and conditions of the policy clear enough. In 
particular, this policy excluded medical conditions which Mr L knew about on the start date. I 
cant see that this was highlighted anywhere on the application form  and the policy 
document is closely worded so I dont think its likely Mr L would have seen this. 
This is significant as, in his complaint, Mr L mentioned a number of operations in 2003 and 
2008. We asked him for further details of what happened. He said hed had a medical 
condition since his late teens  and was first operated on at that time. He also explained that 
hed had another procedure for a related condition earlier in 1998, and that hed been unable 
to work for eight months. 
Im not persuaded Mr L would have bought he policy if hed understood that pre-existing 
conditions werent covered. Given the underlying condition appears to have been chronic 
and ongoing, I think this would have mattered to Mr L. So I dont think Mr L would have 
bought the policy if Tesco had given Mr L enough information about it. And I think Mr L has 
lost out because of what Tesco did wrong.
Ive taken into account Tescos comments. It thinks what Mr L has said hasnt always been 
consistent. But I see that Tesco said in its final response that one of Mr Ls concerns was 
that he had pre-existing medical conditions. I find what Mr L has said plausible and 
persuasive, and nothing Ive seen gives me cause to doubt what hes said. So this doesnt 
change my conclusion.
Putting things right
Tesco should put Mr L in the financial position hed be in now if he hadnt taken out PPI. The 
policy should be cancelled if it hasnt been cancelled already and:
A. Tesco should find out how much Mr L would owe on his credit card if the policy hadnt 
been added to it.
So, it should remove the PPI premiums added, as well as any interest charged on those 
premiums. It should also remove any charges that were caused by the mis-sale of the 
PPI  as well as any interest added to those charges.
Tesco should then refund the difference between what Mr L owes and what he would 
have owed.
If Mr L made a successful claim under the PPI policy, Tesco can take off what he got for 
the claim from the amount it owes [him/her].
B. If  when Tesco works out what Mr L would have owed each month without PPI  Mr L 
paid more than enough to clear his balance, Tesco should also pay simple interest on 
the extra Mr L paid. And it should carry on paying interest until the point when Mr L 
wouldve owed Tesco something on his credit card. The interest rate should be 8% a 
year.
C. Tesco should tell Mr L what its done to work out A and B.
 HM Revenue & Customs requires Tesco to take off tax from this interest. Tesco must give 
Mr L a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if he asks for one.My final decision
For the reasons above I uphold the complaint. Tesco Personal Finance PLC should put 
things right by doing what Ive said above.
 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr L to accept or 
reject my decision before 15 July 2020.
 
Edward Hardman
Ombudsman