DRN-3175479
The complaint
Mr T complains that Oxbury Bank PLC (Oxbury) gave misleading information about its online 
banking facility. Mr T also complains about the service provided by Oxbury and that it didnt 
send him information in the format he requested. 
What happened
In May 2021 Mr T opened an account with Oxbury over the phone. During the call, Mr T 
asked about the process of setting up online banking. Oxburys advisor said the online 
banking system required two devices, including a smart phone, to access it. 
Several days later, Mr T contacted Oxbury and asked it to send him a copy of his transaction 
history. A document was sent to Mr T containing the information he wanted but it wasnt in 
the agreed format and wasnt signed. Mr T emailed Oxbury later that day and an updated 
copy was sent to him. 
Around two weeks later, Mr T called Oxbury for help setting up his online banking facility. 
Mr T went on to raise a complaint about the information he was given concerning online 
banking and format of the transaction history he was sent. 
Oxbury agreed to pay Mr T £50 to resolve his complaint. The settlement was paid around 
three weeks later. Mr T raised further concerns over the time taken to pay the settlement. 
Mr T referred his complaint to this service and it was passed to an investigator. They thought 
Oxbury had dealt with Mr T fairly and didnt ask it to do anything else. Mr T asked to appeal, 
so his complaint has been passed to me to make a decision.
 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive listened to all Mr Ts calls with Oxbury, including the call where Mr T asked about the 
availability of online banking and how the process worked. The call handler explained two 
devices were required, one of which had to be either a smart phone or tablet so an 
application (app) could be downloaded. The call handler told Mr T that the app would be 
used as part of a two stage authentication process. During the call, the call handler 
confirmed the app would be required even if Mr T wanted to access his online banking via a 
laptop. 
When Oxbury responded to Mr Ts complaint it said the information provided by its call 
handler couldve been clearer and paid him £25. Im satisfied thats a fair way to deal with 
this part of Mr Ts complaint and recognises the information provided couldve been clearer. 
When Mr T called Oxbury to check his transactions he asked for a mini statement to be 
emailed to him. The call handler agreed to send the information via PDF to Mr T but it wasnt 
signed or sent in an acceptable format. After Mr T sent a follow up email, Oxbury replaced 
the transaction history with a signed copy later the same day. I think that was a fair approach 
and gave Mr T the information he wanted. I note Oxbury also agreed to pay Mr T £25 to 
apologise. I think that payment fairly reflects what happened. 
Oxbury agreed to pay Mr T a total of £50 to try and resolve his complaint. It took about three 
weeks for Oxbury to arrange the payment. As our investigator said, we cant generally 
consider complaints about how long it takes to settle a case. And I note that when Mr T 
contacted Oxbury it explained the settlement was subject to some checks and then paid. 
Im sorry to disappoint Mr T but Im satisfied Oxbury has paid a settlement that is fair and 
reasonable in all the circumstances. As a result, Im not telling it to take any further action. 
My final decision
My decision is that I dont uphold Mr Ts complaint because Oxbury Bank PLC has already 
paid a settlement that is fair and reasonable in all the circumstances. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr T to accept or 
reject my decision before 24 February 2022.
 
Marco Manente
Ombudsman