DRN-3020058
The complaint
Ms K complains that Aviva Insurance Limited ended her mobile phone insurance and 
continued to collect policy premiums. 
What happened
Ms K had a mobile phone policy insured by Aviva. The policy was sold and administrated by 
another business which Ill refer to as C.
Ms K says she took out the policy in November 2004 and hadnt made a claim until she 
called in October 2020 to claim. In the call C told her the policy had expired as it was only 
valid for five years. Ms K says policy premiums had been taken from her bank account for 
over 16 years. C told her the policy had new branding but Ms K says she hadnt received 
any updated policy documents and when she asked for updated terms and conditions she 
hadnt received them.
Ms K says if the policy only lasted for five years the premiums shes paid over the additional 
10 or more years should be refunded to her plus interest.
C handles claims and complaints under the policy for Aviva. It doesnt agree with the 
information Ms Ks given. It says:
Ms K bought a policy in January 2000, policy number ending 57 and Aviva covered 
her phone at the time
in December 2001 Ms K claimed for a damaged phone. In May 2003 Ms K upgraded 
her phone. In January 2004 Ms K claimed for a lost phone and upgraded her phone. 
In October 2004 Ms K claimed for a lost phone. In July 2013 Ms K upgraded her 
phone. At each of the above events it sent Ms K policy documents and in July 2013 
she was sent the latest policy terms and conditions at her request
on 17 March 2015 Ms K policy was cancelled in error. Due to the age of the policy it 
was no longer available. It spoke to Ms K and created another policy, number ending 
35 and her phone at that time was transferred to the new policy. It would have sent 
Ms K the new policy documents for policy number ending 35 at that point but it cant 
evidence that
in 2019 it sent Ms K an email to inform her the branding of the policy was changing, 
the level of cover and premiums would stay the same and theres a link to the policy 
terms and conditions in the email which says the policy is valid for five years 
in March 2020 Ms K paid her last policy premium and the policy ended as the 
maximum term of five years had been reached. It would have written to tell Ms K the 
policy was coming to an end
when Ms K called in October 2020 she asked if she could view the policy online, she 
didnt ask to make a claim.
Our investigator said :
Aviva received, and would be responsible for refunding, the premiums so Ms Ks 
complaint was about Aviva, not C
Aviva acted fairly in not refunding any policy premium to Ms K as her phones were 
covered from January 2000 to March 2020 and Aviva received the final premium 
from Ms K in March 2020
the policy number ending 35 was clear it was valid for five years and he thought Ms K 
has been sent that information
if Ms K wanted to complain about how the policy number ending 35 had been sold 
she would need to complain to C who sold the policy.
Ms K disagrees and wants an ombudsmans decision. In summary she said:
her complaint was about C, not Aviva, so she doesnt need to complain again to C
she thinks that in 2015 her policy may not have been cancelled by mistake and the 
new policy may have been mis-sold. She wants C to answer her queries around that 
issue
she hadnt made any claims since October 2004 but still had to pay premiums for the 
other 16 years even though she had no benefit under the policy. The upgrade of 
phones wasnt a benefit of the policy
she didnt recall asking for the policy documents in 2013 and wants C or Aviva to 
provide the call recording
she didnt receive policy documents in 2019 and never had confirmation the policy 
ended in March 2020.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Aviva is the insurer of the policy and if appropriate it would be responsible for the refund of 
any premium. As Ms K is seeking a refund of premiums Aviva is the correct business for this 
complaint to be about. 
Ms Ks raised several concerns around the sale of the policy number ending 35. The policy 
is sold by C and I havent seen anything in the policy that says C is acting as Avivas agents 
for the sale. So if Ms K wants to pursue the issues she raised around the sale shell need to 
complain to C. If agreement cant be reached she can complain to us to consider.
I have to decide whether Aviva acted fairly and reasonably in ending the policy number 
ending 35 and not refunding any policy premiums to Ms K, and I think it did. I dont uphold 
this complaint. Ill explain why.
Ms Ks phones were insured from January 2000 until March 2020 under the policies with 
numbers ending 57 and then 35. I understand Ms K upgrading her phones wasnt a benefit 
under the insurance policy. But even though Ms Ks last claim was in 2004 she still had the 
benefit of being covered if she needed it. Ive no evidence that Ms K paid any premiums after March 2020. Theres no evidence that a premium was taken from Ms Ks bank account when 
the policies werent active. So theres no basis for me to say Aviva should refund any of the 
premiums. 
Aviva accepts there was error in cancelling Ms Ks initial policy number ending 57 in 2015. 
But it then insured Ms Ks phone under the new policy. Given the time passed Aviva cant 
provide the terms and conditions for the policy number ending 57, so its not clear if that 
policy was also time limited. If not that may form part of Ms Ks concerns under any mis-sale 
complaint she makes against C. 
The new policy number ending 35 said:
If you pay your premiums monthly, your policy will continue on a monthly basis, for a 
maximum of 5 years, unless it is cancelled by you or us before then.
Aviva says the policy documents for policy number ending 35 would have been sent to Ms K 
in 2015 but it accepts it cant evidence that. Even so, Im satisfied Aviva could rely on the 
policy term to end the policy in March 2020. Its provided us with the email C sent to Ms K in 
2019. Aviva has given us two dates for when the email was sent, 30 January and 5 July 
2019. Its not clear if the information was sent on one or both of those dates. But I think its 
more likely than not the email was sent on at least one of those dates. The email had 
bespoke information for Ms K and was sent to an email address Ms K has confirmed she 
uses. The email contained a link to the policy terms. I think Ms K probably was sent 
information about the policy terms in 2019, even if not in 2015. 
I dont need to listen to the 2013 call recording to hear if Ms K asked for the policy terms as 
they arent the policy terms Aviva relied on to end the policy number ending 35.
Overall, I think Aviva fairly ended the policy number ending 35 in March 2020.
Aviva says Ms K would have been written to about the policy coming to an end around 
March 2020. Ive seen no evidence that happened. Even if not, overall I dont think Ms K was 
substantively disadvantaged by a letter not being sent. I think C had already sent Ms K 
information about the policy terms which told her about the time limit for the policy. Also 
Ms K phoned C in October 2020 about seven months after her final premium was taken for 
the policy. I think thats enough time for her to have realised the payment was no longer 
leaving her bank account and make alternative insurance arrangements. 
In addition, Ive listened to the October 2020 call and I cant hear that Ms K asked C about 
making a claim. She told C shed seen information about the Financial Conduct Authority 
making a finding about Cs mis-sale of policies and she wanted to check her policy. C told 
her the policy had ended. Its possible Ms K might have gone on to tell C she wanted to 
claim if shed not been told the policy had cancelled. But even if she had called to make a 
claim, for the above reasons I still think Aviva acted fairly and reasonably.
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms K to accept or 
reject my decision before 30 September 2021.
 
Nicola Sisk
Ombudsman