DRN-4054555
The complaint and background
Mr R complains that PrePay Technologies Limited (PrePay) will not refund money he lost to 
a scam. For the purposes of this decision, all reference to Mr R includes his representative.  
Mr R searched online for a way to obtain proof of a particular qualification card that would 
help him gain employment. He came across an advertisement on Facebook that offered the 
card at a very good price and made contact with the individual, who Ill call A. Upon 
exchanging messages, A claimed to be an agent of the relevant industry provider and told 
Mr R that he could arrange the license if he paid £800 or so. Happy with this, Mr R made a 
£800 faster payment using his PrePay account. The money was transferred to an account A 
held with Cashplus Bank (Cashplus) on 13 September 2021. 
Mr R then received an email from the industry provider explaining that the payment had 
been unsuccessful, and it needed to be made again in order to secure the license card. It 
was explained that the payment session had expired, so Mr R needed to try again. This 
made sense to Mr R and he was keen to secure the license as the price was much cheaper 
than other providers hed found. So, Mr R made another payment on the same day. 
However, A then contacted Mr R and cautioned him that he had become involved in what 
was a criminal enterprise. A threatened Mr R, claiming that the license cards were so cheap 
because they had been obtained fraudulently, and by purchasing one Mr R had implicated 
himself by association. Mr R was very concerned about this and A persuaded him to make 
further payments to release himself from the illicit scheme  Mr R thought he would no 
longer be culpable if he could buy a way out of his involvement in the criminal racket. 
Ultimately, Mr R went on to send a series of faster payments to A over the course of the next 
week. In the end, he transferred A approximately £7,800 from his PrePay account. All of the 
payments went to As account with Cashplus. Mr R hadnt intended to remit this much even 
when threatened of being exposed by A but was tricked into thinking that payments had 
been unsuccessful when in fact they had gone through and left his PrePay account. 
On 20 September 2021, after making the final payment to A, Mr R reported what happened 
to PrePay. It had dawned on him that the emails hed been receiving from the industry 
provider were fake and part of the fraudulent venture that A was behind; he had never 
actually procured the license. Mr R raised that he had been scammed and asked PrePay to 
recover the money from Cashplus. No money was retrieved, so Mr R raised a complaint, 
which PrePay didnt uphold. He then referred the dispute to this office. 
One of our investigators concluded that PrePay should not be held liable for Mr Rs loss. 
Because Mr R disagrees, the matter has been escalated to me to decide.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
PrePay is an authorised electronic money institution (EMI), providing payment solutions for 
consumers like Mr R. In accordance with the various principles of good industry practice it 
accepts that it should follow, PrePay ought to be on the look for suspicious activity and 
endeavour to protect consumers from the risk of financial harm posed by fraud (amongst 
other things). Accordingly, the starting point is whether PrePay had grounds to intervene or 
even stop the payment instructions Mr R made on the basis of suspected fraud.
When considering this, I must bear in mind that there is a balance to be struck between 
identifying payments that could potentially be fraudulent and minimising disruption to 
legitimate transactions. Also, delaying a payment instruction could lead PrePay to breach the 
relevant regulations.
Having considered the particular circumstances of this case, I do not think it would be 
reasonable to expect PrePays systems to have been triggered by the authorised payments 
in dispute. There is a lack of persuasive evidence that these transactions were significantly 
unusual or uncharacteristic compared with Mr Rs normal account activity in recent times. 
Not least, because they were made over the course of several days and were interspersed 
with separate account movements that interrupted their sequence. 
Mr R frequently remitted money to multiple payees, which often followed credits into the 
account. From the looks of the account statements, Mr R had a habitude for receiving funds 
and then paying them to various destinations. It wasnt a significant deviation from how the 
account was typically run when Mr R instructed PrePay to pay As account with Cashplus for 
the first time on 13 September 2021. Rather, this resembled a number of comparable 
transactions Mr R had made in the past year or so. 
By way of example, in the months leading up to September 2021, Mr R transferred a number 
of payments to another EMI (which have not been raised as part of this scam). Whats more, 
the amounts paid were more often than not higher than the largest contended payment to A.  
I accept that, with the first payment, A was set up as a new account being paid (otherwise 
known as a payee). Still, Ive duly borne in mind that the fundamental purpose of an EMI 
account is to facilitate purchases. Its common for consumers to use the facility to pay 
individuals and business entities for an array of different purposes. The point being, noticing 
an out of character payment amongst a host of new payees is not straightforward in this 
context. 
This rings true with Mr Rs PrePay account; its not in question that he made transfers of 
money repeatedly to different entities. His available balance was not suddenly drained by the 
disputed transactions to the extent that no funds remained, or the account became 
overdrawn. Nor, were there lots of payments to A in quick succession (which might have 
indicated to PrePay that something untoward was happening). On the contrary, in my 
judgment, the spending at the material time was in keeping with Mr Rs typical expenditure. 
Besides that, we know that Mr R had borrowed money from acquaintances before  his 
statements reflect a multitude of loans (that then looked to have been subsequently paid 
back). Consequently, receiving money in to quickly pay it out again was not uncharacteristic 
for the account. That being the case, when this occurred again in September 2021, Im not 
persuaded PrePay was presented with a scenario that demonstrated a marked change from 
Mr Rs normal account conduct, or that the behaviour was overly suspicious. 
All things considered, I am not satisfied there were sufficient grounds to have expected 
PrePay to have intervened with the payments in question. Indeed, based on his 
representations, Mr R has seemingly accepted this.   I turn next to PrePays reaction to Mr R making it aware of the scam. Pursuant to the best 
practice standards PrePay should adhere to, notifying the receiving bank (which would be 
Cashplus in this payment journey) in a speedy manner is critical to returning monies to 
consumers. Whilst there isnt a strict timeframe prescribed, an immediate notification is 
what should be strived for when being made aware of the need to block or recover funds. 
Here, PrePay was put on notice of the scam on 20 September 2021 but first made Cashplus 
aware some four days later. As I see it, this is not in keeping with the direction for immediate 
action. Its my understanding that it was possible to quickly establish that Mr R had a valid 
claim and there is no compelling explanation for why PrePay didnt alert Cashplus sooner. 
Even so, I am not convinced that, but for PrePays delayed reaction, Mr R would likely have 
reclaimed his money. I say so because, while PrePay should endeavour to act in a more 
timely manner (which, for completeness, it has not disputed), whether Mr R received some 
or all of the money that was sent was very much dependant on Cashplus. 
I make it clear that my determination here is on the acts and omissions of PrePay as the 
respondent firm  I make no finding on Cashplus. Mr R submitted that Cashplus would have 
been able to retrieve the money he sent to A had PrePay informed it earlier, so this office 
requested the expected timescales that Cashplus would work towards in such a situation. 
Having done so, I understand that Cashplus would ideally look to act on the notification 
within two working days (which in this case would be the same as two calendar days). 
What this means is that, had PrePay made an immediate claim, its more likely than not this 
still would not have meant Mr R would have recouped what he paid A. Its evident from the 
statements provided by Cashplus that the £7,800 or so that was paid had already been 
disbursed from As account by close of business on 22 September 2021. Moreover, by the 
time Mr R raised the alarm with PrePay two days prior, less than half of his total payments 
remained in As account  meaning the chances of getting back his money was limited to 
£3,800 or less. 
In other words, even if Cashplus had been able to observe its ideal service standards (which 
it should be said are dependent on resource availability), its more likely than not that it 
would have been unable to get back what Mr R has sadly lost, because all of this money 
would have left As account by that time or very shortly afterwards. I must make my decision 
on the balance of probabilities, and everything suggests it was improbable that Mr R would 
have gotten back any of what he paid to this cruel scam even if PrePay had done as it ought 
to. On balance, I find it likely that there simply would not have been enough time for an 
effective recovery, based on how quickly the money became irretrievable.  
It's also important to point out that, under these circumstances, a receiving payment 
institutions decision to restrict or block an account accused of receiving the proceeds of 
fraud is entirely its own; this is dependant on its own investigation and commercial decision-
making. PrePays notification to Cashplus did not necessitate a restriction of the receiving 
account, as it would be up to Cashplus to assess the validity of the request. Hence, why it is 
difficult to ascertain exactly how long it would take to fulfil a claim from end to end. 
To conclude, I appreciate that Mr R has been the victim of a sophisticated and distressing 
scam, one that has meant he incurred a substantial financial loss. But despite my natural 
sympathy, I cannot safely decide that PrePay ought to be held liable, both on account of 
prevention and recovery. It follows that I do not require it to take any further action here.  My final decision
For the reasons given above, my final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision before 2 May 2023.
 
Matthew Belcher
Ombudsman