DRN-4149573
The complaint
Mrs B and Mr K complain about the quality of repairs carried out by West Bay Insurance Plc 
(trading as Zenith) after they made a claim under their home insurance policy.
Mrs B and Mr K are joint policy holders. As most of the communication relating to the 
complaint has been from Mrs B, Ill refer mainly to her in my decision.
Zenith is the underwriter of this policy i.e. the insurer. Part of this complaint concerns the 
actions of its agents. As Zenith has accepted it is accountable for the actions of the agents, 
in my decision, any reference to Zenith includes the actions of the agents. 
What happened
In mid-2022, Mrs B made a claim under her home insurance policy with Zenith after her 
house was damaged in a fire. Part of the damage was to the guttering. 
Zenith arranged for part of the guttering to be replaced. However, Mrs B raised concerns that 
it was leaking, and this was causing damp issues inside her property. She complained to 
Zenith that it hadnt replaced the guttering in full.
Zenith said the section of the guttering that had melted in the fire had been replaced, using 
the existing brackets. It said it had met its obligation to Mrs B by restoring the guttering to the 
way it was before the incident occurred. It said its contractors had assessed Mrs Bs 
propertys guttering and that of neighbouring properties and concluded that they all appeared 
to have the same guttering issue. The issue she was experiencing was not due to the 
contractors having replaced the fire-damaged section of guttering incorrectly. Zenith paid 
Mrs B £200 for delays and customer service issues.
Mrs B remained unhappy and asked our service to consider her concerns about the 
guttering and painting she said hadnt been done. 
Our investigator looked into the matter but didnt think her complaint should be upheld. He 
Didnt think Zenith had treated Mrs B unfairly. He said the information provided strongly 
suggested Zenith restored Mrs Bs property to its pre-fire damaged condition, which is what it 
was expected to do.
Mrs B disagreed with our investigators outcome. She said she wasnt requesting a 
modification to her guttering, but she did expect the plastic piece to be fitted correctly so its 
returned to its original state, when there wasnt a leak. She questioned how Zenith could 
have assessed this wasnt an issue when they did not come back to assess it.  
Mrs B also commented that the front soffit was not painted as claimed. She provided 
photographs and videos of the outside of her house as well as a Google street view image to 
show the condition of the property prior to the fire.
Our investigator reviewed the additional information Mrs B had sent, but it didnt change his 
opinion. He didnt think there was enough evidence to support that the issue with the 
guttering didnt exist before the fire.  He wasnt persuaded that there was a significant 
change to the fascia that could be deemed to have been as a result of the fire. 
As Mrs B didnt agree with our investigators outcome, the complaint has been passed to me 
to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided not to uphold Mrs B and Mr Ks complaint. Ill explain why.
The policy terms say Zenith will cover loss or damage to the building caused by a listed 
event, which includes fire. The terms also say: if repair or replacement is carried out, we 
will cover the cost, including fees, to repair or replace that part of the property which is lost or 
damaged. So, Zenith was only required to repair damage that was caused by the fire.
Zenith says only a section of the guttering needed to be replaced, and this was done using 
the existing brackets. It says the positioning and slope of the guttering was the same as it 
had been before the fire occurred. 
Zenith says contractors attended the property to inspect the leaking gutter issue after Mrs B 
raised concerns about it and has provided their comments:
The issue with the gutter is pre-existing and not down to the works we have carried out. The 
issue is due to the fall on the small return area of guttering, the only work we carried out was 
to replace a section of guttering, we did not adjust the falls only replace the guttering like for 
like
The contractor concluded that the issue was as a result of the down pipe being at the rear of 
the property. They said neighbouring properties suffered from the same issue, but the 
majority of properties on the street had eliminated it by fitting a second down pipe to this 
area at the front of the property. I can see from images on Google Maps that several 
neighbouring properties have down pipes at the front.
The contractor also commented that neighbouring properties were trying to alleviate the 
same issue Mrs B was experiencing by forcing the gutter as high as it could possibly go to 
try and achieve some sort of fall. Zenith has shared photographs taken by the contractor 
which appear to support this.
Mrs B says the plastic piece of the guttering wasnt fitted correctly and the tile is slightly 
slipped. She says this has caused a leak that wasnt there prior to the fire. Shes provided 
photographs and videos of the guttering, but it isnt clear from these that the guttering was 
incorrectly fitted. The guttering in the pictures of the house after the work was carried out by 
Zenith looks similar to images showing on Google Maps that were taken before the fire. 
Ive also seen the surveyors report that was completed a few days after the fire. This 
includes a photograph of a room with black mould on the wall. I appreciate Mrs B disputes 
the pre-existing damp was caused by the issue with the guttering. However, Ive seen no 
independent evidence to contradict what Zeniths contractors have said about the reason for 
the leaking guttering. 
Mrs B has also raised concerns about painting work not being carried out, despite Zenith 
saying it had been completed.Ive compared the photographs from the site visit that took place a few days after the 
incident with the more recent ones Mrs B has provided. It looks like the damaged white soffit 
has been painted. 
The video Mrs B has provided suggests shes concerned that the brown fascia hasnt been 
painted. However, theres no mention of the fascia being damaged in the surveyors report. 
The fascia in Mrs Bs photographs and video looks to be in a similar condition to what is 
showing on the Google Maps image taken a couple of years before the fire, with marks in 
the same places. So, Im not persuaded that the fascia was damaged by the fire. 
The terms of the policy only require Zenith to complete repairs to damage caused by the 
insured event (i.e. the fire). I havent seen sufficient evidence to show me that Zenith hasnt 
carried out the repairs it was required to complete. So, whilst I appreciate my answer will be 
disappointing for Mrs B, Im not persuaded that Zenith has acted unfairly.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, I dont uphold Mrs B and Mr Ks complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs B and Mr K to 
accept or reject my decision before 27 July 2023.
 
Anne Muscroft
Ombudsman