DRN-2880056
Complaint
Mr O has complained that Bamboo Limited (Bamboo) irresponsibly provided him with 
unaffordable guarantor loans.
Background
Bamboo provided Mr O with an initial loan of £4,000.00 in June 2015. The loan was secured 
by way of a guarantee and indemnity agreement and was due to be repaid in 36 instalments 
of around £195.00. The loan had an APR of 49.7% interest of £3,012.14 and the total 
amount to be repaid was £7,012.14. Mr O settled this loan early in August 2016.
In November 2016, Bamboo provided Mr O with a second loan of £4,000.00. This loan was 
also secured by way of a guarantee and indemnity agreement. But this time it was due to be 
repaid in 24 instalments of around £247.00. The loan also had an APR of 49.7% but the 
shorter term meant interest of £1,925.99 was due to be repaid and this meant that the total 
amount to be repaid was £5,925.99.
Bamboo also provided Mr O with a third loan in November 2020. But that loan doesnt form 
part of this complaint and so isnt being considered in this decision.
One of our investigators looked at this complaint and thought that Bamboo hadnt carried out 
proportionate checks before lending and that such checks would more likely than not have 
shown Bamboo Mr O wasnt able to sustainably repay these loans. Bamboo disagreed with 
our investigator and asked for an ombudsman to review this complaint.    
My findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about unaffordable/irresponsible lending - 
including the key rules, guidance and good industry practice - on our website. And Ive 
referred to this when deciding Mr Os complaint. 
Having carefully thought about everything, I think that there are two overarching questions 
that I need to answer in order to fairly and reasonably decide Mr Os complaint. These two 
questions are:
1. Did Bamboo complete reasonable and proportionate checks to satisfy itself that Mr O 
would be able to repay his loans in a sustainable way?
oIf so, did it make a fair lending decision?
oIf not, would those checks have shown that Mr O wouldve been able to do 
so?
2. Did Bamboo act unfairly or unreasonably in some other way?
Did Bamboo complete reasonable and proportionate checks to satisfy itself that Mr O would 
be able to repay his loans in a sustainable way?
Bamboo provided these loans while it was authorised and regulated by the Financial 
Conduct Authority (FCA). The rules and regulations in place required Bamboo to carry out 
a reasonable and proportionate assessment of Mr Os ability to make the repayments under 
these agreements. The assessment is sometimes referred to as an affordability 
assessment or affordability check.
Any checks had to be borrower focused  so Bamboo had to think about whether repaying 
the loan sustainably would cause difficulties or adverse consequences for Mr O. In practice 
this meant that Bamboo had to ensure that making the payments to the loan wouldnt cause 
Mr O undue difficulty, adverse consequences or require him to borrow further to make 
payments. 
In other words, it wasnt enough for Bamboo to simply think about the likelihood of it getting 
its money back, it had to consider the impact of the loan repayments on Mr O. The existence 
of a guarantee and the potential for Bamboo to pursue the guarantor instead of Mr O, for the 
loan payments doesnt alter, lessen, or somehow dilute this obligation.
Checks also had to be proportionate to the specific circumstances of the loan application. 
In general, what constitutes a proportionate affordability check will be dependent upon a 
number of factors including  but not limited to  the particular circumstances of the 
consumer (e.g. their financial history, current situation and outlook, and any indications of 
vulnerability or financial difficulty) and the amount / type / cost of credit they are seeking. 
Even for the same customer, a proportionate check could look different for different 
applications.
In light of this, I think that a reasonable and proportionate check ought generally to have 
been more thorough:
the lower a customers income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make 
any loan repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income);
the higher the amount due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income); 
the longer the term of the loan (reflecting the fact that the total cost of the credit is 
likely to be greater and the customer is required to make payments for an 
extended period); and 
the greater the number and frequency of loans, and the longer the period of time 
during which a customer has been given loans (reflecting the risk that repeated 
refinancing may signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, 
unsustainable).
There may also be other factors which could influence how detailed a proportionate check 
shouldve been for a given loan application  including (but not limited to) any indications of 
borrower vulnerability and any foreseeable changes in future circumstances. 
Ive carefully thought about all of the relevant factors in this case.
Were Bamboos checks reasonable and proportionate?Bamboo says that Mr O completed an online income and expenditure assessment. Mr O told 
Bamboo that his monthly income was £1,636.00 at the time of loan 1 and £2,169.00 at the 
time of loan 2 and that he didnt pay any rent as he was living at home with his parents. 
Bamboo ran a number of automatic checks against the details Mr O provided, including 
cross-referencing his income declaration against bank account data.
Mr O was also recorded as having monthly expenditure of £1,104.30 at the time of loan 1 
and £454.49 at the time of loan 2. This was made up of living expenses (based on Office of 
National Statistics (ONS)) data and repayments on existing credit calculated from the 
results of the credit searches. 
In Bamboos view these checks showed Mr O had enough monthly disposable income to 
comfortably maintain the Bamboo loan repayments with a good buffer to ensure that he 
would be financially resilient against a financial shock, such as an unexpected expense. 
And all of this meant it was reasonable to lend.
Ive carefully thought about what Bamboo has said but I have significant concerns about the 
rigour it applied to its affordability assessment, in light of the other information it gathered 
and had to hand.
To explain, the credit checks Bamboo carried out showed that he Mr O had significant 
difficulties repaying credit in the period leading up to these applications. Indeed the data 
suggested regular missed payments, repeated applications of short-term loans and 
indications Mr O might have been borrowing further to repay previous loans. 
I have also concerns with Bamboos use of ONS data to calculate Mr Os living expenses. 
While the FCAs guidance in CONC 5.2A.19G (which was brought in after these loans were 
taken out but nonetheless provides a reasonable indication on the regulators thoughts on 
the use of such data) permits the use of statistical data to estimate a prospective borrowers 
non-discretionary expenditure, its fair to say this provision also states that it is unfair to rely 
on such data where it is unlikely to be reasonably representative of the prospective 
borrowers situation. 
Bamboo used ONS data, which was based on the finances and expenditure of the average 
consumer, to estimate Mr Os living expenses. But Bamboo knew, when it lent to Mr O, that 
it was providing a loan to someone who fell outside this average portfolio. Indeed Bamboo 
says that it often lends to consumers who have an impaired credit history, so it seems odd to 
be relying on data from those who are unlikely to fall within this portfolio. 
I dont think that using ONS data  which is unlikely to reflect the existing commitments and 
expenditure of someone in Mr Os circumstances is fair, reasonable and proportionate 
especially bearing in mind that Bamboo took no steps to actually verify his income  Im not 
persuaded that cross checking against credit reference data was verifying Mr Os income.
 
Furthermore, Im also concerned how Bamboo seems to have accepted at face value that  
Mr O had a monthly disposable income of over £500 a month at the time of loan 1 and over 
£1,500.00 a month at the time of loan 2, yet needed to borrow £4,000.00 on such 
disadvantageous terms and also involve a guarantor. So Im satisfied that Bamboos checks 
threw up a number of questions which meant that it would have been reasonable and 
proportionate for Bamboo to verify the income and expenditure Mr O provided. 
Bearing all of this in mind, as Bamboo didnt take steps to verify Mr Os income and 
expenditure and instead chose to rely on what appears to have been obviously over-
optimistic (and somewhat unrealistic) calculations of his monthly disposable income, I dont think that its checks before providing Mr O with these loans were reasonable and 
proportionate.
Would reasonable and proportionate checks have indicated to Bamboo that Mr O would 
have been unable to sustainably repay these loans?
As reasonable and proportionate checks werent carried out before these loans were 
provided, I cant say for sure what they wouldve shown. So I need to decide whether it is 
more likely than not that a proportionate check would have told Bamboo that Mr O wouldve 
been unable to sustainably repay these loan. 
Mr O has now provided us with evidence of his financial circumstances at the time he 
applied for these loans. Of course, I accept different checks might show different things. And 
just because something shows up in the information Mr O has now provided, it doesnt mean 
it wouldve shown up in any checks Bamboo mightve carried out. 
But in the absence of anything else from Bamboo showing what this information would have 
shown, I think its perfectly fair, reasonable and proportionate to place considerable weight 
on it as an indication of what Mr Os financial circumstances were more likely than not to 
have been at the respective times.
As Ive already explained, Bamboo was required to establish whether Mr O could sustainably 
make his loan repayments  not just whether the loan payments were technically affordable 
on a strict pounds and pence calculation. 
Of course the loan payments being affordable on this basis might be an indication that a 
consumer could sustainably make the repayments. But it doesnt automatically follow that 
this is the case. And as a borrower shouldnt have to borrow further in order to make their 
payments, it follows that a lender should realise, or it ought fairly and reasonably to realise, 
that a borrower wont be able to sustainably make their repayments if it is on notice that they 
are unlikely to be able to make their repayments without borrowing further. 
Ive carefully considered the information Mr O has provided in light of all of this. 
The information Ive been provided with shows that that Mr O was in a cycle of unsustainable 
borrowing where he was borrowing from a number of high-cost creditors in order to try and 
stay afloat. And the reason for Mr Os financial issues was because he was gambling 
unsustainable amounts of money. In these circumstances, I dont think that Bamboo would 
have lent if it knew, as I think it ought to have, that Mr O difficulties managing credit was 
mainly because of his gambling. And that his ability to repay this loan would, to in all intent 
and purpose, be based on his success as a gambler. 
Bearing all of this in mind, Im satisfied that reasonable and proportionate checks would 
more likely than not have demonstrated that Mr O would not have been able to make the 
repayments to these loans without borrowing further and/or suffering undue difficulty. And, in 
these circumstances, I find that reasonable and proportionate checks would more likely than 
not have alerted Bamboo to the fact that Mr O would not be able to sustainably make the 
repayments to these loans. Did Bamboo act unfairly or unreasonably towards Mr O in some other way?
Ive carefully thought about everything provided. Having done so, Ive not seen anything here 
that leads me to conclude that Bamboo acted unfairly or unreasonably towards Mr O in 
some other way.  
So I find that Bamboo didnt act unfairly or unreasonably towards Mr O in some other way.  
Did Mr O lose out as a result of Bamboo unfairly providing him with these loans?
As Mr O paid interest and charges on loans that he shouldnt have been provided with, Im 
satisfied that he has lost out as a result of what Bamboo did wrong. 
So I think that Bamboo needs to put things right.
Fair compensation  what Bamboo needs to do to put things right for Mr O
Having thought about everything, I think it would be fair and reasonable in all the 
circumstances of Mr Os complaint for Bamboo to put things right by:
refunding all interest, fees and charges Mr O paid as a result of having been provided 
with these loans;
adding interest at 8% per year simple on any refunded amounts from the date they 
were paid by Mr O to the date of settlement
removing any adverse information recorded on Mr Os credit file as a result of these 
loans.
 HM Revenue & Customs requires Bamboo to take off tax from this interest. Bamboo must 
give Mr O a certificate showing how much tax it has taken off if he asks for one.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, Im upholding Mr Os complaint. Bamboo Limited should put 
things right for Mr O in the way Ive set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr O to accept or 
reject my decision before 16 March 2022.
 
Jeshen Narayanan
Ombudsman