DRN-3484606
The complaint
Mr T is unhappy with the service he received from Nationwide Building Society surrounding 
his request to transfer his ISA from another provider to them.
What happened
In April 2021, Mr T submitted a request to transfer his ISA into Nationwide from another 
provider. Mr T then received a letter from Nationwide dated 13 April 2021 which advised that 
a new ISA account had been set up for him and that Nationwide would request the transfer 
of Mr Ts existing ISA balance from his current ISA provider, and that this process would be 
completed within 15 days. In response, Mr T asked Nationwide to not complete the transfer 
until after 3 May 2021, as this was the date his existing ISA would mature.
Mr T didnt hear anything further from Nationwide, but on 22 May 2021 he received an email 
from his existing ISA provider advising that his ISA balance had been rolled over into a new 
one-year fixed rate ISA paying interest at 0.35%. Mr T was unhappy about this, especially as 
the Nationwide ISA hed sought to move his money into paid a higher rate of interest at 
0.75%. So, he raised a complaint.
Nationwide looked at Mr Ts complaint. They explained that theyd made the transfer request 
to the other ISA provider, but that the request had been rejected. Nationwide then explained 
that in such circumstances they should have contacted Mr T to let him know that the transfer 
had been rejected, but that in this instance they appeared not to have done this. And 
Nationwide made a payment of £50 to Mr T to compensate him for this matter. 
However, Nationwide then updated their position to Mr T, advising that they had sent a text 
message to him advising him of the situation and asking him to contact Nationwide within 
five days. And, when Mr T didnt contact Nationwide within five days, his ISA transfer request 
was cancelled by Nationwide as per their process.
Mr T wasnt satisfied with Nationwides response, especially as he hadnt received a text 
message from Nationwide as Nationwide suggested. So, he referred his complaint to this 
service.
One of our investigators looked at this complaint. But they felt that Nationwide had been able 
to demonstrate that they had sent the text message to Mr Ts number that they said they 
had, and our investigator didnt feel that Nationwide could be considered as having acted 
unfairly towards Mr T by then cancelling the ISA transfer when Mr T didnt respond.
Mr T remained dissatisfied and maintained that he hadnt received any notification from 
Nationwide that there was an issue with his ISA transfer request. So, the matter was 
escalated to an ombudsman for a final decision.    
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I can appreciate how it must have been frustrating for Mr T to have discovered that his ISA 
transfer request to Nationwide had been cancelled by Nationwide because Mr T hadnt 
responded to a text message he had no record of receiving.
Its evident that Nationwide did submit the ISA transfer request to Mr Ts current ISA 
provider, but that this was rejected by Mr Ts current provider because of incomplete 
information. Nationwide then sent a text message to Mr T asking him to contact to them.
Im aware that Mr T feels that Nationwides ISA transfer form, which he completed in full and 
in accordance with that form, is lacking, given that when the contents of that completed form 
were used by Nationwide to request the ISA transfer from his current provider, it resulted in 
that transfer being rejected because of incomplete information. Specifically, Nationwides 
form didnt ask Mr T to input his existing ISA account reference number, which his current 
provider needed to locate Mr Ts account and complete the transfer.
I can appreciate Mr Ts position here, but Im satisfied that the information that Nationwide 
requested from Mr T on the ISA transfer form was sufficient for the majority of other ISA 
providers to have located his account, and I dont feel that Nationwide can be considered as 
having acted unfairly by not requesting a reference number that wouldnt usually be required.
Additionally, Im satisfied from the information that Nationwide have provided that they did 
send a text message to the telephone number they held on file for Mr T, and I note that this 
number is the same as the contact number that Mr T has provided to this service. This 
message was sent on 21 April 2021 and is recorded by Nationwide as having completed. 
And the message advised Mr T that there was an issue with his ISA transfer request and 
asked Mr T to contact Nationwide within 5 working days.
Mr T has said that he never received that text message, but given the information presented 
to me Im satisfied that it was sent by Nationwide and I feel that its more likely than not, on 
balance, that it was completed. Of course, this doesnt mean that Mr T saw the message, 
and I acknowledge that given that Mr T wasnt expecting such a message he may not have 
paid any heed to it or may perhaps have deleted it. Indeed, I note Mr T himself has said that 
many attempted scams are initiated via text message, so it seems plausible to me that the 
message was received, but that Mr T didnt appreciate its legitimacy or significance.
Whatever the reason, the fact that Mr T didnt see the message from Nationwide is 
unfortunate, as Mr T doesnt appear to have done anything wrong here. It could be 
suggested that Mr T should have monitored the ISA transfer more closely. But its notable 
that when Mr T contacted Nationwide to request that the transfer take place after 3 May 
2021 (the maturity date of his previous one year fixed ISA) he was told by Nationwide that 
the transfer would complete within 21 days following the maturity of his existing ISA. 
This leads to a date of 24 May 2021. But Mr T then received the notice from his current 
provider that his money had been rolled over into a new ISA account two days before that 
date, on 22 May 2021. So, its understandable to me that Mr T didnt monitor this transfer 
more closely up to receiving that notice, given that on the basis of the information hed 
received verbally from Nationwide he had no reason to believe that he would need to.
However, I also dont feel that Nationwide have done anything wrong here. I say this 
because when they received notice from Mr Ts current provider that further information was 
required to enable the transfer, they did attempt to contact Mr T about this via the text 
message, which as explained, Im satisfied that they sent.Im aware that Mr T feels that a text message wasnt an appropriate channel for Nationwide 
to use in this instance, but Nationwide have explained that because of the time limits within 
which ISA transfers must be completed that they choose to send such communications by 
text message as this usually elicits a more rapid response. This seems reasonable to me, 
and while I appreciate that Mr T didnt see the text message that Nationwide sent, I feel that 
this is unfortunate, rather than being an instance of Nationwide acting unfairly towards Mr T.
I also dont feel that Nationwide not issuing further communication to Mr T, such as repeat of 
the text message or a follow up telephone call, constitutes unreasonable behaviour by 
Nationwide here. And one reason I say this because Nationwide had confirmation that the 
text message had been delivered successfully, and that it was reasonable for them to have 
expected Mr T to have responded to it. 
All of which means that, while I can sympathise with Mr Ts position here, I dont feel that 
Nationwide have acted unfairly or unreasonably towards him. Consequently, I dont feel that 
Nationwide should fairly be held accountable for Mr T receiving a lower rate of ISA interest 
than would have been the case had the transfer been successful as Mr T would like here, 
and it follows from this that I wont be upholding this complaint.
I realise that this wont be the outcome that Mr T was wanting, but I hope that hell 
understand, given all that Ive explained, why Ive made he final decision that I have.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr T to accept or 
reject my decision before 7 July 2022.
 
Paul Cooper
Ombudsman