DRN-1679534
 
The complaint
Mr W complains that Liverpool Victoria Insurance Company Limited (LV) unfairly declined 
a claim for storm damage, under his buildings insurance policy.  
What happened
Mr W said he found some tiles had slipped on his roof after his neighbour made him aware. 
So he contacted LV to make a claim in May 2019. Mr W thinks the damage took place 
following a storm in early March 2019. 
Mr W said some minor internal damage occurred as a result of the leak, and he had limited 
accidental cover in place, but didnt wish to make a claim under this part of the policy. 
There were some complications with LV sending a roofer to Mr Ws home to assess the 
claim. Eventually, a roofer arrived at Mr Ws home a few days later. Mr W said the roofer 
didnt go up onto the roof but said they didnt think the damage to the roof was caused by a 
storm. Rather that the roof had failed due to wear and tear and showed signs of previous 
repairs. 
Mr W didnt agree with this, he said previous storm damage repairs had been carried out in 
2014 and 2016. He said that he thought the repairs in 2014 were inadequate, but Mr W said 
he made a further claim for storm damage in 2016. Mr W said the repairs in 2016 were 
carried out through his previous insurer. 
Mr W said no issues were present with his roof following the 2016 repair. 
LV sent a different roofer out to Mr Ws home. The other roofer also found that the damage 
wasnt caused by a storm and was due to nail fatigue and the age of the slates  and 
therefore considered it to be down to wear and tear. 
Mr W disputed this and said his home is at the top of a hill and more prone to being 
damaged by storm conditions. He also said that the same part of the roof had been 
damaged on separate occasions. Mr W maintains that his roof was in a good condition 
leading up to the claim in 2019. 
LV didnt agree with Mr W and said it wouldnt accept the claim. It sent Mr W a final response 
letter confirming this. 
Since LV declined the claim, Mr W has paid to have the work completed to repair his home. 
And he brought a complaint to this service because he thinks LV should reimburse the 
amount he paid for repairs, and compensate him for the distress and inconvenience caused. 
Our investigator looked into everything and thought the complaint should be upheld. She 
wasnt persuaded that LV had demonstrated that the roof failed due to nail fatigue  rather 
than a storm. She noted the photo LV relied on is an image of the front of the roof, and not 
the back where the damage occurred. She also looked at photos Mr W provided from 2016 that show repair work was completed to 
the left elevation, that the bitumen coating had been removed and the original tiles reused 
due to them remaining in a good condition. She considered the fact that the invoice Mr W 
provided shows most of the repair work was carried out to the left elevation, suggesting that 
no storm damage impacted other areas of the roof LV said were damaged due to wear and 
tear. So she was more persuaded, given the position of Mr Ws house, that the damage was 
caused by a storm. 
Our investigator recommended LV should reimburse the amount Mr W paid for repairs and 
pay him £150 for the distress and inconvenience caused. 
Mr W accepted our investigators view, but LV didnt. It sent further photos of Mr Ws roof 
and said that it showed evidence of nail fatigue, which was also the conclusion reached by 
two separate roofers. But this didnt change our investigators view as she didnt think the 
photos LV provided demonstrated nail fatigue was the dominant cause, and a storm wasnt. 
She also didnt agree the photos were of the damaged area to the left elevation. 
As no resolution could be met, the case has been passed to me to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint Having done so, I agree with our 
investigators view, for broadly similar reasons. Ill now explain why. 
Mr Ws policy doesnt specifically define a storm, but theres no dispute that the policy 
provides cover for him in the event damage is caused by a storm. 
These are common complaints and so this service has an established approach to 
considering whether an insurer has treated a customer fairly and reasonably. We start by 
asking three questions: 
1. Were storm conditions present on or around the date the damage is said to have 
happened? 
2. Is the damage claimed for consistent with damage a storm typically causes?
3. Were storm conditions the main cause of the damage? 
If the answer to all these questions is yes then we would say a claim should succeed. But, if 
the answer to any of these questions is no, then we usually wouldnt expect such a claim to 
be paid. 
Theres no dispute I understand thats present here over question one. Mr W couldnt be 
certain when a storm took place, but thought it occurred more likely than not around the 
early stages of March 2019 based on his recollection of storm-like conditions and his 
neighbour giving him the tiles that had fallen from his roof. LV doesn't dispute that storm 
conditions were recorded in early March 2019. 
What is in dispute here is whether the damage is consistent with a storm, or nail fatigue and 
wear and tear, and whether the storm conditions were the main cause of the damage. 
LV relied on two reports from roofers that both say the roof failed due to nail fatigue, and that 
a bitumen coating had previously been used to hold the tiles together, which is only a 
temporary fix and has also failed. 
Ive carefully considered all the information from LV and the photos both it and Mr W 
provided. But, like our investigator, on balance Im not persuaded that LV has demonstrated that the main cause of damage to the left elevation  where storm damage occurred twice 
previously in 2014 and 2016  was due to nail fatigue and wear and tear. Ill explain why. 
LV has relied on a common general exception Ive seen in most buildings insurance policies, 
which says it will not pay for: any claim arising from: anything which happens gradually 
including deterioration or wear and tear. We agree this term is fair in principle provided an 
insurer can demonstrate it has applied it fairly and reasonably. And I dont think LV has in 
this case. 
Mr W has previously had two repairs carried out to the left elevation in 2014 and 2016. In 
2016, Mr W said he had removed the bitumen coating which had begun to flake giving the 
roof an appearance of a poor condition. But I also note that the original tiles that slipped from 
the roof in 2016 were reused during the repairs due to them being in good condition. 
Repair work was completed in 2016 and Mr W didnt report any damage until his neighbour 
said some roof tiles had slipped. And as above, neither party is disputing that storm 
conditions were present in March 2019 when Mr W considers the loss occurred. 
LV has relied on photos of the front and main elevation of the roof. But Mr Ws recent repair 
invoice show that damage relating to the claim in 2019 was completed mainly on the left 
elevation. Mr W provided photos of the left elevation during the time repair work was carried 
out in 2016. Mr W says the photos he provided of the left elevation show the roof was in a 
good condition  which he said is evidenced by the fact that the original tiles were reused 
given their condition. I also consider that as work was completed as recently as 2016 to the 
area where damage occurred, on balance the area had been reasonably maintained. 
LV said that the entire roof was showing a poor state of repair. However, the damage in this 
claim was caused to the left elevation, whilst the remaining parts of the roof to the front and 
main elevation appear to remained in working order. I understand this isnt disputed by Mr W 
or LV either. 
Ive looked at the reports LV provided us. I appreciate both reports and LV conclude that the 
damage is due to nail fatigue. However, Im not in agreement LV has demonstrated that this 
was the dominant cause of the damage to the left elevation. I dont think the photos its relied 
on reasonably demonstrate that damage wasnt due to a one-off storm event, and that wear 
and tear is the main cause. I also note all parties acknowledge that the location of Mr Ws 
home being on top of a hill could make it more susceptible to storm conditions. 
LV looked at further photos Mr W provided of old damage. It said it considered the photos 
showed the slates were coated with bitumen coating and a problem with the slates some 
time ago. It said the photos also showed at that time ten slates were affected and yet the 
whole roof was re-tiled. 
Mr W did have the work LV referred to done and said the old slates that slipped were reused 
 rather than replaced. And so on balance I've not been persuaded there was an underlying 
issue present, rather that Mr W had work carried out to repair the damaged area of the roof 
which was caused by a storm. 
Therefore, and in summary, on balance Im not in agreement with LV that it has applied the 
above general exception fairly and reasonably here. I think its fair to say that the answer to 
all three questions cited above in this case is 'yes' based on what I've seen. And so, I think 
LV should pay Mr Ws claim. I note Mr W has now had the work completed and paid £2,500 
for work to be completed on the left elevation. LV said the amount Mr W paid was excessive given only roof tiles had slipped. Ive carefully 
considered this, but I dont think the scope of works described within the invoice dated from 
August 2019 appear unreasonable here. And Ive not been persuaded by LV otherwise. I 
think LV should cover the repair costs Mr W incurred because I dont think it acted fairly and 
reasonably by declining the claim, which resulted in Mr W having to source his own roofer to 
carry out the work. 
Ive considered whether I think LV has caused Mr W to experience a level of distress and 
inconvenience. Im in agreement there were some minor delays and inconvenience caused 
to by LV during the initial stages of the claim. I also note that as a result of the claim being 
declined Mr W had to source his own roofer and pay to have the works completed himself. 
Mr W said he is suffering with poor health and experiencing financial difficulty. And so Im in 
agreement that LV should pay Mr W £150 for the level of distress and inconvenience it 
caused Mr W by the way it handled the claim here. 
Putting things right
For the reasons set out above, my final decision is I uphold this complaint. I require Liverpool 
Victoria Insurance Company Limited to: 
Reimburse the costs Mr W incurred in having the repairs carried out to his roof; and 
Pay him £150 for the distress and inconvenience caused.  
My final decision
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision before 22 May 2020.
Liam Hickey
Ombudsman