DRN-2909877
The complaint
Mr and Mrs D are unhappy Barclays Bank UK PLC (Barclays) havent refunded them the 
£70,000 they lost in a scam.
What happened
The details of this case have been clearly set out by our investigator. As such, the facts are 
well-known to both parties, so I dont need to repeat them at length here. 
In summary:
On 27 and 28 August 2019, Mr and Mrs D sent £70,000 in two transactions to the 
account of a scammer. 
They did so under the mistaken belief that they were transferring money to their 
solicitor. The funds were to be used as the deposit for the purchase of a house.
Unfortunately, the email that was sent to Mrs D setting out the details of the account 
she should make the payment to hadnt been sent by the solicitor. It had been sent 
by a fraudster and made to look as if it were a legitimate email from the solicitor.
Barclays attempted to recover the money Mr and Mrs D had lost but were only able 
to recover £13,369.98 from the receiving bank. Barclays returned this amount to 
Mr and Mrs D along with an additional £709.16 (which it included as additional 
compensation  set at 8% simple interest).
The case was considered under the Contingent Reimbursement Model Code (CRM Code). 
This is a voluntary scheme Barclays has signed up to, designed to reimburse customers that 
have fallen victim to a scam. The starting position under the CRM Code requires firms to 
reimburse customers who have been the victims of authorised push payment (APP) 
scams like this in all but a limited number of circumstances.  
The circumstances where a firm may choose not to reimburse include (so far as they might 
be relevant to this complaint) where the firm can establish that: 
the customer ignored an effective warning by failing to take appropriate steps in 
response to that warning; or
where in all the circumstances, the customer made the payment without a 
reasonable basis for believing that: the payee was the person the customer was 
expecting to pay, the payment was for genuine goods or services, and/or that the 
person or business with whom they transacted with was legitimate. 
When assessing whether it can establish these things, the firm must consider whether they 
would have had a material effect on preventing the APP scam.
I am also mindful that when Mr and Mrs D made these payments, Barclays should fairly and 
reasonably also have had systems in place to look out for unusual transactions or other 
signs that might indicate that its customers were at risk of fraud (among other things). And in 
some circumstances, irrespective of the payment channel used, have taken additional steps, 
or make additional checks, before processing a payment, or in some cases declined to make 
a payment altogether, to help protect customers from the possibility of financial harm from 
fraud.
Barclays considered that Mr and Mrs D made the payment without a reasonable basis for 
belief, as they hadnt carried out any checks to ensure the person or business with whom 
they transacted with was legitimate.
 
Our investigator found that Mr and Mrs D had a reasonable basis for belief as they thought 
they were legitimately communicating with their solicitor. They considered the email from the 
scammers was consistent with those from their genuine solicitor in terms of tone and style. It 
also contained details of the property that they were in the process of buying which gave it 
an air of legitimacy. The email address was subtly different  but Mrs D had opened the 
email on her phone meaning she was more likely to miss minor differences. 
The investigator said Barclays ought to refund the outstanding amount Mr and Mrs D lost as 
result of the scam and pay 8% simple interest on the amount from the date of the payments 
until settlement. 
Barclays responded and said that it was willing to refund 50% of Mr and Mrs Ds outstanding 
losses as it says it was unable to evidence a warning displayed to Mr and Mrs D whilst
the payment was made using online banking. But it still thought they shouldve done more to 
protect themselves from the scam. It said that the content of the scammers email wasnt 
similar to the genuine emails  the grammar and wording made it seem less professional. It 
also said that Mr and Mrs D shouldve questioned that the payment was being made to an 
account in a different name. Barclays also said that, as the two payments were made on 
successive days, that wouldve given Mrs D a chance to look at the scammers email again 
and notice the differences.
The investigator was unpersuaded by this and explained that having reviewed the email from 
the genuine solicitor and the scammer, didnt think there was enough difference to prompt 
any concern or that Mr and Mrs D should have had a concern about the account name they 
were to pay. And while Mr and Mrs D made the payments over two days (because of the 
maximum daily transfer limits)  it was reasonable, as they thought they were paying their 
solicitor, they wouldnt have sought to carry out any further checks. 
Overall our investigator remained of the opinion that the case should be upheld.
As Barclays disagreed, and as the matter hasnt been resolved, its been passed to me to 
decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I am satisfied that:
Under the terms of the CRM Code, Barclays should have refunded the money 
consumer lost. I am not persuaded any of the permitted exceptions to reimbursement 
apply in the circumstances of this case. 
Barclays should in any event have intervened when Mr and Mrs D made the first 
payment of £50,000 as the payment was for a large amount and was going to a new 
payee. Had it done so, and had Barclays asked questions around the purpose of the payment and how the account details Mr and Mrs D were to pay had been received 
and brought to life or explained the nature of email intercept scams, I am satisfied the 
fraud would have come to light and the loss would have been prevented.
In the circumstances Barclays should fairly and reasonably refund the money 
Mr and Mrs D lost less any sums already recovered and refunded and;
Pay simple interest on this amount, from the date of the loss to the date of the 
settlement. The interest rate should be 8% a year. 
 HM Revenue & Customs requires Barclays to take off tax from this interest. Barclays must give 
Mr and Mrs D a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if they ask for one.
Barclays has offered to refund Mr and Mrs D 50% of the outstanding amount that wasnt 
recovered as it says it was unable to evidence a warning displayed to Mr and Mrs D whilst
the payment was made using online banking. However it considers Mr and Mrs D could
have done more to protect their funds. 
I have carefully considered Barclays representations about whether Mr and Mrs D should 
share some responsibility for the loss. But they do not persuade me to reach a different 
view. In particular, I am not persuaded that the consumer failed to take the requisite level of 
care required for Barclays to choose not to reimburse under the terms of the CRM Code.
Im satisfied that the firm has not shown that the consumer lacked a reasonable basis of 
belief when making the payment because:
I have seen a copy of the emails from the genuine solicitor and the scammer. The 
email from the scammer providing the account details, in my opinion, is not too 
dissimilar in tone or style to that of the genuine solicitor. While there were some 
subtle differences  with the font and the layout of the signature at the bottom being 
slightly different, Im mindful the email address included the name of the 
representative they were dealing with at the solicitors alongside the name of the firm. 
The email also included a link to the solicitors website  giving it a genuine feel. A 
follow up email from the scammer also included the address of the proposed property 
adding to the overall genuine feel. 
Im also mindful, Mr and Mrs D were expecting to make a payment, and that they 
werent aware of how email intercept scams worked. Im satisfied they had no 
concern about whether the emails were legitimate when they received them and, in 
the circumstances, I think this was understandable.
While Barclays has said the grammar and wording within the fraudulent email made 
the email seem less professional and say the account name was different 
(presumably to that of the solicitors), which should have given Mr and Mrs D cause 
for concern - I disagree. 
Im mindful, as Ive said above, that Mr and Mrs D were expecting to make a payment 
and the email had a genuine feel. And looking at the email Im not persuaded there is 
anything so untoward within it that would have reasonably given Mr and Mrs D cause 
for concern. 
It, in essence, provided the account details of where the payment was to be made to. 
Im also mindful solicitors and / or businesses often have multiple accounts for a 
variety of reasons, and the accounts arent always necessarily in the name of said 
business and can be called something different. Overall, given the genuine and plausible feel to the email, alongside Mr and Mrs D expecting to make a payment and 
being unaware of how email intercept scams worked, I cant say they had any cause 
for concern or reason to be suspicious.
Mr and Mrs D were paying £70,000 for the deposit, and given the daily payment / 
transfer limit, made the payments over two days. The first payment was for £50,000 
and the second was for £20,000. Given Mr and Mrs D were satisfied at the time of 
making the first payment that they were paying their genuine solicitor  I see no 
reason why (when they had what they thought were the correct account details) they 
would re-look at the email that had been sent or check with the solicitor to see if the 
first payment had been received as Barclays suggests they should have done. They 
contacted the solicitor once both payments had been made  which is not 
unreasonable in the circumstances.
Could Barclays have done more to prevent the scam?
Ive also carefully considered whether Barclays could have done more to prevent the scam. 
And I think it could have and should have done more to prevent Mr and Mrs D from being at 
risk of financial harm.
As Ive explained, I consider that as a matter of good practice Barclays should have been 
on the lookout for unusual and out of character transactions. 
Barclays, in its submissions to this service, has said that the payment should have been 
questioned.  So Barclays accepts more should have been done and the payment should 
have been questioned at the time. Given it was a large payment and to a new payee, I 
agree. I would reasonably have expected Barclays to have taken additional steps or made 
additional checks before executing the initial payment of £50,000. This would have ensured 
the purpose of the transaction and importantly ensured that there wasnt anything untoward 
going on, in order to satisfy itself that its customer wasnt at risk of financial harm. 
Barclays has said that while in this instance, the payment didnt trigger on its fraud 
detections systems, even if it had and it contacted Mr and Mrs D, as they were in the 
process of purchasing a property  they would have confirmed the payments as genuine. 
However, as explained above, rather than seeing if the payments are genuine or that 
Mr and Mrs D had in fact made them and were aware of them, Barclays has an obligation to 
ensure that its customers arent at risk of financial harm  such as by possibly being an 
unknowing victim of a scam.
I accept that a bank does have a duty under the Payment Service Regulations not to delay 
payments or transfers unduly. But it is not an unfettered duty to execute  and reasonable 
checks are also required as part of the broad regulatory landscape to treat customers fairly 
and to safeguard against the risk of fraud or financial harm. I accept theres a limit as to what 
a bank can reasonably do; but when plain triggers of unusual or uncharacteristic account 
activity exist, its not unreasonable to expect a banks fraud alerts to respond proportionately 
 and that might simply include, for example, a phone call or discreet conversation for 
transactions in branch to check that things are okay. 
So Ive considered what would have happened if Barclays had intervened in the way it might 
reasonably have done. Banks such as Barclays have actual or constructive knowledge of all the main scams, such 
as this (i.e. email intercept scam). So, had Barclays intervened and asked Mr and Mrs D 
appropriate questions about the payment, such as what is was for and how they received the 
details of the account they had to pay, Mr and Mrs D would have said that it was a deposit 
for a property and that they were paying their solicitor and had obtained the account details 
by email. 
The adviser should have then been on alert that Mr and Mrs D could possibly be at risk of 
financial harm  given its knowledge of these types of scams and the prevalence of email 
intercept scams, which can often involve transfers of large sums which are intended for 
conveyancing purposes, as was the case here. The adviser could have brought to life, very 
simply, what an email intercept scam would look and feel like. And to ensure that 
Mr and Mrs D werent at risk of financial harm, encourage them to contact their solicitor on a 
verified number to verbally confirm the account details and not through any telephone 
numbers provided on emails; as those numbers could well be directing Mr and Mrs D back to 
a fraudster. 
Put simply, had the type of scam Mr and Mrs D were at potential risk of, been explained to 
them, given the value and importance of the payment to Mr and Mrs D, I believe they would 
have made contact with their solicitor and it would have come to light that the account details 
they had been provided with werent correct. In short, the scam would have been prevented 
and Mr and Mrs D would not have lost the funds they did. 
My final decision
For the above reasons, I have decided it is fair and reasonable to uphold this complaint 
about Barclays Bank UK PLC  and I therefore require it to:
Refund the amount Mr and Mrs D lost as a result of the scam, less any sums already 
recovered and refunded (£13,369.98) within 28 days of receiving notification of their 
acceptance of my final decision; plus
Pay simple interest on this amount, from the date of the loss to the date of the 
settlement. The interest rate should be 8% a year. 
 HM Revenue & Customs requires Barclays to take off tax from this interest. Barclays must give 
Mr and Mrs D a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if they ask for one.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr and Mrs D to 
accept or reject my decision before 6 August 2021. 
Matthew Horner
Ombudsman