DRN-2803124
The complaint
Mr O complains that Alliance Trust Savings Limited, trading as Stocktrade, sold and 
purchased shares without his permission. He wants Stocktrade to refund the charges 
incurred on these transactions.
What happened
Mr Os W-8BEN expired on 31 December 2019. A W-8BEN is a form which the US Internal 
Revenue Services (IRS) requires foreign holders of US stocks to complete so that dividends 
can be received without the deduction of tax. Stocktrade emailed Mr O, using the address 
hed given it, on 24 October, 7 November and 29 November 2019 asking him to complete a 
new W-8BEN form. When it did not hear back from Mr O, it sent him a letter on 
20 December. All these communications explained that a new form was a requirement and 
that, if this wasnt received by 31 December, Stocktrade would sell Mr Os US holdings.
Mr O says he didnt receive any of the emails. And that he was abroad when the letter was 
sent  he only saw this when he returned in mid-January, at the same time he received a 
contract note for the sale of the shares. He contacted Stocktrade for an explanation. During 
the call he asked if the shares could be repurchased if he completed the new W-8BEN form. 
Stocktrade said he would need to give instructions to trade online or by phone.
Mr O completed the form. When Stocktrade received it, it purchased the shares, without 
Mr O giving any further instructions. He says he didnt authorise this trade.
Stocktrade said it hadnt done anything wrong  it had tried to contact Mr O about the 
requirement to renew the W-8BEN and when the form wasnt received in time it acted in line 
with its terms and conditions and sold his US shares. It says Mr O made it clear during his 
phone call that he wanted to repurchase the shares, so Stocktrade arranged this for him.
Our investigator didnt recommend that the complaint should be upheld. He couldnt 
conclude that Stocktrade had done anything wrong.
Mr O didnt agree. He said he was told he would have to give purchase instructions to the 
dealing desk; he didnt, so he didnt instruct Stocktrade to purchase the shares.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I find that I have come to the same conclusion as our investigator for the 
following reasons:
Stocktrade emailed Mr O at the email address hed provided. I cant hold Stocktrade 
responsible if Mr O didnt receive these emails.
Stocktrade couldnt contact Mr O by phone when it didnt receive a response from him, 
because Mr O hadnt provided it with a contact number.
Stocktrade sent a letter to Mr O  which he did receive, but not in time to complete the 
W-8BEN form by the required date. It is of course very unfortunate that Mr O was away from 
home when the letter was sent, but I cant hold Stocktrade responsible for him not receiving 
its letter until it was too late.
Taking all this into consideration, I find Stocktrade acted fairly in making reasonable attempts 
to contact Mr O.
Stocktrade acted in line with its terms and conditions when it sold Mr Os US shares. If 
Stocktrade hadnt sold the shares, it ran the risk of facing action from the IRS for holding US 
stock without the properly completed form. Any resulting action was likely to impact all of its 
clients holding US stocks.
During the phone call on 23 January 2020, Mr O made it clear that he wanted the shares 
bought back, although he didnt want to pay any charges. Stocktrade told him it would 
contact him when it had received his completed W-8BEN form and he could then give 
instructions to purchase the shares. But Stocktrade bought the shares, on the day it received 
the completed form, without Mr O needing to make further contact with it. Ive thought about 
this very carefully. And I have some sympathy with Mr O  he may have changed his mind 
about buying the shares by the time the form was received or he may have wanted to check 
the price before trading. But I dont find Stocktrade needs to compensate Mr O or refund the 
commission charges on the trade because:
Mr O made it very clear during the call that he wanted to re-purchase the shares.
Mr O hasnt provided any evidence that hed changed his mind about re-purchasing the 
shares. 
Hes not asked for the shares to be sold, only for the commission to be refunded. This 
suggests he does want to keep the shares.
Overall, theres been no financial loss to Mr O. The shares were sold at US$116.50 and 
were bought at US$110.35. The result is that he made a profit on the transactions which 
more than covers the commission charges.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, my final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr O to accept or 
reject my decision before 30 June 2021. 
Elizabeth Dawes
Ombudsman