DRN-4344897
The complaint
Ms G has complained that Sainsburys Bank Plc wont refund a transaction which she says 
was taken in error without her consent.
What happened
In summer 2022, Ms G booked a hotel room for some acquaintances for £180. The hotel 
took Ms Gs Sainsburys credit card details to secure the booking, clarifying that this was just 
for security and not for payment  payment would be taken on the day of departure.
The acquaintances paid the hotel bill themselves on the day of departure. However, Ms Gs 
Sainsburys credit card was also charged £180 by the hotels management software.
The payment showed up under a different trading name to the hotel, as it went through the 
software company. So Ms G didnt recognise the company. She reported the payment to 
Sainsburys as unrecognised.
Sainsburys tried a chargeback, but this failed, with the merchant showing that the payment 
related to a hotel booking for which Ms G had provided her card details. Sainsburys held 
Ms G liable for the payment.  Ms G came to our service. She was unhappy that Sainsburys 
held her liable, and with the way it had handled things.
Our investigator looked into things independently and upheld the complaint. They found that 
the payment was unauthorised  the terms clearly stated that Ms Gs card details were taken 
just for security, and the guests had paid for the booking themselves. Sainsburys didnt 
agree, so the complaints been passed to me to decide.
I sent Sainsburys and Ms G a provisional decision on 28 August 2023, to explain why 
I thought the complaint should be upheld. In that decision, I said:
Sainsburys technical evidence shows that the payment in dispute used Ms Gs genuine card 
details. But this is not enough, on its own, for Sainsburys to hold Ms G liable  it only shows 
that the payment was properly authenticated. Sainsburys also needs to be able to evidence 
that Ms G consented to the transaction. Otherwise, it has to refund it. The onus is on 
Sainsburys to evidence that Ms G consented to this payment.
It appears that Sainsburys has several misunderstandings about this matter, which has 
caused it to erroneously hold Ms G liable for the payment in dispute. 
The booking email from the hotel confirms that the price was £180, and that the reservation 
was secured with Ms Gs card details with no deposit. The terms and conditions reinforce 
that Ms Gs card details were taken to secure the booking  rather than for payment  and 
state that the bill would be settled on the day of departure. The merchants documents which 
Sainsburys received confirm that the bill was indeed settled in full on the day of departure by 
a different card  not this one (Ms G states this was her acquaintances). So per the terms, 
the £180 taken from Ms Gs credit card should not have been charged. And Ms G did not 
consent to this payment  she only provided her details to secure the booking.
It looks like some confusion arose because the disputed payment showed up on Ms Gs 
statement under a different name to the hotel. So it makes sense why Ms G reported it as 
unrecognised, even though it turned out to relate to a booking shed made. The disputed 
payment had a different name because it was taken by a hotel management software 
company. Sainsburys suggested that this company was a booking website which Ms G 
mustve used, which it thought had probably charged her a fee of £180 or so to book the 
hotel. This suggestion doesnt seem to be based on any objective evidence. It is not a hotel 
booking website, its hotel management software. It looks like the hotel erroneously took a 
payment through its software using the card details Ms G had supplied to secure the booking 
 against the terms of the contract and without Ms Gs consent.
Sainsburys argued that the terms said the hotel would take a payment from Ms G within one 
month before the booking. But again, it is mistaken. Those terms are about cancellations 
made within one month of the booking  i.e. if the customer cancels one month or less 
before the booking, the hotel reserves the right to charge full price. This reservation was not 
cancelled, and it was paid in full by the guests on the day of departure per the terms, so the 
cancellation terms are not relevant.
Sainsburys pointed out that the bill the acquaintances paid was £188 rather than £180, so 
the amounts dont match. I dont find this small difference to be significant here. Ms G says 
the extra £8 was because the guests used the bar, which makes perfect sense. And the 
merchants documents confirm that the acquaintances payment related to the same booking 
Ms G had made with a booking price of £180.
Sainsburys says the room in question costs between £300 to £400 a night, so it suggested 
that the total takings of £368 were probably correct. Its unclear where it got this information. 
The hotels website lists the base price for this type of room as £180, and both the booking 
confirmation and the merchants documents set out clearly that the price was £180 total for 
this particular booking. I am satisfied that the price was £180 here.
Sainsburys suggested that Ms G might have amended the booking in such a way that the 
price went from £180 to £368. But the merchants documents show that the reservation went 
ahead on the dates booked, with a booking price of £180 as booked, per the price on the 
website and the booking confirmation. There is no evidence to substantiate that Ms G 
amended the booking such that she had to pay an additional £180 or so. Again, if 
Sainsburys wishes to hold Ms G liable for this payment, the onus is on it to evidence her 
liability. It cant hold her liable on the basis of theoretical scenarios with no evidence to 
substantiate them.Other arguments from Sainsburys centre around the chargeback process. But again, Im 
afraid it has misunderstood what its responsible for. It was good of Sainsburys to attempt a 
chargeback for Ms G. And I appreciate that the attempt failed after some miscommunication 
between the two parties. But a chargeback was just one way that Sainsburys could try to 
recover the payment. Even if the chargeback failed, it still had to refund the payment if it was 
unauthorised. And here, Ive found that it most likely was. So that would mean Sainsburys 
cant hold Ms G liable for the payment, regardless of the chargeback.
This matter has now been ongoing for over a year, in significant part because Sainsburys 
mishandled things. Indeed, it ended up not even responding to Ms Gs complaint due to an 
error on its part. Its disappointing that this matter has got to such a late stage. I understand 
that Sainsburys has caused Ms G some real stress and frustration here. That needs to be 
put right too.
I said Id consider anything else anyone wanted to give me  so long as I received it before 
11 September 2023.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In response to the provisional decision, Ms G confirmed she had nothing further to add.
Sainsburys commented that it didnt have much of this information earlier. And I do 
sympathise to some degree  its part of why I issued a provisional decision rather than a 
final decision and gave it further time to respond.
With that said, Sainsburys claims that Ms G refused to provide any documents about the 
transaction. But she simply didnt recognise it at first  which was completely understandable 
as it was an unauthorised payment to a merchant whose name didnt match anyone shed 
dealt with  so she didnt think she had any relevant documents to give. Then she missed a 
letter from Sainsburys because she was away. I cant see that she ever refused to provide 
documents. In fact, Ms G tried to engage with Sainsburys further and raised a complaint, but 
as far as I can see Sainsburys was the one who didnt respond to her complaint.
Sainsburys argued that it couldnt have resolved the case without our services involvement. 
I dont agree. It focused too much on the chargeback process when that was only one 
method of getting Ms Gs money back and it was still responsible for investigating and 
refunding potentially unauthorised payments. It held her liable for the payment based on 
misinterpretations of the relevant rules and evidence. And it doesnt seem to have addressed 
Ms Gs complaint before she brought it to us. Had it investigated her complaint properly and 
taken a more reasonable approach, Sainsburys could have resolved this matter itself without 
our involvement. This was not an especially complex matter.
Sainsburys questioned why I didnt think this payment was processed online. Im unsure 
where it got this impression from. I never said or reasonably implied that the payment was 
not processed online. I simply pointed out that it was made through the hotels management 
software, and not through a third party booking website as Sainsburys claimed. Its quite 
normal for software to operate online these days.Sainsburys felt the entry mode showed that Ms G had booked through a third party and had 
used the merchant before. It might help if I clarify that the entry mode simply shows that the 
payment was made using card details which had been entered at some point previously, as 
opposed to being keyed in there and then. So if a customer gives a merchant their card 
details, and the merchant saves those details and later takes a payment  even the same 
day  it will show as having been made using saved details, even if its the customers first 
time using that merchant. In this case, Ms G gave the hotel her card details to secure the 
booking, which the hotel would have saved in case of things like cancellation. The hotel then 
used her saved card details to take an undue payment through its software in error. The fact 
that the card details were saved on some software does not necessarily mean that Ms G 
booked through a third party or that shed used that merchant before. I hope this helps to 
clarify things for Sainsburys.
Sainsburys said it had location and IP data, though it chose not to provide this. Im unsure 
what the relevance of this data was, and since Sainsburys chose not to provide this now or 
at any of the earlier opportunities it had to provide information, and since the final deadline 
has passed, Im unable to take account of it.
Lastly, Sainsburys said it was willing to pay the proposed redress in order to get the case 
resolved. Im grateful to it for agreeing to do so, and hope this will help both parties to repair 
their relationship and move forward from the matter.
Putting things right
I direct Sainsburys Bank Plc to:
rework the account to remove the disputed payment along with any related interest 
and charges;
if, after reworking the account, it emerges that Ms G has made overpayments to pay 
for the disputed transaction, Sainsburys should refund those overpayments. It should 
also pay Ms G 8% simple interest on them, payable from the date of each 
overpayment until the date theyre refunded. This is to compensate Ms G for the 
time she didnt have her money;
remove any negative information relating to this incident from Ms Gs credit file, if any 
exists; and-
pay Ms G £125 compensation for the trouble and upset it caused.
 If Sainsburys considers that its required by HM Revenue & Customs (HMRC) to deduct tax 
from that simple interest, it should tell Ms G how much tax its taken off. It should also give 
Ms G a tax deduction certificate if she asks for one. Ms G may be able to reclaim the tax 
from HMRC if she doesnt normally pay tax.My final decision
I uphold Ms Gs complaint, and direct Sainsburys Bank Plc to put things right in the way I set 
out above.
If Ms G accepts the final decision, Sainsburys Bank Plc must carry out the redress within 28 
days of the date our service notifies it of the acceptance.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms G to accept or 
reject my decision before 10 October 2023.
 
Adam Charles
Ombudsman