DRN-3536555
The complaint
Mr S complains that the failure by London and Country Mortgages Ltd (L&C) to respond to 
his communications meant that he missed out on a more favourable interest rate product 
than the one he eventually took out. Mr S wants to be compensated for the £1,507.60 being 
the extra interest he has had to pay because of his mortgage being on the higher interest 
rate product.
What happened
In the summer of 2020, Mr S got advice from a mortgage broker at L&C who recommended 
a mortgage product to him to replace the existing one which was coming to an end. The 
interest rate on this product was 1.82%. Mr S says that he was generally happy with the 
product recommended but had a remaining query as to whether the product had any up-front 
charges and says that he had to wait from 26 July 2020 until 2 September 2020 for a 
response. This meant that when L&C finally got around to processing his application on 17 
September that the recommended product had been withdrawn and he had to accept one 
with a higher rate of interest.
L&C said that it had difficulties in the summer of 2020 with a new phone line installed to 
assist with working through the Coronavirus Pandemic. But it had responded to Mr Ss 
questions by email. It noted that the mortgage product that Mr S wanted had been withdrawn 
from the market on 27 August and Mr S hadnt been told that until September and had been 
led to believe that it was still available. By way of apology for this L&C offered compensation 
of £100.
Our investigators view was that there were points from each party where communication 
could have been swifter in response. He thought that it was reasonable for another member 
of staff to have assisted Mr S when his original adviser wasnt in the office for a period and 
that the original advisor could have managed Mr Ss expectations better when he returned to 
the office. Our investigator recommended compensation of £200 for Mr Ss distress and 
inconvenience. Mr S disagreed saying in summary that the compensation on offer didnt 
represent what he had lost and asked for a review.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
This is a complaint where Mr S is saying that the delay by L&C in responding to his queries 
meant that he missed out on an interest rate that was available in July and most of August 
and then withdrawn by the lender at the end of August. In the background was the Pandemic 
as Mr S worked in a very stressful job with difficulties in communication whilst L&C seem to 
have struggled with a phone system put in place to meet a changed working environment.
L&C produced a mortgage recommendation for Mr S on 6 July and Mr S responded on 26 
July with two queries via email, one related to whether there were any fees on top of the 
repayments and the other related to the mortgage term. It seems that shortly afterwards the 
mortgage advisor and Mr S tried to make contact as the advisor was off the following week. 
In the absence of contact by phone he answered one of Mr Ss questions but not the other 
one. There the matter seems to have remained until contact was resumed in September 
when the lender had withdrawn the mortgage product that Mr S had hoped to get.
One of the difficulties in these types of cases is that no one knows how long the product is 
available for as lenders can and do withdraw their products at any time. Neither Mr S nor 
L&C had a cut-off date that they were working to. Things seem to be set up at the end of 
July to make an application but for Mr S one query remained. The answer I assume would 
be in the KFI and the advisor may well have overlooked it. Thats unfortunate and I would 
have thought that the adviser should have given Mr S another point of contact whilst he was 
away. But it also seems that if there was only one question remaining before Mr S made his 
decision that Mr S might have tried to make further contact with L&C.
I agree with our investigator to uphold this complaint as Mr S wasnt provided a point of 
contact or told in September that the rate was no longer available. Compensation of £200 
seems fair. But I dont consider that its fair to hold L&C responsible for Mr S missing the 
deadline for the interest rate change. L&C would simply not have known when that change 
was going to occur and so its unfair to hold it responsible for Mr S missing a deadline that it 
was unaware of. Indeed, if Mr S had responded quicker to the original recommendation, he 
might have been able to get the product he wanted. But again, he was not to know when the 
change to the interest rate on the mortgage product was coming.  So, I cant fairly uphold 
that part of the complaint which means I wont be awarding the further compensation that Mr 
S would like me to award.  
Putting things right
London & Country Mortgages Ltd should pay Mr S £200
My final decision
My decision is that I uphold this complaint and require London and Country Mortgages Ltd to 
pay Mr S £200.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 8 September 2022.
 
Gerard McManus
Ombudsman