DRN-4137822
The complaint
Miss R complains about Aviva Insurance Limiteds decision to decline a claim she made on 
her home insurance (contents) policy.
Aviva are the underwriters (insurers) of this policy. Much of this complaint concerns the 
actions of their appointed agents. As Aviva accept they are accountable for the actions of 
their agents, in my decision, any reference to Aviva should be interpreted as also covering 
the actions of their appointed agents.
What happened
As the background to this complaint is well known to Miss R and Aviva, in my decision Ill 
focus mainly on giving the reasons for reaching the outcome that I have.
Miss R had a contents insurance policy with Aviva. On 14 January 2022 she tried to make a 
claim against her policy as she said water was coming up through her floor since the 
previous night. Aviva got in contact with Miss Rs landlord who said theyd first been made 
aware of water ingress in December 2021.They also said Miss R had been moved to 
alternative accommodation from 26 December 2021 until 6 February 2022. This raised 
concerns with Aviva as it would mean Miss R wasnt living in the property at the time of the 
loss event.
Aviva investigated the claim and ultimately declined it as they said there was no evidence of 
a one off insured event taking place that caused the damage being claimed for. Miss R 
raised a complaint about the decline. She also raised dissatisfaction with the service shed 
received - specifically, she was unhappy that shed disposed of personal items because of 
water damage, but Aviva wouldnt cover them under this claim. After Aviva didnt uphold her 
complaint, she referred it to our Service for an independent review.
Our Investigator considered the complaint but didnt recommend that it be upheld. As Miss R 
remained unhappy, her complaint has been referred to me for a final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Although a number of issues have been raised, this decision only addresses those issues 
I consider to be materially relevant to this complaint. This isnt meant as a discourtesy to 
either party  it simply reflects the informal nature of our Service. 
Im very sorry to hear about what Miss R went through around the time of this claim.
Have Aviva fairly considered this claim in line with the policy terms?
Evidence from the local council authority explains that theyd visited the property in 
December 2021  prior to the loss event being claimed for and various issues with the 
property, damp and mould are described. This is important as this predates the claim. 
Further evidence from Citizens Advice shows Miss R had been in contact about the 
condition of her accommodation prior to the loss event. Of relevance is:
'the client has told us that the roof leaks and that there are also burst water pipes
underneath the property. The place is full of mould and the things that she had in 
the cupboards are all ruined. A lot of furniture is wrecked and her daughter is now  
suffering from asthma'.
Ive considered everything Miss R has told and shown. But having carefully considered all of 
the evidence, I find that Aviva can fairly decline this claim because of the loss being claimed 
for not being caused by a one off event - such as a flood. I find this to be reasonable and in 
line with the policy terms. 
I have sympathy for Miss R and her personal situation. Its understandable that as a parent 
she was trying to do her best for her family. In terms of this claim, the problems and losses 
shes experienced as a result of her accommodation are not something that Aviva needs to 
take responsibility for or put right - as an insurable event has not taken place. Aviva have 
correctly said that Miss R needs to take the issues up with her local council authority. 
Have Aviva treated Miss R fairly and reasonably overall?
I find that Aviva took a proportionate and measured response to concerns they had about 
the circumstances of this claim. They fairly asked Miss R a number of questions to allow her 
the opportunity to clarify some of the details of the loss. 
Miss R also raised an issue with advice she says she was given by Aviva to dump damaged 
items. Although our Investigator found that limited evidence has been presented to support 
this (not withstanding a SMS chain between Miss R and Aviva), in my opinion it doesnt 
make a material difference to the overall outcome in this complaint. Ill explain why now.
Miss R says she had to dump a number of items as theyd become smelly and unhygienic 
and was told to take photos of them. Aviva later said that by dumping the items Miss R 
prejudiced the claim. Aviva offered £50 compensation for any trouble or upset caused by any 
advice that was given. I find this to be fair, reasonable and proportionate because:
Ive already found that Aviva can fairly decline the overall claim - therefore the policy 
wouldnt need to respond here. 
If the items were in such a poor condition that Miss R, as a responsible parent, 
resorted to dumping them - I find it more likely than not that they werent salvageable 
and regardless of any advice Aviva may have given that influenced her actions - 
shed still have ultimately disposed of them. 
At the time that advice may have been given, Aviva were still considering the claim  
so it wouldnt have been unreasonable to give Miss R that information at that point.
My decision will naturally disappoint Miss R, but it brings to an end our Services involvement 
in trying to informally resolve her dispute with Aviva.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss R to accept 
or reject my decision before 13 November 2023.
 
Daniel O'Shea
Ombudsman