DRN-2206759
The complaint
Mr P says MYJAR irresponsibly lent to him.
What happened
This complaint is about 5 short term loans MYJAR provided to Mr P between late 2014 and
Autumn 2016. Mr Ps borrowing history is as follows:
Loan Start date Repaid Number of 
InstalmentsAmount £s Highest 
repayment 
Approx. £s
1 12/12/2014 30/12/2014 1 100 120
2 01/02/2015 20/03/2015 2 200 245
3 06/08/2015 19/09/2015 3 575 314
4 08/12/2015 26/01/2016 3 1,000 542
5 01/10/2016 Outstanding 3 825 423
On 21 August 2020 I issued a provisional decision, provisionally upholding the complaint in 
respect of loans four and five.
Mr P didnt send us any more information but accepted my provisional decision. MYJAR 
didnt respond at all. So I see no reason to vary my provision findings or decision 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about short-term lending - including all of
the relevant rules, guidance and good industry practice - on our website.
MYJAR needed to take reasonable steps to ensure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In
practice this means that it should have carried out proportionate checks to make sure Mr P
could repay the loans in a sustainable manner. These checks could take into account a
number of different things, such as how much was being lent, the repayment amounts and
the consumers income and expenditure. With this in mind, in the early stages of a lending
relationship, I think less thorough checks might be reasonable and proportionate.
But certain factors might point to the fact that MYJAR should fairly and reasonably have
done more to establish that any lending was sustainable for the consumer. These factors
include:
the lower a consumers income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make any 
loan repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income);
the higher the amount due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income);
the greater the number and frequency of loans, and the longer the period of time 
during which a customer has been given loans (reflecting the risk that repeated 
refinancing may signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, 
unsustainable).
There may even come a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable. 
I think that it is important for me to start by saying that MYJAR was required to establish
whether Mr P could sustainably repay his loans  not just whether the loan payments were
affordable on a strict pounds and pence calculation. 
Of course the loan payments being affordable on this basis might be an indication a 
consumer could sustainably make their repayments. But it doesnt automatically follow this is 
the case. This is because the relevant regulations define sustainable as being without undue 
difficulties and in particular the customer should be able to make repayments on time, while 
meeting other reasonable commitments; as well as without having to borrow to meet the 
repayments. And it follows that a lender should realise, or it ought fairly and reasonably to 
realise, that a borrower wont be able to make their repayments sustainably if theyre unlikely 
to be able to make their repayments without borrowing further.
Ive carefully considered all of the arguments, evidence and information provided in this
context and what this all means for Mr Ps complaint.
I am satisfied that, in relation to loans one, two and three, the information MYJAR obtained
from Mr P, and the checks it carried out, were proportionate. And didnt disclose anything
that ought to have given rise to a concern that Mr P couldnt sustainably repay them.
However, I think it would have been proportionate for MYJAR to have asked Mr P what other
short-term loans he had outstanding before giving him the fourth loan. Had it done so, Mr P
would have had to disclose that he had at least three other such loans at the time. And I find
that, in the circumstances of this complaint, MYJAR should reasonably have concluded from
this that Mr P was having difficulty managing his money. And that it was therefore unlikely he
would be able to sustainably repay the fourth loan. So MYJAR shouldnt have given him it.
There was a gap of over eight months between Mr P paying off the fourth loan and taking
out the fifth. Ive seen the information MYJAR had in its possession at the time he applied for
loan five relating to his financial circumstances during that period. This shows that his
estimated monthly debt repayment of about £125 in December 2015 increased to over £150
in February and April 2016. And then increased in May, July and September 2016 up to over
£525. Further, this information shows that, in the previous three months, hed opened five
new accounts and had had seven accounts where the balances had increased. I dont
consider that this information could reasonably have led MYJAR to conclude that Mr P had
gained control over his finances in that period. Accordingly, I find that MYJAR should have
treated the fifth loan as a continuation of his chain of borrowings with it. And it should have
looked further into his financial circumstances before making the loan. Had it done so, it
would have seen, as well as other matters, that Mr P had at least three other short-term
loans at that time. Again I find that this should reasonably have indicated to MYJAR that
Mr P was struggling with his finances. And therefore unlikely to be able to sustainably repaythis further loan. So I find that MYJAR shouldnt have given him this loan either.
So I think that Mr P has  lost out because MYJAR gave him the fourth and fifth loans when it 
shouldnt have.
Putting things right
If MYJAR has sold the outstanding debts MYJAR should buy these back if MYJAR is able to
do so and then take the following steps. If MYJAR isnt able to buy back the debts, then
MYJAR should liaise with the new debt owner to achieve the results outlined below.
A. MYJAR should add together the total of the repayments made by Mr P towards
interest, fees and charges on loans 4 and 5, not including anything MYJAR has
already refunded.
B. MYJAR should calculate 8% simple interest on the individual payments made by
Mr P which were considered as part of A, calculated from the date Mr P originally
made the payments, to the date the complaint is settled.
C. the amounts calculated in B, (after deduction of tax), and A should be used to
repay any capital balance remaining on loan 5 and any principal MYJAR has already
written-off. If this results in a surplus, then the surplus should be paid to Mr P.
However, if there is still an outstanding balance, then MYJAR should try to agree an
affordable repayment plan with Mr P.
D. MYJAR should remove any adverse information recorded on Mr Ps credit file in
relation to loan 4 and, once it has been paid off, loan 5.
 HM Revenue & Customs requires MYJAR to take off tax from this interest. MYJAR must
give Mr P a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if he asks for one.
My final decision
For the reason Ive given, my decision is that I uphold this complaint in respect of loans four 
and five. And I order MYJAR Limited to carry out the steps Ive set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision before 8 January 2021. 
Ros Barnett
Ombudsman