DRN-3616326
The complaint
Mr F complains about his insurer, Aviva Insurance Limited (Aviva). His complaint relates to 
the rejection of a claim under his home insurance policy for the loss of his stamp collection. 
Reference to Aviva includes their agents who administer the policy and assess claims. 
What happened
In February 2021 Mr F contacted Aviva, to tell them his stamp collection had been stolen 
from his property. Mr F thought the collection had been taken by his ex-wife (although she 
denied shed taken the collection). He said nothing else had been disturbed or taken. Mr F 
also said there hadnt been anyone else at his property and there were no signs the property 
had been broken into. Mr F reported the loss to the police.
 
Given the circumstances, Aviva appointed a loss adjuster (S) to consider the claim. S also 
interviewed Mr F about the circumstances of the loss. Mr F told S hed last seen the 
collection about four years previously. At the time of his separation from his ex-wife, shed 
moved out of the property and taken furniture and other items (including the wardrobe in 
which the collection had been stored). Based on what Mr F told them, in addition to there 
being no signs of forced entry, S concluded the loss took place when Mr Fs ex-wife left the 
property in 2017. As that was before he took out his policy with Aviva, S declined the claim 
and advised Mr F to contact his insurer at the time he thought the loss occurred.
Unhappy at his claim being declined, Mr F complained to Aviva. In their final response they 
confirmed Ss decision to decline the claim. Aviva noted the collection hadnt been seen 
since 2017, and as the policy with them didnt start until July 2019, Aviva said they couldnt 
cover the loss of the collection as it hadnt been seen since before the cover began. In doing 
so, Aviva referred specifically to a policy exclusion that meant events, loss or damage which 
occurred before the cover began werent covered.
 
Mr F then complained to this service. He said hed reported the loss of his collection as soon 
as hed become aware of it, While he wasnt certain of the exact date of loss, he thought it 
could have been in the previous 12 months when he was insured with Aviva (hed been 
insured with other insurers before Aviva). He said the collection was worth £7,500 (although 
the policy limit for a single item, which would include a collection, was £1,500). He said Aviva 
should cover the loss up to the £1,500 limit, as the collection could have been stolen while 
he was insured with them. 
Our investigator initially upheld the complaint, concluding Aviva hadnt done enough to show 
theyd fairly applied the exclusion for events or loss before the policy began. While the date 
of loss was uncertain, she thought it was as likely the loss occurred while Mr C had his policy 
with Aviva as before the policy began. As Aviva were relying on the exclusion to decline the 
claim, the onus was on them to show it applied. Aviva then provided more information, 
including Ss report and their notes of the interview with Mr F. 
Based on the additional evidence provided by Aviva, our investigator didnt uphold the 
complaint, concluding Aviva had acted fairly in declining the claim. She thought the policy 
terms meant the onus was on Mr F to show there was an insured event. In this case that 
there was a theft and that the theft had happened through a break-in using force or violence 
(or deception). As Mr F had said there hadnt been anyone else in the property or signs of a 
break-in, she thought Mr F hadnt shown there was an insured event that would be covered 
under the policy. She also thought Mr F hadnt shown proof of ownership of the collection.
Mr F disagreed with the investigators conclusions and requested an ombudsman review the 
complaint. In disagreeing, he said it was unfair to expect him to prove a theft took place 
when he didnt know when or how the collection was stolen. He also said he could provide 
proof of purchase of some of the items in the collection from online sites. He also said Aviva 
had accepted his ownership of the collection and hadnt disputed it.
In my findings, I noted Mr F initially thought his ex-wife had taken it (although he later said he 
was mistaken in this view). However, when he first notified the loss to Aviva, he did say he 
thought his ex-wife had taken the collection and in Ss interview with Mr F he said the 
collection was last seen four years previously when his ex-wife removed the wardrobe in 
which the collection was stored. Together with what Mr F said to Aviva about no-one else 
having access to the property, there being no signs of any break-in, and nothing else taken 
or disturbed, I wasnt persuaded (in the absence of a clear alternative explanation for the 
loss) that on the balance of probabilities, this didnt explain the loss of the collection. And 
given the exclusion about events (loss) before the cover start date not being covered, I 
thought it reasonable for Aviva to apply the exclusion to decline the claim.
I also considered whether there was an insured event which would be covered under the 
policy. Given my conclusion about the most likely date of the loss, then I wasnt persuaded 
Mr F had shown there was an insured event or clear enough evidence of a theft of the 
collection. But even on the assumption it was stolen, given my conclusion about the most 
likely date of loss being before Mr F took out his policy then I dont think that indicated an 
insured event took place (when the policy was in effect).
On Mr Fs point that it was unfair to expect him to prove a theft took place when he didnt 
know how or when the collection was stolen, while I appreciated the difficulty of proving a 
theft in the absence of evidence of a break-in, forced entry or deception, looking at the policy 
terms and conditions, my reading of them was that theft (or attempted theft) wasnt covered 
where the theft is by deception (unless deception is used only to get into the home). Also, 
that theft being only covered if somebody has broken into or out of the home by using force 
and violence applied where the property covered is a non-self-contained flat. It didnt seem it 
would apply to a property of the type insured by Mr F. So, I didnt think it was a relevant 
consideration in the circumstances of the complaint.
On the point about policyholders providing proof of value and ownership when making a 
claim, as Aviva declined the claim on the exclusion for an event or loss before the policy 
began, then the question of value and ownership wasnt part of their reasons for declining 
the claim. So, given my conclusions about Aviva acting fairly to apply the exclusion, or that 
Mr F hadnt provided enough evidence of an insured event, I didnt think this issue altered 
those conclusions. 
Taking all these points together, I concluded Aviva acted reasonably in declining the claim. 
Because I considered different issues to those considered by our investigator (the additional 
grounds put forward by Mr F) I issued a provisional decision to give both parties the 
opportunity to consider matters further. This is set out below. 
What Ive provisionally decided  and whyIve considered the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable 
in the circumstances of this complaint. 
My role here is to decide whether Aviva have acted fairly towards Mr F.
Looking at what happened, as well as the views and evidence provided by Mr F and Aviva, 
the key issue is whether Aviva acted fairly in declining the claim for the loss of his stamp 
collection. I think there are several aspects to be considered. First, based on Ss decline of 
the claim and Avivas subsequent confirmation (as set out in their final response) theres the 
issue of whether Aviva acted fairly in applying the policy exclusion for events or loss that 
occurred before the policy began. Second, whether theres been an insured event under the 
terms of the policy which means the loss would be covered.
 
While I think these are the more important aspects, Ive also considered the two further 
points made by Mr F. First, that it was unfair to expect him to prove a theft took place when 
he didnt know how or when the collection was stolen. And, second, the question of his 
ownership of the collection.
 
Looking at the first key issue, Aviva declining the claim based on the exclusion for events or 
loss before the policy began, Aviva point to a specific term in the policy. Mr S says its unfair 
to decline his claim because hed reported the loss of his collection as soon as hed become 
aware of it, While he isnt certain of the exact date of loss, he thought it could have been in 
the previous 12 months when he was insured with Aviva.
 
In their final response, Aviva refer to the General exclusions section of the policy, 
specifically:
8. Events before the cover start date
Loss, damage injury or liability which occurred before the cover under this policy 
started.
Mr F took out his policy in July 2019 and while he reported the loss in February 2021, the 
exact date of the loss wasnt clear to Mr F. In his complaint to this service he says he initially 
thought his ex-wife had taken it (although she, through her legal representative, denied it). 
However, he says he was mistaken in this view. However, when he first notified the loss to 
Aviva, he did say he thought his ex-wife had taken the collection. And in Ss report it refers to 
their interview with Mr F in which he says the collection was last seen four years previously 
(2017) when his ex-wife removed the wardrobe in which the collection was stored. Ss report 
includes reference to Mr F making the same point in correspondence with the police. 
Together with what Mr F said (when first notifying the loss to Aviva) about no-one else 
having access to the property, there being no signs of any break-in, and nothing else taken 
or disturbed, I can understand why Aviva concluded the loss most likely occurred before Mr 
Fs policy with them was taken out. While Mr F says he was mistaken about initially thinking 
his ex-wife took the collection, Im not persuaded (in the absence of a clear alternative 
explanation for the loss) that on the balance of probabilities, this doesnt explain the loss of 
the collection. And given the exclusion above is clear about events (loss) before the cover 
start date not being covered, I think it was reasonable for Aviva to apply the exclusion to 
decline the claim.
While Ive come to that conclusion, I have considered the second key issue, whether there 
was an insured event which would be covered under the policy. In doing so, Ive started 
from the general principle that where a policyholder makes a claim for loss, the onus in the 
first instance is for them to show theres been an insured event. Given my conclusion about the most likely date of the loss, then Im not persuaded Mr F has shown theres an insured 
event. Given what he said about no-one else having access to the property, no signs of a 
break-in or anything else being taken or disturbed, Im not persuaded theres clear enough 
evidence of a theft of the collection. But even on the assumption it was stolen, given my 
conclusion about the most likely date of loss being, on the evidence Ive seen, before Mr F 
took out his policy with Aviva then I dont think that indicates an insured event took place 
(when the policy was in effect).
Having reached these conclusions, Ive also considered the two further points made by Mr F. 
First, that it was unfair to expect him to prove a theft took place when he didnt know how or 
when the collection was stolen. And, second, the question of his ownership of the collection.
On the first point, I appreciate its difficult to prove a theft in the absence of evidence of a 
break-in, forced entry or deception. Looking at the policy terms and conditions, my reading of 
them is that theft (or attempted theft) isnt covered where the theft is by deception (unless 
deception is used only to get into the home). Also, that theft being only covered if somebody 
has broken into or out of the home by using force and violence applies where the property 
covered is a non-self-contained flat. It doesnt seem it would apply to a property of the type 
insured by Mr F. So, I dont think this is a relevant consideration in the circumstances of this 
complaint. And it doesnt alter my conclusions about Aviva acting fairly to apply the 
exclusion, or that Mr F hasnt provided enough evidence of an insured event.
Similarly, on the second point, while the policy does include conditions about the need for 
policyholders to provide proof of value and ownership (when making a claim), as Aviva 
declined the claim on the basis of the exclusion for an event or loss before the policy began, 
then the question of value and ownership didnt form part of their stated reasons for declining 
the claim. It would have done, had they not applied the exclusion, as part of what would 
have been the process to then validate the claim. But this stage wasnt reached. So, given 
my conclusions about Aviva acting fairly to apply the exclusion, or that Mr F hasnt provided 
enough evidence of an insured event, I dont think this issue alters those conclusions.
 
Taking all these points together, Ive concluded Aviva acted reasonably in their decision to 
decline Mr Fs claim.
 
My provisional decision
For the reasons set out above, its my provisional decision not to uphold Mr Fs complaint.
Mr F responded to make three substantive points. First, he thought he was being 
disadvantaged by his honesty and had he told the police thered been a break-in on a 
particular date hed have been given a crime number and this would have led to his claim 
being accepted. Second, Aviva had fully accepted his ownership of the stamp collection, as 
hed shown them high value stamps on the video call with them as well as his method of 
identifying the stamps he owned. He still had (and could provide) purchase evidence from 
websites going back decades. But Aviva never requested proof of ownership, so it was 
unfair of them to use this as a reason not to pay. Third, to decline his claim because he 
couldnt prove forced entry was unfair. He thought that term unreasonable.
Aviva responded to say they had nothing further to add.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.My role here is to decide whether Aviva have acted fairly towards Mr F.
Ive considered each of the points made by Mr F in turn. On his first point, Aviva reached 
their decision to decline Mr Fs claim based on what he told, both when notifying them of the 
claim and as part of Ss investigation of the circumstances. Similarly, I reached my 
provisional conclusions on the information and evidence available about what had 
happened, and whether Aviva had acted fairly in applying the exclusion for events and 
losses that occurred (or likely to have occurred) before the policy was taken out. And 
policyholders have an obligation to provide complete and honest information and answers to 
insurers when making a claim. It would have been inappropriate for Mr F to have provided 
false information about what happened (either to the police or to Aviva). 
On Mr Fs second point, I considered the issue of his ownership of the collection and set out 
my conclusions in the provisional decision. As Aviva declined the claim on the basis of the 
exclusion for an event or loss before the policy began, then the question of value and 
ownership didnt form part of their stated reasons for declining the claim. It would have done, 
had they not applied the exclusion, as part of what would have been the process to then 
validate the claim. But this stage wasnt reached. So, given my conclusions about Aviva 
acting fairly to apply the exclusion, or that Mr F hadnt provided enough evidence of an 
insured event, the issue of ownership didnt affect or alter those conclusions.
On the third issue, I considered this in my provisional decision and concluded the policy 
terms and conditions about theft being only covered if somebody has broken into or out of 
the home by using force and violence applied where the property covered was a non-self-
contained flat. So, it didnt seem it would apply to a property of the type insured by Mr F. So, 
I concluded it wasnt a relevant consideration in the circumstances of this complaint. And it 
didnt alter my conclusions about Aviva acting fairly to apply the exclusion, or that Mr F 
hadnt provided enough evidence of an insured event.
Based on these considerations, I havent changed my mind on my conclusions. So, my final 
decision remains unchanged, for the same reasons set out in my provisional decision.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, its my final decision not to uphold Mr Fs complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr F to accept or 
reject my decision before 25 August 2022.
 
Paul King
Ombudsman