DRN-3592220
The complaint
Mr and Mrs P complain that they were mis-sold a timeshare interest and the loan used to 
pay for it. The loan was provided by Clydesdale Financial Services Limited, which trades as 
Barclays Partner Finance and which Ill refer to as BPF. Mr and Mrs P are represented by a 
firm of solicitors, which Ill call P.
What happened
P has explained that, in March 2010, Mr and Mrs P bought a timeshare interest from a 
company which Ill call D. The purchase was financed with a loan provided BPF and 
arranged through D. BPF says the loan was repaid and the loan account closed in August 
2010. 
Towards the end of 2020 Mr and Mrs P contacted BPF, raising a number of issues about the 
loan and the timeshare interest. In summary, they said:
At the time the loan was arranged, D did not have the necessary authorisation to act as 
a credit broker. The loan is therefore void.
D and BPF did not carry out appropriate checks to ensure that the loan was affordable 
and suitable. 
D made misrepresentations about the benefits of the holiday club membership. Under 
the relevant sections of the Consumer Credit Act 1974 BPF is equally liable to Mr and 
Mrs P for those misrepresentations. 
The loan agreement created an unfair relationship under section 140A of the Consumer 
Credit Act. 
BPF did not carry out appropriate checks to ensure that the loan was suitable and 
affordable. 
BPF did not accept that it had any liability to Mr and Mrs P. It said that any claims would be 
out of time under the Limitation Act 1980. P then referred the matter to this service, through 
P. Our investigator considered the case but did not recommend that the complaint be 
upheld, primarily because of the time that had passed since the purchase of the timeshare 
interest and the date of the loan agreement. P did not accept the investigators view and 
asked that an ombudsman review the case. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ds authorisation to arrange the loan
The full loan agreement and associated paperwork are no longer available. I have however 
approached this complaint on the assumption that D acted as credit broker, as P says it did.  
When the loan was set up, consumer credit broking did not require FCA authorisation; it did 
however require a licence issued by the Office of Fair Trading. In addition, from 6 April 2007, 
the Financial Ombudsman Service could consider certain complaints about OFT licensees, 
under what was then our consumer credit jurisdiction. I am aware from similar complaints 
that have been referred to me that D was covered under the consumer credit jurisdiction 
from 6 April 2007 until 31 March 2014 and thereafter under our compulsory jurisdiction.
D would not have been recorded as a business coming under this services consumer credit 
jurisdiction unless it had the necessary consumer credit licence. I am satisfied therefore that 
it was properly authorised as a consumer credit broker when the loan was arranged in 
October 2010.
The complaint about suitability and the credit assessment
I have not seen anything here to suggest that the lending was not affordable or that the loan 
was otherwise not appropriate for Mr and Mrs P. I note that the loan was repaid within less 
than a year. It does not necessarily follow of course that proper checks were carried out or 
that the loan was affordable.  
However, our own rules say that we cannot generally consider a complaint unless it is 
referred to us within six years of the event complained of or, if later, within three years of the 
date on which the complainant knew, or ought reasonably to have known, that he had cause 
for complaint.  
The event complained of in this case is the credit assessment that BPF carried out (or did 
not carry out) in March 2010. Mr and Mrs P would have known fairly soon after that date if 
they were having difficulty making repayments. They certainly would have known by the time 
the loan was repaid. It follows that this part of the complaint should have been referred to 
this service by no later than 2 March 2016  six years from the date Mr and Mrs P took it out. 
Because it was not, we have no power to consider it.  
Sections 56 and 75 of the Consumer Credit Act  
Under section 56 of the Consumer Credit Act statements made by a broker in connection 
with a consumer loan are to be taken as made as agent for the lender.  
In addition, one effect of section 75(1) of the Act is that a customer who has a claim for 
breach of contract or misrepresentation against a supplier can, subject to certain conditions, 
bring that claim against a lender. Those conditions include:
that the lending financed the contract giving rise to the claim; and 
that the lending was provided under pre-existing arrangements or in contemplation of 
future arrangements between the lender and the supplier. 
It is clear in this case that the loan financed the purchase of the club membership. The exact 
relationship between BPF and D is not clear, but I have approached this case on the basis 
that the loan was set up as a result of pre-existing arrangements between the two and that 
section 75 could therefore apply.    
I must therefore consider the claims against D. Mr and Mrs P say that D misled them about 
the holiday club membership. For example, they were told that they would be able to book 
luxury accommodation anywhere in the world, but in reality they found it difficult or 
impossible to book the accommodation they wanted at the times they wanted. They say too 
that they were misled too about the quality of accommodation available. Misrepresentation
A misrepresentation is, in very broad terms, a statement of law or of fact, made by one party 
to a contract to the other, which is untrue and which induces the other party into the contract. 
There is little detail in this case about what was said to Mr and Mrs P at the time of the sale. 
However, under the Limitation Act 1980 an action (that is, court action) based on 
misrepresentation cannot generally be brought after six years from the date on which the 
cause of action accrued. Any statements which might have induced Mr and Mrs P into the 
contract for the purchase of holiday club membership were made on or before 2 March 
2010. They did not however raise any complaint with BPF until 2010, ten years later. I think it 
very likely therefore that a court would conclude that any claim against D was made outside 
the time limit in the Limitation Act. 
P says that the six year time limit does not apply here, because the relevant time limit is 
extended where the claimant did not know they had a cause of action or where there has 
been concealment.
I do not accept that time limits under the Limitation Act are necessarily extended where the 
claimant does not know they had a cause of action. The circumstances in which that will be 
the case are quite limited. Be that as it may, I think it likely that Mr and Mrs P would have 
known some years ago if they were unable to book the holidays they expected to be able to 
book. And, once Mr and Mrs P began to book holidays, it is difficult to see how D could have 
concealed from them the quality or availability of accommodation.  
Be that as it may, it is not for me to decide whether any particular claim against D is now out 
of time under the Limitation Act. Rather, I must decide whether the response of BPF to the 
claim under section 56 and/or section 75 was reasonable. Given the real possibility that a 
court would say that the claims are time-barred, I think it was. 
Section 140A claims
Under section 140A and section 140B of the Consumer Credit Act a court has the power to 
consider whether a credit agreement creates an unfair relationship and, if it does, to make 
appropriate orders in respect of it. Those orders can include imposing different terms on the 
parties and refunding payments. In this case, P says that the loan agreement was unfair 
because of the misleading actions of D, because of the sales methods used and because of 
the interest rate. P says too that Mr and Mrs P seek restitution of sums paid under the loan 
agreement.  
The usual time limit for these types of claims under the Limitation Act is six years from the 
time the relationship between the parties ended. In this case that was no later than August 
2010, when the loan was repaid in full and the loan account closed. 
Again, I think that it was reasonable for BPF to conclude that a court would be unlikely to 
entertain such a claim and to decline it.    
Conclusions 
In my view the complaint about the credit assessment was brought outside our own time 
limits and I have no power to consider it. 
I believe that D held the necessary consumer credit licence at the time the loan was made.I stress that it is not for me to decide whether Mr and Mrs P have a claim for 
misrepresentation against D. Nor is it for me to decide whether any such claim might be 
outside the relevant time limits in the Limitation Act. Rather, I must consider BPFs response 
to the complaints made.
In my view, BPF acted reasonably in concluding that the section 56 and section 75 claims 
and the section 140A claims were likely to be out of time under the relevant provisions of the 
Limitation Act.
My final decision
For these reasons. my final decision is that I do not require Clydesdale Financial Services 
Limited to do anything further to resolve Mr and Mrs Ps complaint.   
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr P and Mrs P to 
accept or reject my decision before 3 January 2023.
 
Mike Ingram
Ombudsman