DRN-3351245
The complaint
Mrs G complains that Tesco Personal Finance PLC (Tesco Bank) failed to refund money 
she lost as part of an investment scam.
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I will not repeat everything in 
detail again here. In summary, Mrs G paid £5,250 to FXtrademarket.com using her Tesco 
credit card in January 2019. She made the following payments to the merchant:
 
Date Merchant Amount Running total
8 January 2019 FX24 £3,000 £3,000
8 January 2019 FX24 £250 £3,250
8 January 2019 FX24 £2,000 £5,250
Total £5,250
Mrs G says she realised she had been scammed when she was unable to withdraw her 
money and couldnt get hold of anyone at FXTrademarket.com. She raised a dispute with 
Tesco Bank for help in recovering her lost funds, but the bank declined to provide her with a 
refund. It said it had immediately blocked the £3,000 transaction she made on 
8 January 2019 and sent her a text message, to which Mrs G responded confirming the 
transaction was genuine. So, given she had authorised the transaction, Tesco Bank declined 
to refund the money she had lost. 
Our investigator upheld the complaint. He noted that Tesco Bank had automatically blocked 
the £3,000 payment Mrs G made on 8 January 2019, but he didnt think the banks 
intervention went far enough. The investigator thought it likely that the scam would have 
been revealed had Tesco Bank intervened and questioned Mrs G about the investment and 
who she was paying. So he recommended it refund the entire amount she lost. Tesco did 
not respond to the investigators assessment, so the matter has been escalated to me to 
decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the conclusions reached by the investigator and have decided 
to uphold it for the reasons set out below:
Tesco do not dispute that Mrs G has fallen victim to a scam. And given there is a 
warning published online by the Financial Conduct Authority about 
FXTrademarket.com (along with various other anecdotal evidence on online forums 
about the merchant being fraudulent), Im not persuaded the merchant had honest 
intentions, but instead set out to defraud Mrs G of her money. 
It is also common ground that the disputed payments were authorised by Mrs G for 
the purposes of the Payment Services Regulations 2017 (the Regulations), in force 
at the time. This is because they were made by her using the legitimate security 
credentials provided by Tesco Bank. But having concluded that this was a scam, its 
also necessary to consider whether the disputed payments were unusual or 
uncharacteristic enough for Mrs Gs account such that they ought reasonably to have 
triggered an intervention by Tesco.
It isnt in dispute that the £3,000 payment Mrs G made on her Tesco credit card was 
unusual given that it did trigger the banks fraud prevention systems and was 
automatically blocked pending further enquiry. Accordingly, its just a question of 
whether the bank went far enough in all the circumstances with that intervention.
Tesco Bank said they sent Mrs G a text message on 8 January 2019 asking her to 
confirm that the £3,000 payment was genuine, to which she replied that it was. But 
given it had flagged as a suspicious payment, Tesco ought to have gone further and 
spoken to Mrs G to find out more about the nature of the transaction she was making 
before allowing it to be processed, rather than simply asking if it was her making it. 
Tesco Bank is aware of our general position on a Payment Service Providers 
safeguarding and due-diligence duties to protect customers from the risk of financial 
harm due to fraud. We have published many decisions on our website setting out 
these principles and quoting the relevant rules and regulations. It is unnecessary to 
rehearse them again here in detail.
If Tesco had contacted Mrs G and asked her further questions and for more of the 
basic surrounding context, I think its likely she would have explained what she was 
doing and that she was making an investment off the back of an advertisement she 
saw on Facebook, where she was being told to send money to a third party broker  
all of which are typical features of these sorts of investment scams. Tesco Bank 
could have also asked Mrs G to check the legitimacy of the broker on the FCA 
website, where she would have discovered a warning about FXTrademarket.com that 
had been in place since October 2018. 
Overall, Im satisfied that a warning to Mrs G from her trusted bank would have 
probably led her to discover the various scam warnings online and exposed the 
brokers false pretenses. Even if Mrs G had not worked out that this was a scam, it is 
likely that a warning would have alerted her to the common issues arising in relation 
to binary options/forex dealers, which in turn would have revealed the truth behind 
the supposed brokers representations. This would have probably stopped Mrs G in 
her tracks. So, but for Tesco Banks failure to act on clear triggers of potential fraud 
or financial harm, Mrs G probably wouldnt have lost her money.
Despite regulatory safeguards, there is a general principle that consumers must still 
take responsibility for their decisions (see s.1C(d) of our enabling statute, the 
Financial Services and Markets Act 2000). I do not place too much weight on general 
but arcane information in the public domain for reasons previously alluded to about 
the information imbalance between financial professionals and ordinary consumers. 
In this case, I do not think that Mrs G was to blame for what happened; that she did 
not foresee the risk of this sort of harm or any harm. I do not think Mrs G could have 
foreseen the risk that the company she was dealing with was a scam and the trading 
account she was viewing was likely to be a simulation. In the circumstances, I do not 
think it would be fair to reduce compensation on the basis that Mrs G should share 
blame for what happened.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I uphold this complaint and direct Tesco Personal Finance 
PLC to:(1) Refund Mrs G the £5,250 loss incurred from her credit card as a result of the 
payments she made as part of the scam, and rework her account to reimburse any 
interest and charges levied as a result, as though the payments had not taken place.
(2) Pay 8% simple interest per year on any payments Mrs G made towards the credit 
balance as a result of the scam, from the date she paid them to the date of 
settlement. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs G to accept or 
reject my decision before 1 June 2022.
 
Jack Ferris
Ombudsman