DRN-3597425
The complaint
Mr R complains that Interactive Investor Services Limited (IISL) failed to complete the 
inbound transfer of his pension investments in a timely manner.
What happened
Mr R held pension savings with a firm that I will call H. In June 2020 Mr R completed an 
online instruction with IISL to request the transfer of his pension savings from H, and to 
place them in a self-invested personal pension (SIPP) with the firm. It seems though that 
there was an error in the instruction Mr R sent  he wanted his pension investments to be 
transferred in-specie, rather than in cash as his original request had suggested.
In order to request an in-specie transfer, Mr R needed to complete a physical application 
form. IISL sent that to him by post and received it back in early August 2020. And after 
receiving some initial information from H, IISL explained to Mr R that some of his pension 
investments couldnt be held on the IISL platform. But it said that it needed further 
information from H before it could give a final update to Mr R.
H sent the further information to IISL on 22 September 2020. And around three weeks later 
IISL provided more information to Mr R about the investments that couldnt be transferred. 
But following some additional information from Mr R, IISL sought an updated valuation from 
his old provider. 
Over the following three months IISL sent Mr R a number of different lists of the investments 
that couldnt be transferred. It appears that Mr R responded promptly to each message, 
asking for clarification about why the affected assets had changed. But it doesnt seem that 
Mr R was satisfied by the responses he received. So he asked IISL to formally respond to 
the complaint hed previously raised about the delays.
IISL accepted that its communication hadnt been as effective as it would have hoped. So it 
paid Mr R £100 for the inconvenience hed been caused. But Mr Rs transfer was still 
incomplete. H again sent IISL an updated valuation in February 2021 that led IISL to provide 
Mr R with a new list of funds that couldnt be transferred. Mr R again sought clarification 
about why that list had changed from what hed been sent previously.
In March 2021 Mr R instructed IISL to proceed with the transfer of those assets it could hold 
on its platform. And he told IISL that the remaining assets should be left with H. The majority 
of Mr Rs pension investments were transferred to IISL in April 2021. But two investments 
remained unreconciled. Those two investments were added to Mr Rs SIPP in May 2021 at 
which point the transfer could reasonably be considered to have been completed.
One of our investigators has looked into Mr Rs complaint. At first that assessment was 
completed without the benefit of information from IISL. But when IISL later sent its file to the 
investigator he confirmed that its contents hadnt caused him to alter his findings on the 
complaint. The investigator thought that IISL had failed to provide Mr R with clear or 
consistent information about the transfer and so had been responsible for much of the delay. 
He asked IISL to pay Mr R some compensation to reflect the additional SIPP charges hed 
needed to pay as a result of the delayed transfer. And he asked IISL to pay Mr R a further 
£200 (so making a total payment of £300) for the inconvenience hed been caused.
Mr R accepted the investigators proposals. IISL agreed to pay the additional compensation 
to Mr R for the inconvenience hed been caused. But it said that it needed to gather some 
more information from H about the additional charges Mr R had paid before it could agree 
that part of the compensation. However since weve not had any further agreement from IISL 
and thus the complaint hasnt been resolved informally, the complaint has now been passed 
to me, an ombudsman, to decide. This is the last stage of our process. If Mr R accepts my 
decision it is legally binding on both parties.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In deciding this complaint Ive taken into account the law, any relevant regulatory rules and 
good industry practice at the time. I have also carefully considered the submissions that 
have been made by Mr R and by IISL. Where the evidence is unclear, or there are conflicts, 
I have made my decision based on the balance of probabilities. In other words I have looked 
at what evidence we do have, and the surrounding circumstances, to help me decide what 
I think is more likely to, or should, have happened.
At the outset I think it is useful to reflect on the role of this service. This service isnt intended 
to regulate or punish businesses for their conduct  that is the role of the Financial Conduct 
Authority. Instead this service looks to resolve individual complaints between a consumer 
and a business. Should we decide that something has gone wrong we would ask the 
business to put things right by placing the consumer, as far as is possible, in the position 
they would have been if the problem hadnt occurred.
Both Mr R and IISL have provided us with timelines of what happened during the transfer. 
There is little difference between the two sets of information. So I dont intend to expand to 
any great length on the overview of the transfer that I set out earlier.
At the highest level, Mr Rs transfer started on 30 June 2020 and didnt complete until 
5 May 2021. I think both parties would agree that timescale was far in excess of what we 
might normally expect to see. I accept that this wasnt the most straightforward of transfer 
requests. Mr R was asking for his pension investments to be moved in-specie. So IISL was 
at times dependent on H for the provision of information about his holdings, and to initiate 
the transfer instructions. And H appears to have had some processing delays of its own. But 
even taking that into account I think that IISL should bear responsibility for the majority of the 
delay.
It seems that the key issue in completing the transfer was dealing with those pension 
investments Mr R held with H, that couldnt be held on IISLs platform. But before Mr R could 
decide what to do with those investments, he was reliant on IISL identifying which of his 
pension investments were affected. And I can see that, over the course of the transfer 
process, IISL provided at least seven separate assessments of which investments were 
affected. And in the worst case it provided two assessments on the same day  the first 
identifying four affected investments, the second showing 18 affected investments. 
We have asked H to provide details of any changes that Mr R made to his pension 
investments during the time the transfer was progressing. H has confirmed that the only 
trades that were placed were as a result of the reinvestment of two dividends that had been 
received. So materially, Mr Rs pension investments didnt change at all. I appreciate that IISL said at the time that the information it received did indicate some changes had been 
made. But it doesnt seem that was correct analysis.
Given the inconsistency in the information that was being provided to Mr R it is unsurprising 
that he wanted IISL to provide clarification and double-checking of its information at each 
stage of the process. And whilst that might have, to a small degree, introduced some further 
delays into the process, I would generally consider those to have arisen directly as a result 
of IISLs earlier failings.
In this decision I make no criticism of IISLs decision to not accept the transfer of all of Mr Rs 
pension investments. IISL is free to choose which assets it wishes of offer on its investment 
platforms. But what was important was providing that information to Mr R in a clear and 
consistent format. That allowed him to decide how he wished to proceed with the transfer. 
Ultimately Mr R decided to leave four of his affected pension investments with H. He later 
sold some of those assets and moved the cash proceeds into his SIPP with IISL. I think that 
is the approach Mr R would most likely have taken with all his pension investments had he 
been provided with appropriate and timely information by IISL.
Looking at the initial timeline for the transfer I think IISL should have been in a position to 
provide Mr R with a definitive list of those pension assets that could be transferred by the 
end of October 2020. So then considering the time it took for H to complete its work on the 
transfer, and for the transfer to complete, I think it would have been reasonable for Mr R to 
have expected matters to have concluded by the end of 2020.
Mr R has told us that the costs of holding his SIPP with IISL were much lower than he was 
paying with H. I accept that, as things ultimately worked out, Mr R ended up holding a SIPP 
with both providers. But I think that was in response to his understandable frustration at the 
delays and in an attempt to progress matters. Mr Rs aim was to move all his pension 
investments to his SIPP with IISL. Had there been no delays I am persuaded that he would 
have in fact sold the non-transferable assets and reinvested the cash proceeds within his 
IISL SIPP.
So I think that IISL needs to calculate whether Mr R has lost out by needing to pay Hs SIPP 
fees for a period of time, and then fees for both SIPPs. And Mr R has made me aware that 
IISL also offered him an introductory discount where no SIPP fees would be levied until 
April 2021. So that needs to be taken into account too.
As I said earlier, IISL has paid Mr R £100 in recognition of the inconvenience hes been 
caused. I dont think that it enough to reflect the prolonged period of delay that was caused, 
and the inconvenience Mr R was caused by needing to repeatedly seek updates, and 
progress, from IISL. I think a further payment of £200 (so making a total payment of £300) 
would be reasonable here.
Putting things right
As I explained earlier, my aim when considering any compensation would be to put Mr R 
back into the position he would have been had nothing gone wrong. Here I think that means 
that the transfer would have completed by 31 December 2020. Given that the transfer was 
largely completed in-specie I dont think I need to consider whether the delays caused any 
changes to the value of Mr Rs pension investments. But, as I explained earlier, I think it 
likely that Mr R has paid additional SIPP fees as a result of the delay.
So, to put things right, IISL should;obtain from H the notional value of Mr Rs SIPP on 31 December 2020 (less the 
value of any investments Mr R held at that point that IISL were unable to accept) on 
the basis that it had been transferred to IISL by then at the latest;
calculate what the SIPP would now be worth (accounting for any investment 
changes, contributions or drawdowns made in the meantime) should it have been 
subject to IISLs standard charges since then (but taking into account the introductory 
fee offer made by IISL)
subtract from that value the current value of Mr Rs SIPP (in relation to the 
investments that were able to be transferred to IISL). If the result is negative Mr R 
hasnt lost out, and no compensation in relation to this is payable.
The compensation should be paid into Mr R's SIPP. The amount paid should allow for the 
effect of charges and any available tax relief. Compensation should not be paid into the 
pension plan if it would conflict with any existing protection or allowance. 
If IISL is unable to pay the total amount into Mr R's SIPP, it should pay that amount direct to 
him. But had it been possible to pay into the plan, it would have provided a taxable income. 
Therefore the total amount should be reduced to notionally allow for any income tax that 
would otherwise have been paid.
The notional allowance should be calculated using Mr R's actual or expected marginal rate 
of tax at his selected retirement age. I expect Mr R is likely to be a basic rate taxpayer so the 
reduction should equal the current basic rate of tax. However, as Mr R would have been able 
to take an additional tax-free lump sum, the reduction should be applied to 75% of the 
compensation, resulting in an overall reduction of 15%.
IISL should additionally pay Mr R a further sum of £200 (so making a total payment of £300) 
to reflect the inconvenience he has been caused by the delay.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold Mr Rs complaint and direct Interactive Investor Services 
Limited to put things right as detailed above. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision before 7 December 2022.
 
Paul Reilly
Ombudsman