DRN-1808955
The complaint
Ms F has complained about the level of compensation offered by BUPA Insurance Limited 
for its poor administration of the group private medical insurance policy of which she was a 
member. Ms F says this poor administration led to a delay in her receiving treatment.
What happened
Ms Fs policy was due to renew 1 March 2019. 
On 6 March 2019, Ms F realised she still hadnt received a renewal invitation from BUPA. 
She telephoned BUPA to ask it about this. She explained that she needed to undergo 
physiotherapy and had been waiting to receive the renewal information before arranging this 
treatment. BUPA accepted that it was late in sending out the renewal invitation. It advised 
Ms F that her premium was to rise by 13%. It said the renewal invitation had now been 
posted to her.
Ms F later called BUPA back and expressed her concern about the increase. 
After discussion with BUPAs adviser, she agreed to increase her excess to reduce her 
premium. The adviser said she would send an email to confirm the new premium.
By 11 March 2019, Ms F still hadnt received either the email outlining her new premium or 
the original renewal information which had been posted. She rang BUPA to complain and 
said that this delay had meant shed been unable to use her policy for which she wanted 
compensation.
Later that day, she received an email outlining the revised renewal terms.
On 12 March 2019, Ms F rang BUPA to query some aspects of the renewal. She also 
discussed her complaint. She considered the adviser she spoke to was rude. She 
complained about this also.
On 14 March 2019, BUPA issued a final response to her complaint. It acknowledged it had 
been late in sending out Ms Fs renewal documents in the past two years. It arranged to pay 
her £100 compensation. It noted that during the phone call of 12 March 2019, its adviser had 
given wrong information about her complaint for which it apologised.
Ms F was unhappy at BUPAs response. She considered she should receive more 
compensation. She referred her complaint to us.
 
Our investigator recommended that the complaint should be upheld. He noted that this was 
the second year running that BUPA had been late in issuing renewal information to Ms F and 
that, on this occasion, it had led to a delay in her treatment which had caused her to suffer 
pain and discomfort. In view of this, and the unsatisfactory phone call which had taken place 
on 12 March 2019, he thought BUPA should pay Ms F a further £100 to bring the total 
compensation to £200.
BUPA didnt accept the investigators findings as it considered it had already offered a fair 
amount. The matter has therefore been passed to me for a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
BUPA accepts that it was at fault in not issuing Ms F with a renewal invitation sooner, both in 
2018 and 2019. I consider it was poor service not to provide the invitation until after the 
renewal date had passed.
In respect of the 2019 renewal, Ms F had explained to BUPA that she was delaying her 
physiotherapy treatment until she was sure she would be renewing the policy. And she 
couldnt make that decision until she had received the relevant renewal information. Ms F 
has explained that she was in pain and discomfort while awaiting this treatment. I therefore 
consider the delay in receiving the renewal details would have been very frustrating for her. 
And even after she took matters into her own hands and called BUPA, there was still a delay 
in receiving the documents after she agreed to amend the renewal terms.
I have listened to the phone call between Ms F and BUPA on 12 March 2019. I dont 
consider that the adviser was rude.
BUPA thought its award of £100 compensation was fair, though it has acknowledged that 
this is a subjective area. I consider that, in view of the delay which resulted to Ms Fs 
treatment and the pain and discomfort which this caused her, £200 would perhaps be a 
more appropriate level of compensation on this occasion.
 My final decision
For the reasons given above, my final decision is that I uphold this complaint. I require BUPA 
Insurance Limited to pay Ms F a further £100 to bring her total compensation to £200.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms F to accept or 
reject my decision before 2 December 2020. 
David Poley
Ombudsman