DRN-3480690
The complaint
Mr M complains Aviva Insurance Limited damaged his car when collecting it following a 
claim on his motor insurance policy. 
Other companies have been involved in this complaint, but as Aviva are responsible for it, 
Ive just referred to them in this decision.
What happened
I issued a provisional decision setting out whatd happened, and what I thought about that. 
Ive copied the relevant elements below, and they form part of this final decision.
Following an incident in which Mr Ms car was damaged it was collected by Aviva. After hed 
been told repairs had been completed, he went to collect the car but found the body, sides 
and roof of the car were covered in deep scratches which he says werent there before. 
He was offered £225 by Aviva. But he disputed that. Aviva then got a quote from one of their 
approved repairers  which said the cost would be £1,521.85. Aviva said one of their 
engineers considered this, and felt the estimate was quite excessive, and a reasonable cost 
would be £826.19. Aviva also offered a total of £200 compensation for the errors made.
Unhappy with Avivas offers, Mr M asked us to look into things. During this time, Mr M got 
another quote from a manufacturers approved repairer, who quoted £2,658.13 for the 
repairs.
One of our Investigators looked into things  and said Aviva hadnt treated Mr M fairly. He 
felt awarding the full £2,658.13 for the repairs, along with the £200 compensation Aviva had 
already awarded, was a fair outcome to the complaint.
Mr M accepted this, but Aviva didnt. They asked if wed checked whether this quote was 
fair, given how much more it is than the previous quote of £1,521.85 which their engineer 
also thought was excessive. So, the complaint was passed to me to decide.
Prior to considering Mr Ms complaint, I arranged for us to ask some further questions.
To Mr M, we asked who had physically inspected his car  he said Aviva hadnt, but the 
manufacturers repairer who quoted £2,658.13 had. He said he asked Avivas approved 
repairer for an estimate  but he didnt say whether theyd physically inspected the car.
From Aviva, we asked:
Had they got quotes from any other approved repairers? They said they hadnt.
Had their engineer physically inspected the car? They said theyd reviewed Mr Ms 
estimate, and images  adding its not always necessary to inspect a car in person.
Why was the quote of £1,521.85 too high, when it was provided by one of their 
approved repairers? No reply received to this question.
We also said its not completely clear why Aviva didnt agree with the quote of 
£2,658.13  and asked them to comment on it. Aviva provided engineers comments 
where they said they thought this quote included parts not required  and suggested 
they stick with their cash in lieu offer of £1,521.85.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Aviva have accepted theyre responsible for the damage to Mr Ms car  so the key question 
for me to decide is what quote I think is a fair and reasonable one for them to pay.
I can see our Investigator felt Aviva should pay the higher quote  for reasons Ill go on to 
explain though, I think a different approach would be fairer.
Here, Ive got three different amounts quoted for the repairs:
1. £826.19  the amount Avivas engineer said it should cost (after reviewing the 
£1,521.85 quote)
2. £1,521.85  the amount Avivas approved repairer said it should cost
3. £2,658.13  the amount Mr Ms manufacturers garage said it should cost
Ive noted Avivas engineer said they should stick with their offer of £1,521.85  but the offer 
they made was £826.19  after saying the higher of these two offers was too much.
I asked for clarification of why the £1,521.85 quote was deemed too much  given this was 
one of Avivas approved repairers whod said this is what itd cost. No response was 
received to this question. Given that, Ill set the £826.19 quote aside as Im not sure itd be a 
fair one.
The £1,521.85 quote repairs one wing mirror and replaces the other  the £2,658.13 quote 
replaces both. Ive focused on the wing mirrors as they account for a large proportion of the 
difference  but I have also noted Mr M paid for paint protection when he bought the car at 
£375  and his quote of £2,658.13 also applies paint protection to a manufacturers 
approved standard.
Realistically, I cant be certain based on the information Ive got before me, which of these 
two quotes would be required to put the car back to a standard Mr M wants. In thinking about 
this, I cant ignore that Mr M didnt cause this situation  one of Avivas approved repairers 
did. So, I think this means Mr M should have more options than I might otherwise suggest.
As standard, I think Aviva should pay Mr M the £1,521.85 figure. If Mr M then chooses to get 
his car repaired  and pays more than this, Aviva should also then (upon receipt of 
appropriate evidence) pay Mr M up to the £2,658.13 figure.
I think this creates a fair outcome, where Aviva are required to pay up front what I consider 
to be a fair amount for the issues they caused  and pay a further amount if Mr M incurs 
those costs.
I also need to think about compensation. Aviva awarded £200  which I can see our 
Investigator thought was fair. But, I think a higher amount would be more appropriate. I say 
that because Mr M has been put to trouble for a considerable period of time as a result of 
Avivas actions here. Hes now going to arrange his own repairs, leading to further inconvenience  so I think £350 is a fairer reflection of the distress and inconvenience 
caused to Mr M.
Responses to my provisional decision
Mr M replied and said he thought Id reached a fair outcome.
Aviva said theyd provided everything they could and outlined their stance.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As Mr M accepted my outcome, and Aviva didnt provide anything further for me to consider, 
Ive seen no reason to change the outcome I reached. Ive set out below what I think Aviva 
should do to resolve this complaint.
Putting things right
I require Aviva to:
Pay Mr M £1,521.85
Pay any further amounts, up to £2,658.13, upon production of appropriate evidence 
of repairs to Mr Ms car
Pay Mr M £350 compensation
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained above, I uphold this complaint, and require Aviva Insurance 
Limited to carry out the actions in the Putting things right section above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 13 June 2022.
 
Jon Pearce
Ombudsman