DRN-1657319
The complaint
Mrs G complains that NewDay Ltd have rejected her claim under section 75 of the 
Consumer Credit Act (1974).
What happened
In February 2019, Mrs G says she made a purchase for two items from a supplier, I will call 
D, using her store card. Mrs G says one of the items she received was incorrect so she 
returned it to D. The total cost of both items was £105.30. But it seems the cost of the 
incorrect item which Mrs G says she returned was £81.31 and Mrs G has asked for a refund 
for this item.
Mrs G complained to NewDay. They said D never received the returned item, so they 
werent prepared to reimburse Mrs G. However, NewDay credited Mrs Gs account with £15 
as a gesture of goodwill for any inconvenience caused. 
Unhappy with NewDays response, Mrs G brought her complaint to our service. Our 
investigator looked into Mrs Gs concerns. He explained the cost of the incorrect item didnt 
meet the financial limits as set out in section 75. Therefore, our investigator concluded that 
NewDay hadnt acted unfairly in the way they handled Mrs Gs claim. Mrs G disagreed. So, 
the complaint has been passed to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I have to decide what, if anything, NewDay should do to resolve Mrs Gs complaint. To do
that, I have to decide what I think is fair and reasonable, having regard to (amongst other
things) any relevant law. In this case, relevant law includes section 75 of the Consumer
Credit Act 1974 (CCA).
Section 75 of the CCA says that in certain circumstances the credit card account holder has
an equal right to claim against the credit card provider if there's either a breach of contract or
misrepresentation by the supplier of goods or services. So, in Mrs Gs case, section 75 of 
the CCA makes NewDay responsible for a breach of contract or misrepresentation by the
supplier under certain conditions. One of those conditions is that there must be a direct
relationship between the debtor (Mrs G) the creditor (NewDay) and the supplier (D). Having 
considered everything, Im satisfied that the necessary relationship exists.
But there are financial limits. The legislation states section 75 doesnt apply where the claim 
relates to any single item to which the supplier has attached a cash price not exceeding 
£100 or more than £30,000.
Both parties havent been able to provide me with an order confirmation of the two products 
Mrs G purchased. However, I can see from her account statement that Mrs G paid one 
single amount of £105.30 for both of the items she ordered.
From the information I have, it appears that the cost of the item Mrs G says she returned but 
hadnt received a refund for was £81.31. Therefore, as the cost of this item was less than 
£100, section 75 doesnt apply in Mrs Gs case. And as such, I dont think NewDay have 
treated Mrs G unfairly or unreasonably when they declined her section 75 claim, albeit they 
did so for different reasons.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs G to accept or 
reject my decision before 9 December 2020.
 
Leanne McEvoy
Ombudsman