DRN-2565156
The complaint
Miss N complains Lloyds Bank PLC didnt agree to refund her for a purchase made using 
her credit card.
What happened
Miss N used her Lloyds credit card to book holiday accommodation through an online 
platform. It cost £5,080. She was very unhappy with the accommodation, so she asked 
Lloyds to refund her. When Lloyds declined her request for a refund Miss N complained. 
Lloyds responded to the complaint but stood by its decision not to refund Miss N. Miss N 
brought the matter to our service for an independent review. 
The investigator pointed out to Lloyds that Miss Ns request for a refund had some merit. It 
reconsidered its position and offered to refund half of the money Miss N had paid for the 
accommodation. The investigator thought this was fair because although she accepted the 
accommodation hadnt been of the standard it should have been, and although Miss N 
experienced many issues with it, Miss N and her party had stayed in the accommodation 
and therefore had some benefit from it.
 
Miss A didnt accept Lloyds offer. She felt the accommodation was so bad, and the issues 
she experienced so serious, that she should get a full refund. She also explained that she 
would have left the accommodation if she could have, but as she wasnt sure shed receive a 
refund she was concerned shed end up paying for accommodation twice. As an agreement 
couldnt be reached the complaint has been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Miss N paid for the accommodation using her Lloyds credit card. She was unhappy with it, 
so she asked Lloyds for a refund. In this scenario Lloyds could pursue a dispute under the 
chargeback scheme. Or consider a claim under Section 75 of the Consumer Credit Act 1974 
(Section 75).
Lloyds has explained that it didnt think a chargeback would have had a reasonable prospect 
of success as Miss N had occupied the accommodation for the duration of the booking. I 
think it was most likely correct. So, I dont think it was wrong for Lloyds not to attempt one.
 
Turning to a claim under Section 75. Miss N (the debtor) used her Lloyds (the creditor) credit 
card to pay the online platform (the supplier). So, Im satisfied the necessary debtor-credit-
supplier relationship exists for a claim under Section 75. I should mention at this point that 
no such relationship exists between Miss N, Lloyds and the owner of the accommodation 
(the host) because no money was paid directly to the them. The fee charged by the online 
platform was over £100, so Im also satisfied the necessary financial limits have been met for 
a claim under Section 75.
Having established that there can be a claim under Section 75, I now need to consider 
whether theres a breach of contract or misrepresentation on the part of the supplier, which 
is the online platform, not the host. The fee paid to the online platform is for the use of the 
platform. But its also for the provision of a refund policy for when things go wrong, which 
includes things such as the accommodation not matching its description, special 
amenities/features not being provided, lack of cleanliness and health hazards.
Miss N has been detailed in her submissions about the quality of the accommodation and 
the issues she experienced. Its clear to me the accommodation fell well short of what the 
advert described, and that Miss N raised this, and the issues she experienced, with the 
online platform. Under its refund policy it had an obligation to do something about it, which 
its terms and conditions say were to provide a refund or alternative accommodation. My 
understanding is that it did neither. I think theres a breach of contract on the part of the 
supplier, which under Section 75, Lloyds is equally responsible for.
Miss N has explained that she would have left the accommodation if she could have. I 
understand why she didnt as things hadnt gone well, and shed already had a bad 
experience with the host. But I cant ignore that her and her party stayed in the 
accommodation for the whole booking. I accept that some things were bad, and that some of 
the issues she experienced, such as a room flooding and problems with the water supply, 
would have impacted on the enjoyment of the holiday. However, the core facilities of the 
accommodation were available either wholly, or predominantly. For example, as I 
understand it, except for one night, Miss N and her 11 guests had adequate sleeping 
arrangements. Overall, I think a 50% refund is a fair remedy here. But, like our investigator, I 
think Lloyds should also pay Miss N compensatory interest, if the refund would have resulted 
in her account being in credit. 
Im aware Miss N is dissatisfied with the customer service Lloyds provided when she asked 
for a refund. In her view it didnt consider her request properly. I understand her point of 
view. But I dont think Lloyds having a different view to Miss N on the outcome of her claim 
was poor service in and of itself. Lloyds did however recognise it caused an unnecessary 
delay for which it apologised and paid Miss N £50 compensation. I think this was fair and 
reasonable.
Putting things right
I think Lloyds should refund 50% of the cost of the accommodation (£2,540.03). The cost 
was split across two payments which were some time apart. Lloyds should re-work Miss Ns 
account as if only 50% of each payment had debited. If this results in periods where the 
account would have been in credit, Lloyds should pay Miss N simple interest* at 8% a year 
on those amounts.
*If Lloyds considers that its required by HM Revenue & Customs to withhold income tax 
from that interest, it should tell Miss N how much its taken off. It should also give Miss N a 
tax deduction certificate if she asks for one, so she can reclaim the tax from HM Revenue & 
Customs if appropriate.
My final decision
I uphold this complaint and require Lloyds Bank PLC to put things right as set out above. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss N to accept 
or reject my decision before 15 April 2021.
 James Langford
Ombudsman