DRN-2924039
The complaint
Mr M has complained about Zurich Insurance PLC. He isnt happy that it turned down a 
claim under his Farm Motor Insurance policy.
What happened
Mr M bought his vehicle in 2018 which was insured through Zurich. From February 2019 
Mr Ms vehicle suffered a few mechanical problems over a period of a few months. 
Eventually it was suggested to him that the problem could have been caused by a fuel 
contamination issue and so he claimed under his insurance policy in July 2019. 
But Zurich turned down his claim. It said there wasnt sufficient evidence to show that Mr Ms 
fuel was contaminated, and the claim was prejudiced by the fact that Mr M delayed in 
making a claim under his insurance policy. So Mr M complained to this service.
Our investigator looked into things for him but didnt uphold his complaint. He thought that 
Zurich hadnt acted unreasonably as the repairs had been undertaken without its knowledge 
or input. And as the parts that were affected and a sample of fuel hadnt been retained he 
didnt think Zurich had acted unreasonably in declining the claim.
As Mr M didnt agree the matter has been passed to me for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I appreciate that Mr M and Zurich have made detailed submissions surrounding the 
circumstances and the claim. Ive considered all these in detail and having done so, Im not 
upholding Mr Ms complaint. I know this will come as a disappointment, but Ill explain why. 
I can understand why Mr M feels his claim should be met but I dont think there is sufficient 
evidence to support his position. I accept that the fuel could have been contaminated but the 
fact that this possibility wasnt considered until five months after the initial problem has 
clearly hampered the claim and chances of success. And I wouldve expected a fuel sample, 
at the very least, to be retained in order that Zurich could consider this.
I note that Mr M has said that his vehicle didnt have a locked fuel cap, so I accept that this 
opens the possibility that the fuel was contaminated. But this wasnt considered a possibility 
when the vehicle first had problems, which surprises me, and there was no crime report 
made to the police so this undermines the claim. And none of Mr Ms other vehicles were 
contaminated. So although it is possible that the individual vehicle was targeted, I dont think 
its likely that all the fuel supply was contaminated. I say this as all Mr Ms other vehicles 
used the same fuel source.
Ultimately, I have to be fair to both sides when I consider this complaint. And as the repairs 
took place without Zurichs prior knowledge and input, I think this has prejudiced the claim. I 
say this as I would expect Zurich to have the opportunity to consider a claim in full and 
without the retention of parts or a fuel sample, I dont think it would be fair to ask it to meet 
the claim. Indeed, I understand that parts were used in repairing the vehicle that couldnt be 
attributed to a fuel contamination problem in any event. And there is a suggestion that the 
vehicle had ongoing problems even before the alleged incident might have happened. So, 
without the opportunity to inspect the vehicle, the parts or a fuel sample I dont think Zurich 
has been unreasonable here. 
So, despite my natural sympathy for Mr M, I dont think Zurich has done anything wrong and 
so Im not asking it to do anything further.
   
Finally, I note that Mr M has raised concerns about the level of customer service he received 
just before the matter was referred to me for a final decision. But as these issues havent 
been considered under this complaint, he will have to raise them separately with Zurich so 
they can be investigated. 
My final decision
It follows, for the reasons given above, that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 11 August 2021.
 
Colin Keegan
Ombudsman