DRN-3539491
The complaint
Miss V complains Admiral Insurance Company Limited (Admiral) did not offer a fair market 
value for her car when it was stolen.
There are several parties and representatives of Admiral involved throughout the complaint 
but for the purposes of this complaint Im only going to refer to Admiral.
What happened
Miss V had a motor insurance policy with Admiral.
In July 2021 Miss V had her car stolen, so she made a claim on her motor insurance policy 
with Admiral. Admiral accepted her claim and began the claim process.
Admiral made an initial valuation of £29,112 for Miss Vs car and this was increased to 
£30,050. The offer was based on market valuation of the car with average mileage.
Miss V disagreed with the amount paid. She said by the time the offer was made the car was 
undervalued as car prices had increased. She feels this has left her £3000 short of the car 
valuation. She thinks Admiral should value her car at the date the settlement was made.
Admiral reviewed its offer taking into account the actual mileage rather than an average. 
This meant an increase of £55 to £30,105. It said it had paid her claim within the terms of the 
policy.
As Miss V was not happy with Admiral, she brought the complaint to our service.
Our investigator did not uphold upheld the complaint. They looked into the case and said as 
the amount offered was in line with trade valuation guides, it is a reasonable offer and they 
did not require Admiral to increase it.  
As Miss V is unhappy with our investigators view the complaint has been brought to me for 
a final decision to be made.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In this case I have considered if Admiral acted fairly and reasonably in reaching its decision 
as to the level of settlement offered to Miss V following the theft of her car. My role is not to 
provide an exact valuation but to make a judgment as to whether the offer of settlement is 
fair.
Although this service doesnt value vehicles, we do check that the insurers valuation is fair 
and reasonable and in line with the terms and conditions of the policy. We use trade guides
to do this and theyre based on nationwide research of likely selling prices and take the cars
specifications, mileage etc into account.
This service doesnt consider the question of market value to be an exact science, however
our general approach is that the valuations given in the main motor trade guides provide the
most persuasive and consistent evidence. These guides are based on extensive nationwide
research of likely (but not actual) selling prices.
I looked at the information Admiral had used when calculating the settlement value for 
Miss Vs car. It obtained bespoke valuations from a number of the main trade guides in order 
to obtain an accurate valuation for it. Initially Admiral offered Miss V £29,112 and this was 
then increased to £30,050.
When Admiral considered Miss Vs complaint about the settlement amount in December 
2021, it increased its valuation of her car by £55. This was because the mileage was slightly 
lower than average. In recognition of the error it also paid Miss V £50 for the trouble and 
inconvenience caused. 
I looked at the valuations and agree that the amount paid for Miss Vs car is fair and in line 
with the main trade valuation guides.
I also looked at the details within Miss Vs motor insurance policy with Admiral. In this
case within the policy terms and conditions market value is defined as;
The cost of replacing your vehicle; with one of a similar make, model, year, mileage and 
condition based on market prices immediately before the loss happened. Use of the term 
market refers to where your vehicle was purchased. This value is based on research from 
industry recognised motor trade guides.
This means that Admiral were within the terms and conditions to make its offer based on the 
market valuation at the time of the theft and not at the date of the settlement.
Therefore, I do not uphold Miss Vs complaint and do not require Admiral to do anything 
further for this complaint. 
I understand that Miss V will be disappointed with my decision, and I understand there was a 
wait for her claim to be paid but I have not seen any evidence of any unnecessary delay 
caused by Admiral.
My final decision
For the reasons I have given I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss V to accept 
or reject my decision before 22 July 2022.
 
Sally-Ann Harding
Ombudsman