DRN-3086243
The complaint
Mrs C complains about the quality of a car she has been financing through an agreement 
with Moneybarn No. 1 Limited (Moneybarn).  
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again 
here. Instead Ill focus on giving my reasons for my decision.  
  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I know it will disappoint Moneybarn, but I agree with the investigators opinion. Please let me 
explain why.
Where the information Ive got is incomplete, unclear or contradictory, as some of it is here I 
have to base my decision on the balance of probabilities.
Ive read and considered the whole file, but Ill concentrate my comments on what I think is 
relevant. If I dont comment on any specific point its not because Ive failed to take it on 
board and think about it but because I dont think I need to comment on it in order to reach 
what I think is the right outcome.
Mrs C acquired her car under a conditional sale agreement. This is a regulated consumer 
credit agreement and as a result our service is able to look into complaints about it.  
The relevant law says, amongst other things, that the car should have been of satisfactory 
quality when supplied. If it wasnt then Moneybarn, who are also the supplier of the car, are 
responsible. The relevant law also says the quality of goods is satisfactory if they meet the 
standard that a reasonable person would consider satisfactory taking into account any 
description of the goods, the price and all the other relevant circumstances. 
In a case like this which involves a car the other relevant circumstances would include things 
like the age and mileage at the time the car was supplied to Mrs C. The car here was about 
five years old and had completed about 79,000 miles. So, I think a reasonable person would 
expect parts of the car to have already suffered some wear and tear. But I dont think that 
can be said for the horn that Mrs C complains about. The horn is an important safety feature 
and must be functional for the car to be deemed roadworthy in an MOT. Whilst the inspector 
noted it was audible he did explain there was a vibration through the body of the vehicle 
when it was activated and that there may be a damaged diaphragm. He said it was likely the 
fault was present when the car was supplied to Mrs C.
It seems Moneybarn have accepted the independent inspectors opinion that the horn hasnt 
been working properly since the car was supplied and I think the evidence supports that 
view. In those circumstances the relevant legislation allows the business one opportunity to 
repair the fault. But the legislation says that repair should be completed in a reasonable time 
and that cant be the case here as Mrs C has been waiting for a satisfactory resolution since 
Moneybarn said theyd fix the horn in their final response in December 2019. I think it was 
Moneybarns duty to ensure the repair was completed on time and I dont think its 
reasonable to put the onus on the consumer to arrange repairs when theyve been provided 
with faulty goods.
So, I think this car hasnt been of satisfactory quality and as a repair hasnt been completed 
in a reasonable timeframe I think Moneybarn should now allow Mrs C to reject the car.
Putting things right
Moneybarn should collect the car at no cost to Mrs C and they should end the finance 
agreement.
Mrs C has been inconvenienced by these issues. Shes had to take the car back to the 
dealership for repairs and shes been unreasonably expected to arrange repairs. It would 
have been inconvenient for her to have to escalate her complaint to this service and I 
therefore think Moneybarn should pay her £150 in respect of the distress and inconvenience 
caused.
I think the issues Mrs C has experienced with the car will have impacted on her enjoyment of 
it. Problems with the horn and the air conditioning will also have impacted on her use of the 
car. Whilst its only fair for Mrs C to pay for the use shes had from the vehicle I think 
Moneybarn should provide a refund of 10% of all finance instalments shes paid in respect of 
the impaired use shes had and the loss of enjoyment she will have experienced. Moneybarn 
should add interest to that refund.  
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above I uphold this complaint and tell Moneybarn No. 1 Limited 
to:
end the finance agreement and collect the car at no cost to Mrs C;
refund 10% of all finance instalments Mrs C has paid in respect of the impaired use 
and loss of enjoyment shes experienced. Add 8% simple interest per year to that 
refund from the date of payment to the date of settlement;
pay Mrs C £150 compensation for the distress and inconvenience shes experienced.
remove any adverse reports they may have made to the credit reference agencies 
about this agreement.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs C to accept or 
reject my decision before 5 November 2021.
 
Phillip McMahon
Ombudsman