DRN-3090770
The complaint
Ms C and Mr S complain Royal & Sun Alliance Insurance Plc (RSA) misdiagnosed the cause
of a leak from their shower cubicle and wont treat a second leak from the cubicle as part of
a claim they made for the first leak under their all risks home insurance policy.
  
What happened
Ms C and Mr S found a leak that, among other things, had entered an electrical cupboard
and damaged their automated light system. So they claimed on their home insurance policy.
RSA sent in a firm of trace and access experts to find the source of the leak. Its report said it
was from the shower valve, which wasnt sealed. It said the valve should be sealed and
Ms C and Mr S should monitor the electrical cupboard for two to three weeks to see if any
water reappeared before they got the electrics fixed.
I understand Ms C and Mr S did this, getting their own contractor to do the repair, and RSA
cash settled the claim.
A couple of months later, Ms C and Mr S noticed water in their electrical cupboard again.
RSA sent in a different firm of trace and access experts. Its report said the leak was from the
shower hose housing unit, which wasnt sealed.
RSA says the damage caused by the second leak was in a separate area and happened
months after the first leak. So it told Ms C and Mr S it had to be treated as a second claim
(and by this time it seems Ms C and Mr Ss policy with RSA had lapsed).
Ms C and Mr S disagree. They say the leak came from the same area and RSAs first trace
and access experts misdiagnosed the fault. They say they didnt find this out straightaway
because they werent using the shower for some of the time.
The investigator who looked at Ms C and Mr Ss complaint didnt uphold it. She didnt think it
was unreasonable of RSA, once it had cash settled the first claim, to treat the second leak
as a new claim (which would have to be made against Ms C and Mr Ss new insurer). She
thought it was reasonable to expect Ms C and Mr Ss contractors to check all areas were
correctly sealed.
Ms C and Mr S disagreed and so their complaint came to me to decide. In my provisional 
decision of 20 September 2021, I explained why I intended to uphold Ms C and Mr Ss 
complaint. Both RSA and Ms C and Mr S have accepted my provisional decision, which has 
now come to me for a final decision. 
 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, and for the reasons given in my provisional decision, Ive decided to uphold 
Ms C and Mr Ss complaint. 
In my provisional decision, I said:
Ms C and Mr Ss home insurance policy gave them cover for loss or damage caused by an
escape of water from a fixed domestic water installation. It also gave them cover for the
costs of finding where water was leaking from.
In tracing the leaks Ms C and Mr S found in their home, RSA shouldve identified and dealt
with all the sources of the damage at the outset. Thats the only way insurers can carry out
lasting and effective repairs of damage, which is what we expect them to do.
In this complaint, based on the reports from the two trace and access firms Ive seen, I dont
think RSA identified all the sources of damage Ms C and Mr S were claiming for at the
outset, as it shouldve. I think its likely damage was caused by two leaks. One was from the
shower valve (found by the first firm of trace and access experts). The second was from the
shower bracket (found by the second firm of trace and access experts).
I know Ms C and Mr S think RSA misdiagnosed the cause of the first leak. They say there
was no water in the electrical cupboard when the engineer spray-tested the valve. But the
engineers report says there was water in the cupboard when he spray-tested it, and he
identified the valve as the cause of the leak. Ive seen no other expert opinion to show that
his conclusion was wrong. His report persuades me its likely the valve was leaking.
But having found the valve in the shower cubicle was leaking because it hadnt been sealed,
Id have expected this engineer to check the sealant on the other units in the shower cubicle.
Theres nothing in his report to show he did this.
The second test and trace experts report a couple of months or so later, says the shower
bracket was also unsealed and it concludes this was causing a leak. I think if the first
engineer had checked the sealing of the other units in the shower cubicle at the same time
as he checked the valve, hed have seen the shower hose bracket was also unsealed. And,
had he spray tested it, I think its likely water wouldve escaped into the electrical cupboard.
So, from what Ive seen so far, I think RSA failed to identify at the outset all the problems
that had caused the damage.
Although I think there were two leaks, its my current view RSA shouldve identified both of
them when the first trace and access engineer carried out his inspection. It follows I think
RSA should treat the second leak, along with the first one, as part of the same, one claim.
RSA says the second leak was in a separate area and happened some months later, which
is why it thinks the two leaks are unconnected and should be treated as two separate claims.
But both leaks were from unsealed units in what looks to be a reasonably small shower 
cubicle  so I dont agree they were in separate areas. And Ms C and Mr S have said their
shower wasnt in use for some of the time after the first leak  partly because of the time it
took to get contractors in to seal the shower valve and partly because they were away from
home.
As Ive already said, both Ms C and Mr S and RSA have accepted my provisional decision. 
And Ive seen no reason to change the reasoning or conclusions I set out in it, which now 
form part of this final decision.My final decision
For the reasons Ive given, I direct Royal & Sun Alliance Insurance Plc to consider the 
second leak in Ms C and Mr Ss shower cubicle as part of their claim for the first leak and in 
line with their policy terms and conditions.
 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms C and Mr S to 
accept or reject my decision before 4 November 2021.
 
Jane Gallacher
Ombudsman