DRN-2523277
The complaint
Miss A has complained that Evolution Insurance Company Limited will no longer offer her 
involuntary redundancy cover.
What happened
Miss A took out a Home Guard Plus income protection policy through a broker in July 2016. 
The policy covered Miss A for a monthly benefit of £1000 if she was made involuntarily 
redundant. The policy renewed on 13 July 2019 and Miss A paid a premium of £480.36 for 
the policy year. It was due to expire on 12 July 2020.
However, on 12 May 2020, Evolutions administrator, which Ill call T, wrote to Miss A to 
explain that Evolution was no longer offering involuntary redundancy cover. So it explained 
that Evolution wouldnt be able to offer Miss A renewal of her policy on 13 July 2020. T also 
told Miss A that itd tried to find alternative insurers to offer her the same type of cover, but it 
hadnt been able to do so.
Miss A was unhappy with Evolutions decision and she asked us to look into her complaint. 
She said shed had the cover for around four and a half years. She told us that she was 
going to be made redundant shortly and that she needed the policy.
Our investigator didnt think Miss As complaint should be upheld. He thought Evolution was 
entitled to make a decision to withdraw from the market, but that it needed to make sure this 
decision was clearly communicated to Miss A. He also thought that Evolution had given Miss 
A more notice of its decision than it needed to under its policy terms. While he 
acknowledged the timing was unfortunate for Miss A, he didnt think Evolution had done 
anything wrong.
Miss A disagreed. She said she was very disappointed that insurance companies are able to 
withdraw from the market after policyholders have been paying premiums for years. She 
also said that T had told her that following Evolutions withdrawal from the market, her policy 
had been placed with another insurer. However, that insurer had decided to withdraw from 
the market in April 2020. So she wanted to know why shed still been paying premiums 
between April and June 2020.
The complaints been passed to me to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I think Evolution has treated Miss A fairly. Ill explain why.
Its important I make it clear that were not the industry regulator. I have no power to tell an 
insurer to offer a particular type of insurance (such as income protection); on what terms it 
should offer a policy or what price it should charge to do so. Insurers are entitled to exercise 
their discretion to make commercial decisions about how to run their businesses, as long as 
they do so legitimately and dont single individual consumers out unfairly.
In this case, Evolution has told us that in April 2019, it decided to withdraw from the accident, 
sickness and unemployment market. And it decided not to renew any policies which were 
due for renewal after August 2019. Its told us that since August 2019, it hasnt offered any 
new accident, sickness and unemployment policies and it cancelled all of its existing policies 
at the date of their annual renewal. Miss As policy renewed with Evolution in July 2019  
about a month before Evolutions withdrawal from the market  and she continued to have 
redundancy cover until the policy expired in July 2020. Miss A continued to pay premiums 
during this period to ensure her cover remained in place. So I hope it reassures Miss A to 
know that she was covered for involuntary redundancy up until 12 July 2020. 
Evolution made a commercial decision not to continue to provide this type of cover. As its 
cancelled this policy for each of its customers at their annual renewal date after August 
2019; I think its treated all of its customers in the same way. This means I dont think its 
singled Miss A out in any way. 
Ive also considered the terms of Miss As policy, as these form the basis of her contract with 
Evolution. The front page of the policy includes a prominent section called 
CANCELLATION, which says:
The Insurer shall not be bound to accept renewal of any insurance and may at any time 
cancel any insurance document by giving 30 days notice in writing where there is a valid 
reason for doing so. A cancellation letter will be sent to You at Your last known email or 
postal address. Valid reasons may include but are not limited to Fraud or non-compliance 
with the Policy terms & conditions.
I think the terms make it clear that Evolution doesnt have to offer a policyholder a 
continuation of their policy at each renewal. I think the policys explicit that if Evolution 
chooses not to offer renewal and instead cancels the policy; it will write to a policyholder and 
give them 30 days notice of the cancellation. So Ive looked carefully at the available 
evidence to see whether Evolution complied with its policy terms.
T wrote to Miss A on 13 May 2020 to tell her that Evolution was no longer able to offer her 
involuntary redundancy cover and so it wouldnt be able to offer her renewal on 13 July 
2020. This letter was sent exactly 60 days before Miss As policy was due to expire on 12 
July 2020. So I can see that Evolution gave Miss A double the notice period the policy terms 
required it to. I think this was a reasonable step to try and give Miss A time to try and find 
alternative cover.
I understand Miss A has been unable to find a new policy and its clear that T was also 
unable to place Evolutions old business with a new provider. Given Miss As told us that 
shes going to be made redundant, I appreciate how worrying and upsetting this situation 
must be for her. But Evolution cancelled Miss As policy about 9 months before she told us 
she was due to be made redundant. So it wouldnt be reasonable for me to find that 
Evolution should consider a redundancy claim now, when it hasnt been covering Miss A 
since her policy expired. And Evolution also isnt responsible for other insurance companies 
now making the commercial decision not to offer this type of policy. This means that while I 
strongly sympathise with Miss As position, Im satisfied that Evolution treated her fairly. And 
I think it was entitled to withdraw from the market. 
Overall, I dont think Evolutions done anything wrong that it needs to put right.
My final decisionFor the reasons Ive given above, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss A to accept 
or reject my decision before 18 May 2021.
 
Lisa Barham
Ombudsman