DRN-3770929
The complaint
P, a company, complains that Covea Insurance plc (Covea) has unfairly handled a claim 
made under a business interruption policy.
Any reference to P or Covea includes respective agents or representatives.
What happened
The facts of this complaint are well established and known by both parties, so Ive 
summarised events.
P initially presented a claim to Covea in 2013. Covea says this claim was closed in 
January 2016 due to P not providing information.
In June 2018 P contacted Covea to continue with the claim. Following a further back 
and forth, Covea says P was slow to provide further information about the claim 
across the following two years.
The claim was settled in May 2021 for £29,845.97. P said Covea should pay an 
additional 8% simple interest per annum on top of this sum to account for Coveas 
delays, and that the claim shouldve been paid in June 2018. 
Covea disagreed, saying the claim took some time to be progressed due to Ps 
inaction and not being forthcoming with information requests to aid the claim. 
Following this, Covea said delays occurred due to the Covid-19 pandemic. But 
Covea did agree it had caused delays in places.
Our Investigator looked into things and didnt uphold the complaint as he wasnt 
persuaded Covea was responsible for all of the delays across the claim. 
P disagreed, providing many emails between its own loss assessor and Covea which 
it said showed Coveas delays. 
The Investigator reviewed these, saying it was evident there had been significant 
delays on part of Covea, even taking into account Ps own delays. But he said the 
8% interest this Service would award only applies to a financial loss, and here the 
claim was already paid so didnt apply in line with our rules. The Investigator awarded 
£200 in compensation for the inconvenience given Ps chasing of Covea. And he 
asked for P to detail if there had been any losses caused by P not receiving the claim 
payment earlier.
P disagreed with the assessment, saying it was unfair to find Covea took too long but 
not award interest as it requested. But P provided no details of any specific loss it 
had suffered as a result of not having the funds earlier than it did. 
So, the matter was passed to me for an Ombudsmans final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im upholding this complaint, largely in keeping with our Investigators 
previous findings. Ill explain why.
Ps claim has been accepted and paid before the complaint came to this Service. 
And the outcome of the claim and the sums involved are not disputed by P or its 
representatives. So, I wont need to discuss the outcome of the claim any further. 
The dispute in this case originates in the time taken to resolve the claim. P says 
Covea shouldve resolved the claim soon after the matter was raised in June 2018, 
and so Covea should pay 8% simple interest to account for this period of delay. 
Ive focused on this period of June 2018 onwards within this decision.
Covea has agreed its agents caused delays in this claim. But it says P has failed to 
acknowledge the impact of its own delays and inaction.
Having reviewed all the evidence provided by both sides, Im in agreement that Ps 
actions at times have delayed matters. Its own loss assessors have been open about 
this. But the fact remains that it has taken around three years to reach a point of 
settling the claim. And from the emails Ive seen, its clear Ps agents were chasing 
regularly for updates and looking to move the claim forwards on many occasions 
across this time. 
So, Im satisfied Covea hasnt progressed the claim promptly and fairly as I would 
expect. 
This leads me to consider what the appropriate remedy would be in the 
circumstances. 
P argues I should award 8% simple interest on top of the claim settlement figure.
The FCA Handbook, section 3.7 outlines the type of awards an Ombudsman can 
make. This includes money awards, interest awards amongst others.
Given the nature of Ps complaint, Ill start with Interest awards. The rules state:
an interest award may provide for the amount payable under the money award 
to bear interest at a rate and as from a date specified in the award.
So, its clear to me that any sort of interest award would need to stem from a money 
award. And under our rules, interest cant be awarded without such a money award 
to attach the interest to. Here, there is evidently no such money award to attach the 
interest to, as the claim was settled outside of this Service and does not form part of 
my decision or direction.
Under Money awards the rules state a money award can account for financial loss 
(including consequential or prospective loss), pain and suffering, damage to 
reputation, and distress or inconvenience.
P has provided no detail as to any impact of not having the funds earlier than it did, 
despite our Investigator asking for details of this. So, Ive been given nothing to 
persuade me P has suffered any sort of financial loss as a result of not having the 
claim settlement earlier than it did. It follows Im not persuaded to direct Covea to pay 
P for any financial losses as it simply hasnt provided any details of any.
As above, Im also able to consider any inconvenience (but not distress as P is a 
limited company) caused by such delays. The majority of the chasing and requests to 
progress the claim Ive seen have been by Ps loss assessor. So, it seems to me the 
loss assessors actions wouldve cushioned the administrative impact of the delays on P itself. And I cant make any award to the loss assessor or for their 
inconvenience. As a result, and based on the evidence provided, I think the £200 
compensation is a fair figure to put things right for P.
My final decision
I uphold this complaint and direct Covea Insurance plc to pay P £200 in compensation for 
the inconvenience caused.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask P to accept or 
reject my decision before 10 January 2023.
 
Jack Baldry
Ombudsman