DRN-3341158
The complaint
Mr S complains that Nationwide Building Society did not send replacement cards for his 
account and that it was rude and unhelpful when he called. He complains too that the 
building society then closed his account.
What happened
In March 2021 Mr Ss Nationwide account was changed. The change meant that he needed 
a new payment card to be sent to his correspondence address in India. By early May, Mr S 
had not received the card and so he contacted the building society to find out why. 
Nationwide cancelled the replacement card and ordered another but was unable to say 
when it would be delivered. It suggested that Mr S get in touch after six weeks if the second 
replacement had not arrived by then. 
Mr S complained about not receiving the first replacement card and was told he could expect 
a reply within five days. He did not receive any contact within that timescale, however, 
although he did receive a response around three weeks later. In that response, Nationwide 
accepted that it had not formally acknowledged the complaint as it should have done and 
offered Mr S £10 by way of compensation. It did not agree that it was at fault for not 
delivering a replacement card, as it had been sent as it should have been. 
Mr S did not accept Nationwides response to his complaint and contacted the building 
society on several further occasions. Nationwide took the view that its relationship with Mr S 
had broken down and, in May 2021, told him that it would be closing his account at the end 
of July. It later extended that until 26 August 2021, when Mr S explained that he was 
suffering from Covid-19. 
Mr S remained unhappy and referred the matter to this service, where one of our 
investigators considered what had happened. He did not believe that Nationwide had treated 
Mr S unfairly. In summary, he was satisfied that the replacement cards had been sent and 
that Nationwide was within its rights to close Mr Ss account.   
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I can understand why Mr S was frustrated when his first replacement card was not delivered 
and when Nationwide was unable to tell him when he might expect it. Like the investigator, 
however, I am satisfied that replacement cards were sent to the correct address. I can 
understand why Nationwide was unable to provide timescales for delivery. I share the 
investigators view as well that, once it had sent replacement cards to the correct address, 
Nationwide was not responsible for ensuring their safe delivery. 
The account terms allowed Nationwide to close Mr Ss account on giving at least two 
months notice. Banks and building societies can generally close a current account on giving 
reasonable notice, and two months is usually reasonable for a personal account, but I note 
that Nationwide extended that time in this case. It was reasonable for it to do so, and I think 
as well that it was reasonable of Nationwide to conclude that its relationship with Mr S had 
broken down. I do not believe therefore that it was unfair of Nationwide to close the account 
or that the way it did that was unreasonable.         
My final decision
For these reasons my final decision is that I do not require Nationwide Building Society to 
take any further steps to resolve Mr Ss complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 5 July 2022. 
Mike Ingram
Ombudsman