DRN-1774127
The complaint
Mr S complains that Acromas Insurance Company Limited declined a claim he made on his 
breakdown repair cover. All references to Acromas include its agents. 
What happened
In October 2019, Mr S's parking sensors stopped working. He contacted Acromas to make a 
claim for the cost of repairing them but this was declined. Acromas said he was still able to 
drive his car safely without the parking sensors and therefore the claim didn't meet the 
definition of breakdown set out in its policy. It later suggested that the policy contained a 
specific exclusion for 'active safety systems'. 
Mr S complained. He said his car was inoperable without the parking sensors and felt he'd 
been led to understand this was the type of repair his policy would cover. After discussing 
the claim with Mr S by phone, Acromas initially sent him a summary resolution letter which 
said he could complain to our service if he remained unhappy. Mr S highlighted that the 
letter didn't explain why his claim had been declined. Acromas therefore agreed to carry out 
further investigation. It issued a final response letter in December 2019 which said the claim 
had been declined correctly under the terms and conditions. 
During a phone call around this time, Mr S offered to send Acromas pictures to demonstrate 
that without working parking sensors, he couldn't use his car safely. He subsequently sent it 
a picture of his car parked between two others. He said the picture showed he wasn't able to 
complete that particular journey safely without using parking sensors. Acromas replied 
highlighting the exclusion for 'active safety systems' and reminding Mr S that he was free to 
bring the complaint to our service.  
Mr S asked our service to consider whether Acromas handled the claim fairly, and whether 
the policy was fit for purpose. He felt the policy wording was ambiguous and that his claim 
should have been covered as the parking sensors were a part of the car's safety features. 
Our investigator didn't consider that the complaint should be upheld. She felt Acromas had 
declined the claim fairly bearing in mind the policy terms. And she didn't feel Acromas was 
responsible for ensuring the policy was suitable to Mr S's needs because it was sold on a 
non-advised basis. She accepted Acromas' communications could have been clearer but 
didn't conclude that compensation was due. Mr S didn't agree, so I've been asked to reach a 
final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Having done so, I've decided not to 
uphold it. I appreciate this is likely to come as a disappointment to Mr S because it's clearly a 
matter he feels strongly about. I've explained my reasoning below:
Policies like Mr S's are, in essence, intended to get a car mobile again if it won't start, or 
breaks down mid-journey, due to a sudden electrical or mechanical failure. In keeping with 
this, Acromas' policy specifically defines a breakdown as a mechanical or electrical failure that has prevented the vehicle from starting or continuing its journey safely and that requires 
replacement of insured parts to enable the journey to be resumed or commenced.  
When making a claim on an insurance policy, the burden of proof initially rests with the 
policyholder  to show, on balance, they've suffered a loss that the policy covers. I don't think 
Mr S has been able to meet that burden in this case. I'm not persuaded that the failure of his 
parking sensors constitutes a breakdown by the policy definition. 
I accept parking sensors enhance the safety features of a car, but a lack of them doesn't 
prevent a car from starting or continuing a journey safely. That's demonstrated by the fact 
they're not a safety requirement of UK cars. In some cars, they're an optional addition.  
Other cars don't have them at all. That doesn't mean those cars are unsafe to drive. A car 
wouldn't fail its MOT, for example, on the basis that it didn't have parking sensors, or 
because its parking sensors weren't working.  
Mr S has sent us pictures which he feels demonstrate that he wasn't able to complete a 
particular journey safely without his parking sensors. He argues that he was blocked in by 
two vehicles. But it's clear from the picture that there was space in which to manoeuvre on 
both sides of Mr S's car. I appreciate parking sensors would have enhanced Mr S's spacial 
awareness in this scenario. But like I've said, parking sensors aren't a compulsory safety 
feature in UK cars. I therefore don't agree that he was prevented from starting that 
particular journey safely without them. If the two cars hadn't left Mr S enough room to exit 
his parking space, then it wouldn't be the failure of his parking sensors that prevented him 
from starting the journey. It would be the proximity of the two cars.  
I can see Mr S has complained that the exclusion Acromas has highlighted isn't specific. But 
it's only necessary for an insurer to demonstrate that an exclusion applies once the 
policyholder has met the burden of proof described above. As I've said, I'm not satisfied that 
Mr S has been able to show he had a breakdown. So, while I appreciate there's been some 
back and forth about whether the relevant version of the terms and conditions contained an 
exclusion for 'active safety systems', I don't think this affects the outcome of the claim. 
Mr S thinks the policy is unfit for purpose. But I don't think Acromas' definition of breakdown 
is ambiguous, or overly restrictive in comparison with similar policies on the market. 
Although this particular claim hasn't been successful, I'm satisfied there are circumstances in 
which Mr S could make a successful claim. So, I haven't reached a finding that Acromas 
sold Mr S a policy that wasn't fit for purpose. And I don't think the policy literature 
Acromas provided to Mr S was misleading about what would be considered a breakdown. 
I accept that Acromas' handling of the claim could have been better. I think it made clear 
from the outset that it didn't think Mr S was prevented from starting or continuing a journey 
by virtue of his parking sensors not working. But I think its reliance on the exclusion for 
'active safety systems' and the lack of detail in its letters created confusion. I can also see 
that Mr S feels Acromas took too long to reply to his points. 
Acromas did give Mr S the option to complain to our service at the outset of the claim though 
if he remained unhappy. He could therefore have asked us to carry out an impartial review at 
that juncture if he felt Acromas wasn't engaging with him or being clear enough. And Mr S 
has also told us the parking sensors were repaired in October 2019. So, he still had use of 
his car while he waited for the outcome of Acromas' investigation. In the circumstances, I 
haven't decided monetary compensation is due. 
Mr S has also complained Acromas made a decision before seeing his photographs. But 
he'd already described the issue he was having with the car over the phone, and I don't think the photographs would have added to Acromas' understanding of the issue.  
My final decision
My final decision is that I don't uphold this complaint.  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 17 June 2020.
Mike Walker
Ombudsman