DRN-2683573
The complaint
Mr C is unhappy with the settlement offered by Chubb European Group SE in respect of a 
subsidence claim under his home insurance policy.
What happened
In 2013 Mr C made a claim to Chubb for subsidence. Chubb appointed a loss adjuster to 
investigate the claim. The loss adjuster visited the property in February 2013. He thought 
the damage was being caused by nearby vegetation. There was damage to a 1970s 
extension on the left hand side of the building and an area on the right hand side.
By November 2013 Mr C had had the 1970s extension demolished. Chubb said this was 
done without its knowledge. Initially it said Mr C hadnt suffered a loss because he would 
have demolished that part of the property in any event. Mr C said hed had the work done on 
expert advice for the safety and well-being of his family.
In September 2019 Chubb paid Mr C £14,634 to settle the claim for subsidence damage to 
the extension on the left hand side of the building. It said that was based on what it would 
have cost it to repair and redecorate that part of the property if it hadnt been demolished. 
Mr C didnt think that offer reflected the full extent of the repair costs. He said the difference 
in cost between a full refurbishment and demolition/rebuilding was marginal. 
Mr C brought his complaint to this service. Our investigator didnt uphold it. He didnt think 
Chubbs offer was unfair.
As Mr C didnt agree, the matter has been referred to me. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The issue in dispute is about how much Chubb should pay to settle Mr Cs subsidence claim 
for the left hand side of his building. Chubbs offer was based on a cosmetic repair scheme 
while Mr C thinks underpinning and an extensive refurbishment scheme would have been 
required. 
Ive looked at the estimate prepared by Mr Cs quantity surveyor and compared it with the 
schedule of works prepared by Chubbs loss adjuster. One of the main differences is the 
cost of underpinning.
In 2013 Chubbs loss adjuster thought the subsidence damage to both parts of the property 
had been caused by vegetation near the property. He said:
Clay soils will re-hydrate in the winter months, causing the clays to swell and the cracks to 
close. Provided the cause of movement is dealt with (in this case, vegetation) there should 
not be a recurrence of movement.
Chubb thinks the fact that removing the vegetation was successful in stopping further 
movement on the main part of the house indicates that this approach was also likely to have 
worked with the extension. Since no other likely cause of the subsidence damage has been 
identified, I havent seen any evidence to show that wasnt a reasonable conclusion or that 
the vegetation in question couldnt have been removed.
Mr Cs quantity surveyor estimated it would cost £204,000 to underpin the external and 
internal walls of this part of the property. I havent seen any technical evidence to support the 
claim that the extension would have needed to be underpinned in order to carry out an 
effective repair. Chubb isnt required to carry out preventative work to prevent further 
movement unless such work is necessary as part of a lasting repair. So Im not persuaded 
that Chubb should have factored the cost of underpinning into its cash settlement.
Chubbs loss adjuster said the cracks measured between 0.1 and 1 mm wide which 
according to an industry standard classification is categorised as slight damage only 
requiring redecoration. He also said there were numerous problems with the 1970s 
extension. In particular there was no damp proof course, no foundations and rotten timber. 
The relatively minor subsidence damage and the other serious problems with this part of the 
property suggest to me that the other substantial works included in Mr Cs estimate such as 
£23,400 for renewing timber floors and £18,900 for roof repairs were also probably not 
required as a result of subsidence damage. 
Overall, although I appreciate that the amount of the settlement is far less than it cost to 
demolish and rebuild the extension, Im not convinced that Chubbs settlement offer was 
unreasonable or unfair.
My final decision
I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 2 August 2021.
 
Elizabeth Grant
Ombudsman