DRN-3226271
The complaint
Mr J and Miss D complain as trustees of a trust (T), that despite the trust account mandate 
requiring the signature of two trustees to approve transactions, Royal Bank of Scotland Plc 
didnt observe that requirement especially in respect of four transactions conducted by the 
former trustees
What happened
 The facts of this case are well known to the parties, so I wont repeat them in detail.  Briefly, 
however, Mr J and Miss D, are trustees T who banks with RBS. Mr J is also the beneficiary 
of the trust.
The trust account was opened in 2015 when two former trustees were in post. On their 
retirement in 2020 Mr J and Miss D were appointed the new trustees. 
At the time that the account was opened, RBS recorded that Mr J was one of the trustees, 
as this reflected information stated in the opening documentation. But RBS said because 
they needed to make sure the account aligned with the provisions of trust deed which had in 
fact named Mr J as the beneficiary rather than a trustee Mr J was removed from that 
capacity. The two former trustees were named in the documentation as Authorised 
Signatories for the purposes of the trust mandate and the account was established on that 
basis.
After the retirement of the original trustees in 2020, Mr J says one of them admitted the 
former trustees had misappropriated funds from the trust account. Mr J and Miss D believed 
this was RBSs fault because they didnt think the bank operated the trust account in 
accordance with the terms of the mandate requiring two to sign for transactions. They said 
RBS approved transfers from the account when only one trustee had signed. T was also 
unhappy that on some CHAPS transfer documents the name of the trust account was 
incorrectly stated. 
RBS acknowledged the trust account does require two signatories to sign for transactions. 
But they believe they observed that requirement and, in that regard, didnt think theyd done 
anything wrong. 
But RBS admitted that on occasions the title of the trust account wasnt stated correctly on 
the CHAPS transfer forms that were submitted by the former trustees. And they 
acknowledged they should have made sure that was the case at all times. In spite of that, 
however, they said the sort code and account number were always correctly stated and the 
forms themselves were signed in line with the account mandate. Accordingly, therefore, RBS 
said the transactions were correctly processed. 
T didnt agree with RBS stance and referred the complaint to this service. 
In making its complaint, T identified four transactions in particular where it believed RBS 
didnt observe the provisions of the account mandate to the detriment of Mr J. They are:
£26,020.00 on 22 September 2015 (inclusive of the £20.00 CHAPS fee)
£5,220.00 on 27 June 2016 (inclusive of the £20.00 CHAPS fee)
£26,020.00 on 4 May 2017 (inclusive of the £20.00 CHAPS fee)
£10,020.00 on 25 November 2019 (inclusive of the £20.00 CHAPS fee)
Mr J and Miss D have told us that these transactions were transfers to the account of the 
son of the former trustees. And they believe the transfers amounted to a misappropriation of 
trust funds to which the former trustee had admitted. Mr J says he derived no benefit from 
the transactions because they were transfers not to himself but someone else.   
Our investigator didnt uphold the complaint. 
After considering all four transactions, he noted that only one trustees signature was present 
on some of the CHAPS transfer forms. Nonetheless, he observed there were separate 
signed letters of instructions from both trustees which accompanied the CHAPS transfer 
forms. And he also noted there were telephone calls that the bank made to the trustee 
whose signature was missing in order to obtain approval for the transfers. Therefore, the 
investigator concluded RBS did in fact act in accordance with the account mandate. 
T didnt agree. On its behalf Mr J has reiterated Ts main point which in essence is that the 
mandate stipulates two to sign. Therefore, he doesnt believe the bank can be said to have 
adhered to that requirement when it acted on transfer documents bearing only one 
signature. And neither does T believe the two-signature requirement is capable of being 
satisfied by RBS telephone call to the other trustee to obtain their agreement to the transfer.
Mr J also makes a number of other points on behalf of T which I summarise:
RBS responded inconsistently to the complaint  saying on the one hand that their 
internal records show theyd obtained signatures from both trustees on each transfer 
request, then on the other that only one trustees attended branch with a letter but 
they authorized payment after calling the other trustee.  
The investigator hasnt commented fully on RBS failure to tell the truth about 
previously offering the trust £300 compensation for trouble and upset caused by their 
action.
Legal advice confirms the transfer the former trustees made were for the benefit of 
themselves and their wider family and were not investments. So, it was wrong for the 
investigator to refer to the transfers in that way. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
 Having done so I agree with the investigators conclusions and for broadly the same 
reasons. Ill explain why in a moment. But first I would acknowledge the upset this matter 
has caused to Mr J. In view of the circumstances in which he became the beneficiary of 
these funds, it is understandable he should feel aggrieved if any part of those funds was 
misappropriated as is being claimed. But the issue is whether RBS are to blame for what 
happened and its that to which I now turn.
Its not in dispute the trust mandate required two authorised signatories to operate the 
account and the two former trustees were named on the mandate as authorised signatories 
for that purpose. 
Mr J has explained that at the heart of this case is that the mandate clearly states two 
trustees had to sign for all transactions. And Ive thought about Ts argument very carefully 
as to why it believes the bank failed to observe that requirement.  In particular that RBS 
should have made sure the forms instructing them to transfer money from the trust account 
were signed at all times by the two signatories whereas in respect of the transactions noted 
above, RBS acted on the strength of one signature alone. Ive also considered Ts further argument that even if in circumstances where only one 
trustee signs a form, and RBS were able to demonstrate that they called the other trustee to 
verify the transactions in question, nonetheless that would still fall short of the requirements 
of the mandate.
Ive considered section 3 of the Mandate which sets out the scope of the authority of the 
former trustees  as authorised signatories: 
3. Authority 
The Trustees, all of whom have signed this Mandate agree that a banking relationship will be 
maintained with The Royal Bank of Scotland plc (the Bank) in accordance with this Mandate 
and that:
the individuals identified as Trustees in this Mandate and the individuals identified as 
Third party signatories on the Third Party Signatories Form for Trust Mandate 
(together the Authorised Signatories) may, in accordance with the Signing Rules, 
sign cheques and give instructions for Standing Orders, Direct Debits, electronic 
payments, bankers drafts and other payments on the Accounts .
the Bank may accept instructions that do not have an original written signature 
provided the Bank is satisfied that the instruction is genuine and subject to any other 
agreement the Bank may require for those instructions.  
How did RBS deal with the transfer instructions from the trustees?
Ive considered the payment instructions the former trustees gave to the bank and on which 
it acted by processing the requested transaction. Ive looked at the November 2019 payment 
for £10,000 first. I do not find the bank acted contrary to the provisions of the trust mandate. 
The CHAPS payment instruction is signed by both former trustees who according to the 
bank attended a branch to carry out the transaction. 
In respect of the £26,000 transfer on 4 May 2017, the position is somewhat different. The 
banks records show it received a letter, signed by both former trustees and dated 4 May 
2017 instructing the bank to transfer the amount stated to a named payee. However, the 
CHAPS payment form which was then completed in branch to enable the transfer to take 
place was signed by one trustee alone. Furthermore, although the customer name is stated 
correctly on that form, the actual account name is not. A note is recorded on the form, 
however, confirming the former trustee in attendance at the branch had verified his identity 
using a driving license and that the branch then called the other joint trustee who was able to 
satisfy the bank the requested payment was genuine. 
The terms of the mandate which I noted above allow the bank discretion to act on payment 
instructions provided it is satisfied those instructions are genuine. Faced with one signature 
on the CHAPS payment form the bank took steps to satisfy itself the instruction was indeed 
genuine. As with the November 2019 transaction, here too, particularly given the banks 
discretion, I do not find the RBS acted contrary to the trust account mandate.  
Turning next to the £5,200 payment on 27 June 2016. I have also considered the banks 
records and they show that written instructions to pay this amount to a named payee was 
signed by both former trustees and dated 27 June 2016. But again, the CHAPS payment 
form contained an error. It didnt correctly state the customer name although the account 
number and sort codes were correctly recorded. Once again, the banks internal records 
noted that that a call was made to the other trustee to verify the transaction was genuine. So 
here also, having regard to the discretion given to the bank, I do not find it acted contrary to 
the mandate.
At the time of the investigators assessment it doesnt appear details of the 22 September 
2015 transaction was to hand. But Ive now seen a copy of the CHAPS instruction for that transfer. And I note it is signed and dated by both former trustees and instructs the bank to 
make the £26,000 payment. I am satisfied therefore the bank acted appropriately when it 
complied with those instructions. 
Overall, therefore, I have not been persuaded RBS failed to act in accordance with the trust 
mandate when it carried out the former trustees instructions to transfer the funds that are in 
dispute. Thats because, importantly, RBS had discretion to accept instructions in 
circumstances where written signatures might be missing as long as they were satisfied the 
instructions being given were genuine. The bank had written letters of instruction signed by 
both the former trustees to carry out the transfers in June 2016 and May 2017 albeit the 
CHAPS transfer forms that were completed afterwards were signed by one trustee only. 
Nonetheless, I am satisfied that in line with the discretion it had, the bank called the other 
trustee to make sure the transfers were genuine. 
Mr J has mentioned that all along the banks position has been that their internal paperwork 
showed that two signatures were on each payment request; that the signatures matched 
their records and they followed their procedure to ensure the payments were genuine.  Mr J 
doesnt think RBS has been accurate in that assertion. 
As Ive noted, the banks internal records do in fact show that signed letters of instruction 
from both former trustees were received for the transfers on 7 June 2016, 4 May 2017. But 
the CHAPS payment request did not have both signatures. On the other hand, the CHAPS 
payment instructions for the September 2015 and November 2019 transfers were signed by 
both trustees.  I dont think the bank was wrong in what it said.  It did have two signatures in 
respect of each of the four payment instructions albeit they were present on either the letters 
of instructions or the subsequently completed CHAPS transfer forms. Nonetheless, the bank 
could have been clearer in its explanation. 
T has claimed the bank has been disingenuous in claiming it hasnt offered the trustees 
compensation for acting wrongly in the way it has operated the trust account. 
But the bank has maintained it cannot find evidence of the offer. 
That being said Ive seen no evidence of any offer having been accepted, and T hasnt 
stated that it was. And by the time of RBSs final response letter dated 21 April 2021 the 
bank only acknowledged it was at fault for failing to ensure the CHAPS transfer paperwork 
more accurately recorded the account name and/or the customer.  
So, at that point our role was to determine whether that was the extent of the banks fault 
and if T was due any compensation. 
But Ive not found that the bank acted wrongly in relation to the substance of Ts complaint. 
Nonetheless, I agree with the bank it should have ensured the CHAPS payment forms 
confirmed the correct name of the account and customer. But I also agree the other 
important details including the sort code, account number were correct. Moreover, RBS 
ensured both former trustees agreed to the payments being made. For that reason, whilst I 
acknowledge there was an error, I do not find the error meant the transfer should not have 
gone ahead. Therefore, Im not persuaded T should be awarded compensation. 
I appreciate it is Ts position that based on legal advice it received, the funds that were 
transferred were not for investment purposes regardless of how the CHAPS paperwork 
represented the transfers. That being said against the background of Ts testimony that the 
true purpose of the transfers was to benefit family members of the former trustees, I can see 
why Mr J would be upset the investigator used that same description when referring to them. 
But Im not bound by any description the investigator used when describing any aspect of 
this complaint because Ive considered the complaint independently and reached my 
decision on a fair and reasonable basis.  In summary, I accept the circumstances of this case have been very difficult for T -  Mr J in 
particular. And Im sorry to hear his testimony that trust funds have been misappropriated. I 
thought very carefully about whether RBS has been at fault for carrying out the transactions 
that are at the heart of this complaint. Particularly whether they were done in contravention 
of the account mandate. But for the reasons Ive given above I have not been satisfied that 
was the case
My final decision
For the reasons given above, my final decision is I do not uphold this complaint
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask T to accept or 
reject my decision before 27 April 2022.
 
Asher Gordon
Ombudsman