DRN-2518544
The complaint
Miss S is unhappy with her home insurer, Ageas Insurance Limited. It handled a water 
damage claim for her but following its reinstatement work Miss C found problems with the 
work it had done and further damage.   
What happened
There was a leak at Miss Ss home in April 2018 from under her second-floor bathroom. This 
affected the ceiling of the kitchen below. The ground floor entry way was not affected. Ageas 
appointed loss adjusters. Asbestos was found on 25 April and as the kitchen, lounge and top 
of the stairs are open plan  the whole ceiling had to be removed and replaced. This work 
didnt happen until October 2018.
Miss S and her children moved out of their home in early October and expected to be away 
for just a few weeks at most. But they were unable to return home until mid-November.
On returning Miss S noticed a number of problems including damage to the flooring on the 
ground and first floors, the wrong colour paint on the walls, plaster splashes and a damaged 
smoke alarm. Ageas agreed that the stair hand-rail needed attention and that the glass 
above a door needed cleaning. Miss S said this was the tip of the ice-berg as she had 
fungus growing out of her laminate flooring and lots of flies had appeared. 
Ageas made enquires with its asbestos removal company and the reinstatement contractor. 
Both said they had taken care of the property. Photos were provided showing that during the 
work the kitchen and flooring had been protected. Ageas said there was no evidence its 
agents had done anything wrong. But it accepted it had taken too long to remove the 
asbestos and complete the reinstatement work. It offered £250 compensation. 
Miss S was unhappy. When she complained to us our investigator felt he couldnt find Ageas 
had damaged her home or completed faulty work. But he did think it needed to pay a total of 
£700 compensation for the delays and upset this had caused. 
Ageas agreed and sent Miss S a cheque for £450. Miss S said that the compensation was 
insufficient as it didnt even begin to give her enough money to fix everything that was wrong 
with her home. She noted that not all her concerns had been covered by the investigator. 
The complaint was passed to me for a decision to be made.
I felt Ageas did need to do more regarding the problems Miss S had identified at her home. 
But I noted it had sent Miss S compensation for upset totalling £700. In this respect I wasnt 
minded to make it do anything more.
Ageas didnt dispute any of my findings. It said it was prepared to send different contractors 
to Miss Ss home to complete work as Id recommended. But it said its regional performance 
manager would need to keep oversight to ensure continuity.
Miss S said shed had to pay to sort out both the kitchen cupboards and the fire alarm. 
Although she explained there was still a hole in the wall at one point between the kitchen 
and the bathroom. Miss S said the previous contractor had agreed the floors needed 
replacing; shed found a replacement on his advice. She explained more about how they are 
damaged and how she thinks this occurred. Miss S said she disposed of the cheque for 
£250, and hadnt received one for £450.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
My provisional findings were: 
When Ageas attended after the leak the loss adjuster reported that Miss Ss home was 
otherwise in good condition. No photos were taken of the front entry hall, but Im sure if the 
flooring was damaged as it clearly is now and/or there were mushrooms growing out of the 
edges as there are, the adjuster would not have recorded the home was in a good state of 
repair. Nor if there were plaster splashes too  and on one door it looks like an attempt has 
been made to remove plaster and this has taken the paint off of the door. And whilst Miss S 
reported all these concerns to Ageas within days of moving home it didnt bother to attend to 
review her concerns. When Miss S asked for an independent person to be sent to assess 
the issues it didnt agree to do that. That, I think, would have been more than reasonable in 
the circumstances.
So some of Miss Ss concerns are relatively easy for me to deal with:
The ceiling which Ageas took down in its entirety and replaced is cracking around the 
edges. This shouldnt happen with a recently installed ceiling. This needs resolving.
All the plaster splashes must be removed and the areas made good. 
The smoke alarm, which must have been removed when the ceiling was taken down, will 
need to be reinstated, I understand this is hard wired so may require an electrician, if it 
cant be made to work effectively Ageas will have to replace it. 
The stairs have been painted in the wrong colour, Ageas will need to repaint them. 
The stair handrail needs rubbing down and re-painting.
A missing kitchen blind will have to be replaced and both blinds fitted. If a match cant be 
found to the remaining blind then replacements for both blinds will have to be provided.
But the bigger concerns for Miss S are the flooring. She has also said that the wall units in 
her kitchen  removed for the ceiling to be taken down havent been reinstalled in the same 
position. These issues are more difficult for me to deal with as the photos Ive seen dont 
clearly show all the concerns Miss S has, and regarding the fungal growth, the photos dont 
show me what might be causing this. So in these respects Im going to say Ageas must go 
out and investigate. 
The mushroom growth particularly is a serious issue and Im disappointed that Ageas hasnt 
looked into this before now. I understand that it has concerns that this hasnt been caused by 
its contractor  but it should at least have investigated this because, if its right, then its 
suggestive of a serious issue occurring at Miss Ss home which her policy may well cover.  
Ageas will have to consider the extent of scratching and staining to the laminate in the 
lounge and take a view as to whether this is likely pre-existing or not. It will also need to 
carefully consider the kitchen floor. I can see from some initial photos this did appear quite 
shiny. Later ones suggest it is now dull, with the white less bright and the black muted. But 
I dont know if this is just the way it appears in photos. Ageas needs to obtain an expert 
opinion on these areas of flooring. As I say, it should have done this before.I dont doubt Miss Ss report about the kitchen units being misaligned. But I havent seen 
photos that show this. When Ageas is assessing the flooring it can look at the positioning of 
the units too. If they are out of alignment it will need to have them reinstated.
I accept this was an upsetting time for Miss S. The work took far too long to progress, and 
when it did look as though it was moving forwards, they ended up being out of their home for 
a few weeks longer than expected. And the only reason I can see for all this was 
mismanagement of the claim. It wasnt because extra work was found which unavoidably 
caused delays, it was just that the work wasnt proactively managed. And I see Miss S 
chased things a lot, even though her health at times was not good. I also think, as I said 
above, that Ageas did not do enough to assist Miss S when she notified it of some really 
concerning issues shed found on returning to her home. 
That said the £700 compensation suggested by our investigator is a significant sum. Id 
usually only award more than this where a policyholder has been out of their home for far 
longer than they were expected to be and/or have spent an extended time living in a house 
in very poor condition. So Im going to maintain the compensation award already suggested 
of £700. I understand Ageas has now sent Miss S two cheques, one originally for £250, and 
a further one more recently for £450. If these cheques are still in date Miss S can cash them. 
If they have expired Miss S should let me know and in my final decision, if it remains the 
same, Ill add an award for Ageas to now pay any part of the £700 that is outstanding.
I note Ageas has agreed to appoint new contractors, and I think that is the right thing to do 
here. I also accept that the regional performance manager should remain involved  
continuity and a knowledge of the claim to date will be important in the further assessments 
Ive said Ageas should undertake. But, to be clear, Ive said an appropriate expert should be 
appointed to take a view on the damage to the flooring. That expert can consider Miss Ss 
view of what has likely caused the damage shes seeing.
I also said the expert should look at the kitchen units  but Miss S says shes now fixed 
these at a cost to her, apart from the hole in the wall. I think Ageas can still consider the hole 
in the wall, and fix that if its felt likely related to its work. I think it can also consider any 
evidence Miss S has in respect of costs she incurred for work in the kitchen. If its satisfied 
this was likely necessary due to poor work by it in reinstating the kitchen it should reimburse 
the cost. 
Similarly, Miss S should not be out of pocket for the smoke alarm. I was satisfied Ageas 
should have resolved this before. It will now have to consider any evidence Miss S has to 
show her costs incurred for fixing it. I understand why Miss S had to go ahead with this work 
Ageas should add interest* to the sum it reimburses, from the date Miss S incurred the cost 
until settlement is made.
I note what Miss S has said about compensation payments.
Putting things right
I require Ageas to:
Complete the reinstatement work bulleted above, that is with the exception of the smoke 
alarm.
In respect of the smoke alarm  consider Miss Ss costs for reinstating it and reimburse 
her, plus interest*.
Regarding the reinstated kitchen units  consider the hole left in the wall and Miss Ss 
costs incurred for fixing misaligned units. If its felt these are likely due to poor work it 
undertook, as appropriate, fix the hole and/or reimburse Miss S.Using an expert, assess the issues with the ground and first floor flooring, as directed 
above.
Pay Miss S a total of £700 compensation (but if Miss S has received any part of this 
already, it will only have to pay anything outstanding).
*Interest is at a rate of 8% simple per year and paid on the amounts specified and from/to 
the dates stated. If Ageas considers that its required by HM Revenue & Customs to take off 
income tax from any interest due to Miss S, it should tell her how much its taken off. It 
should also give Miss S a certificate showing this if she asks for one, so she can reclaim the 
tax from HM Revenue & Customs if appropriate.
My final decision
I uphold this complaint. I require Ageas Insurance Limited to carry out the redress set out in 
putting things right above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss S to accept 
or reject my decision before 19 February 2021. 
Fiona Robinson
Ombudsman