DRN-2883070
The complaint
Mr E says that Evergreen Finance London Limited trading as Moneyboat:
didnt follow the FCA guidance in relation to helping customers during the Covid-19 
pandemic; and
didnt calculate the loan interest correctly, and under the terms of the contract, when 
he requested a payment freeze; and
lent to him irresponsibly.  
What happened
This complaint is about nine loans Moneyboat provided to Mr E between September 2018 
and February 2020.
loan 
numberdate 
startedamount 
borrowedterm (days) date ended
1 23/09/2018 £200 40 31/10/2018
2 31/10/2018 £400 120 31/12/2018
3 07/01/2019 £300 52 31/01/2019
4 04/02/2019 £400 116 04/02/2019
5 07/03/2019 £400 113 28/06/2019
6 08/07/2019 £400 115 30/09/2019
7 02/10/2019 £400 181 31/10/2019
8 04/11/2019 £600 116 28/02/2020
9 28/02/2020 £600 182 outstanding
Our adjudicator didnt uphold some parts of Mr Es complaint. She thought that Moneyboat 
had followed the guidance in relation to helping customers during the Covid-19 pandemic 
and it had calculated the interest on the loans correctly. 
But she thought the irresponsible lending part of Mr Es complaint should succeed. She said 
that the credit checks that Moneyboat had done showed that he was in financial difficulty 
right from the start. And from loan 6 onwards the lending pattern itself became harmful. 
Moneyboat disagreed with the adjudicators opinion. It didnt comment on the substance of 
the complaint. But rather it said that the irresponsible lending part of the complaint hadnt 
formed part of the complaint that Mr E initially made to it. And as it hadnt considered this 
part of Mr Es complaint this service shouldnt look at it. 
As no agreement has been reached the complaint has been passed to me.
  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about irresponsible lending - including all 
of the relevant rules, guidance and good industry practice - on our website. 
Moneyboat needed to take reasonable steps to ensure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In 
practice this means that it should have carried out proportionate checks to make sure Mr E 
could repay the loans in a sustainable manner. 
These checks could take into account a number of different things, such as how much was 
being lent, the repayment amounts and the consumers income and expenditure. With this in 
mind, in the early stages of a lending relationship, I think less thorough checks might be 
reasonable and proportionate.  
But certain factors might point to the fact that Moneyboat should fairly and reasonably have 
done more to establish that any lending was sustainable for the consumer. These factors 
include:
the lower a customers income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make any 
loan repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income);
the higher the amount due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income); 
the greater the number and frequency of loans, and the longer the period of time 
during which a customer has been given loans (reflecting the risk that repeated 
refinancing may signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, 
unsustainable).
There may even come a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly 
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable.
And the loan payments being affordable on a strict pounds and pence calculation might be 
an indication a consumer could sustainably make their repayments. But it doesnt 
automatically follow this is the case. The industry regulator defines sustainable as being 
without undue difficulties and in particular the customer should be able to make repayments 
on time, while meeting other reasonable commitments; as well as without having to borrow 
to meet the repayments. And it follows that a lender should realise, or it ought fairly and 
reasonably to realise, that a borrower wont be able to make their repayments sustainably if 
theyre unlikely to be able to make their repayments without borrowing further.
Applying this to the circumstances of this particular complaint, I have reached the same 
outcome as our adjudicator, for essentially the same reasons. Ive decided to uphold Mr Es 
complaint in part and Ive explained why below.
Mr E didnt disagree with our adjudicators opinion about the customer service he received 
during the Covid-19 pandemic and how interest on the loans was calculated when he was 
having difficulty making the repayments. Because of this I dont think there is any ongoing 
disagreement about these issues. So, I wont comment further on them, save to say I agree 
with what the adjudicator said for the same reasons. 
Ive firstly considered the points Moneyboat made in response to the adjudicators opinion. It 
didnt comment on the substance of what the adjudicator said.  But Moneyboat did say that it 
hadnt had the opportunity to properly consider this complaint before the opinion was issued. 
It does seem that the first time Mr E made an irresponsible lending complaint was on this 
services complaint form. So Moneyboat hadnt looked at this part of Mr Es complaint when Mr E brought it here. But we did provide the complaint form to Moneyboat so it would have 
been aware that Mr E was making an irresponsible lending complaint then. And Moneyboat 
also had a significant amount of time to comment on the adjudicators findings before the 
complaint has been passed to me. And we have explained why we considered this aspect of 
Mr Es complaint. Overall, I dont think its unreasonable that I issue my decision at this point
Turning to Mr Es irresponsible lending complaint. Our adjudicator thought proportionate 
checks for wouldve shown Mr E couldnt have repaid the loans in a sustainable manner. I 
have independently reviewed the evidence of Mr Es income and expenditure and have 
come to the same conclusion.
This is because the credit checks that Moneyboat did before approving loan 1 showed that 
Mr E had a large amount of other debt. And he was having significant problems repaying 
this. There were recent defaults and poor payment markers added to his file before loan 1 
was approved. 
Going forward the number of accounts that Mr E opened increased significantly over the 
time Moneyboat lent to him and his overall financial situation seemed to worsen. Moneyboat 
had information that showed all of this. So, I dont think it was responsible to approve loans 1 
to 5. 
In addition to this Ive also considered the pattern of lending up to loan 6 and I think the 
lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly demonstrates that further lending would 
likely be unsustainable. So, I think Moneyboat was also irresponsible to continue lending 
after this point.
Putting things right
In deciding what redress Moneyboat should fairly pay in this case Ive thought about what 
might have happened had it not lent to Mr E, as Im satisfied it ought to have. Clearly there 
are a great many possible, and all hypothetical, answers to that question. 
For example, having been declined this lending Mr E may have simply left matters there, not 
attempting to obtain the funds from elsewhere. If this wasnt a viable option, they may have 
looked to borrow the funds from a friend or relative  assuming that was even possible.
Or, they may have decided to approach a third-party lender with the same application, or 
indeed a different application (i.e. for more or less borrowing). But even if they had done 
that, the information that would have been available to such a lender and how they would (or 
ought to have) treated an application which may or may not have been the same is 
impossible to now accurately reconstruct. From what Ive seen in this case, I certainly dont 
think I can fairly conclude there was a real and substantial chance that a new lender would 
have been able to lend to Mr E in a compliant way at this time.
Having thought about all of these possibilities, Im not persuaded it would be fair or 
reasonable to conclude that Mr E would more likely than not have taken up any one of these 
options. So it wouldnt be fair to now reduce Moneyboats liability in this case for what Im 
satisfied it has done wrong and should put right.
Moneyboat shouldnt have given Mr E loans 1 to 9.
If Moneyboat has sold any outstanding debts Moneyboat should buy these back if it is able 
to do so and then take the following steps. If Moneyboat is not able to buy the debts back 
then Moneyboat should liaise with the new debt owner to achieve the results outlined below.A) Moneyboat should add together the total of the repayments made by Mr E towards 
interest, fees and charges on all upheld loans without an outstanding balance, not including 
anything it has already refunded.
B) Moneyboat should calculate 8% simple interest* on the individual payments made by 
Mr E which were considered as part of A, calculated from the date Mr E originally made the 
payments, to the date the complaint is settled.
C) Moneyboat should remove all interest, fees and charges from the balance on any upheld 
outstanding loans, and treat any repayments made by Mr E as though they had been 
repayments of the principal on all outstanding loans. If this results in Mr E having made 
overpayments then Moneyboat should refund these overpayments with 8% simple interest* 
calculated on the overpayments, from the date the overpayments would have arisen, to the 
date the complaint is settled. Moneyboat should then refund the amounts calculated in A 
and B and move to step E.
D) If there is still an outstanding balance then the amounts calculated in A and B should 
be used to repay any balance remaining on outstanding loans. If this results in a surplus 
then the surplus should be paid to Mr E. However if there is still an outstanding balance then 
Moneyboat should try to agree an affordable repayment plan with Mr E. Moneyboat shouldnt 
pursue outstanding balances made up of principal Moneyboat has already written-off.
E) Moneyboat should remove any adverse information recorded on Mr Es credit file in 
relation to loans 1 to 5. The overall pattern of Mr Es borrowing for loans 6 to 9 means any 
information recorded about them is adverse, so it should remove these loans entirely from 
Mr Es credit file. Moneyboat does not have to remove loan 9 from Mr Es credit file until it 
have been repaid, but Moneyboat should still remove any adverse information recorded 
about this loan.
*HM Revenue & Customs requires Moneyboat to deduct tax from this interest. Moneyboat 
should give Mr E a certificate showing how much tax Moneyboat has deducted, if he asks for 
one.
  
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, I uphold Mr Es complaint.
Evergreen Finance London Limited should put things right by doing what Ive said above.  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr E to accept or 
reject my decision before 9 August 2021.
 
Andy Burlinson
Ombudsman