DRN-1789159
The complaint
Mr W complains that Tradex Insurance Company Limited held him at fault following a claim 
made on his commercial motor insurance policy. Mr W is represented in this complaint by 
Mrs D, a named driver on the policy.
What happened
Mr Ws car was destroyed by fire. Tradex paid the claim but it said it couldnt recover its 
outlay. So it recorded the claim as fault, and this reduced Mr Ws No Claims Bonus (NCB). 
Mr W was unhappy with this and that this affected his premium at renewal. He said other 
consumers whose cars had been affected by the same fire had their NCB allowed. 
Our investigator didnt recommend that the complaint should be upheld. He thought Tradex 
didnt have any chances of recovering its outlay from a third party. So he thought it had 
correctly recorded the claim as fault and not allowed Mr Ws NCB. He couldnt comment on 
how other insurers had treated other consumers. 
Mrs D replied asking for an ombudsmans review, so the complaint has come to me for a 
final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I can understand that Mr W feels frustrated that his car was damaged through no fault of his 
own, but this has led to a fault claim. He said he feels punished. But Tradex said it wasnt 
able to recover its outlay, so it recorded the claim as fault. 
The investigator has already explained that it isnt our role to decide who was responsible for 
causing the incident. This is the role of the courts. Instead, our role in complaints of this 
nature is simply to investigate how the insurer made the decision to settle the claim. Did it 
act fairly and reasonably and in line with the terms and conditions of the policy? And has it 
treated Mr W the same as someone else in his position. 
Tradex is entitled under the terms and conditions of its policy with Mr W to take over, defend, 
or settle a claim as it  sees fit. Mr W has to follow its advice in connection with the settlement 
of his claim, whether he agrees with the outcome or not. This is a common term in motor 
insurance policies, and I dont find it unusual. Insurers are entitled to take a commercial 
decision about whether its reasonable to contest a third party claim or better to compromise.
That said, we expect an insurer to reasonably investigate a claim before making its decision 
on liability.
I can see from the fire investigation reports that Tradex obtained, it thought that the likely 
source of the fire was another car. But Tradex said it couldnt prove that the cars owner had 
been negligent and so it was unable to pursue him for its outlay. It also thought that due to 
the extent of the fire, there was no proof of the likely cause. 
So I think Tradex reasonably investigated the claim and considered the evidence available. It 
didnt have any evidence to show negligence. And so I cant say that its decision not to 
pursue the matter further was wrong. 
Tradex paid Mr Ws claim but didnt recover its outlay. In that case, the standard industry 
practice is that a fault is recorded against the policy holder. I understand that other drivers 
affected by the same fire were treated differently. But I think this was their insurers 
commercial decisions, and so this isnt something I can comment on. And I cant require 
Tradex to treat Mr W in the same way as these are different businesses.
Because a fault claim was recorded, I think Mr Ws NCB was correctly disallowed. Mr Ws 
policy says that the NCB is allowed when a full recovery is made. And I think having the fault 
on his record would affect his premium at renewal. This is also set out in the policy terms 
and conditions. So I cant say that Tradex has acted unfairly or unreasonably by not allowing 
Mr Ws NCB.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision before 16 November 2020.
 
Phillip Berechree
Ombudsman