DRN-2784161
The complaint
Mr C complains that Clydesdale Bank Plc trading as Virgin Money refused the claim he 
brought under Section 75 of the Consumer Credit Act 1974. This related to a cancelled order 
for goods. He wants a refund of the purchase price of the goods.
What happened
Mr C told us that in April 2019 he purchased some furniture at an exhibition, from a company 
Ill refer to as W. He says that at the time he paid for the items through his Virgin credit card 
with a view to delivery several weeks later. Mr C explains that he then became unable to 
proceed with the order and sought to cancel it. He states that W refused to permit this. Mr C 
says that he was never advised of Ws no returns policy.
Virgin told us that it had first attempted to issue a chargeback. But this had failed as Mr C 
had indicated his refusal to accept delivery of the goods. It said it hadnt upheld his Section 
75 claim as it thought he hadnt any cancellation rights other than those relating to quality of 
goods and fitness for purpose. And it said that as Mr C had received a significant discount it 
shouldve been clear he wouldnt be able to change his mind.
Our investigator didnt recommend that the complaint should be upheld.  She didnt think that 
thered been a breach of contract or a misrepresentation by the supplier. She didnt find that 
Virgin did anything wrong in declining Mr Cs claim. She explained that she didnt believe 
that the provisions of the Consumer Contracts (Information, Cancellation and Additional 
Charges) Regulations 2013 (CCR) applied to this purchase to give Mr C cancellation rights.
Mr C wasnt satisfied with this outcome. As its not been possible to resolve this complaint an 
ombudsmans been asked to make the final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im sorry that Mr C experienced circumstances which were beyond his control. And which 
led to his wish to cancel the order. I understand his disappointment at Ws refusal to allow 
this. I accept that £2,200 is a substantial loss.
I think its important to set out my role here. In considering a complaint about a financial 
services provider, Im not determining the outcome of a claim that a party might have under 
Section 75. Or whether theres been a breach of contract or misrepresentation by the 
supplier of goods. Only a court could do that. 
Rather, Im deciding whats a fair way to resolve Mr Cs complaint. I have to take account of 
relevant law, amongst other things. Section 75 is relevant law.
In summary, in some limited circumstances, Section 75 gives a consumer an equal claim 
against the provider of finance as they would have against the supplier of the goods or 
services about which complaint is brought. It requires there to have been a 
misrepresentation or breach of contract by the supplier.
Where information is incomplete or contradictory - as some of it is here - I reach my 
conclusions on the balance of probabilities. That is, what I think is most likely to have 
happened in light of the available evidence and the wider surrounding circumstances.
In determining if Virgin have treated Mr Cs claim fairly, Ive considered that his complaint 
turns on what cancellation rights, if any, he had in relation to this purchase. And whether in 
refusing his request to cancel, W may have breached the contract for the sale of the goods. 
In her view, our investigator gave a comprehensive outline of the CCR which define such 
cancellation rights. So I wont repeat that here as the parties have seen it.
Im aware that Ive summarised this complaint in far less detail than the parties and Ive done 
so using my own words. Im not responding to every single point made by all the parties 
involved. No discourtesy is intended by this. Instead, Ive concentrated on what I think are 
the key issues here. Our rules allow me to do this.
This reflects the nature of our service as an informal alternative to the courts. If theres 
something Ive not mentioned, it isnt because Ive ignored it. I havent. Im satisfied I dont 
need to comment on every individual argument to be able to reach what I think is the right 
outcome.
Broadly speaking, consumers have greater cancellation rights if they enter an agreement 
which is a distance contract (such as by internet or phone). Or off-premises, which would 
be other than at the traders usual place of business (for example, if the trader visits their 
home). This usually means that a consumer can cancel a contract without a specific reason 
within a stipulated time limit.
But if goods are purchased on premises, then unless there are cancellation rights within 
the sales contract, the consumer wouldnt ordinarily be permitted to cancel without some 
additional reason such as those relating to the quality of the goods.
In summary, Ive reached the view that the sales agreement here was probably not a 
distance contract or an off-premises contract. W doesnt have a fixed shop premises. And 
the sale was conducted in person. In essence, the exhibition stand is Ws business 
premises. So I dont think that Mr C had cancellation rights under the CCR which would 
apply to those other types of contracts.
Id also mention that whilst the CCRs potentially give a consumer a right to cancel, not every 
regulation is treated as an implied term of a contract. The right to cancel under Regulation 
29 of the CCR  which is seemingly what Mr C is relying upon - is not itself an implied term 
of a contract. And it applies only to distance contracts and off-premises contracts. So 
enforcement of Regulation 29 wouldnt in any event constitute a claim for a breach of 
contract which would give rise to any liability under Section 75.
Im aware theres also a dispute about whether or not W advised Mr C of its policy not to 
permit cancellations. W states that a sign was exhibited. Mr C denies seeing any such sign. 
Without knowing the extent to which W seeks to enforce a no returns policy Im unable to 
say, if it was displayed, to what extent the notice is likely to be valid. But I dont think that 
affects my decision. And I dont need to make a separate finding on this issue. If Mr C didnt 
have any cancellation rights arising from the transaction being either a distance contract or 
an off-premises contract, the presence or absence of this sign is unlikely to have made any 
difference in relation to this aspect.Finally, Ive seen emails from W to Mr C in which it seeks to arrange delivery of the goods. 
And replies from Mr C stating that he wont accept delivery. That means the items still 
havent been delivered. In some circumstances this might amount to a breach of contract. 
But I dont think that applies here as the non-delivery is not the result of any failure on Ws 
part. 
Whilst I know that Mr C ideally doesnt wish to take receipt of the goods  as opposed to 
obtain a refund - Im not aware of any reason why hes not still entitled to receive them. And 
he may yet be able to mitigate his losses.
In summary, I dont find that theres enough evidence to show that the contract between Mr 
C and W could be cancelled in these circumstances. Or that Virgin was acting unreasonably 
in concluding that thered not been a breach of contract or misrepresentation by W for which 
it was liable under Section 75.
I dont think that it would be fair or reasonable for me to require Virgin to refund to Mr C the 
money that he paid for the furniture. Or to take any other action in response to his complaint.  
I understand that Mr C will be disappointed by my decision. But as Ive previously stated, as 
this complaint is brought against Virgin, it doesnt affect any claim Mr C may have against W.
My final decision
For the reasons given above my final decision is that Im not upholding this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 22 June 2021.
 
Stephen Ross
Ombudsman