DRN-4201798
The complaint
Mr and Mrs M complain that Barclays Bank UK PLC took increased interest payments for 
their offset mortgage despite the balance being fully offset by their savings. They say it 
hasnt explained this.
Mr and Mrs M ask that we investigate all calculations over the mortgage term. 
What happened
Mr and Mrs M have an offset mortgage with Barclays. Mr M says the balance is fully offset 
by their savings. Despite this, Barclays took increased interest payments in late 2022. 
Our investigator said the payments taken by Barclays were correct. He said this is because 
the offset benefit is calculated in arrears. So interest payments are required when the 
interest rate applied to the mortgage account increases (as was the case with Mr and 
Mrs Ms account in late 2022).
Mr and Mrs M didnt agree. Mr M said it doesnt matter what the interest rate is if the balance 
is fully offset. He asked that an ombudsman re-consider the complaint.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I should first explain that we dont have the capacity to re-calculate mortgage accounts. I 
wouldnt consider it reasonable to require Barclays to recalculate Mr and Mrs M payments 
over the mortgage term unless I thought there had been an error. I dont think that was the 
case here. 
Barclays sent statements to Mr and Mrs M setting out the mortgage balance and the 
balances in the linked accounts. Mr and Mrs M havent said they disagree with these 
statements. The mortgage balance was slightly higher than the balances in the linked 
accounts (by about £250). So the mortgage was almost fully offset.
Mr and Mrs M dont understand why their monthly payment increased in late 2022, despite 
their mortgage balance being offset. They said theyd been paying about £145 each month. 
This increased to about £260 in November 2022 and about £835 in December 2022.
In its response to Mr and Mrs Ms complaint, Barclays said there were two reasons for this, 
both of which relate to how the offset benefit is calculated and applied to the account. 
The offset benefit is calculated on a daily basis over each month and applied to the 
contractual monthly payment (CMP) due in the following month. For instance, the offset 
benefit for September is applied against the payment due in October. This is because Mr 
and Mrs M are entitled to withdraw money from their linked accounts. Barclays can only 
calculate the total offset benefit at the end of the month. 
If theres an interest rate change, this will create a mismatch between the CMP and the 
offset benefit. For instance, if the interest rate applied to the mortgage in October 2022 was 
higher than it was in September 2022, the offset benefit accrued in September 2022 would 
be less than the interest accrued in October 2022.
Theres a further potential mismatch with the way that the CMP and the offset benefit are 
calculated. The CMP is the same each month (unless interest rates change). The offset 
benefit is calculated on a daily basis. This means the offset benefit is less in months that 
have 30 days or fewer, and more in months with 31 days.
There was an additional factor here, in that Mr and Mrs M had taken out an interest rate 
product which expired on 30 November 2022. After this, a variable rate applied which was 
higher than their product rate. And there were interest rate increases after this. 
Ive considered how all this affected Mr and Mrs Ms account in late 2022. 
Barclays wrote to Mr and Mrs M on 30 November 2022 saying their CMP due in December 
2022 had increased to £2,143. This was because their interest rate product had ended and 
the interest rate which applied to their account from 1 December 2022 was higher 
As explained above, the offset benefit that was applied to the CMP due in December 2022 
was accrued in November 2022.
Mr and Mrs Ms offset benefit accrued in November 2022 at the lower interest rate that then 
applied, for 30 days, and on a balance that was slightly lower than the mortgage balance. 
The statement sent to Mr and Mrs M on 1 December 2022 set out the offset benefit accrued 
in November 2022. It said the total interest saved was £1,307. 
When the offset benefit (£1,307) was applied to the CMP due in December 2022 (£2,143) it 
reduced the payment due to £836.
Having reviewed the statements and letters sent to Mr and Mrs M, I think their mortgage 
account worked as Barclays said it should. I cant see that Barclays made an error with the 
payment it said was due in December 2022.
Ive also looked at the statement sent to Mr and Mrs M on 1 January 2023 which set out the 
offset benefit accrued in December 2022, when the higher interest rate applied. The total 
interest saved was £2,063  which would have been offset against the payment due in 
January 2023. Again, it looks to me that this was calculated as Barclays said it should be.
If interest rates had fallen, the opposite would have happened. The amount of the offset 
benefit would have been more than the interest accrued in the following month.  
Mr M wasnt happy with the explanations given to him when he called Barclays. There were 
several things which led to the higher payment in December 2022 and I can appreciate that 
it would have been difficult to explain this on a phone call. And he says the call handler 
couldnt always identify the accounts linked to the mortgage. However, I think the account 
worked as it should. And Barclays final response letter did explain the reasons for the 
payments increasing. So, while I understand Mr and Mrs Ms frustration, I dont think its fair 
and reasonable to require Barclay to take further action.
My final decision
My decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs M and Mr M to 
accept or reject my decision before 9 November 2023.
 
Ruth Stevenson
Ombudsman