DRN-3105690
The complaint
Mr C and Mrs C have complained about how Countrywide Principal Services Limited 
(Countrywide) dealt with their home contents policy.
What happened
Several years ago, Mr C and Mrs C took out an insurance policy through Countrywide. A 
short time after, Mr C and Mrs C contacted Countrywide to update their address. 
Countrywide confirmed it had been updated. 
When Mr C and Mrs C were renewing their mortgage, they realised they had an insurance 
policy with Countrywide. They contacted Countrywide because they were unaware of the 
details of the policy and hadnt received any renewal documents for several years. They 
received confusing and contradictory information from Countrywide. Countrywide said it 
would phone Mr C and Mrs C to discuss further, but it didnt call. So, Mr C and Mrs C 
cancelled the policy, as they were concerned they werent insured at their current address.
When Mr C and Mrs C complained, Countrywide apologised that they had been given 
contradictory information about the type of policy. It confirmed that it hadnt correctly updated 
its systems when Mr C and Mrs C had updated their address. However, it said it thought it 
was likely the insurer would have honoured any claims, as the correct address was in 
Countrywides records. It offered £150 compensation for the stress and inconvenience 
caused to Mr C and Mrs C because they didnt know whether they were insured and the 
inconvenience of having to cancel their policy.
Mr C and Mrs C complained to this service. While the complaint was with this service, 
Countrywide offered Mr C and Mrs C a refund of premiums of £785.32, plus £62.83 interest. 
Mr C and Mrs C said they were told this payment didnt relate to this complaint. Mr C and 
Mrs C accepted this payment. Countrywide said it hadnt previously made the payment 
because it didnt have their bank details. Countrywide said it thought the payment resolved 
the complaint.
Mr C and Mrs C still wanted this service to consider the complaint because they didnt know 
if the premium refund was correct or that the compensation offered was fair, as well as other 
concerns about the service received.
Our investigator upheld the complaint in part. He said it was due to a mistake by 
Countrywide that Mr C and Mrs Cs address hadnt been updated. Based on what 
Countrywide had said, he thought it was likely any claim would have been covered. He said 
Countrywide had contributed to confusion about the policy, but that Mr C and Mrs C had 
been aware they took the policy out and money was also being taken from their account 
each month. Countrywide also added to the confusion by not returning phone calls. He was 
also of the view that the premium refunds wouldnt have been offered if Mr C and Mrs C 
hadnt complained to this service. He thought the refund was fair, but that Countywide 
should have explained the tax position for the interest. He also thought there had been a 
range of impacts on Mr C and Mrs C, so he said Countrywide should pay an additional £150 
compensation.
As Countrywide didnt agree, the complaint was referred to me.
  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I uphold this complaint in part and for largely the same reasons as our 
investigator. I will explain why.
Im aware that Mr C and Mrs C wanted this service to address issues that they saw as wider 
poor practice by Countrywide. However, as I think they are now aware, were not the 
regulator and are unable to require a business to make wider changes. We consider 
individual complaints and assess each on its merits. 
Mr C and Mrs C contacted Countrywide to update their address, but several years later they 
realised this hadnt happened. Countrywide provided a note from its systems that showed it 
was aware of the requested change and accepted that the system wasnt properly updated. I 
note that in Countrywides response to Mr C and Mrs Cs complaint it said:
This means we hold the correct address on our system it just wasnt updated in the 
correspondence address section which meant that you never received any documents from 
us in regards to this policy.
I think this gave a somewhat misleading impression of the position, given that the wrong 
property was actually insured. So, it wasnt just the correspondence address that hadnt 
been updated. However, Countrywide did also say it thought it was likely a valid claim would 
have been honoured. Based on what Ive seen, Countrywide made a mistake and didnt 
properly update its systems when Mr C and Mrs C asked it to update their address. 
Im aware that Mr C and Mrs C also said they didnt receive policy documents and that they 
have said they could have shopped around if they had been aware of what they were paying 
for insurance. In my view, that is in part due to Countrywides error, but Mr C and Mrs C 
were aware that they took out the policy when they first did so and payments were also 
being taken from their bank account on a monthly basis. I can understand that Mr C and Mrs 
C might have acted differently if they had received the annual renewal notices, but I also 
note they didnt have another insurance policy in place, so I think its difficult to conclude with 
any certainty what difference it would have necessarily made.
Ive also looked at the premium refund of £785.32. Countrywide explained that the type of 
policy Mr C and Mrs C were paying for was no longer available, so it made the refund 
calculation based on a like-for-like policy and compared the amount Mr C and Mrs C were 
paying compared with what they would have paid at the correct address. Based on the 
calculations Ive seen, I think the way it calculated the premium refund, and adding interest 
to it, was reasonable. 
However, Im aware that Countrywide didnt offer Mr C and Mrs C a refund until sometime 
after it issued its response to the complaint. Countrywide said the only reason it hadnt 
already paid a refund was because it didnt have Mr C and Mrs Cs bank details. But, from 
what Ive seen, it appears it was prompted by Mr C and Mrs C referring their complaint to 
this service, which I think meant Mr C and Mrs C could have missed out on a substantial 
amount of money if they hadnt done so.Ive also looked at Mr C and Mrs Cs concern that the insurer might not have dealt with a 
claim if they had made one because the policy was for the wrong address. I can understand 
this concern. I cant say with certainty what would have happened, but Countrywide said it 
was likely a valid claim would have been dealt with by the insurer because it was 
Countrywide that had made the mistake. If there had been issues with making a claim, Mr C 
and Mrs C could then have complained about that. But, as this is a hypothetical scenario, I 
cant comment on it any further.
There were also service issues. Mr C and Mrs C seem to have been provided with confusing 
and contradictory information during three phone calls they made to Countrywide on the 
same day to try and understand the type of policy that was in place and whether they had 
valid cover. I think this added to their concern about the policy.
Countrywide has also said to this service that Mr C and Mrs C would have been covered if 
the event of a claim. Mr C and Mrs C dont seem to have got this assurance during these 
phone calls and when Countrywide responded to the complaint, it said we think it would be 
very likely that if you made a valid claim in the policy it would have been honoured . So, I 
think Mr C and Mrs C were given unclear information when they tried to find out about their 
cover and whether it was valid for the property they lived in and that they werent given the 
level of certainty in response to their complaint that Countrywide has now stated to this 
service. 
Im also aware that Countrywide disagreed that it not returning a phone call within 48 hours 
was unreasonable, particularly as some staff were furloughed or working from home due to 
Covid-19. However, what Mr C and Mrs C were complaining about was that someone at 
Countrywide committed to returning a phone call within 48 hours, but it didnt happen. If 
Countrywide is now saying that person shouldnt have given that timescale then, in my view, 
that just adds to the issue, as it means Mr C and Mrs C were misled about a realistic 
timescale for them to receive a phone call. I think Countrywide not returning the phone call 
will have increased Mr C and Mrs Cs anxiety and frustration about the situation. When they 
didnt receive a phone call, they cancelled the policy with Countrywide and took out a policy 
elsewhere to ensure they had cover in place.
So, Ive also thought about compensation. Thinking about all of the above, I think there were 
a range of issues, which started several years ago when Countrywide didnt correctly update 
the policy details. When Mr C and Mrs C tried to understand the situation, they were given 
unclear information and didnt know whether they were insured. Mr C and Mrs C also werent 
given any indication that they might be due a refund in response to their complaint and this 
only seemed to be offered by Countrywide when the complaint reached this service. So, I 
think Mr C and Mrs C would have had a range of anxiety when they tried to clarify the 
position and also in terms of whether they were then treated fairly by Countrywide. So, I 
think Countrywide should pay Mr C and Mrs C £300 compensation, which includes the £150 
previously offered, as I think this more fairly reflects the anxiety and concern caused to them.
Countrywide should also ensure that Mr C and Mrs C receive information about any income 
tax its deducted from the interest and provide a certificate showing this if they request it.
  
Putting things right
Countrywide must pay a total of £300 compensation and provide Mr C and Mrs C with 
information on any tax it has deducted.  
My final decisionFor the reasons I have given, I uphold this complaint in part. I require Countrywide Principal 
Services Limited to:
Pay a total of £300 compensation
If Countrywide Principal Services Limited considers its required by HMRC to take off 
income tax from the interest it has paid, it should tell Mr C and Mrs C how much its 
taken off. It should also give Mr C and Mrs C a certificate showing this if they ask for one, 
so they can reclaim the tax from HMRC if appropriate.
  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs C and Mr C to 
accept or reject my decision before 30 November 2021.
 
Louise O'Sullivan
Ombudsman