DRN-3043099
complaint
This complaint is about a credit card payment protection insurance (PPI) policy taken in 
2003. Mrs B says Marks & Spencer Financial Services plc (M&S) mis-sold her the PPI.
background
The background and circumstances leading up to this complaint, including the PPI policy 
benefits, limitations and exclusions of cover, arent disputed. So I havent repeated all of this 
information here. 
Mrs B was employed at the time and had been with her employer at least a year. Shes told 
us she cant recall what sick pay she wouldve received from her employer at the time. Her 
questionnaire for M&S said she was entitled to six months full pay and then six months half 
pay  so, to be favourable to Mrs B, Ive assessed things on that basis. Mrs B has told us 
she didnt have anything else, like savings, to pay her card with if she couldnt work.
M&S has sent evidence to show Mrs Bs credit card agreement ended before April 2008. It 
also says Mrs B made a successful PPI sickness claim in 2005 and was paid just over £370. 
Mrs B has confirmed she did make a successful sickness claim on the policy.
Our adjudicator didnt uphold the complaint. Mrs Bs representatives disagreed with the 
adjudicators opinion  they didnt raise any new or additional points but repeated complaint 
points and arguments theyd previously made. As the complaint couldnt be resolved 
informally, it has been passed to me for a decision.
my findings
Although I have only included a summary of the complaint, I have read and considered all 
the evidence and arguments available to me from the outset, in order to decide what is, in 
my opinion, fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of this complaint. 
When considering what is fair and reasonable, I am required to take into account relevant: 
law and regulations; regulators rules, guidance and standards; codes of practice; and, 
where appropriate, what I consider to have been good industry practice at the time. 
Mrs Bs credit agreement ended before April 2008  so the unfair relationship provisions in 
s.140A of the Consumer Credit Act, the Supreme Court judgement in Plevin about s.140 of 
that Act and the rules and guidance made by the FCA about the handling of complaints 
about the non-disclosure of commission in light of the Plevin judgement, arent applicable.
Weve set out our general approach to PPI mis-sale complaints on our website and 
published some example final decisions that set out in detail how these relevant 
considerations may apply to PPI sales like Mrs Bs. I havent set out that detailed information 
here but Ive taken into account all relevant considerations in deciding Mrs Bs complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided not to uphold this complaint and Ive summarised my reasons 
for this conclusion below:
 
Mrs B has told us she was told in the shop she had to take the PPI in order to have the 
card. Shes also said she wouldnt have taken the PPI had M&S not told her it was a 
good idea  which seems different to saying she had to take the PPI. Overall, I give what 
Mrs B has told us some weight, but I also take into account that the sale was many years 
before she set out her recollections of it for us - so it wouldnt be surprising if she didnt 
recall it vividly. With this in mind, Mrs Bs recollections arent, on their own, enough to 
make me think M&S misled her about having to take the PPI  and I havent anything 
else to make me think this. For example, Ive nothing to make me think M&S at the time 
wouldnt usually have given customers a choice about the PPI. 
Also, I bear in mind that Mrs Bs credit card application form had a separate PPI section 
with a box to tick and a space for Mrs B to sign if she wanted the cover. On her form the 
PPI box is ticked and she signed the space for the cover  separately from signing to 
take the card itself. The need to sign separately would, I think, have tended to indicate 
the PPI was something separate from the card and that Mrs B had a separate decision to 
make about it. Nothing on the form says the PPI had to be taken and I think it likely 
Mrs B wouldve known that if she didnt want the cover she shouldnt tick for it or sign the 
space for it.
With all Ive said above in mind, having taken Mrs Bs points into account, on balance 
what I have makes me think it more likely M&S made it clear Mrs B didnt have to take 
the PPI and she chose to take it.
Mrs B has said M&S recommended the PPI to her. But Ive nothing to suggest M&S took 
her personal circumstances into account before suggesting the cover  or led Mrs B to 
believe this is what it was doing. While I dont doubt M&S may have said positive things 
about the PPI, what Ive seen doesnt persuade me that this is likely to have amounted to 
personalised advice or that M&S led Mrs B to believe it was giving her a personal 
recommendation based on her own particular circumstances.
I think it more likely the sale was made on a non-advised basis  meaning M&S didnt 
have to check the PPI was right for Mrs B, but it still had to give her enough clear and 
timely information to allow her to decide for herself whether the PPI was right for her.
In terms of information, the credit card application form said PPI would cost 75p per £100 
of the outstanding balance. This wasnt the whole story and its possible the information 
M&S gave Mrs B about the PPI wasnt as clear as it shouldve been. But it looks like the 
cover was affordable and not fundamentally wrong for Mrs B or too dissimilar to what its 
likely she thought she was buying from the information she was given  and it seems like 
it wouldve been useful for Mrs B if something went wrong.
For example, Mrs Bs application form said the PPI was to protect card payments against 
sickness, accident and involuntary unemployment. Ive found she chose to take it, so it 
looks to me like she wanted this type of cover. Mrs Bs sick pay wouldve halved after six 
months. She wasnt affected by the significant exclusions on or limits to the cover, like 
those for existing health issues (as she didnt have existing health issues). And there 
were also no additional restrictions on cover for mental health or back problems. With 
this and all Ive said above in mind, I dont think Mrs B wouldve declined the cover had 
M&S done anything more.
Overall, I consider Mrs B wouldve still taken the PPI. It was sufficiently close to what its 
likely she thought she was getting and, given her circumstances, I think it couldve provided 
a useful benefit at what couldve been a difficult time if shed lost her job or become too sick 
to work. And, in those circumstances, I think she wouldve taken the policy in any event.Mrs Bs representative has raised a number of what I consider to be general complaint 
points, which it says apply to all PPI complaints. These general points include: a claim the 
Financial Ombudsman Service is not correctly applying the regulators rules and guidance 
for handling PPI complaints; that these policies represented poor value because of the 
number of significant exclusions and limitations of cover coupled with the low claims ratio; 
and that the duty of utmost good faith meant M&S should have disclosed the poor value and 
explained the significance of the limitations and exclusions and the impact it had on the 
chances of making a claim.
Mrs Bs representative has not said how these points apply to the specific facts and 
circumstances of Mrs Bs individual complaint  just that they apply to all PPI complaints.
I have thought about these things and how they might apply in Mrs Bs particular case. But 
these points dont persuade me to alter my conclusions about what is fair and reasonable in 
all the circumstances of the complaint. For the reasons Ive set out above, I dont uphold this 
complaint. This means M&S doesnt have to do anything to put things right.
Im grateful to Mrs B for her assistance and courtesy throughout our consideration of her 
complaint.
my final decision
Overall, having considered all the evidence and arguments to decide what is, in my opinion, 
fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of this complaint and for the reasons I have set 
out above, I dont uphold Mrs Bs complaint  so I make no award.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, I am required to ask Mrs B to accept 
or reject my decision before 18 October 2021. 
Richard Sheridan
Ombudsman