DRN-2911938
The complaint
Mrs B complains about the service provided by British Gas Insurance Limited (British Gas) 
under her home emergency insurance policy.
What happened
Mrs B had a Home Care policy with British Gas that included repairs to her boiler and central 
heating, and included an annual service. In November 2019 a British Gas engineer carried 
out an annual service on her boiler. About five weeks later, she had a problem with her hot 
water. By this time, shed cancelled her home emergency policy with British Gas and taken 
out a similar policy with another provider. This third party sent an engineer. On inspecting 
the boiler, the engineer said it was dangerous and condemned it, issuing Mrs B with a 
Danger Do Not Use safety certificate. She said the engineer also said the previous engineer 
must have been blind not to have seen the corrosion. Mrs B then paid another third party to 
replace her boiler. And she also complained to British Gas. 
Mrs B said British Gas hadnt carried out an annual service in 2018 and she thought the 
failure to do so had contributed to the corrosion discovered by the third party engineer that 
led to it being condemned. She said she would have expected the engineer who carried out 
the annual service in November 2019 to have been thorough. She thought he must have 
missed the corrosion and so had failed her and endangered her family. She wants British 
Gas to refund the premiums she paid for the last two years she had the policy. 
British Gas said it had investigated the matter but hadnt found any evidence of wrongdoing 
by the engineer. Mrs B remained unhappy and therefore complained to this service.
Our investigator said there was no evidence of an annual service being carried out in 2018. 
He said that was part of Mrs Bs policy and, as it hadnt been done, he thought British Gas 
should reimburse her £65 shed paid to have that service. But he didnt think there was 
enough evidence to say the corrosion was present, and therefore missed, by the engineer 
when he carried out the annual service in November 2019. 
Mrs B didnt agree with our investigators view. She thought it was partial and unfair and as 
she remains unhappy, the complaint has been passed to me to make a final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
British Gas has agreed to reimburse Mrs B the £65 she paid for the annual service it didnt 
do in 2018. I think thats a fair resolution to that part of her complaint and so I see no need to 
comment any further on that issue.
Mrs B believes the failure to carry out the annual service in 2018 might have contributed to 
the problems later on. But I think thats unlikely. If corrosion had been present in 2018, its 
likely to have caused problems earlier than December 2019. And I think its also likely to 
have got worse during 2019 and so more likely to have been identified by the engineer who 
attended in November 2019.
And thats the main issue in dispute here. Did the engineer carry out an adequate annual 
service in November 2019? Had he done so, its more likely than not he would have 
identified any corrosion at that time. As Mrs Bs boiler was condemned by a third party 
engineer five weeks later, Mrs B thinks its likely the engineer didnt carry out a thorough 
check of the boiler and missed the corrosion. Shes found evidence online to support the fact 
that corrosion most often happens over a long period of time. She also questions the 
accuracy of the checklist produced by the engineer and the thoroughness of his inspection of 
the boiler.
For its part, British Gas said it had investigated the matter and spoken to the engineer who 
attended in November 2019. It said he was an experienced engineer and thought it unlikely 
hed turn a blind eye to an issue if he saw one.
In terms of evidence, Mrs B has said she still has her old boiler and British Gas could have 
looked at that to establish the cause. Shes also provided photographs she took at the time. I 
asked British Gas to comment on the photos. It said it was impossible to diagnose from 
those photos where the water leak came from in the boiler. It said it might have been 
possible if it had been able to physically inspect the boiler within a couple of days of it being 
removed from the wall. But noted that Mrs B hadnt reported the issue to British Gas until 
several weeks after the new boiler had been installed. 
British Gas also said that, had the extent of the corrosion shown in the photos been present 
when its engineer attended in November 2019, there is no way he would have left the boiler 
like that and not commented on it. It said its engineers are trained to carry out further tests if 
they find corrosion inside a boiler to ensure its safe. It said it didnt believe the corrosion was 
present during the visit in November 2019.
As Ive said, Mrs B believes its unlikely that corrosion could be severe enough to condemn a 
boiler within 5 weeks and thinks its most likely the corrosion was there in November 2019 
and the engineer missed it. British Gas has said it is possible for corrosion to act that quickly. 
Its technical experts have said that if the condensate pipe leaks, its acidic. And when mixed 
with condensation, it can corrode a boiler very quickly. Its experts said it was impossible to 
tell what happened in this situation as it didnt get the opportunity to inspect the boiler before 
it was replaced. But they said they were confident the engineer would have noticed the 
corrosion if it had been present during the November 2019 visit.   
In situations like this, where evidence is incomplete or contradictory, I reach my decision on 
the balance of probabilities. In other words, what I consider most likely to have happened in 
light of the available evidence and wider circumstances. And having carefully considered all 
the available evidence in this case, Im more persuaded by the evidence put forward by 
British Gas. Thats not to say Ive discounted the evidence put forward by Mrs B. But I think 
its possible for the type of corrosion found by the third party engineer to have developed in 
the period between the annual service in November 2019 and the visit by the third party 
engineer five weeks later. And, on balance, I think its more likely than not that the British 
Gas engineer would have noticed the corrosion and/or the leak had they been there when he 
visited in November 2019.
So, in summary, I think British Gas should reimburse Mrs B for the missed annual service in 
2018. But I dont think theres enough evidence to say its engineer carried out an inadequate 
inspection of Mrs Bs boiler when he conducted an annual service in November 2019. So, I 
dont think British Gas need to do anything more than reimburse her for the missed annual 
service.My final decision
For the reasons given above, I partly uphold this complaint and require British Gas 
Insurance Limited to pay Mrs B £65 to reimburse her for the missed annual service in 2018, 
if it hasnt done so already. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs B to accept or 
reject my decision before 25 August 2021.
 
Richard Walker
Ombudsman