DRN-3761221
The complaint
Miss D has complained that Monzo Bank Ltd (Monzo) acted irresponsibly by increasing her 
overdraft limit even though she couldnt afford it and that the fees it applied made her 
financial situation worse.
What happened
Miss D applied and was approved for an overdraft on 2 January 2020. This overdraft limit 
was increased on multiple occasions until it reached its highest limit of £1,200 on 16 March 
2020. 
Miss D complained to Monzo that it lent irresponsibly and that the fees applied to her 
account caused financial difficulty. Monzo didnt uphold the complaint. It says Miss D was 
assessed for credit risk and affordability and passed these checks. Miss D was dis-satisfied 
with this and referred her complaint to our service.
Miss Ds complaint was considered by one of our adjudicators. They thought that Monzo 
ought to have realised that Miss D was experiencing financial difficulty by March 2020 and 
so shouldnt have added any more interest, fees and charges from this point onwards. 
Monzo disagreed, it says it offered support by providing an interest free buffer on the first 
£500 of her overdraft  for three months from May 2020 as well as freezing fees for periods of 
time. Monzo says it tried to put in place an affordable repayment plan but Miss D failed to 
respond and as such no action could be taken. 
So Miss Ds complaint was passed to an ombudsman for a decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Monzo will be familiar with all the rules, regulations and good industry practice we consider 
when looking at whether a bank treated a customer fairly and reasonably when applying 
overdraft charges. So I dont consider it necessary to set all of this out in this decision.
Having carefully considered everything provided, Im intending to find that Monzo acted 
unfairly when it continued charging overdraft interest and associated fees after it increased 
Miss Ds overdraft limit to £1,200 on 16 March 2020. By this point, it ought to have been 
clear that Miss D was in no position to sustainably repay what she owed within a reasonable 
period of time. 
By this point, Miss D hadnt seen or maintained a credit balance since her overdraft was 
granted. Monzo own literature suggests that overdrafts are for unforeseen emergency 
borrowing not prolonged day-to-day expenditure. Yet her overdraft application shows that 
she only had affordability capacity of £121.40  meaning it would take her around 10 months 
to pay her overdraft back. 
Miss D was already clearly struggling to manage her existing overdraft limit with Monzo 
when it once again agreed to increase her limit to £1,200. A cursory look at her statements 
show she wasnt able to bring down the overdraft from the limit she already had. The 
statements show that even after Miss Ds salary and benefits were paid that once she had 
paid her bills, she would fall back into overdraft within days. I accept that Monzo offered help 
in the form of temporary interest freezes and tried to put in place an affordable repayment 
plan. But this help came too late  months after her bank statements were showing signs of 
financial difficulty.
So I think that Miss Ds overdraft usage should have prompted Monzo to have realised that 
Miss D wasnt using her overdraft as intended and shouldnt have continued offering it on the 
same terms. As Monzo didnt react to Miss Ds overdraft usage and instead increased her 
limit and continued charging in the same way, I think it failed to act fairly and reasonably.
Miss D ended up paying additional interest, fees and charges on her overdraft and this 
ended up exacerbating difficulties she already had in trying to clear it. So I think that Monzo 
didnt treat Miss D fairly and she lost out because of what Monzo did wrong. And this means 
that it should put things right.
Putting things right
Having thought about everything, I think that it would be fair and reasonable in all the 
circumstances of Miss Ds complaint for Monzo to put things right by:
Monzo should re-work Miss Ds current overdraft balance so all interest, fees and 
charges applied to it from 16 March 2020 onwards are removed. 
AND
If an outstanding balance remains on the overdraft once these adjustments have 
been made Monzo should contact Miss D to arrange a suitable repayment plan 
for this. If it considers it appropriate to record negative information on Miss Ds 
credit file, it should reflect what would have been recorded had it started the 
process of taking corrective action on the overdraft on 16 March 2020.
OR
If the effect of removing all interest, fees and charges results in there no longer 
being an outstanding balance, then any extra should be treated as overpayments 
and returned to Miss D along with 8% simple interest on the overpayments from 
the date they were made (if they were) until the date of settlement. If no 
outstanding balance remains after all adjustments have been made, then Monzo 
should remove any adverse information from Miss Ds credit file. 
If Monzo has sold the debt to a third party, it should arrange to either buy back 
the debt from the third party or liaise with them to ensure the redress set out 
above is carried out promptly. 
 HM Revenue & Customs requires Monzo to take off tax from this interest. Monzo must 
give Miss D a certificate showing how much tax it has taken off if they ask for one. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, Im upholding Miss Ds complaint. Monzo Bank Ltd should put things right in the way Ive set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss D to accept 
or reject my decision before 6 December 2022.
 
Caroline Davies
Ombudsman