DRN-4269690
The complaint
Miss H complains PDL Finance Limited trading as Mr Lender (Mr Lender) gave her loans 
she couldnt afford to repay because she had other loans with other companies at the time.
What happened
Miss H was advanced two loans from Mr Lender and a summary of her borrowing can be 
found in the table below.
loan 
numberloan 
amountagreement 
daterepayment 
datenumber of 
monthly 
instalmentshighest 
repayment per 
loan
1 £750.00 01/12/2014 13/02/2015 6 £387.50
gap in lending
2 £500.00 30/12/2015 30/04/2016 5 £220.00
Following Miss Hs complaint Mr Lender wrote to her to explain why it wasnt going to uphold
it. But as a gesture of goodwill, Mr Lender offered to remove these loans from Miss Hs credit 
file.
Unhappy with this offer, Miss H referred the complaint to the Financial Ombudsman. An 
adjudicator then considered the complaint and in her latest assessment she partly upheld
it. The adjudicator said the largest repayment due for loan one represented a significant
portion of her declared income and therefore the lending was unsustainable for her. The
adjudicator didnt uphold the complaint about loan two.
Mr Lender didnt agree with the proposed outcome for loan one and it has sent a number of
emails with its reasons. Ive summarised these below:
Although it has the details of what Miss H declared for the first loan, it doesnt know
how the expenditure was broken down into the various categories.
The credit check results showed zero outstanding payday loans with other lenders.
Miss H had sufficient disposable income to afford the repayments for the loan and
the loan was structured in a way where each months contracted payments 
decreased.
Miss H ended up repaying Mr Lender significantly less in interest than she was
contracted to pay due to repaying the loan earlier than planned.
The checks Mr Lender carried out were proportionate.
As no agreement was reached, the case was passed to me to resolve. I then issued my 
provisional decision explaining the reasons why I was intending to not uphold Miss Hs 
complaint  but Mr Lender needed to do what it had agreed to do in the final response letter.
Both parties were asked to provide any further submissions as soon as possible but, in any 
event, no later than 27 July 2023.
Mr Lender responded to say it had nothing further to add. 
Miss H hasnt responded to the provisional decision. 
The deadline for the response has now passed and so to bring this matter to a close, Ive 
proceeded to issue the final decision. A copy of the provisional findings follows this in 
smaller font and forms part of this final decision.
What I said in my provisional decision:
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about this type of lending - including all
the relevant rules, guidance and good industry practice - on our website. And Ive used that
to help me decide this complaint.
Mr Lender had to assess the lending to check if Miss H could afford to pay back the amounts
shed borrowed, without undue difficulty. It needed to do this in a way which was
proportionate to the circumstances. Mr Lenders checks couldve taken into account a
number of different things, such as how much was being lent, the size of the repayments,
and Miss Hs income and expenditure.
With this in mind, I think in the early stages of a lending relationship, less thorough checks
might have been proportionate. But certain factors might suggest Mr Lender should have
done more to establish that any lending was sustainable for Miss H. These factors include:
Miss H having a low income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make any
loan repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income);
The amounts to be repaid being especially high (reflecting that it could be more
difficult to meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income);
Miss H having a large number of loans and/or having these loans over a long
period of time (reflecting the risk that repeated refinancing may signal that the
borrowing had become, or was becoming, unsustainable);
Miss H coming back for loans shortly after previous borrowing had been repaid
(also suggestive of the borrowing becoming unsustainable).
There may even come a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable for Miss H. The adjudicator didnt think this
applied to Miss Hs complaint.
Mr Lender was required to establish whether Miss H could sustainably repay the loans  not
just whether she technically had enough money to make her repayments. Having enough
money to make the repayments could of course be an indicator that Miss H was able to
repay her loans sustainably. But it doesnt automatically follow that this is the case.
Industry regulations say that payments are sustainable if they are made without undue
difficulties and in particular, made on time, while meeting other reasonable commitments and
without having to borrow to make them. If a lender realises, or ought reasonably to have
realised, that a borrower wont be able to make their repayments without borrowing further,
then it follows that it should conclude those repayments are unsustainable.
Ive considered all the arguments, evidence and information provided in this context, and
thought about what this means for Miss Hs complaint.
Loan 1
For this loan, Miss H told Mr Lender her monthly income was £1,300. Miss H also declared
monthly outgoings of £560. This figure wouldve likely have been broken down across anumber of different categories. But Mr Lender has explained it cant provide a breakdown of
how the figure was arrived at.
I can see Miss H has provided a copy of a wage slip from her employer from
November 2014, and this shows her income was just under £1,100 per month. So slightly
less than what she declared to Mr Lender at the time. But as this was the first loan and there
was no indication in any of the checks that the amount declared to Mr Lender was in some
way inaccurate, I think it was entirely reasonable for Mr Lender to have relied on the amount
Miss H had declared to it.
Mr Lender believed, based on the information Miss H provided, she had around £740 per
month in disposable income to afford the monthly loan repayment of no more than £387.50.
Therefore, it wouldve been reasonable for Mr Lender to believe this loan was affordable for
Miss H.
Before the loan was approved Mr Lender also carried out a credit search and it has
provided the Financial Ombudsman with a summary of the results it received from the credit
reference agency. I want to add that although Mr Lender carried out a credit search there
isnt a regulatory requirement to do one, let alone one to a specific standard.
Miss H has provided a copy of her credit report which was produced in February 2020. But
as Mr Lender carried out a credit search, it was and is entitled to rely on the information it
was given so while I appreciate that Miss H has provided the information, in this case, I am
going to rely on what Mr Lender received from the credit reference agency.
Having looked at the credit results, there wasnt anything in my view, that wouldve led
Mr Lender to have carried out further checks. It knew Miss H wasnt insolvent either through
an Individual Voluntary Arrangement (IVA), bankruptcy or a County Court Judgement (CCJ)
within the three years preceding the loan. In addition, it was given information to suggest that
Miss H had zero outstanding payday loans.
Overall, there were no signs, from the credit check results which indicated Miss H was in
financial difficulties, was having problems managing her existing credit commitments or had
unsustainable levels of debt.
Ive also thought about the reasons why the adjudicator upheld this loan, that being the
largest repayment represented a significant portion of her income. And I can understand why
she concluded that, after all, the first monthly repayment of around £387 represented nearly
30% of Miss Hs declared income. And had that been the level of repayment each month for
six months then I can foresee a situation where Id have agreed with the adjudicator and
upheld the loan.
But the way the loan was structured meant that Miss H was repaying a smaller amount each
month for the loan. By the time Miss Hs final repayment was due the percentage of her
income needed to make the repayment was around 13%. A significant decrease compared
to her first contractual payment.
Thinking about how the loan payments decreased over the term, the fact that this was a first
loan and the checks Mr Lender carried out, which were in my view proportionate and
showed the payments to be affordable. Given these reasons, I am intending to not uphold
Miss Hs complaint about this loan.
Loan 2
Before I look at what happened when this loan was advanced, there was a significant break
between Miss H repaying loan one and returning for loan two. This means, for the purposes
of a proportionate check, I think it would be reasonable for Mr Lender to treat Miss Hs
application afresh and essentially as if she was a new customer. So, although this was loan
two, it was the first loan in a new lending chain.For this loan, Miss H told Mr Lender her monthly income was £1,300. Miss H also declared
monthly outgoings of £700 across a number of different categories such as rent, food, credit
commitments and other regular outgoings to name a few.
Mr Lender believed, based on the information Miss H provided, she had around £600 per
month in disposable income to afford the loan repayment of no more than £220. Therefore, it
wouldve been reasonable for Mr Lender to believe this loan was affordable for Miss H.
Before the loan was approved Mr Lender also carried out a credit search and it has
provided the Financial Ombudsman with a summary of the results it received. Having looked
at the credit results, there wasnt anything in my view, that wouldve led Mr Lender to have
carried out further checks. It knew Miss H wasnt insolvent and didnt have any active payday
loans. There were no signs, from the credit check results to indicate Miss H was in financial
difficulties, was having problems managing her existing credit commitments or had
unsustainable levels of debt.
Given it was early on in a new lending relationship  I think it was reasonable for Mr Lender
to have relied on the information Miss H provided to it  which showed she had sufficient
disposable income to afford the repayments. There also wasnt anything else to suggest that
Miss H was having either financial difficulties or that the loan repayments would be
unsustainable for her for some other reason.
Im therefore not upholding Miss Hs complaint about this loan as well.
In Mr Lenders final response letter, it has offered to remove these loans from Miss Hs credit
file. Its possible, that given the age of each loan that these have already dropped off her
credit file. But in any event, the offer Mr Lender made in the final response letter is fair and
reasonable and if it hasnt already done so, it should arrange to remove these loans from the
credit file, once the final decision has been issued.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As neither party has provided any new submissions for my consideration, I see no reason to 
depart from the findings that I made in the provisional decision. I still think Mr Lender carried 
out proportionate checks before it approved the loans which demonstrated Miss H could 
afford them. 
In saying that, Mr Lender has made a goodwill offer to remove these loans from Miss Hs 
credit file, and so, if it hasnt already done so it should arrange for this to happen. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained above and in the provisional decision, Im not upholding 
Miss Hs complaint. 
But PDL Finance Limited should, do what it has already agreed to do to put things right for 
Miss H.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss H to accept 
or reject my decision before 28 August 2023.
 
Robert Walker
Ombudsman