DRN-3588883
The complaint
Mr and Mrs A complain that Fairmead Insurance Limited declined their claim for subsidence 
damage under their landlord insurance policy. 
Reference to Fairmead includes its agents
What happened
Mr and Mrs A reported suspected subsidence damage to their insurer in January 2020. After 
carrying out its initial investigations, Fairmeads loss adjuster said Mr and Mrs A hadnt 
disclosed that the property had a history of subsidence. It said there was a subsidence claim 
in 2012, and that the homebuyers survey carried out in 1997 highlighted structural 
movement in some areas of the property.
Fairmead declined the claim. It says Mr and Mrs A failed to disclose the 2012 claim when 
taking out the policy or at renewal each year. And it said when asked if the property had any 
history of subsidence Mr and Mrs A answered no. It said Mr and Mrs A breached their duty 
to make a fair presentation of the risk when purchasing the policy, and that if it had been 
aware of the propertys subsidence history it would have excluded subsidence cover.
Mr and Mrs A didnt think this was fair. They say that when the policy was taken out in 2017, 
they disclosed the 2012 claim. Theyve provided a copy of the statement of fact from 2017 
which includes details of the claim. They also say the 2012 claim wasnt subsidence  as the 
claim was caused by an escape of water.
One of our investigators considered the complaint and didnt uphold it. She was satisfied that 
although the statement of fact included details of the previous claim, Fairmead wasnt aware 
of it. She concluded that Mr and Mrs A hadnt made a fair presentation of the risk, and that 
Fairmead had acted in line with the Insurance Act 2015.
Mr and Mrs A didnt agree and asked for an ombudsmans decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im not upholding it. I understand this will be hugely disappointing for Mr 
and Mrs A. Ill explain my reasoning below.
When considering whats fair and reasonable in the circumstances of the complaint Ive 
taken into account the relevant law and regulations, as well as good industry practice. 
Fairmead says Mr and Mrs A breached their duty to make a fair presentation of the risk. As 
this is a commercial policy, the relevant law here is the Insurance Act 2015. Under the Act, 
business customers are required to make a fair presentation of the risk when taking out 
insurance, and to disclose any information which might be relevant to an insurer.
Ive considered whether Mr and Mrs A made a fair presentation of the risk  and if not, 
whether there was a qualifying breach (i.e. whether Fairmead would have done anything 
differently if the breach hadnt taken place).
When the policy was sold, Mr and Mrs A were asked to provide details of any claims over 
the last five years. They were also asked if the property had any history of subsidence. Mr 
and Mrs A have provided a copy of the 2017 statement of fact, which includes details of the 
2012 subsidence claim. Fairmead has provided their copy of the statement of fact it holds on 
record, which doesnt include the claim but is otherwise identical.
Its not clear why the two documents are different  but on balance Im satisfied that while Mr 
and Mrs A may have informed their broker about the 2012 claim, that information wasnt 
made available to Fairmead when the policy was sold. I can also see that when asked 
whether there was any history of subsidence, both versions of the document answer no. 
Neither the claim nor the structural movement reported in 1997 were disclosed at renewal in 
the two subsequent years either.
Mr and Mrs A argue that the 2012 claim was not was not caused by subsidence but by an 
escape of water, so think whether they disclosed or not it isnt relevant. But although the 
claim may have originated from an escape of water the property was ultimately damaged by 
downward ground movement and should be classified as subsidence. And I think Mr and 
Mrs A should reasonably have known that the claim would have been relevant to Fairmead. 
Especially considering it asked a clear and specific question about subsidence when the 
policy was taken out.
As the policy only covers a single tenanted property, Ive considered whether it would be 
fairer to apply the principles set out in CIDRA  which is relevant to individual consumer 
policies- rather than the principles of the Insurance Act. CIDRA requires the insured to take 
reasonable care not to make a misrepresentation as opposed to the Insurance Acts 
requirement of a duty of fair presentation. But I dont think applying the principles of CIDRA 
would make a difference here. I think it can fairly be said Mr and Mrs A failed to take 
reasonable care (if following the principles of CIDRA) or they breached their duty to make a 
fair presentation of the risk (if following the relevant law, the Insurance Act 2015). 
Ive considered whether this was as qualifying breach. Fairmead has provided details of its 
underwriting criteria. Im not able to share this information as its commercially sensitive, but 
Ive carefully considered it. Based on this, Im satisfied that had Fairmead been aware of the 
propertys subsidence history it would have applied an endorsement excluding subsidence 
cover. 
In this case, Fairmead has acted correctly and fairly in line with the Insurance Act 2015. Its 
entitled to treat the contract as the one it should have entered into had there been a fair 
presentation. And as it would have excluded subsidence damage had Mr and Mrs A made a 
fair presentation of the risk, it doesnt have to deal with the claim Mr and Mrs A made in 
relation to subsidence.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A and Mrs A to 
accept or reject my decision before 23 September 2022.
 
Joe ThornleyOmbudsman