DRN-4400181
The complaint
Mr D complains that National Westminster Bank Plc (NatWest) did not refund a series of 
payment he lost to a scam. 
What happened
Mr D was looking to invest in cryptocurrency, and was contacted by an individual from a firm 
Ill call P. They persuaded him to open an account with a payment services provider that Ill 
call X, as well as a popular cryptocurrency exchange website, Binance. P offered to open 
these for Mr D and asked him to provide a copy of his driving license, which he did. With 
this, P opened accounts with both X and Binance and provided Mr D with the log in details. 
He also gave P remote access to his device via an app, and linked his NatWest account to 
the account with X via open banking.
Mr D asked P to start investing in cryptocurrency for him and set a monthly limit of £170. 
However, Mr D later noticed that two large transfers had been made from his savings 
account to his current account with NatWest, and there was a series of transfers out:
Payment number Date Amount (£)
1 22/10/22 20.00
2 22/10/22 5.00
3 25/10/22 30.00
4 26/10/22 5,000.00
5 26/10/22 4,000.00
6 26/10/22 +4,000.00
7 26/10/22 5.000.00
8 26/10/22 30.00
9 26/10/22 4,900.00
10 27/10/22 5,000.00
11 27/10/22 5,000.00
12 27/10/22 5,010.00
13 27/10/22 4,000.00
Of these payments, £30,000 was sent from X to Binance, and then on to the scammers 
wallet, meaning Mr D did not have access to these funds. Payments 5 and 6 appear to be a 
failed payment to the X account that was returned. There was a remaining £3,990 in the X 
account following the scam which is due to be returned to Mr D.
Mr D reported the issue to the police and raised a fraud claim with NatWest, as he did not 
intend for the larger payments to be made. And he says NatWest should have contacted him 
prior to them being processed. NatWest issued a final response letter in which it explained 
that as Mr D gave permission for P to make payments from his account, there was not much 
more they could do. They also confirmed that the payments did not fall under the Contingent 
Reimbursement Model (CRM) code, which provides additional protection for victims of 
scams. This is because Mr D did not make the payments himself, they were to another 
account in his name and the final loss did not originate from NatWest. 
Mr D referred the complaint to our service. Our Investigator looked into it and agreed that the 
payments did not fall under the CRM code. However, they explained that NatWest still had a 
duty to protect its customers account from financial harm. And they felt the fourth payment 
was unusual in the context of Mr Ds normal account activity, so they felt NatWest should 
have contacted him about this payment to find out more about it. And they thought if this had 
have happened, Mr D would have been honest, and the scam would have been revealed. So 
they recommended a refund of the payments from payment four onwards. As the total loss 
Mr D incurred was £30,000, they felt this should be the starting point for the refund.
However, the Investigator also felt Mr D should bear some responsibility for his losses, as 
they thought he could have done more to protect himself against the scam. This is because 
a basic online search of P would have revealed a warning about them on the Financial 
Conduct Authority (FCA) website. And Mr D shared his log in information, allowed the 
scammers to view his screen and open accounts for him, which are hallmarks of a scam. So, 
they felt a 50% reduction should apply to the refund.
Finally, they felt X should also bear some responsibility for the loss and felt both NatWest 
and X were equally responsible. So, they said both X and NatWest should bear 25% of the 
loss each, totalling £7,500. And that they should pay 8% simple interest, calculated from the 
date of the loss to the date of settlement.
NatWest initially disagreed with the findings but recognised the fourth payment was out of 
character and an opportunity to intervene may have been missed, so agreed to the refund as 
a gesture of goodwill. However, Mr D did not agree that he should bear some responsibility 
for his loss, and that at the very least, all three parties should split the responsibility equally.
As an informal agreement could not be reached, the complaint has been passed to me for a 
final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive firstly considered whether or not the payments in question were authorised, as the 
Payment Service Regulations 2017 (PSRs) confirms the starting position is that NatWest is 
expected to process payments and withdrawals that a customer authorises it to make, in 
accordance with the terms and conditions of the account. And a customer will then be 
responsible for the transactions that they have authorised.
In this case, Mr D has confirmed he gave P a certain level of access to his accounts, and 
they then used open banking to initiate the payments to X, which they then used to purchase 
cryptocurrency. And Mr D authorised P to make transactions up to £170 from his NatWest 
account. The evidence also shows that for each payment made from his NatWest account, 
Mr D would have had to authorise it through his app, which he has confirmed he did. Though 
I recognise he says he was unaware of the amounts involved. 
Even though Mr D did not specifically state P could make transactions above £170, by giving 
them permission to act on his behalf to make payments, he gave them apparent authority to 
make all of the payments listed above. And at no point did he rescind or take back his 
authority for them to act on his behalf. With this in mind, Im satisfied all of the payments 
were therefore authorised by Mr D. However, the regulatory landscape, along with good industry practice, also sets out a 
requirement for account providers to protect their customers from fraud and financial harm. 
And this includes monitoring accounts to look out for activity that might suggest a customer 
was at risk of financial harm, intervening in unusual or out of character transactions and 
trying to prevent customers falling victims to scams. So, Ive also thought about whether 
NatWest did enough to try to keep Mr Ds account safe.
Ive considered the payments alongside Mr Ds normal account activity. Having done so, I 
think the fourth payment of £5,000 was unusual in comparison. Mr D did not regularly make 
high value payments, there is one payment of £2,000 in the six months prior but that in itself 
is high compared to the regular activity. So, I do think the £5,000 was unusual enough to 
have warranted further checks by NatWest.
I note that NatWest has now accepted the recommendation of a refund from payment four 
onwards, though I recognise it has done so as a gesture of goodwill. As this has been 
agreed, and I think this is fair I see no reason to discuss it in more detail.
Ive gone on to consider whether Mr D should bear some responsibility for his losses as a 
result of any negligence in his actions and if it is therefore reasonable for me to make a 
reduction in the award based on this. In doing so, Ive considered whether Mr D has acted as 
a reasonable person would to protect himself against the loss he suffered. The test is 
objective but needs to take account of the relevant circumstances.
In doing so, Ive considered that Mr D allowed P to access his device remotely, that he gave 
them a copy of his identification and allowed them to open accounts in his name. While I 
recognise that he has said he was not very knowledgeable about technology, I still think 
these actions follow the hallmark of a scam and that Mr D should reasonably have been 
more wary of continuing. In addition, Mr D has said he was told something was wrong with 
the authorisation for the payments, so had to authorise them again and again. But from the 
payment journey I have seen, the amounts of the payments would have been visible when 
he authorised them. So, I think it was possible for Mr D to see that the payments he was 
authorising did not match the amounts he was expecting, and this should have been a 
warning to him that something was not right. 
With this in mind, I agree a reduction in the redress should be applied and think 50% is 
appropriate in this case. Ive considered Mr Ds comments that liability should be shared 
equally between all parties involved, namely Mr D, NatWest and X. However, if this case 
only involved NatWest and no other party, and I found Mr D was partially responsible, I 
would be recommending a 50% reduction. And I think this should be the case regardless of 
how many other parties are involved as this does not diminish the level of responsibility Mr D 
had as a starting point for the scam.
I do want to recognise that Mr D has been the victim of a scam and I can understand how 
upsetting this situation must be for him. Having carefully considered everything available to 
me, I do think NatWest should have intervened from the fourth payment onwards and if 
theyd done so they could have revealed the scam and stopped the end loss of £30,000. And 
for the reasons outlined above, I think Mr D should bear some responsibility for the loss due 
to his actions, so I think the redress should be reduced by 50% - with NatWests liability 
being 25%. 
Putting things right
NatWest should refund Mr D 25% of the end loss of £30,000, totalling £7,500, plus 8% 
simple interest from the date of the loss to the date of settlement. If NatWest considers that its required by HM Revenue & Customs to deduct income tax from 
that interest, it should tell Mr D how much its taken off. It should also give him a tax 
deduction certificate if he asks for one, so he can reclaim the tax from HM Revenue & 
Customs if appropriate. 
My final decision
I uphold Mr Ds complaint in part and recommend National Westminster Bank Plc pay the 
redress set out above. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision before 22 December 2023.
 
Rebecca Norris
Ombudsman