DRN-3731692
The complaint
Mr G complains about his home insurer, AA Underwriting Insurance Company Limited (AA)
about poor repairs and poor service following his claim for damage to his home from a fire.
References to AA include its claims handler, T and its contractors.
What happened
I set out the background to the complaint within my provisional decision and also here. 
In June 2019 a fire from next door extensively damaged Mr Gs home and he claimed to AA.
Mr G and his wife moved into alternative accommodation. AA appointed T to manage the
claim and subsequently the complaint, and T appointed a surveyor for an initial inspection
and contractors for the repairs. Mr G said T provided a timetable of work, but not a schedule
of the work, showing completion of all internal and external repairs by early January 2020.
The repairs werent finished when T met Mr G in January 2020. Mr G said T initially reneged
on a promise to appoint a structural engineer to assess damage to the side wall and used
contractors to carry out repairs. Following an attempted repair, T appointed an engineer and
sent Mr G his report in February 2020 and carried out repairs to the wall accordingly. Mr G
said T reluctantly acknowledged that the ceiling didnt comply with building regulations
and this led to movement in the wall of the shower cubicle and the door not closing.
Mr G said T promised to issue certificates covering the rebuild of the side wall and confirm
that its surveyor inspected the contractors work to ensure it conformed to regulations. T told
Mr G in March 2020 all internal works had been completed with some external cracks to be
fixed, and so the house was habitable. T suggested that Mr G inspect the completed works
and said the property was no longer under Ts control. Mr G rejected the handover and said
his house wasnt habitable and T hadnt visited since January and moving back would be
contrary to covid restrictions. He complained to AA in March 2020 saying scaffolding made it
impossible to open windows and doors which served as emergency exits and they required
painting and curtains. He said the heating was untested and there was outstanding
electrical, cabling, and plumbing works and floorboards to be lifted. He said it was wrong of T
to say he should have new carpeting laid before this outstanding work had been completed.
T said it emailed Mr G in June 2020 about handover of his home and Mr G requested this be
delayed until after a site meeting in early July. Mr G prepared a snagging list and said all
issues were to be rectified by the end of July, but seven months later only one was resolved.
Mr G said the status of the kitchen appliances, kitchen floor and bathroom basin surround
werent known, and AA hadnt provided the contractors reports. He said it had failed to clean
the kitchen floor and hadnt inspected the underfloor heating as agreed. Mr G said despite its
agreement, AA hadnt spent the money to bring his home back to its pre-damaged condition.
Mr G remained concerned about safety issues at his home and unfinished work and said he
never returned home. His concerns continued and T appointed an independent surveyor in
May 2021 to inspect the repairs and remaining damage. The surveyors report was shared
with Mr G and stated that the render finish to the external wall was poor and would need to
be re-done, but that the normal certificate of structural adequacy had been provided to Mr G.
He said work to the left side of the chimney was required and the stud wall and door to the
shower needed to be re-fitted. He said a new kitchen floor was required and redecoration of
the conservatory. He said the gutters needed to be re-fitted and locks adjusted.
The surveyor noted that a gas engineer had resolved the issue of the gas supply. But wiring
needed to be finished and the wardrobe laminate needed to be replaced and bathroom
shelves re-fitted. He said smoke detectors need to be installed. The surveyor also reported
on snagging issues concerning poor repairs or decoration. He concluded that a better finish
was needed, and parts of the work were incomplete. He recommended that these be
addressed as described, and as soon as possible.
In June and July 2021 T wanted to address the surveyors recommendations and timeline by
a site meeting with Mr G. Mr G rejected this referring T to his requests for a written work
plan. On 30 July 2021 T wrote to Mr G saying its contractor had renewed the leaking part of
the roof. It agreed to repair the shower door and gutters. It said due to pre-existing damage
to the kitchen floor it would pay half the cost of repair and would review the damage to the
conservatory. T provided Mr G with PAT test reports for his appliances. It agreed to carry out
almost all of the snagging recommendations outlined by the surveyor and again suggested a
site meeting. Mr G rejected the offer of a meeting and sold his home in August 2021.
In response to Mr Gs complaint, T said its contractors intended to prepare a scope of works,
but the complexity meant they compiled a base-line scope to be updated during the claim. T
paid Mr G for six months alternative accommodation and beyond to allow completion of the
repairs. It said the external rendering and decorating had to await removal of the neighbours
scaffolding as this prevented access. T said following Mr Gs complaint it arranged an
independent surveyor and after an unavoidable delay forwarded his report to Mr G.
T agreed with Mr G that aspects of the work should have been finished to a higher standard,
in line with the surveyors report. But others werent its responsibility and it suggested a site
visit to resolve these. T said Mr G seeks accommodation costs from March 2020 but none of
the issues hes raised would justify alternative accommodation from June 2020. T
apologised for delays during the snagging works and offered Mr G £350 compensation.
Mr G was dissatisfied with this and referred his complaint to our service. He said hes sent
countless emails trying to get problems resolved, without response, and T had said their
home was habitable despite no one visiting since January 2020. Mr G didnt move back in
after the site meeting in July 2020 but listed items that required work. He said AA responded
to some of these in August and snagging work continued. Mr G said he was concerned that
he wouldnt be able to obtain insurance cover in future due to his claim.
Mr G put his home up for sale in March 2021 and sold it in August 2021. He said this was at
a loss in excess of £100,000 which is AAs responsibility because of the poor condition of the
repairs. He said he sent his expenses for alternative accommodation of £25,444 to AA but
they were ignored even though this was less than hed incurred. Mr G said AA and its agents
had treated him with complete derision as exemplified by its offer of £350 compensation.
Our investigator recommended the complaint be upheld in part. He said £350 compensation
was fair for the delays during the snagging works. But the independent surveyor had found
unacceptable repair work, and Mr G had raised the issues several times and so AA should
pay £500 more compensation. He said he couldnt ask AA to pay the difference in sale price
of Mr Gs home as theres nothing to show the value of the house with or without the repairs.
The investigator said he wouldnt ask AA to pay for alternative accommodation beyond June2020 as the property was habitable then although some snagging work remained. He said
the policy states AA will only pay costs it has agreed in advance and it hadnt agreed to pay
the further accommodation expenses Mr G claimed. He said AA should reimburse Mr G for
the cost of the utilities while he was away. And he provided a breakdown of the costs of the
claim and confirmation from AA that it recognised Mr G wasnt at fault for the fire.
Mr G disagreed with the investigator saying he hadnt mentioned important facts and got
others wrong. He said theres no mention that T didnt visit between January and March
2020 or that the central heating didnt work and this with the blocked exits was a health and
safety issue. He said theres no mention of Ts failure to replace the kitchen floor or to deal
with damage to the stud wall in the ensuite bathroom making the shower unusable.
Mr G said the investigator didnt mention Ts deliberate deceit about the appointment of a
structural engineer and the initial repair of the side wall. And its lies about replacing the
kitchen floor and checking and signing off the builders work before attempting handover. He
said T reneged on paying accommodation allowance until the property was finished and
reimbursing utility bills while T was in possession of the house. He said his claim for utility
bills submitted in May 2021 hasnt been paid beyond electricity costs up to August 2019. Mr
G said the site meeting in July 2020 wasnt a handover meeting, but to deal with outstanding
issues. He said T committed to address all issues by the end of July 2020, but didnt. Mr G
said that there was no completion plan following the independent surveyor report in May
2021 only more procrastination and attempted avoidance of responsibilities.
Mr G said he wanted to see the investigators proof for deciding the house was habitable in
June 2020 and said the gas supply and central heating were faulty until December 2020. Mr
G said they didnt go back into the property as the investigator had suggested. Mr G agreed
its impossible to prove the loss from selling his house but said its possible to estimate the
cost of the surveyors recommendations as the basis of compensation, as this had a direct
impact on the sale price. He requested a document from AA confirming the total claim
amount and that the fire was not his fault. He said hed had to pay council tax at £297 per
month while T delayed matters and so the £500 compensation is unrepresentative of the
costs incurred. Mr G said Ts appalling customer service was damaging to their health and
wellbeing and his primary reason for coming to our service was so that we could take
measures to ensure that AA never again treat a policyholder so badly.
Our investigator said that as Mr G no longer owns the property theres no need to highlight
the surveyors report and he could compensate for AAs errors, including the kitchen floor,
rather than asking it to carry out further works. He said hed tried to point out that Mr G was
advised to return home after the issue with the gas pressure had been dealt with. The
investigator said he hadnt only mentioned covid as the reason Mr G hadnt wanted to return
but quoted an email from Mr G expressing concerns about this.
Mr G said it was nine months after T tried to hand over the property that it resolved the gas
pressure, and certification took longer holding up the sale. He said the investigator had
ignored health and safety issues such as scaffolding blocking escape routes: the damaged
the back door lock making it very difficult to open, and smoke detectors not replaced. He
said this was compounded by the lack of heating and hot water, and workmen on site daily
into summer 2020, and no one checking standards or safety aspects of the work.
Mr G said they couldnt risk returning home in its state and asked how an insurer could be
allowed to handover a property by email without a visit or discussion. He asked how much of
the investigators compensation concerned replacement of the kitchen floor. He described
the work involved and said Ts cleaners concluded it wasnt recoverable. He said most of the
work recommended by the surveyor would cost more than the £850 compensation. Mr G
said Ts failure to complete the rebuild in January 2020 left them with hard options, includinga potentially indefinite wait while continuing to pay running costs, or Mr G paying for the
work. Mr G said they chose to sell their home at a much reduced price, but the investigator
had penalised them for this even though T had failed to address the issues.
Mr G said he made many compromises on minor issues but wasnt informed on major issues 
and T always chose the cheapest option. He said the investigator was wrong the gas service 
and safety issues were resolved before March 2020 and this affected what T owes him.
What I provisionally decided  and the parties responses
Mr G said his primary reason for complaining is to ensure that AA doesnt treat policyholders 
so badly in future. He asked about monitoring Financial Conduct Authority (FCA) regulations 
and I said these are the FCAs responsibility as regulator of financial businesses and only 
the FCA can punish businesses. Our role is to assess the merits of a complaint. We 
exchange information with the FCA and its open to consumers to bring concerns about 
regulatory matters, but not complaints to the FCA. 
Mr G doubted we had been provided with the full files. We require businesses to send us all 
relevant information to a complaint and we ask consumers to do likewise. 
Claim handling
I was sorry to see how this difficult claim took up so much of Mr Gs time and increased the 
stress he and his wife suffered from the fire. The claim involved multiple parties and required 
him to spend a great deal of time dealing with the issues. The effect of the covid pandemic 
and the restrictions also slowed down the repair work, property inspections and restricted the 
availability of materials. There were huge problems with the claim but some of these were 
unavoidable. Mr G was unwilling to return home under these and other conditions. 
I said my role is to determine if AA and its agents caused avoidable delays and stress. Mr G 
actively pursued his claim and raised detailed questions. He expressed concerns from the 
start and said he didnt receive a full scope of work. The scope of works dated 31 July 2019 
estimated completion at the end of 2019. I thought this was just an unrealistic estimate, but it 
was reasonable for the claim to have been finalised by August 2021 when he sold his home.
T said the scope of works would develop as the claim progressed, and I think this was 
reasonable. The scope was subsequently revised, including in January 2020. 
I didnt know how long the repairs should have taken and so I had to rely on the expert 
information available to see if AA acted reasonably. I found many instances during the 
course of the claim where Mr G had to repeat questions about the work and reports due to a 
lack of response, which caused him unnecessary frustration. 
T provided its key matters to be addressed list in early July 2020 showing completion of 
tasks by 31 July. This bold commitment was way off target and Mr G emailed many times 
about the outstanding work. T apologised for delays but also told us, the works were 
completed within a justifiable and practical timeframe. Its clear that delays with the 
snagging works were only part of the problem. Delays arose earlier from poor work, 
particularly to the structure of the damaged wall and to the guttering, and other repairs.
Communications between the parties became increasingly strained as progress slowed in
2020, with disagreements about the work. Mr G sent a list of outstanding issues but said 
they were largely incomplete by the start of 2021, and he brought his complaint to us and put 
his house up for sale. T appointed an independent surveyor in May 2021, which I thought 
was a reasonable approach to resolving disagreements. The report showed that the works 
carried out at that point werent to an acceptable standard and a snagging list remained.Mr G said T didnt respond to the surveyors findings. It took T a month to send the report but 
then tried to arrange a meeting with Mr G, but he preferred a written response. T sent this on 
30 July, saying what it would and wouldnt cover quite clearly, but not addressing utility and 
accommodation costs. Mr G responded on 3 August with his concerns. AA said the repairs 
werent agreed and no timing was set. Given he was due to complete the sale of his home 
very soon, I wasnt sure repairs were still important to him, other than for reimbursement of 
losses. I didnt think AA was responsible for delays between June and August 2021. 
I said Ts surveyor was involved in Mr Gs claim and I thought there was more assurance of 
the works than he was aware. But it wasnt clear to me if Ts surveyor attended and checked 
the work as promised in August 2020.
In response to Mr Gs comment that after the upstairs ceiling heights were found to be 
incorrect other work was sacrificed, I said its normal practice for insurers to obtain repairs at 
the lowest available cost, but I hadnt found that the costs of Mr Gs claim were reduced in 
the light of errors, and this is borne out by the costs of the claim.
I found that T hadnt given Mr G accurate information about the remedial work to his kitchen 
floor. Much time was lost awaiting Ts final offer to meet half the costs, which acknowledged 
pre-existing damage, and I hadnt seen any evidence to contradict this.
Mr G said he was lied to by T about the major works at his home. I thought problems came 
from poor planning and poor briefing of contractors and lack of overall management of the 
claim. I said the work should have been progressed with more speed and its dragging on 
has caused Mr G unnecessary inconvenience and frustration.
I thought compensation of £1,500 reflected the substantial distress and inconvenience Mr G 
was caused by AA and its agents throughout the claim. This supersedes the £850 
recommended by the investigator. Mr G said no amount of compensation would recompense 
them for the three years of misery AA and T had put them through. But he and AA agreed to 
the compensation of £1,500. 
The repairs
I said it took T seven months to appoint a structural engineer to report on Mr Gs wall and the 
repairs werent initially carried out properly. The independent surveyor said, the standard 
and finish throughout is not to an acceptable standard and there are elements that remain 
incomplete. He didnt say the house was uninhabitable or that there were health and safety 
issues, but he set out the issues to be resolved in order to conclude the claim.
Mr G said he was surprised I accepted Ts excuse for not providing a full scope of works with 
costings. He recognised that this was a complex rebuild and that new issues would come to 
light, but thought it can hardly be unique in that respect. He was surprised I hadnt properly 
considered the damage to his side wall and the impact of this on his claim. 
I said some of Mr Gs issues arent relevant any longer as he has sold his home, though hes 
still angry about them, e.g., the delayed appointment of a structural engineer, the problem 
with the ceiling heights and certificates for electrical, gas, plumbing and appliances and 
guttering leaks. I included consideration of these issues within my assessment of the 
distress and inconvenience he suffered and the compensation that reflects this. 
Alternative accommodation
In March 2020 T said that Mr G could return home and it stopped paying his alternative
accommodation. Mr G refused to return saying his home was still a building site and 
uninhabitable and mentioned the covid restrictions. He said handover was attempted by email without any of the work having been checked as promised by T. Mr G said his home 
wasnt habitable until the end of 2020 when a safe gas supply was reconnected
I said Mr Gs policy states AA will only repay, the costs we have agreed in advance for your
alternative accommodation. And that AA is liable to pay for alternative accommodation while 
the property cannot be lived in. This isnt defined, and we would consider a property 
uninhabitable if theres no kitchen, bathroom, or toilet facilities, or if its unsafe to be lived in.
I pointed out that living in a property with snagging issues and poor repairs is very different 
from being in an uninhabitable property. Mr G said the gas and central heating were faulty 
until December 2020 and there were other problems. I thought the gas supply could have 
been resolved at any time Mr G was in occupation. There were emergency exits
available though some were blocked, and battery smoke alarms could be obtained.
Mr G stayed away until he sold his house. I thought this was justifiable in March, but that his 
home was habitable from July 2020. Workmen were no longer required on site every day, 
and appliances were tested, and other electrical and carpentry work had been progressed. 
Mr G said the July meeting wasnt described as a handover meeting, but I saw Ts email
to him on 17 June 2020 which starts, In respect of the handover of your property and then
makes arrangements for the meeting.
I noted that T requested sight of Mr Gs costs in October 2020, but gave no response to Mr 
Gs provision of these in May 2021. I realise there was no agreement for additional costs, but 
I thought the fair outcome would be for AA to pay for Mr Gs alternative accommodation up 
to and including all of July 2020, within the policy limit and including interest.
Mr G agreed my recommended redress. T thought habitable should be defined according to 
the policyholders circumstances, such as if they have a young family or a vulnerable family 
member. T said in February 2020 it had tested the appliances and carried out a gas safety 
check to the boiler, so there were cooking facilities, hot water and central heating. And only 
some external works were outstanding, which would not have prevented a return home.
T said the independent surveyors report outlined a number of snagging issues but didnt 
outline any essential facilities that werent working that would have prevented Mr Gs return.
Utility costs
I thought T had been unreasonable about the energy costs as Mr Gs stayed away and so 
the bills were entirely due to the workmen and should be met as the costs of the claim until 
he sold his home. AA confirmed that it didnt pay Mr G any disturbance allowance while he 
and his wife were out of their home as it said there was no provision for this in his policy.
As to council tax I thought this, and any other ongoing house costs previously accepted by 
AA should be paid up to the end of July 2020 when I thought Mr G could have returned 
home. I asked Mr G to say if his local authority had relieved him of council tax. 
Mr G explained that his local authority wouldnt relieve him of council tax while his home was 
unoccupied. He attached an email of 28 August 2020 from T including a promise to pay 
utility bills together with a statement that handover still needs to be agreed.
T said AA paid £2,700 per month rent, £286 council tax and £112 utilities at Mr Gs rental 
property (totalling £1,630 for utilities) and wouldnt also cover these costs for Mr Gs home. T 
said Mr G would have to pay either for the rental or the insured property utility costs.
Sale price of Mr Gs home
Mr Gs policy states that it doesnt cover him for, Any fall in market value as a result ofrepairs or reinstatement. I looked at whether this gave Mr G a fair outcome. I thought the 
policy exclusion for claims of loss of value wouldnt be fair if repairs hadnt been carried out, 
but AA has overseen a great deal of expensive work.
Mr G said only one of the surveyors 28 recommendations was carried out when he sold his
home, leaving him to choose between uncertain delay or paying for repairs himself. And he 
said he sold his home at a loss of more than £100,000. Mr G accepts there are many factors 
in the value of a sale, but said he should be compensated for the cost of the outstanding 
repairs. I concluded I couldnt fairly say that a loss of value was a direct result of the repairs.
I wasnt sure Mr G had any intention of returning before he sold his home, but I understood 
how the claim would have encouraged him to move. Mr G said he sold his home without 
floor and window coverings and unfurnished. I appreciated this would affect the value, but 
said Mr G had a separate claim with his contents insurer and may have received payment 
for these. In any event, having considered the outstanding tasks when Mr G put his house 
up for sale, I thought he could have safely put in floor and window coverings. I asked Mr G if 
he had passed the surveyors report and Ts commitments about repairs to his purchaser. 
Mr G said any suggestion AAs requirement to rectify issues identified by the independent 
surveyor may have continued after he sold his home was ridiculous. He said AA should pay 
a fair estimate of the costs to complete the work as recompense for the loss of value. He 
realised that any assessment of the costs would be subjective, but it should be clear to any 
fair-minded person that a long list of significant issues would impact the value of his home.
In respect of the kitchen floor Mr G said this significantly impacted on the sale value of his
home. AA said it hasnt paid its half share as Mr G hasnt agreed the offer. I thought AA 
should send an estimate for the kitchen floor replacement and pay half of this to Mr G. T 
agreed, but Mr G didnt agree or accept that AA wouldnt have to meet the cost of the 
remaining items from the independent surveyor's report. 
Mr G said the kitchen floor was installed by the previous owner before 2008 and protective 
action prevented marking before the fire. He said T never mentioned pre-existing damage 
affecting what it would pay, and hadnt provided the reports on the floor. He said any 
scratching would have been caused either by falling debris or by careless workmen on site. 
Mr G asked why he was being challenged on the kitchen floor and provided photos after the 
fire. He asked about evidence of pre-existing damage and said this was a lie made up by T 
after the specialist company inspected the floor and advised that it would not clean up.
Conclusion
I said AA should have ensured Mr G received prompt and effective customer service, 
whereas he received very poor service due to a lack of effective oversight and momentum 
behind his claim. This caused him unwarranted stress and anxiety.
I provisionally decided that AA should pay Mr G £1,500 for distress and inconvenience, less 
any payment it has already made. And reimburse his costs of alternative accommodation 
from 31 March 2020, to 31 July 2020 as well as council tax and other costs accepted for the 
previous period. And pay his utility gas costs for the duration of the claim up to 26 August 
2021, less any amount already paid. 
I thought Mr Gs request for a statement from AA that it did not consider that he was 
responsible in any way for the fire is reasonable, and this should be provided on letter 
headed notepaper.What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Claim handling
I remain of the view that the claim was heavily delayed and characterised by poor or often no 
communication from T. The evidence shows that AA and its agents provided very poor 
service to Mr G due to a lack of effective oversight and momentum behind his claim. I agree 
with Mr Gs own conclusion that AA failed to adequately monitor the way T handled the claim 
and T in turn failed to adequately monitor and supervise the work of their contractor. 
Im pleased AA has agreed to the compensation of £1,500 compensation that I put forward 
to reflect the unwarranted stress and anxiety Mr G was caused. I appreciate Mr Gs 
comment theres no amount of compensation for the stress and misery he and his wife were 
put through. He said the trauma of the fire and all that they lost was nothing compared to 
that of dealing with his insurers, but said he would accept this award.
The repairs
I think the provisional findings I set out above about the repairs remain relevant. Mr G also 
pointed out that T and their contractor refused to come back to the property and rectify the 
leaking roof even though this was identified by the independent surveyor. I think this was 
poor service and I included this within my consideration of the compensation.
I disagree with Mr G that I havent properly assessed the point hes made about the 
significant damage to his side wall. I said it took T seven months to appoint a structural 
engineer to examine and report on the wall and the repairs werent initially carried out to an 
acceptable standard. This was far too long, and I have included these failures in the claim in 
my assessment of the compensation payable to Mr G for his distress and inconvenience.
Mr G said he was surprised I accepted Ts excuse for not providing a full scope of works with 
costings. I think that T provided a reasonable schedule with as much information as was 
available. Insurance companies dont generally provide costings as this is commercially 
sensitive information. 
Alternative accommodation
Mr G agreed my recommended redress for his accommodation costs, but T did not.
I note Ts comments about the state of Mr Gs home at the point it felt he could return. I note 
repairs were carried out at the start of 2020, but I have a different view as to what was 
habitable concerning the outstanding repairs and the daily disruption to Mr Gs family life. I 
havent seen evidence to contradict my suggestion that the point of habitability (undefined in 
the policy) was arrived at from the end of July 2020. I know that this was also affected by the 
covid restrictions and Mr Gs unwillingness to return, but he was promised that a surveyor 
would approve the repairs and a plan for the remaining work would be set out. 
Having considered Ts comments about habitability I remain of the view that a fair 
assessment of the state of Mr Gs home means it was reasonable for him to return at the 
end of July 2020 following the handover meeting. This means AA should pay Mr Gs 
accommodation costs to the end of July 2020.
Utility costs
Mr G agreed my recommended redress for his utility costs, but T did not. Mr G said T had 
covered the council tax while the house was uninhabitable within the agreed accommodation 
allowance of £3,100 per month.T said its unreasonable to pay all of this up to when Mr G sold his home in August 2021. I 
agree, and in my provisional decision I said, I think the fair outcome is for AA to pay for Mr 
Gs alternative accommodation up to and including all of July 2020. It was only the utility 
costs which I said should be paid until Mr G sold his home as he never returned and so all 
costs must be to do with AAs agents work at the property. 
I remain of the view that it is reasonable for AA to repay Mr G for the council tax until 31 July 
2020 and utility costs until Mr G sold his home in August 2021.
Sale value of Mr Gs home
Mr G wants an estimate of costs to finish the work from the independent surveyors report as 
recompense for loss of his homes value saying the impact would be clear to anyone. I agree 
in part, but note that most of the significant repairs had been concluded. Mr G spent a lot of 
money on alternative accommodation etc, without much sign of reimbursement, and chose 
not to return home when the house became habitable. I asked if he felt compelled to move to 
a new house before the delayed repairs were completed, but he didnt respond on this.
I asked Mr G to explain the date at which the work on the floorboards etc was completed as 
he said this affected the sale value. In his email of 24 June 2021 to T he said, Between 
March and late December 2020, there were problems with the electricity and cabling that 
required floorboards to be lifted, the heating wouldnt work, painters and decorators were 
working inside and outside including on the windows which meant we could not lay carpets 
or fit blinds. But lately he said this work hadnt been completed in March 2021 when he put 
the house up for sale. I also said to Mr G that it would help to see the communication he sent 
his purchaser about these issues. Mr G hasnt responded on these points.
I havent seen anything to show that Mr G had to sell his home when he did and as I said in 
my provisional decision, I think he could have restored his home further before sale. I remain 
of the view that the exclusion in Mr Gs policy for claims of loss of value would be unfair if 
repairs hadnt been carried out, but AA has paid for a great deal of expensive work. 
Furthermore I cant fairly say that a loss of value was a direct result of the outstanding 
repairs. As a consequence, I think it is reasonable for AA to rely on the exclusion clause and 
not make a payment towards any loss in sale value of Mr Gs home. 
Mr G said AA should meet the full cost of replacing the kitchen floor. He said it was installed 
by the previous owner before 2008, but had been protected since then. And T never said 
there was pre-existing damage that would affect the amount it would pay to replace it. Mr G 
provided photos of the kitchen floor after the fire and said they dont have any before the fire. 
He asked why he was being challenged on the kitchen floor and what photos T has that 
there was damage before the fire. I asked Mr G for more information about the kitchen floor 
because he challenged my recommendation of a 50% payment of repair costs by AA. 
The independent surveyor didnt report definitively about the state of the kitchen floor and Ts 
cleaners thought there was pre-existing damage. I accept the floor would have been 
damaged by the water and collapse of the ceiling and that Mr G cant evidence the condition 
pre-loss. However, the policy entitles AA to reduce payment of damaged items according to 
wear and tear as well as pre-existing damage and that is likely to apply to a floor of the age 
of Mr Gs despite the protection he has described. 
Having reconsidered the available information I remain of the view that a 50% payment from 
AA represents a fair and reasonable resolution. I will expect T to provide a Schedule of Work 
costed to normal rates so that its contribution can be calculated fairly.Putting things right
I remain of the view that AA should have ensured Mr G received prompt and effective 
customer service, whereas he received very poor service due to a lack of effective oversight 
and momentum behind his claim. This caused him unwarranted stress and anxiety and AA 
should pay the compensation outlined in this decision.
I think its reasonable for AA to write to Mr G to say it does not consider he was responsible 
in any way for the fire at his home. This should be provided on letter headed notepaper.
My final decision
For the reasons I have given here and in my provisional decision it is my final decision that 
the complaint is upheld. I require AA Underwriting Insurance Company Limited to pay Mr G:
£1,500 compensation for the distress and inconvenience it has caused him, less any 
payment of compensation already made:
reimbursement of costs of alternative accommodation, including council tax bills from 
1 April 2020 up to 31 July 2020:
reimbursement of his utility bills up to 26 August 2021 on production of evidence of 
amount and payment:
half of the cost of the reasonable estimate of the repair of the kitchen floor to its 
previous standard.
AA Underwriting Insurance Company Limited should add interest* at 8% simple to the 
reimbursement payments to Mr G for the costs he has already incurred for alternative 
accommodation, from the 31 July 2020 to the date it makes payment. And it should add 8% 
interest to the reimbursement of his utilities costs from the date he has paid them until the 
date it makes the payment. Mr G should provide any evidence to the insurer for this purpose.
AA Underwriting Insurance Company Limited must pay these amounts within 30 days of the 
date of Mr Gs acceptance of this decision (if he decides to accept it), or it must add interest 
at 8% to the amount of each payment for each day beyond this. AA must also provide Mr G 
with a letter about the cause of his claim as described above. 
*If AA considers that its required by HM Revenue & Customs to deduct income tax from that 
interest, it should tell Mr G how much its taken off. It should also give Mr G a tax deduction 
certificate if he asks for one, so he can reclaim the tax from HMRC if appropriate.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision before 31 October 2022.
 
Andrew Fraser
Ombudsman