DRN-1079340
 
The complaint
Miss D complains that PDL Finance Limited (trading as Mr Lender) irresponsibly lent to her.
Background
Miss D was given five loans by Mr Lender between February 2015 and May 2016. A 
summary of her borrowing is as follows:
Loan Date Taken Date 
RepaidInstalments Amount Max 
Repayment
1 07/02/2015 31/03/2015 2 £250.00 £165.00
2 31/03/2015 30/06/2015 3 £280.00 £162.77
3 30/06/2015 28/11/2015 5 £340.00 £152.32
4 28/11/2015 30/05/2016 6 £610.00 £262.70
5 30/05/2016 30/11/2016 6 £710.00 £294.41
 
Miss Ds complaint has been looked at by one of our adjudicators. They didnt think              
Mr Lender had been wrong to give loans 1 to 3 to Miss D. But they did think Mr Lender 
shouldnt have agreed to lend loans 4 and 5 because her borrowing behaviour indicated she 
was struggling financially.  
Mr Lender disagreed and said it had asked Miss D a series of questions before lending her 
loan 4 so it feels its checks were proportionate. 
As Mr Lender didnt agree with the adjudicators view, it asked for an ombudsmans decision. 
So, the complaint it was passed to me. 
My findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Weve set out our general approach to 
complaints about short-term lending - including all the relevant rules, guidance and good 
industry practice - on our website. 
Mr Lender needed to take reasonable steps to ensure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In 
practice this means that it should have carried out proportionate checks to make sure that 
Miss D could repay the loans in a sustainable manner. These checks could consider several different things, such as how much was being lent, the repayment amounts and the 
consumers income and expenditure. In the early stages of a lending relationship, I think less 
thorough checks might be reasonable and proportionate.  
But certain factors might point to the fact that Mr Lender should fairly and reasonably have 
done more to establish that any lending was sustainable for a consumer. These factors 
include:
the lower a customers income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make any 
loan repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income);
the higher the amount due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income); 
the greater the number and frequency of loans, and the longer the period of time 
during which a customer has been given loans (reflecting the risk that repeated 
refinancing may signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, 
unsustainable).
 
There may even come a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly 
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable.
I think that it is important for me to start by saying that Mr Lender was required to establish 
whether Miss D could sustainably repay her loans  not just whether the loan payments 
were affordable on a strict pounds and pence calculation. 
Of course, the loan payments being affordable on this basis might be an indication a 
consumer could sustainably make their repayments. But it doesnt automatically follow this is 
the case. This is because the relevant regulations define sustainable as being without undue 
difficulties and the customer should be able to make repayments on time, while meeting 
other reasonable commitments; as well as without having to borrow to meet the repayments. 
And it follows that a lender should realise, or it ought fairly and reasonably to realise, that a 
borrower wont be able to make their repayments sustainably if theyre unlikely to be able to 
make their repayments without borrowing further. 
Our adjudicator didnt uphold Miss Ds complaint about loan 1 to 3. Miss D didnt respond to 
the opinion about these loans. As there appears to be no dispute about these loans, I wont 
be making any further findings on them. But Ive kept them in mind when thinking about the 
overall borrowing relationship between Miss D and Mr Lender. 
Having carefully considered all the arguments, evidence and information provided in this 
context and what this all means for Miss Ds complaint, Im partly upholding the complaint. Ill 
explain why. 
Mr Lender says it carried out more enhanced checks before it lent loan 4 to Miss D and the 
results of these checks didnt raise any concerns. But as this loan was taken out on the 
same day as Miss D repaid loan 3 and was for a larger amount which was being repaid over 
a longer period, I think Mr Lender should have been looking to build a clearer picture about 
Miss Ds finances before lending to her again. 
Had Mr Lender carried out proportionate checks before lending loan 4  such as verifying 
what she had told it when it had asked her further questions - its likely to have found that 
Miss D was spending a significant proportion of her income on on-line gambling websites 
and was clearly having problems because of that.  In addition, its likely these further checks would have shown Miss D was borrowing from 
other short-term lenders and these were increasing her monthly outgoings. This extra 
borrowing, alongside her use of on-line gambling and the fact she was borrowing a larger 
amount each time she repaid her previous loans ought to have been an indication that    
Miss D was in a cycle of debt.
So, Im upholding Miss Ds complaint about loans 4 and 5. 
Putting things right  what Mr Lender needs to do
refund all interest and charges Miss D paid on loans 4 and 5;
pay interest of 8% simple a year on any refunded interest and charges from the date 
they were paid (if they were) to the date of settlement;
remove any negative information about loans 4 and 5 from Miss Ds credit file;
 
 HM Revenue & Customs requires Mr Lender to take off tax from this interest. Mr Lender 
must give Miss D a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if she asks for one.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, Im partially upholding Miss Ds complaint. PDL Finance 
Limited should put things right as set out above. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss D to accept 
or reject my decision before 11 June 2020.
Claire Marchant-Williams
Ombudsman