DRN-3288565
The complaint
Mr M complains that AFH Independent Financial Services Limited (AFH) mis-sold a home 
emergency policy and that an exclusion clause, wasnt made clear. 
What happened
Mr M bought his home insurance in February 2021. The policy had an add-on home 
emergency cover which Mr M took out at the same time. Mr M bought the policy via an 
agent, who AFH confirmed was its representative. Just over a week after the policy 
inception, Mr Ms boiler broke down. He contacted AFH and made a claim. It told him that his 
boiler wasnt covered as it didnt fall under the heating systems that were listed in the policys 
terms and conditions. So, it declined his claim. 
Mr M raised a complaint, as he said that he was not told that his heating system wouldnt be 
covered, and he felt that the policy had been mis-sold to him. AFH, in its final response, said 
that Mr M wouldve been given 30 days to consider whether the policy was suitable for his 
needs. It also relied upon the exclusion term in the policy and the claim remained declined. 
Mr M referred his complaint to this service. One of our investigators considered the 
complaint and thought it should be upheld. She confirmed that the policy sold to Mr M was 
an advised policy. She said that Mr M had been mis-sold the policy as the agent who sold it 
to him didnt point out that his boiler would not be covered. And the fact that it wasnt 
covered was a significant policy exclusion which shouldve been highlighted to him. She 
recommended that AFH refund the cost of the boiler repairs plus simple interest.
Mr M accepted the view, AFH initially accepted the view. But later did not. It said that Mr M 
wouldve received post-sale documents and the agent wouldve instructed him to check 
those documents to see if there were any issues of concern. It felt that Mr M overlooked 
doing this. Also, it said it was unfair to recommend that it pay the entire repair bill as the 
policy only allowed for a temporary repair and the redress that was recommended would be 
considered betterment. So, it asked for a decision from an ombudsman. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I will be upholding this complaint and I hope my findings go some way in 
explaining why Ive reached this decision.
I have reviewed the policy documents however Im unable to review any sales calls, as I 
understand that Mr Ms sale of the policy, was conducted over a video conferencing call, 
which wasnt recorded. 
AFH accepted that the sale of the policy was an advised sale. That is, that AFH were 
recommending (or advising) that Mr M buy a particular policy. But with this recommendation, 
it is imperative that if the policy contained any unusual, onerous, or restrictive terms, this 
needed to be clearly highlighted.  There would also be an additional duty on AFH, to ensure 
that the policy it recommended was suitable for Mr Ms needs. In other words, AFH would 
need to ask enough questions to assess Mr Ms needs. 
In the absence of the sale call, AFH provided me with a questionnaire of what questions 
ought to have been covered by the agent during the sale. However, it hasnt provided me 
with what Mr M responses were and if there was any other information gleaned by the agent 
during the conference call. 
What is of note is that the questionnaire provided indicates that the agent ought to have 
explained the benefits and features of the policy, as well as any exclusions or unusual 
conditions.  But, given that the policy indicated that the primary heating system was covered, 
I think it would have been reasonable for the agent to have asked further questions of Mr M  
and if he had done so, I think Mr M would have provided further information about his boiler. 
In addition, the evidence I have seen, shows that the agent, confirmed that he did not ask 
any specific questions regarding Mr Ms primary heating source, in fact he said: At the point 
of sale, I had assumed that 'Primary Heating System' was covered. 
Mr M said that during the sales conference call, he told the agent about the heating system 
he had. AFH has provided no evidence that refutes this. So, Ive no reason to doubt what he 
said. And given that the statement of insurance referred to the primary heating system being 
covered, I can see how Mr M and indeed the agent believed that his heating system would 
be covered. 
Generally, the policy exclusions would be included in the insurance product information 
document or the statement of insurance. But, despite mentioning the complete failure or 
breakdown to the main heating policy as being covered, there is no mention of Mr Ms 
heating system being excluded. The exclusion is only mentioned on page 49 of the 64-page 
policy wording document, where the definition of main heating source is provided, and I cant 
see that the exclusion term was highlighted anywhere else in the policy. 
.
AFH in its final response,  accepted that the wording of the term was ambiguous  and still 
didnt specifically state whether Mr Ms heating system was covered or not: The main gas, 
electric or oil fuelled hot water or central heating system in Your Home. This does not 
include: any form of non-domestic heating, warm air systems or any form of geothermal or 
solar power.
I understand that AFH has said that Mr M wouldve been able to read the documents as the 
agent took him through the quote and that he wouldve received the post-sale documentation 
and be warned to check those documents. But this doesnt prevent AFH making it clear to 
Mr M that there were restrictions on the cover  which it couldve done by asking more 
questions to find out Mr Ms needs. 
Im satisfied that AFH didnt give enough clear, fair, and not misleading information to Mr M 
so that he could make an informed choice. And post-sale documents arent enough to put 
right failures in the sales process. Also, given that AFH has accepted that the exclusion 
clause itself was ambiguous and its representative thought it was covered, I dont think its 
fair that Mr M wouldve reasonably known that his boiler wasnt covered. AFH said that the recommendation by our investigator to refund the costs incurred by Mr M 
in repairing his boiler is unreasonable.  As the award would be significantly higher than the 
policy limit and would mean betterment. I have carefully considered what this means.  Given 
that Mr M specifically told the agent about his heating system, it seems it was important to 
him. And as he was reassured that his system would be covered, it looks like the 
misinformation he was given, led him to take out the policy when he may not otherwise have 
done. So, Im satisfied that AFH didnt give enough clear, fair and not misleading information 
for Mr M to make an informed choice. Further, Mr M has confirmed that he would not have 
taken the policy had this exclusion clause been highlighted to him. 
Putting things right
Given the circumstances, I think its fair that AFH Independent Financial Services Limited put 
matters right, as I direct below. 
My final decision
For the reasons given, I uphold Mr Ms complaint. 
To put matters right, AFH Independent Financial Services Limited to:
Refund the cost of the new heating system, on presentation of an invoice from Mr M.
AFH Independent Financial Services Limited must pay the amount within 28 days of the date 
on which we tell it Mr M accepts my final decision. If it pays later than this, it must also pay 
interest on the amount from the date of my final decision to the date of payment at 8% a year 
simple.
If AFH Independent Financial Services Limited considers that its required by HM Revenue & 
Customs to deduct income tax from that interest, it should tell Mr M how much its taken off. 
It should also give Mr M a certificate showing this if he asks for one, so he can reclaim the 
tax from HM Revenue & Customs if appropriate.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 1 March 2022.
 
Ayisha Savage
Ombudsman