DRN-3869864
The complaint
Miss R is a director of a limited company D. She complains on Ds behalf that Advanced
Payment Solutions Limited trading as Cashplus (Cashplus) didnt do enough to prevent the
loss D suffered when it was the victim of a safe account scam.
The complaint has been brought to our service with the help of a representative. But for ease
of reading, Ill mostly just refer to Miss R, where I mean her company D, and Ill ascribe the
representatives comments to Miss R herself.
What happened
The detailed background to this complaint is well known to both parties. So, Ill only provide
a brief overview of some of the key events here. In April 2022 Miss R was sadly the victim of
a safe account scam. She was contacted by scammers who were impersonating her own
bank T. The number they called from appeared to be the same as the genuine number for T 
which added to the credibility of what the scammer said. Ultimately, Miss R was tricked into 
making two payments from Ds account with T to the account details provided by the 
scammer (which was an account held with Cashplus).
The payments were for £4,583.75 and £3,851.25, these both arrived in the Cashplus
account at 1.31pm on 14 April 2022. Later the same day Miss R realised shed been the
victim of a scam and reported this to T. T in turn passed this on to Cashplus who said that by
the time theyd been notified, no funds remained to be returned.
Miss R complained to both T and Cashplus and ultimately both complaints were considered
by our service. One of my Ombudsman colleagues has already issued a final decision which
didnt uphold the complaint about T. The complaint about Cashplus alleged that theyd failed
when opening an account for a scammer and that theyd also failed to appropriately monitor
the account. One of our Investigators considered this complaint and recommended it should
be upheld. Whilst she didnt think Cashplus failed at account opening, she thought £5,685 of
the loss was preventable. So, she asked Cashplus to refund this amount along with 8%
simple interest.
Miss R accepted this outcome but Cashplus didnt. They asked for an Ombudsman to review
the complaint. In October 2023 I issued a provisional decision in which I said:
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im intending to reach a slightly different outcome compared to that of our Investigator. And
as Im also providing a greater level of detail, Im issuing this provisional decision to give
everyone a further opportunity to comment before finalising my decision.
Firstly, I agree with our Investigator that I dont think there were failures by Cashplus when
opening the account. They couldnt reasonably have known, at that point, that the account
would later go on to be used in connection with a fraud or scam. So I dont think Miss Rs
loss was preventable in this way.
Cashplus first obligation is to follow the instructions that their customers provide and to
promptly execute payments. However, they are also obliged to be alert to potential fraud,
scams and the misappropriation of funds.
When Miss Rs money arrived in the Cashplus account, it started to be spent immediately.
The payments entered and left the account in the following way.
Time and Date Amount Notes
1.31pm 14 April 2022 £4,583.75 Incoming Payment from 
Miss R
1.31pm 14 April 2022 £3,851.25 Incoming Payment from 
Miss R
1.32pm 14 April 2022 - £1,500 Outgoing payment to 
existing payee A.
1.32pm 14 April 2022 - £1,250 Outgoing payment to 
existing payee A.
1.32pm 14 April 2022 - £1,845 Outgoing payment to 
existing payee A.
1.32pm 14 April 2022 - £2,100 Outgoing payment to 
existing payee A.
1.32pm 14 April 2022 - £1,349 Outgoing payment to 
existing payee A.
1.34pm 14 April 2022 - £390 Outgoing payment to 
existing payee A.
7.39pm 14 April 2022 - £4 Outgoing payment to 
existing payee B.
Cashplus should be monitoring their accounts. And I think the above activity would have
appeared suspicious at the time. And whilst the value of the payments wasnt excessively
high, it is the frequency and velocity of the payments leaving the account that ought to have
been a red flag. That being many payments (the majority to the same payee) being made
only seconds apart.
By the time Cashplus customer instructed the payment for £2,100 at 1.32pm, I think
Cashplus should have intervened in the account. Id have expected the £2,100 to have been
stopped and the account blocked. Id then have expected Cashplus to have looked closely at
the account and to have satisfied themselves that all was correct before allowing further
payments to have been made. Upon a closer look, Cashplus most likely would have seen
that their accountholder may not have been the intended beneficiary for Miss Rs incoming
payments. I say this as the nature of the scam and the information Ive seen from Miss Rs
own bank indicates that she had put her own name down as the intended beneficiary. This
would have added to the picture that the account might be being misused.
And ultimately, I dont think its likely the recipient accountholder would have been able to
provide a satisfactory explanation before Cashplus were informed of the problem with the
payments from Miss R (later the same day). Had this played out as I think it should, then
£3,840 (£4,583.75 + £3,851.25 - £1,500 - £1,250 - £1,845) of Miss Rs money would have
remained in the account available for recovery. So, I think it would be fair and reasonable for
Cashplus to pay this amount to Miss R.
I appreciate this is less than what our Investigator recommended. But given there wereprevious payments between the Cashplus accountholder and the recipient of the outgoing
payments, and the sums involved, Im not persuaded its reasonable to have expected
Cashplus to have intervened earlier than at the point Ive set out above.
I also think that Cashplus should add 8% simple interest to this amount to be calculated
between the date of loss and the date of settlement. This is to compensate D for being
without that money that otherwise could have been put to use during that time period.
For completeness, I dont think there were any failures by Cashplus in relation to their
recovery efforts. The above table makes clear that by the time they were on notice, the vast
majority of the funds had already been moved on from the account. Ive also considered
whether Miss R ought to bear some responsibility for her own loss due to contributory
negligence. But in the circumstances of this complaint, I dont think she should. All the
evidence suggests that she was taken in by a convincing scam and put under time pressure
to make the payments, believing at the time she was speaking to someone from her own
bank. The fact that the scam was discovered soon after, doesnt change my mind on this
point.
My provisional decision
For the reasons outlined above, but subject to any further information I receive from either D
or Cashplus, Im intending to uphold this complaint.
I intend to direct that Advanced Payment Solutions Limited trading as Cashplus pay D
£3,840. And that they add 8% simple interest to this amount, to be calculated between the
date of loss and the date of settlement.
Miss R (on behalf of D) responded to say she accepted my provisional decision. Cashplus 
didnt respond.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As neither party had any further evidence or comments for my consideration, I see no 
reason to deviate from the outcome explained in my provisional decision. 
My final decision
For the reasons outlined above, my final decision is that I uphold this complaint and direct 
Advanced Payment Solutions Limited trading as Cashplus to pay D £3,840. 8% simple 
interest (yearly) must be added to this amount to be calculated between the date of loss and 
the date of settlement. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask D to accept or 
reject my decision before 14 November 2023.
 
Richard Annandale
Ombudsman