DRN-1967501
The complaint
Mr C is unhappy with charges hes been asked to pay after his motor insurance policy was
cancelled by IGO4 Limited (IGO4). Hes also unhappy with the customer service received
and the impact of the cancellation on his income.
What happened
Mr C obtained a quote for a motor insurance policy through an online price comparison
website.
During a phone call with IGO4 on 23 August 2019, he then took out the policy to start on 24
August 2019. In this call, the adviser tells Mr C that a telematics box needs to be installed 
as a standard part of this policy. Mr C queries this during the call and the adviser tells him 
that the policy may not be suitable for him if he doesnt want a box installed. Even so, Mr C 
went ahead and took out the policy.
Under this policy, it was a requirement to have a telematics box installed in Mr Cs vehicle
within 14 days of the policy starting. IGO4 have said several attempts were made by a third
party to contact Mr C to arrange an installation date. But Mr C says he didnt receive any of
the emails, texts or calls that were made to arrange an installation date.
During their new policy checks, IGO4 identified that Mr C had a non fault claim recorded on
his insurance record. This hadnt been declared by Mr C. As a result, his insurance 
premium increased by around £123. IGO4 contacted Mr C on 27 August 2019 to let him 
know about the increased premium.
It wasnt until he received a notice of the policy cancellation dated within 7 days (because 
the telematics box hadnt been installed or an appointment arranged for its installation) on 8
September 2019 that Mr C contacted IGO4. Mr C asked for an extension to the deadline for
installation as he was unavailable and felt that the undeclared claim shouldnt be on his
record and that he could provide evidence to show this.
IGO4 referred this to the policy underwriter who declined the extension. IGO4 told Mr C that
he could provide evidence about why the claim shouldnt be recorded theyd consider it.
At this point Mr C still hadnt had the telematics box installed. In a phone call, IGO4 offered
Mr C the option of not being present at the installation if he gave authority to somebody else, 
but Mr C was unable to do so as he had the vehicle keys with him.
Futher phone calls took place on 10,12 and 15 September 2019. During the call on 15
September, Mr C was told that the policy would be cancelled as the installation hadnt taken
place or been arranged.
The insurance policy was then cancelled on 16 September 2019. Mr C was issued a refund
based on how long he was on cover, less a number of fees including a £75 cancellation fee
and the £150 telematics fee. Mr C was unhappy with the cancellation and amount refund to
him. He complained to IGO4.IGO4 said that the policy had been cancelled in line with the policy terms. However, as a
gesture of goodwill, IGO4 offered to remove the £75 cancellation fee and based the charge
for the time on cover on the initial premium instead of the additional premium that was
charged once the non-fault claim had been noted. This meant an additional refund of
around £116 for Mr C. However, IGO4 said the £150 telematics was non-refundable.
Mr C remained unhappy and referred his complaint to our service. Our investigator found
that IGO4 were justified in cancelling the policy and any delay in the refund reaching Mr C
wasnt their fault. But she did feel it was unfair of IGO4 to charge for the telematics fee as
the box was neither installed or calibrated for Mr Cs vehicle. So she recommended that this
should be refunded to him.
IGO4 didnt accept our investigators findings, so the complaint was been referred to me for 
a decision.
In my provisional decision I set out my intended findings:
 "...Ive decided to uphold this complaint but want to explain my reasons for
doing so in more detail.
The key issues Mr C has raised fall into the following two questions which Ive addressed in
turn below.
Cancellation - has IGO4 made a fair and reasonable decision that is within the policy 
terms when it cancelled the policy?
Fees - were the deductions made by IG04 fair?
 
Cancellation
I think that IGO4 acted fairly in giving Mr C notice in an email and letter that they intended to
cancel the policy on 15 September 2019 if no appointment was made before then to install
the box.
Under the terms of this policy, IGO4 could cancel the policy if anyone covered by the policy
hadnt met the terms and conditions of the policy. In the policy terms its stated:
It is a condition of this policy that You have a a fully operational WiseDriving Device in Use
in Your Car and that it remains in Use at all times, and, in the cancellation by us section of 
the terms:
where iGO4 or their appointed installation specialist has been unable to arrange with You
to install the WiseDriving Black Box within 14 days of the policy purchase date;
As a device wasnt installed within 14 days, as set out in the policy terms and IGO4 made
reasonable efforts to try and arrange installation, gave Mr C enough notice that the policy
would be cancelled if it wasnt installed and then acted fairly by cancelling the policy.
It follows that as I dont think that IGO4 have done anything wrong or treated Mr C unfairly in 
relation to choosing to cancel the policy, I dont award any compensation for the impact 
that Mr C has said this policy cancellation has had on his work.
Mr C says he wasnt aware that he had to have a telematics box installed within 14 days 
and so he doesnt agree IG04 was allowed to cancel his policy. But I dont see things quite 
the same. On balance, I think its more likely than not that Mr C was aware that the box had to be installed within 14 days, that the policy would be cancelled if he didnt do so and he 
was also told about it in correspondence from IGO4 including emails and text messages.
I say this because Ive seen copies of some of the correspondence sent to Mr C. For
example, a welcome email sent on 23 August 2019 explained that the box had to be
installed within 14 days (by 7 September 2019). Im not ignoring the fact that Mr C says he
didnt see this email or the other emails from the insurer and third party as they went into his
junk items and he doesnt regularly check that email folder. But, if this was the case, I think
that Mr C wouldve reasonably had cause to be concerned and contact IGO4 sooner than 
he did to ensure that the policy had been set up correctly on the basis that he hadnt had 
any communication from IG04 about it.
Ive also seen evidence that a third party on behalf of IGO4 attempted to contact Mr C a
number of times, including by email and text message between him taking out the policy 
and it being cancelled.
Whilst I acknowledge that Mr C says the emails in question went into his junk items and
accept that he might not regularly check his email junk items, I find it harder to say that he
wouldnt have been aware of the text messages. The mobile number the messages were
sent to is the same number that we hold on file for Mr C.
The third party have also said there were phone calls attempted. I think its more likely than
not that the phone calls were attempted, given that it was likely beneficial for the third party
to have the box installed. I also think its more likely than not that Mr C did receive the text
messages and therefore was aware, that an appointment needed to be arranged for
installation of the telematic box.
Fees
The policy terms state:
If your insurance is cancelled for any reason you will be charged £75.00 in addition to the
charge made by your insurer for the cover you have received.
In addition, in their letter to Mr C dated 8 September 2019, IGO4 stated:
Will I be charged if you cancel my policy?
Yes, fees and charges do apply. There is a cancellation fee of £75.00. In addition, your
Insurer will make a charge for the time you have had on cover (and your telematics fee of
£150 paid when the policy was purchased will be retained).
But in this case IGO4 later, as a gesture of goodwill, decided:
Not to charge the cancellation fee.
Based the refund of the insurance premium on the cost of the policy prior to finding 
out about an undeclared claim that Mr C had made.
 
Whilst I think its likely that I wouldve said the £75 admin fee was fair, in the circumstances,
Im not going to interfere with the decision it has already made in relation to the cancellation
fee and the premium for time on cover. This leaves me the issue of deciding whether it was
fair for IG04 to charge Mr C the £150 telematics fee.Having considered everything, I dont think that IGO4 made Mr C sufficiently aware at the
point of taking out this policy that hed have to pay £150 if the telematics box wasnt 
installed within 14 days. From listening to the call when he took this policy out, towards the 
end it there was some decision about the costs involved. At around 40 minutes into this call 
Mr C asks the adviser about the charges for the telematics box in the event of cancellation.
The adviser explains (in summary) that if cancelled within one day theres no charge for Mr
C and if cancelled within 14 days there wont be charge for the box, only the standard £75
cancellation fee. It wasnt made clear to Mr C what the charges would be if the policy was
cancelled after 14 days or in the event of the box not being installed within 14 days.
Ive also gone to consider that even if he had been made aware, based on everything Ive
seen, whether the £150 fee is fair and reasonable in all the circumstances. And I dont think
it was. I say this because it wasnt installed or calibrated for Mr Cs vehicle and I havent
seen evidence that the £150 is reflective of the costs incurred by IGO4.
Our investigator asked IGO4 for more detail on what costs theyve incurred as a result of 
the box not being installed and theyve chosen not to provide this information for 
commercial sensitivity reasons. The evidence on file shows that several attempts were made 
to try and contact Mr C to arrange installation but nothing I have seen would, in my opinion, 
justify the £150 being fair or reasonable. For example, the installation didnt take place and 
therefore there were no costs involved in removing any telematics box or recalibrating it after 
removal.
So it follows that I dont think that Mr C should be charged the £150 telematics fee.
Summary
Having considered everything, I think that IGO4 acted fairly and in line with the terms and
conditions of the policy in choosing to cancel the policy.
However, I dont think that Mr C should be charged the £150 fee for the telematics box.
What IGO4 needs to do
In this particular case, IGO4 cant charge Mr C the £150 telematics fee. The refund due to
Mr C will need to be recalculated and the additional refund paid to him.
As IGO4 have already chosen, as a gesture of goodwill, not to charge the £75 admin fee 
and reduced the cost for the time on cover by using the lower premium amount, this isnt
something Ive interfered with in this decision.
In this case Im not awarding interest to Mr C as a result of the actions that IGO4 have taken
already - in making a gesture of goodwill offer to Mr C."
I gave both parties a further opportunity to respond. Neither party responded.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As neither party has provided any further information nor made any additional submissions, I 
see no reason to change my provisional findings.My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint.
I direct IGO4 to follow what I've set out above under the heading 'What IGO4 needs to do'.  
IGO4 cant charge Mr C the £150 telematics fee. The refund due to Mr C will need to be 
recalculated and the additional refund paid to him.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 28 July 2020.
Daniel O'Shea
Ombudsman