DRN-1865008
The complaint
Mr and Mrs P say Progressive Building Society mis-sold them a mortgage payment 
protection insurance (PPI) policy in 2002.
What happened
Mr and Mrs P took out a PPI policy when they applied for a mortgage with Progressive in 
2002. The PPI covered Mr P against being unable to work due to an accident, sickness or 
unemployment. From what Ive seen the policy cost £69.30 per month and the benefit was 
£1,100 per month and could have been paid for up to 12 months.
Our adjudicator didnt uphold the complaint. Mr and Mrs P disagreed with the adjudicators 
opinion, so the complaints been passed to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding this case.
The sale of the policy took place 18 years ago. And the mortgage itself was redeemed in 
2006. Progressive has no records of the sale. This isnt unusual and its understandable in 
view of the time that has gone by since the sale took place. But where there is limited 
information, I will make my decision based on whats more likely to have happened, taking 
into account the evidence available, what both parties have told me and what we know about 
these types of sale.
Ive decided not to uphold this complaint and Ill explain why.
Ive first looked at whether its likely Mr and Mrs P were given a fair choice about whether to 
buy the policy.
Mr and Mrs P have been able to show us a copy of the mortgage offer dated 11 April 2002. I 
can see the mortgage offer enclosed an application form and information about the PPI. The 
offer also states that, If you decide not to purchase the cover then please sign the attached 
form and return it together with the acceptance of the advance.
So Mr and Mrs P had not applied for PPI at the point they were sent the mortgage offer. And 
the offer makes it clear they had a choice about whether to complete an application form to 
take out the cover or decline it by signing a separate form.
So I think the PPI was likely presented as optional and Mr and Mrs P would have been 
aware they could have the mortgage without PPI.However Mr and Mrs P say they would not have taken the PPI if Progressive had not 
strongly recommended it to them, both in the mortgage offer and during a meeting at the 
Progressive branch.
Ive thought about whether Mr and Mrs P may have been put under pressure to take the 
policy. Pressure is quite subjective in that what one person perceives as pressure another 
may not. I have no doubt the Progressive representative would have told Mr and Mrs P 
about the potential benefits of the policy and the consequences of not being able to make 
the mortgage payments, but I dont think that alone would be enough for me to uphold the 
complaint.
I also note that the mortgage offer mentions that the mortgage was introduced to 
Progressive by a mortgage intermediary. So it seems that Mr and Mrs P had a meeting with 
an intermediary who may have provided them with advice. But Progressive is not 
responsible for any advice, or indeed pressure, Mr and Mrs P received from the 
intermediary.
Progressive say it didnt give Mr and Mrs P advice or a personal recommendation to buy the 
policy. The mortgage offer states that Progressive, Strongly recommends you think about 
taking out Mortgage Payment Protection Insurance. But in my view that is a generic 
recommendation to think about the protection. If Progressive had made a personal 
recommendation to buy its PPI it would have needed to first carry out a review of                
Mr and Mrs Ps circumstances and I dont think Progressive would have done this. 
Particularly as the mortgage was introduced by a third party.
But whether Progressive gave Mr and Mrs P advice or not, it still needed to give them clear 
information about the policy, so they could decide for themselves if it was right for them.
After so many years, I dont know what information was given to Mr and Mrs P and it could 
be that Progressive did not give them all the information it should have done. But thats not 
enough to uphold this complaint. I next need to decide whether or not Mr and Mrs P would 
have changed their minds about buying the policy if they been given better or clearer 
information.
I cant say they would have done. I say this for the following reasons:
The policy was taken out to cover Mr P only. I can see he was only wage earner. So it looks 
like Mr and Mrs P chose to cover Mr P based on their circumstances at the time, and that Mr 
P was the one who needed the cover.
We dont have a copy of the actual terms and conditions of the policy from 2002. But Ive 
looked at terms and conditions from a 1998 Progressive policy and I think they are likely to 
have been largely similar to the policy Mr and Mrs P bought.
Mr P was eligible for the cover. And he wasnt affected by any of the main exclusions or 
limitations contained in the terms and conditions. For instance, he has told us he had no pre-
existing medical conditions that would not have been covered. So, Mr P would have been 
able to make a successful claim if he had needed to.
I note Mr P was a company director. According to the terms and conditions Ive seen he 
would have been classed under the policy as being self-employed. Unlike some PPI policies 
Ive seen I cant see that there were any terms that made it particularly difficult for a self-
employed person to make a claim.The policy could have paid a monthly benefit for up to 12 months if Mr P had become unable 
to work through sickness or an accident. Mr P has said he would have been paid indefinitely 
if he were unable to work, and in any event he had family and staff who could have run the 
company in his absence. Ive thought about this but if Mr P was incapacitated for any length 
of time the policy benefit would still likely to have been useful to him to cover any additional 
staff costs.
I note Mr and Mrs P had substantial savings available. But they chose to keep the savings 
available rather than take a smaller mortgage. So it looks like they wanted to keep the 
savings intact. And the PPI policy would have meant they didnt need to dip into their savings 
to pay the mortgage if Mr P could not work.
Ive not seen any evidence that the policy was unaffordable for Mr and Mrs P so I dont think 
any better information about the premiums would have put them off buying the policy.
In summary, I think Mr and Mrs P were given a fair choice about whether to buy the policy 
and they chose to take it out. Ive not seen enough persuasive evidence to find that Mr and 
Mrs P were unfairly pressured into taking the PPI. And even if they were given clearer 
information about the policy, I still think they would have bought it.
Finally, I do note Mr and Mrs P feel strongly that they did receive a recommendation. But 
even if I had found that they did receive advice from Progressive it would not have changed 
my decision. I say this because if advice was given, then Progressive would have had to 
make sure the policy was right for Mr and Mrs P. But for all the reasons Ive given in this 
decision I think the policy is likely to have been right for them. So I wouldnt find that 
Progressive recommended an unsuitable policy.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint and make no award against 
Progressive Building Society.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr P and Mrs P to 
accept or reject my decision before 7 July 2020.
Steve Thomas
Ombudsman