DRN-2610865
The complaint
Mr S complains that Starling Bank Limited has failed to provide him with the details of the 
source of a credit he received into his account.
What happened
Mr S received a credit for £6,153 on 18 March 2020. A few days later he contacted Starling 
to ask for details of the sending bank and whether the payment had been made in euros or 
in sterling. He says he needed this information to ensure thered been no fraudulent activity 
on his account.
Starling provided details of the sending bank and confirmed the payment had been made in 
sterling but said, under its privacy notice, it couldnt provide any further details. And it 
considered the information it had provided was in line with what was required under the 
Payment Services Regulations (PSR). Starling noted that the payment specifically identified 
Mr S as the recipient and that Mr S had received several payments from this sender 
previously. It felt the payment had been correctly credited but said it would return the 
payment, if Mr S wanted it to do so.
Mr S remained unhappy and brought his complaint to this service. He said the privacy 
regulations werent applicable to this case. He said under s46 of the PSR a payees bank 
was required to provide details of the payer to allow the payee to identify the transaction and 
Starling hadnt done this. He asked Starling to provide the reference number for the 
transaction or the banks contact details. 
In September 2020 our investigator issued an initial view that concluded that Starling had 
provided what it could and taking this, and the privacy regulations, into account, it wouldnt 
be reasonable to ask it to provide anything more. However, after receiving more information, 
a second view was issued in January this year. In this view our investigator said hed 
reviewed s46 of the PSR  that said:
Information for the payee after execution,
46.(1) The payees payment service provider must, immediately after the execution of the 
payment transaction, provide or make available to the payee the information specified in 
paragraph (2) in relation to the service provided by the payees payment service provider.
(2) The information referred to in paragraph (1) is
(a) a reference enabling the payee to identify the payment transaction and, where 
appropriate, the payer and any information transferred with the payment transaction;
(b) the amount of the payment transaction in the currency in which the funds are at the 
payees disposal;
(c) the amount of any charges for the payment transaction payable by the payee and, where 
applicable, a breakdown of the amount of such charges;
(d) where applicable, the exchange rate used in the payment transaction by the payees 
payment service provider, and the amount of the payment transaction before that currency 
conversion; and
(e) the credit value date.
As Mr S had a bank account with Starling, he felt s54 of the PSR was also applicable. This 
required Starling to provide Mr S with a paper record of any transaction free of charge at 
least once a month, which should include the relevant identifying details of the transaction, 
the amount and the currency of the payment. Taking all of this into account, our investigator 
considered Starling should provide details of the payer to Mr S and that it wasnt prevented 
from doing so by the privacy regulations.
Following this, Starling provided Mr S with further information about the originator of the 
payment together with a copy of the transaction as displayed in its systems that included the 
unique BACS payment reference of the sender. It said this was all the information it had.
Mr S disagreed and said this wasnt sufficient for him to identify the payer. He didnt feel 
Starling had complied with the regulations and asked for his complaint to be referred to an 
ombudsman.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I wont be asking Starling to do anything more as Ill now explain.
Its clear that since the complaint was first raised with Starling by Mr S, the complaint has 
developed. Initially Mr S was asking for details of the paying bank and the currency of the 
payment. Starling provided this information but Mr S was still concerned about exactly where 
this payment had come from and wanted more information to enable him to identify who had 
made this payment. I think thats reasonable and its also part of the information that a 
payees bank should provide under the PSR. For that reason, I agree with our adjudicator 
that Starling was required to provide details of the sender and that it wasnt prevented from 
doing so by the general regulations on data security or its own privacy notice.
Ive seen that following this recommendation, Starling provided significantly more 
information. It provided further details of the transaction including the originator bank, the 
originator source (including account number and sort code), and the unique BACS service 
user number. In addition, Ive also made detailed enquiries of Starling to see if there is 
anything further it can provide to Mr S. But despite these enquiries, and despite information 
to show Starling has gone back to the paying bank to try to obtain the additional information 
Mr S requires, it hasnt been able to provide anything more.
I can see Mr S feels Starling still hasnt complied with its requirements as set out in the PSR. 
Ive taken that into account but I should explain that, in making my decision, my role is to 
consider whats fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of this case and although I will 
take all the relevant rules, regulations and good practice into account, Im not bound by 
them.
S46 of the PSR requires the payees bank to immediately provide or make available to the 
payee certain information about any payment including a reference enabling the payee to 
identify the payment transaction and, where appropriate, the payer and any information 
transferred with the payment transaction and .the amount of the payment transaction in the 
currency in which the funds are at the payees disposal.
Its fair to say that the information wasnt immediately available to Mr S and I can see he had 
to challenge Starling to receive details of the paying bank, the source and the currency. 
Thats unfortunate and I can understand why Mr S was frustrated by Starlings initial response but Starling did subsequently provide this information so I dont feel I need to look 
further into this. But Mr S says the information it provided wasnt sufficient to allow him to 
know the specific source of the payment and thats what Ive gone on to consider.
Starling has now provided details of the originating bank, the originating source, the amount, 
the date, the currency and the unique BACS reference number. I consider thats in line with 
whats required under the PSR. And from the enquiries that have been made I can see that 
this was the full extent of the information the paying bank was able to provide. 
In the circumstances Im satisfied that Starling has now provided the relevant information to 
Mr S. While I appreciate Mr Ss frustration that it didnt do so initially, I can see its now 
provided information to show where the money came from, the reference number of the 
payment, the currency of the payment and details of the sender. I note Mr S says its not 
enough but if the details on the payment are unclear then I cant reasonably hold Starling 
responsible for that.
Putting things right
As Starling has already provided the relevant information, I wont be asking it to do anything 
more. Ive seen Mr S says hes worried that there may have been some fraudulent activity on 
his account. I appreciate his concerns but I can see that Starling has offered to return the 
funds if Mr S would like it to do so. If Mr S wants to pursue that, Id suggest he contact 
Starling direct. 
I realise Mr S may be disappointed by my decision but, for the reasons set out above, I 
consider Starling has provided details of the payer as required and, on that basis, I wont be 
asking it to do anything more.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold Mr Ss complaint in part but Im satisfied that Starling Bank 
Limited has now provided the relevant information and I wont therefore be asking it to do 
anything more.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 27 May 2021.
 
Cerys Jones
Ombudsman