DRN-1151291
 
Complaint
Ms K complains that The Co-operative Bank Plc (Co-op) mis-sold her a monthly premium 
payment protection insurance (PPI) in 1998.
Background
Ms K took out a mortgage with Co-op in 1998. She was sold a PPI policy at the same time in 
connection with this mortgage.
The PPI policy would have provided Ms K with a monthly benefit for up to 12 months per 
claim if she was off work sick or lost her job.
Our adjudicator didnt think Ms Ks complaint should be upheld. Ms K didnt agree with the 
adjudicator and so the complaint has been passed to me to decide.
My findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding Ms Ks case.
Having done that, Ive decided not to uphold Ms Ks complaint. I appreciate Ms K will be 
disappointed by my decision but I will now explain why Ive reached this outcome.
First of all Ive checked whether Ms K was eligible under the policy. Based on Ms Ks age, 
employment and residence (amongst other things) at the time of the sale, Im satisfied Ms K 
would have been eligible.
Co-op had to make it clear to Ms K that the PPI was optional and needed her consent before 
it could be applied to her account. Ms K says it wasnt presented as optional and she didnt 
know she was buying PPI, she thought she was signing papers relating to (life) term 
assurance and only realised it was PPI in 2003  after the mortgage had already been 
redeemed.
I cant know for sure what took place during the sale. So Ive thought carefully about what Ms 
K has told us and looked to the documents from the time of the sale to help me decide what 
is more likely to have happened. 
The mortgage application provided Ms K with clear choices to take or refuse PPI  it appears 
Ms K chose the option to take PPI as the yes box had been ticked. It was explained here 
what type of cover PPI provided. Ms K also completed a separate PPI application form 
indicating the level of cover she wanted. She signed both of these application forms. Ive 
also seen a letter which followed the sale and this confirmed that the product bought was PPI and also confirmed  what it covered. There was no mention of PPI being a condition of 
the mortgage in the conditions set out in the mortgage offer.
So while I appreciate what Ms K has told us, based on the evidence Ive seen, I think PPI 
was presented as optional and that it was only applied to Ms Ks account because she chose 
to take it out.
Co-op say they didnt recommend PPI to Ms K. And I havent seen any evidence to suggest 
otherwise. This means Co-op didnt have to take steps to check the PPI was suitable for  Ms 
K. So for example, they didnt have to take into account what Ms K has told us about her 
savings and other provisions at the time of the sale. Instead it would have been for Ms K to 
assess her own existing provisions and decide whether she still wanted to take PPI out 
despite these.
But Co-op did have to provide Ms K with clear information so that she could make an 
informed decision about whether or not to take PPI. In particular, they should have drawn Ms 
Ks attention to the costs, benefits and main exclusions/restrictions in the policy.
Its possible Co-op didnt give Ms K all of the information as they should have. But this in 
itself doesnt mean that the PPI was mis-sold as I have to consider whether better 
information would have put Ms K off taking the PPI.
I dont think it would have. I say this because:
The policy would have paid out in addition to Ms Ks employee benefits and savings. 
And it would have paid out for a longer period of time than Ms Ks sick pay. The 
unemployment cover was free for the first 12 months. I appreciate that  Ms K says 
that her savings meant she didnt have a need for the policy. But as already 
mentioned, it would have been for Ms K to decide whether she wanted to take PPI 
despite her existing provisions and by choosing to take PPI it appears that she did 
want it.
 
I havent seen any evidence which suggests the policy was unaffordable to Ms K. 
 
Ms K doesnt appear to have been affected by the main exclusions/restrictions in the 
policies which would have made it difficult for her to make a successful claim. For 
example, terms relating to unusual working arrangements or preexisting medical 
condition/s.
 
Ms K could have cancelled the policy at any time without losing out financially if she 
no longer wanted or needed it.
 
So having taken everything into consideration, I dont think Co-op mis-sold Ms K this PPI 
policy.
My final decision
I dont uphold Ms Ks complaint against The Co-operative Bank Plc.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms K to accept or 
reject my decision before 10 February 2020.Navneet Sher
Ombudsman