DRN-2142568
The complaint
Miss C is complaining that HSBC UK Bank Plc wont refund transactions she didnt 
authorise. 
The full details of this complaint are well known to both parties so I wont repeat them again 
here. Instead Ill recap the key points and focus on giving the reasons for my decision: 
On 26 September 2019, Miss C was called by someone who claimed to be from 
Remitly, who said they worked with BT. They said her router hadnt been working 
properly and her internet was slow  so they offered her a refund.  
As part of that, they asked for some of her card details, as well as codes she 
received on her phone. They also asked her to respond with a Y to a fraud alert 
from HSBC. 
Between 16:00 and 16:23 that day, seven payments were made using Miss Cs debit 
card to Remitly  totalling £5,009.94. She said she didnt make these. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the conclusions reached by the investigator for these reasons:
In line with the Payment Service Regulations 2017 (PSRs), Miss C isnt liable for 
payments she didnt authorise, unless she failed with gross negligence or intent to 
comply with the terms of the account or keep her personalised security details safe. 
Ive considered whether Miss C authorised these transactions  and so, in line with 
the PSRs, whether she gave her consent to make the payment, using the form and 
procedure that was agreed with HSBC. 
The terms and conditions that HSBC provided dont set out what form and procedure 
was required to authorise an online card payment. So, in the absence of this, Ive 
looked at the practical steps the payer needed to take: 
oEntering their long card number, expiry date and three-digit number from the 
back of their card on the merchants website. 
oEntering a one-time-passcode, sent to their mobile, on the merchants 
website. 
Im not persuaded Miss C completed these steps. Its accepted she shared some of 
this information with the caller  so, at least the three-digit code and the one-time 
passcodes. But theres nothing to suggest she put in the information on the 
merchants website  and its these steps which ultimately authorised the payment. 
Ive also considered whether Miss C gave the caller permission to make the 
payments on her behalf. Indeed, HSBC has suggested that by handing over her 
details, she made the caller her agent. Im not persuaded that, having been coaxed 
to share information on the basis of passing security and receiving a refund, Miss C 
represented that the caller had permission to use this form and procedure to make a 
payment. Afterall, its clear Miss C had no knowledge payments would be made. 
It follows that Im not persuaded she completed the steps for these payments to be 
made or gave someone else permission to make the payments on her behalf. The 
payments were, therefore, unauthorised. 
I dont think Miss C failed with intent to keep her details safe  she genuinely 
believed what she was doing was necessary to pass security and receive a refund. 
Im also not satisfied she failed with gross negligence. Miss Cs partner originally took 
the call  he recalled that they said they were from Remitly and worked with BT. It 
seems they pretended to check their internet speed and said that because it was 
slow, they were owed a refund. And that they would call back when Miss C was 
available. So when they did call as planned, I can see how the message already 
seemed familiar. And indeed, I dont think its sounded implausible  after all, people 
do legitimately receive refunds for slow internet speeds.
HSBC pointed out that BT isnt Miss Cs provider. Miss C said she raised this with the 
caller  who said that her provider was working with them. Given that BT are 
genuinely connected to other internet providers, I can see how she believed them. 
Ive also considered that BT was Miss Cs provider in the past, who gave her refunds 
for various matters. I can understand how this wouldve all reassured her that the call 
was genuine.  
It seems Miss C also questioned Remitlys relationship with BT. By this time, they 
had persuaded Miss C to download software that gave the caller access to her 
computer. From our experience of dealing with similar scams, this was likely under 
the guise of looking at their supposedly slow internet speed. So, when Miss C looked 
up BT and Remitly, it seems that the caller showed her a fake webpage that 
connected the two companies. 
I think this highlights the complexity of the scam  this wasnt a chancer, but a well-
planned operation, where theyd clearly rehearsed ways to reassure their victim. In 
this light, I can understand how Miss C continued with the call trusting who she was 
speaking to  I think lots of people wouldve done. 
For the fraudster to make the payments, they needed Miss Cs card details. Its not 
clear how that happened. But even if Miss C shared them, Im not satisfied it meant 
she was significantly careless. Shed been reassured she was talking to someone 
genuine, and I dont think the request wouldve appeared unusual in the context of 
getting a refund. 
The first payment the fraudster attempted was declined, which caused an alert to be 
sent to Miss Cs phone. This read: 
HSBC Fraud 
Alert Possible 
Unauthorised
transactions on card ending 
****: 750.00G-
BP 26-Sep-2019 
04:58 RE-
MITLY; 0.00GBP
26-Sep-2019
04:44 PM 
WWW.REMITLY.-
COM. If you
made all trans-
actions reply Y, 
otherwise reply
N. 
Ive quoted the message as it displayed on Miss Cs phone to highlight how its format 
makes it difficult to take in. Ive also considered that Miss C believed she was dealing 
with Remitly and getting a refund for £750  so there were details there that matched. 
So, in the heat of the moment, I can see how she followed their instructions and 
responded with a y. In doing so, I dont think Miss C seriously disregarded an 
obvious risk  and failed with gross negligence. 
Miss C was also sent several text messages with one-time passcodes. These said 
something along the lines ofe: 
Your one-time
passcode is 
XXXXXX for a 
payment of GBP
750.00 to Re-
Mitly on card 
ending ****. Its
valid for 10 mins
for this payment
only  ref XXXX.
Miss C said she shared these codes because she was told they were needed to get 
the refund. Im mindful there are genuinely different ways to refund money depending 
on the circumstances  for example, sometimes you need to enter your card and 
PIN. And I wouldnt expect that an ordinary person would know an exhaustive list of 
how theyre processed, in order to detect that a one-time passcode couldnt be 
relevant here.
Ive also considered Miss Cs recollection that she didnt take the entirety of the 
message in. HSBC said its not its fault that she didnt read it all. But HSBCs 
responsibility rests on whether Miss C failed with gross negligence  and in these 
circumstances, Im not persuaded this amounts to that. Particularly given that Miss C 
wouldve been primed to expect the code and it was one of the first things that 
appeared in the message. 
In saying this, I recognise Miss C shared several codes. Shes explained she was 
told they werent working, so she needed to do it again  I dont think that sounds 
implausible. Considering this, and her trust in the caller, I can understand how she 
carried on. Ive also considered the pressure the caller applied  Miss C said she felt threatened, 
frightened, and frozen to do anything but follow their instructions. Its easy to say with 
the benefit of hindsight that she shouldve hung up and it was just a refund. But weve 
heard from numerous victims of similar scams that it similarly report that doesnt feel 
like at option at the time. This demonstrates the clever tactics fraudsters use to 
emotionally and mentally coerce their victims. Indeed, HSBCs agent acknowledged 
this to Miss C during one of their calls about the scam.
Taking everything into account, I dont think Miss Cs actions fell so far below what a 
reasonable person wouldve done that it amounts to gross negligence. So I conclude 
Miss C isnt liable for the transactions and HSBC need to put things right. 
Ive also concerns about Miss C as a vulnerable customer, as well as whether HSBC 
shouldve done more to stop these payments. But Ive not explored this further, given the 
conclusion Ive already reached.  
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, I uphold Miss Cs complaint and I order HSBC UK Bank Plc 
to: 
Pay Miss C the total of the unauthorised transactions (£5,009.94), less any amount 
already returned. 
Pay 8% simple interest per year on this amount, from the date of the unauthorised 
transactions to the date of settlement (less any tax lawfully deductible)
   
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss C to accept 
or reject my decision before 6 August 2021.
 
Emma Szkolar
Ombudsman