DRN-2264401
The complaint
Mr I complains that Madison CF UK Limited trading as 118 118 Money gave him misleading 
information about the amount of his monthly subscription fee.
 
What happened
Mr I had a credit card account with 118 118 Money. He says hes been charged a monthly 
subscription fee of £8. He says this is a lot higher than what he should be paying. And, hes 
referred to the credit agreement he entered into.
He says the credit agreement stated that the APR on the card was fixed at 27.96%. He says 
it provided an example of a card with an APR of 28.8% and a credit limit of £250. In this 
example the monthly subscription fee was £3. He says his credit limit was £225. And if the 
APR was 27.96%, he says his monthly subscription fee shouldve been less than £3. So, he 
thinks 118 118 Money has been overcharging him.
He complained to 118 118 Money. It said hed been charged a monthly subscription fee of 
£8 and this was in line with the terms and conditions. It also said there were no other fees or 
interest charged on the card. Mr I wasnt satisfied with this response. He complained to our 
service.
Our investigator looked into his complaint. She said 118 118 Money had made clear to Mr I 
in the welcome pack that his monthly subscription fee would be £8. She said the information 
in the credit agreement about the APR and the monthly subscription charge was illustrative 
and provided by way of example only. The agreement stated that 118 118 Money would 
charge a monthly subscription fee based on the credit limit and its risk assessment.
She also said Mr I couldve cancelled the agreement within fourteen days if hed been 
unhappy with the level of the monthly subscription fee. So, she didnt uphold the complaint.
Mr I didnt agree. He said this didnt explain why his fee was so much higher than the 
illustrative example. Our investigator asked 118 118 Money about this. It said it was a risk 
based lender and the APR applicable to Mr Is agreement was 99.9%. 
Mr I said this was the first time hed been made aware of the actual APR hed been charged. 
And, if hed been given this information before he entered the agreement, he would never 
have accepted it.
Our investigator said 118 118 Money was required to provide an illustrative APR which 
reflected the rate that at least 51% of its customers would get. She didnt change her view.
Mr I remained dissatisfied. So, the complaint has been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
After Mr Is application was successful he was sent his credit card. And he was provided with 
two additional pieces of information. He was told his credit limit would be £225 and his 
monthly subscription fee would be £8. 
I can also see on each of his monthly statements there are four references to the monthly 
subscription fee. The fee is set out on the first page of the statement under Account 
Summary. It is also included in the list of transactions. There is then a reference to 
Understanding your subscription fee which explains that 118 118 Money only charges a 
monthly subscription fee and there is no interest or other fees. Further information about the 
£8 monthly subscription fee is included under the heading How it works on the final page of 
the statement.
So, having looked at information he got with the card and in his statements, Im satisfied Mr I 
wouldve known he was being charged a monthly subscription fee of £8. I dont think he was 
misled about the actual amount he was being charged. But, he says the agreement is 
misleading. And, he says he didnt know the fee was higher than what he thinks he shouldve 
been paying.
Ive considered whether the documentation he received was misleading. But, having looked 
at all of the information he was provided with I dont think he was given misleading 
information. Ill explain why.
Ive looked at the information Mr I was given before he entered into the agreement. 
He was provided with several documents including:
A Summary Box;
Standardised European Consumer Credit Information (SECCI);
Important Things You Need to Know About Your Credit Card; and
A copy of the credit card agreement.
These documents included various pieces of information. Ive set out below the information 
which is relevant to Mr Is complaint:
The total amount of credit - The SECCI says We will determine your Credit Limit 
based on our assessment of your ability to repay. We 
will tell you what your Credit Limit is when your 
application is successful and will confirm it when we 
send you your card.
-The agreement further explains this. It says 118 118 
Money will tell Mr I what his credit limit will be once his 
application is successful. And, it says it will confirm 
this to him when it sends him his credit card.
APR  - The SECCI says the APR is 27.96% (fixed). 
- Important Things You need to know explains that the 
APR used is the representative APR. 
-The credit card agreement sets out at Section 7.3 the 
assumptions which are used to arrive at the representative APR. It also says in bold print at Section 
7.4 The APR you will pay will be calculated in 
accordance with the Credit Limit we set for you and 
its Monthly Subscription Fee.
Related costs - - Both the SECCI and the credit card agreement say 
118 118 Money will charge a monthly subscription fee. 
The amount payable will depend on the amount of the 
credit limit allocated and its assessment of its risk in 
lending to Mr I. 
The illustrative example 
Credit Limit Monthly Subscription Fee APR
£250 £3 28.82%
£1,200 £14 27.96%
The documentation clearly sets out that the APR quoted in the table above was 
representative and based on certain assumptions. The wording in Section 7.4 of the credit 
agreement (set out in bold) explained that the APR Mr I would pay would be calculated in 
accordance with the credit limit he was given and the monthly subscription fee he was to be 
charged. 
So, the APR was calculated based on these two factors. I think thats why the illustrative 
example is set out in the way that it is - with the credit limit in the first column and the 
monthly subscription fee in the second column. It is these two factors which determine what 
the APR is.
In relation to the monthly subscription fee the information about Related Costs is relevant. 
It says the monthly subscription fee Mr I will pay depends on the amount of the credit limit 
and 118 118 Moneys assessment of its risk in lending to him. It was not calculated by 
looking at the credit limit and the APR as Mr I has suggested. 
118 118 Money informed Mr I, when it sent him his card, it had set his monthly subscription 
fee at £8. 
Mr I says, if hed known the APR was 99.9% he wouldnt have gone ahead with the card. So, 
Ive thought about whether 118 118 Money did anything wrong here when it didnt disclose 
the actual APR that would apply to his card.
Ive looked at the regulations which set out the information 118 118 Money was obliged to 
disclose to Mr I before he entered the agreement. The regulations say that where this 
information is provided before the lender has decided what the credit limit will be, the lender 
can use certain assumptions to provide the information. It must set out what those 
assumptions are.
I can see 118 118 Money provided the information to Mr I before it had decided what his 
credit limit would be. This is not unusual and other credit card providers do use the same 
approach. And, its also something the regulations recognised would happen. The 
information was set out in the various documents which I have referred to earlier in this 
decision. In the credit card agreement at Section 7.3 the assumptions 118 118 Money used are set 
out. This section states that the APR for the agreement is 27.96% fixed. And for the 
purposes of calculating that APR the assumptions included a credit limit of £1200 which was 
used immediately, repaid over one year by 12 equal monthly payments and a monthly 
subscription fee of £14. 
However, Section 7.4 of the agreement makes it clear that this is not the APR Mr I will pay. 
The APR he will pay will be calculated in accordance with the credit limit and the monthly 
subscription fee set for him. This information is highlighted in bold print. So, I think 118 118 
Money did everything it needed to do to bring this to Mr Is attention.
Ive also considered whether 118 118 Money was obliged to inform Mr I what the actual APR 
was for his card after it had decided what his credit limit and monthly subscription fee would 
be. But, I dont find any regulatory requirement for it to do that. In any event, Ive considered 
whats fair and reasonable in the individual circumstances here and 118 118 Money told Mr I 
what his credit limit and monthly subscription fee would be. It did that when it sent the credit 
card to him. And, I think this information wouldve enabled him to determine whether he 
could afford the credit that was being offered to him.
Having considered everything, Im not persuaded 118 118 Money provided misleading 
information to Mr I. And, I dont require it to refund the monthly subscription fees to him.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I do not uphold this complaint about Madison CF UK Limited 
trading as 118 118 Money.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr I to accept or 
reject my decision before 21 December 2020.
 
Irene Martin
Ombudsman