DRN-3588192
The complaint
Mr B complains that The Royal Bank of Scotland Plc (RBS) have failed to refund around 
£8,000 he lost as part of an investment scam.
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I will not repeat everything 
again here. Instead, I will focus on giving the reasons for my decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the conclusions reached by the investigator for the following 
reasons.
It isnt in dispute that Mr B authorised the disputed payments he made to the 
cryptocurrency exchange platform from his RBS debit card and online account 
(where his funds were subsequently transferred on to the scammer Genesis 11 
from those platforms). The payments were requested by him using his legitimate 
security credentials provided by RBS, and the starting position is that banks ought to 
follow the instructions given by their customers in order for legitimate payments to be 
made as instructed.
However, Ive considered whether RBS should have done more to prevent Mr B from 
falling victim to the scam, as there are some situations in which a bank should 
reasonably have had a closer look at the circumstances surrounding a particular 
transfer. For example, if it was particularly out of character. 
It isnt in dispute that the £3,000 payment Mr B made on 23 February 2021 was 
unusual given that it did trigger the banks fraud prevention systems and was 
automatically blocked pending further enquiry. Accordingly, its just a question of 
whether the bank went far enough in all the circumstances with that intervention.
RBS sent Mr B a text message asking if he was attempting to make the payment, 
which defaulted to No and required him to call the bank to discuss it further. Mr B 
called the bank and was frustrated that he had been prevented from being able to 
make the £3,000 payment. 
RBS asked Mr B various scam related questions, such as whether he has been 
asked to move money to a safe account, which he said he hadnt. The agent at RBS 
went on to ask if he had given anyone remote desktop access to his computer, as it 
was showing that this was live when he had logged onto his online banking, which he 
said can be a sign that someone is being scammed. Mr B has since explained that 
he had given remote access to the scammer. However, he was insistent with RBS 
that he did not have any remote access software downloaded on his computer, and 
had not given anyone remote access. He also said that remote access was a 
standard component of Windows which is why it may have shown up to RBS. So, its 
clear that Mr B was not forthcoming with all the details about what was happening at 
the time.
It isnt clear why Mr B was not upfront with RBS in explaining that he had given 
someone remote access to his computer to help with the investment. Mr B says that 
RBS should have given him a specific warning about cryptocurrency scams. But 
even if they had asked him specific questions about cryptocurrency investments, Im 
not persuaded he would have been upfront about other aspects of what he was doing 
either, given he failed to disclose that he had given someone remote access when he 
was specifically asked by the bank. 
This was why RBS was satisfied that the payment wasnt likely being made as part of 
a scam, and I think RBS asked appropriate questions about the nature of the 
payment, which was ultimately led by the answers Mr B gave. If he had answered the 
question accurately and told RBS that he had given remote access to a supposed 
broker, then I accept it would have been incumbent on the bank to maintain suspicion 
about the payment and to explore these circumstances further. But seeing as he 
didnt confirm that anyone else was involved and said he had not downloaded any 
remote access software, I dont think there was any failing on the banks part to 
probe any further into how he came to be making the investment in the first place, 
and I dont consider there is anything more RBS could have done to have prevented 
Mr B from making the payment to the scammer, which he seemed insistent upon 
doing despite being warned about the risk of scams involving remote desktop 
access. 
Mr B has also said that he specifically mentioned that his payments were being made 
to Genesis11. However, he did not specify that he was paying this merchant during 
his call with RBS on 23 February 2021; he said he was paying a trading platform. But 
even if he had said we was paying Genesis11, there was no FCA warning published 
about this broker at the time. And Mr B has said himself that he looked at Trustpilot 
reviews about the broker, which were positive and had given them the green flag. 
As such, I dont think it would have likely led to the scam being prevented, even if 
RBS had asked Mr B to carry out checks into the legitimacy of the broker. 
So in these circumstances, I dont consider it would be fair and reasonable to hold 
RBS liable for Mr Bs loss, because it seems more likely than not that any further 
reasonable intervention on the banks part would not have prevented the scam from 
unfolding. 
Ive also thought about whether RBS could have done more to recover the funds 
after Mr B reported the fraud, as in some circumstances the money can be recovered 
via the bank raising a chargeback dispute or contacting the receiving bank.
However, in terms of the debit card payment, Mr B paid a crypto-exchange platform 
before the funds were subsequently transferred on to the scammer. So, he wouldnt 
be able to make a successful chargeback claim in these circumstances because the 
company he paid would have provided the services as intended (i.e. the purchase of 
cryptocurrency). With regards to the bank transfer he made, I can also see that RBS 
reached out to the beneficiary bank but were informed that no funds remained in the 
account. Therefore, I do not think there was anything more RBS could have done to 
have recovered Mr Bs money.
I appreciate this will likely come as a disappointment to Mr B, and Im sorry to hear he has 
been the victim of a cruel scam. However, in the circumstances, I do not consider it would be 
fair and reasonable to hold RBS liable for his loss.My final decision
For the reasons given above, I do not uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 9 November 2022.
 
Jack Ferris
Ombudsman