DRN-4071566
The complaint
Mr C complains that he was recently charged an Early Repayment Charge (ERC) for 
ending his fixed interest rate mortgage deal with Nationwide Building Society. He said hed 
been told this only applied if the rate he then took was lower, and in this case it wasnt.
What happened
Mr C told us he took out a two year fixed interest rate mortgage with Nationwide in 2021, 
following a phone appointment with a mortgage advisor on 13 April 2021. Mr C said he was 
told during that meeting that the mortgage deal he was agreeing had an ERC, but it would 
only be charged if he exited this deal early to move to a lower interest rate.
Mr C said in July 2022, he decided to end his existing deal early, and he chose instead to 
take out a ten year deal, at a rate which was higher than his previous deal. Mr C said then 
that he was advised an ERC would apply, and he said that he would pay this, but challenge 
it later. Mr C said he then found the notes he made of the meeting, and those confirmed his 
recollection that hed been told an ERC would only apply if he moved to a lower rate deal. 
Mr C said he was wrongly advised in 2021, and he believed if hed been properly advised 
then, that he would have taken out a longer term mortgage in 2021, and this would have 
been at a much lower rate than hed secured now. He said he didnt think it would be fair to 
ask Nationwide to put that mortgage in place now, but he did think it should waive the ERC 
hed been charged. Mr C said he understood the 2021 call had been recorded, so he asked 
Nationwide to listen to this call. But it said the call hadnt been recorded after all, because 
the advisor was working under arrangements put in place for the pandemic at the time. 
Mr C said Nationwide wouldnt waive the ERC, because it said the ERC was explained in the 
paperwork hed received, but Mr C said he didnt feel the need to read that part of the 
application, because hed already asked the advisor a direct question about this. 
Nationwide said it didnt have a call recording from 2021, but it did have notes from the 
meeting. And those suggested Mr C wanted a two year fixed rate deal, because he wanted 
to review in two years time and see if he would be able to get a better rate. And Nationwide 
said that full details of the ERC which applied to this lending were included in the letter that 
the advisor then sent Mr C. That said this - 
"Your mortgage has early repayment charges (ERC) which means you'll need to 
make an extra payment to us if you move your mortgage to a new provider, switch to 
a new rate or repay all or more than 10% of your original balance in one year during 
your product period"
Nationwide didnt think it had done anything wrong, and it wouldnt pay back the ERC that Mr 
C was charged.
Our investigator didnt think this complaint should be upheld. He said hed reviewed the 
notes from the meeting, and also considered that Mr C was then sent a letter which 
mentioned the ERC, as well as a mortgage offer which set it out in detail. So our investigator 
thought Mr C was made aware of the terms of the mortgage. He said there wasnt any 
evidence to support what Mr C said about being misadvised, and the notes suggested Mr C 
wanted to remortgage in a couple of years, when he might have moved into a lower loan to 
value (LTV) bracket. 
Our investigator said Mr C was told about the ERC before he made a decision to switch 
rates, but he went ahead and paid, in order to secure extra years of stability and protection. 
So our investigator didnt think there was evidence to show Nationwide had acted incorrectly, 
and he didnt think it would be reasonable to ask it to pay back the ERC it charged. 
Mr C didnt agree. He said if we listened to the call, we would hear hed been misadvised, 
and that influenced his decision. Mr C said he understood hed been sent information in 
writing, but some people arent good at reading, and rely on asking questions. He said he 
accepted he made a mistake by not reading the contract, but he said he had clearly been 
misled, and Nationwide should be held accountable for that. In this case, because of the 
serious nature of the mistake, he thought Nationwide should pay him back the ERC. And 
Mr C said he would send us his notes of the meeting.
Because no agreement was reached, this case then came to me for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive reached the same overall conclusion on this complaint as our investigator. 
Mr C argued Nationwide should face consequences for its maladministration. But I should 
say at the outset, that our service isnt a regulator, and we dont punish businesses for 
mistakes. Rather, I need to look at the impact of any mistake on Mr C, and think about the 
position hed have been in, if the mistake hadnt been made. 
Mr Cs argument is that he was misled during the meeting where he chose a two year fixed 
term mortgage, and he would, if not misled, have chosen a much longer fixed term. Thats 
why he thought Nationwide should pay the ERC back now. But that doesnt seem to me to fit 
with some of the other things that I do think were discussed during this meeting. 
Nationwides notes say Mr C wanted a two year fixed term, because he was hoping to pay 
enough of his mortgage off in the first couple of years, to drop into a lower LTV bracket. 
Looking at Mr Cs mortgage offer, I can see from the figures provided that Mr C was likely to 
have been in a very high LTV bracket, but towards the lower end of this bracket. 
Mortgage providers usually reserve their best deals for those who are borrowing a smaller 
proportion of the value of their home. So what I can see in the notes of the meeting, with the 
mortgage advisor checking if Mr C would be able to contribute more to the deposit for his 
house purchase, and decrease the percentage he was borrowing, is what I would expect to 
see in a situation like this. 
I can also see notes that suggest Mr C was asked if he thought mortgage rates were likely to 
rise in the future, and he said then he didnt think they were likely to increase in the next two 
years. I think this is likely to be a fair reflection of what was said at the time, because it fits 
with what Mr C then did, in taking out a two year fixed rate. So everything Ive seen suggests to me that Mr C wasnt expecting rate rises, and that he 
did have a reason to think he might be able to secure a lower mortgage rate in a couple of 
years, as he might be in a lower LTV bracket. Because of that, it doesnt seem likely that Mr 
C would have made a different decision in 2021, regardless of the advice given about the 
ERC.
I also note that Mr C was given full documentation for his mortgage offer in the usual format. 
And as well as this, he was also given a single page summary of the mortgage advisors 
recommendation. This summary clearly set out that an ERC would apply, in a much wider 
range of circumstances than Mr C said hed been told about. So, even if I did think it was 
most likely that Mr C had been misadvised during the phone appointment he had, I would 
still have said Nationwide had then done enough to make the terms of his mortgage clear 
when he took up its offer. 
I also think its relevant that Mr C was then reminded of this ERC when he was discussing 
ending his existing fixed rate deal early. He chose still to go ahead, and pay the ERC.
Finally, I should say that unfortunately, there is no clear evidence that Mr C was misadvised. 
I appreciate that hes found it very frustrating not to have a recording of this call, and hes 
been clear about his recollections of the call content. Mr C has also shown us what he says 
are contemporaneous notes, which do say he was told that an ERC would only be payable 
in limited circumstances, where he was moving to a lower interest rate. But I do have to 
weigh against this, that this isnt how Nationwide works, and indeed, that what Mr C has 
noted would be very unusual for a mortgage lender. 
So, although I appreciate that Mr C hasnt come away with a clear and correct understanding 
of how the ERC worked, I havent been able to see that its most likely that the mortgage 
advisor is responsible for this. But, more importantly, for the reasons set out above, even if 
the mortgage advisor had misadvised Mr C on this call in 2021, I would still have said that 
Nationwide did then provide Mr C with the right information almost immediately after this. 
And I havent been able to see that its likely Mr C would have behaved differently when he 
took out this mortgage in 2021 or when he changed to a new fixed rate deal in 2022. For 
those reasons, I agree with our investigator, and I dont think it would be fair and reasonable 
to ask Nationwide to pay back this ERC now. 
I know Mr C will be disappointed, but I dont think his complaint should be upheld. My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 30 October 2023. 
Esther Absalom-Gough
Ombudsman