DRN-4130457
The complaint
Mr S complains that HSBC UK Bank Plc wont refund money he lost when he was the victim 
of a scam. 
Mr S is represented by a firm that Ill refer to as C.
What happened
The background to this complaint is well known to both parties and so Ill only refer to some 
key events here.
In 2017 and 2018 Mr S was the victim of an investment scam in which he lost about 
£11,000. He found the scam firm  which Ill refer to as K  online and, after reading 
positive reviews, left his details to be contacted. K called Mr S and convinced him to invest a 
small amount to begin with which, after seeing positive interest returns, led him to feel 
reassured and willing to invest more. 
The relevant payments are:
Date Type Amount
11 December 2017 International payment £250
13 December 2017 International payment £999
13 December 2017 International payment £1,000
7 March 2018 International payment £5,000
8 March 2018 International payment £5,000
Total: £12,249
Mr S received £1,000 from K which credited his account  in equal £500 amounts - on 1 and 
19 March 2018, making his loss £11,149. Mr S became aware hed been scammed after 
seeing his trading account drop rapidly in value and when his attempts to speak with K were 
ignored. 
C complained to HSBC in November 2022, on behalf of Mr S, about the two £5,000 
transactions. In short, they said:
Although Mr S authorised the transactions, he did so under false belief and HSBC 
shouldve intervened before processing them.
HSBC failed in their duty of care to protect Mr S from the scam. Mr S hadnt invested 
prior to the scam and, given hed been a customer for 20 years prior, HSBC ought to 
have identified the change in his spending habits. Had they done so and contacted 
Mr S to ask probing questions, they wouldve become aware he was falling victim to 
a scam. 
Upon being appropriately warned of the risks, Mr S wouldnt have gone ahead with 
the transactions. HSBCs failure to take this action resulted in Mr S being the victim 
of the scam. 
To settle this complaint, Mr S wants the reimbursement of the money he lost.
HSBC didnt uphold the complaint. They explained they initially stopped the first £5,000 
transaction as they were unable to confirm it was genuine. And that they spoke with Mr S 
who confirmed it was genuine and agreed for it to be sent  so the payment was released. 
HSBC added that the payments werent covered by the Contingent Reimbursement Model 
(CRM) code as it didnt come into effect until May 2019, nor did it apply to overseas 
payments. 
The complaint was referred to the Financial Ombudsman but our Investigator didnt think 
HSBC has to do anything further. He said:
Although C only referred to the two £5,000 payments in their complaint to HSBC, 
Mr S has confirmed the December 2017 payments ought to be included here. 
He noted there was some confusion around why there were two £5,000 payments as 
C referred to Mr S only processing one. He explained thered been an error by HSBC 
processing a £5,000 payment that Mr S requested to be cancelled due to it being 
sent in the wrong currency. HSBC did however offer to recover the payment but Mr S 
declined as he wanted the money to remain with the payee so he didnt lose out on 
the investment. A complaint was logged about this at the time and HSBC issued a 
final response on 19 April 2018  in which they paid £200 compensation.
He listened to calls between Mr S and HSBC at the time of the March 2018 payments 
and, while he thinks HSBC couldve been more thorough in their questioning, he 
thought it was most likely Mr S wouldve still gone ahead even if that happened. This 
was because Mr S had already made several investment payments a few months 
earlier and received a £500 return, likely reassuring him it was genuine. So, even if 
HSBC had questioned Mr S about the payment further he didnt think it wouldve 
concerned Mr S as to Ks, or the investments, legitimacy. 
Mr S queried why two payments had left his account at the time. But he told HSBC 
he was happy for it to remain there when HSBC explained their error and offered to 
recover it. This, he felt, demonstrated Mr Ss confidence in K and the investment, 
which added to his view that any action HSBC had taken wouldnt have been able to 
change his mind. 
C didnt agree with our Investigator. They thought it was irrelevant that Mr S declined 
HSBCs offer to recover the additional £5,000 sent as, unless they effectively attempted to 
uncover the scam, any customer would be happy to have the funds remain until they realise 
theyre at risk. And Mr S only chose to leave the money with K due to his frustration over 
HSBCs improper processing of the payment  not because he wouldnt have listened to 
scam warnings/advice. If HSBC had told Mr S they were concerned he was at risk of being 
scammed and asked whether he remained sure he didnt want it to be recovered, to which 
he then declined, then the Investigators assumption Mr S wouldnt have been receptive to 
scam advice would be fair. 
C also added that providing an investment return is a common tactic used by scammers. 
And theres nothing to suggest Mr S wouldnt have realised he was being scammed had 
HSBC asked probing questions followed by effective scam advice. 
Before I go on to explain the reasons for my decision, Id like to clarify that Im only 
considering whether HSBC are responsible for the loss Mr S suffered due to the scam. I 
wont be looking at HSBCs error in sending the £5,000 payment Mr S requested to be 
cancelled as part of this decision. What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im sorry Mr S has been the victim of a scam and I dont underestimate the impact its had on 
him. But I must consider whether HSBC is responsible for his loss. And while I know it wont 
be the outcome Mr S is hoping for, I dont think they are and for similar reasons as to our 
Investigator. Ill explain why. 
Ive thought about the CRM code which can offer a potential means of obtaining a refund 
following Authorised Push Payment (APP) scams like this one. But, as HSBC explained, the 
CRM code didnt come into effect until 28 May 2019 and doesnt apply retrospectively. It also 
only applies to payments made between UK bank accounts. As the payments in question 
here were sent overseas and before the CRM code came into effect, theyre not covered. 
Ive therefore considered whether HSBC should reimburse Mr S under any of their other 
obligations. And taking into account regulatory rules and guidance, relevant codes of 
practice and good industry practice, there are circumstances where it might be appropriate 
for HSBC to take additional steps or make additional checks before processing a payment to 
help protect customers from the possibility of financial harm from fraud.
So, the starting point here is whether the instructions given by Mr S to HSBC (either 
individually or collectively) were unusual in relation to his typical account activity.
Having reviewed Mr Ss account statements prior to the scam payments, it was typically 
used for day to day spending along with various transactions made between £2,500 and 
£5,000 in value. Because of this, I dont think the first three payments were unusual in 
relation to Mr Ss typical account activity. So, I dont think HSBC had reason to consider 
these payments as suspicious, thereby prompting them to intervene before processing them. 
Mr S then made a £5,000 payment in March 2018, which was significantly more than the 
previous amounts he sent relating to the scam. I dont think this payment was particularly out 
of character for Mr S given hed made various transactions between £2,500 and £5,000 in 
the prior 12 months, and as hed also made international payments previously. Nevertheless, 
Im aware that following Mr S contacting HSBC to cancel the payment, this led to another 
payment being processed  which also led to two payments being sent because of an HSBC 
error. From this, HSBC contacted Mr S to ensure the payment was genuine. As HSBC spoke 
with Mr S about the payment(s) they had an opportunity to identify whether he was at risk of 
financial harm from fraud. Ive therefore considered if they did enough to prevent this and, if 
they didnt, whether it likely wouldve made a difference if they had.
Having listened to the calls, while Im satisfied HSBC confirmed the payment was genuine, I 
think they couldve done more to establish whether Mr S was at risk of financial harm. I think 
it wouldve been reasonable for HSBC to have enquired further about the payment  such as 
what the payment was for and what steps Mr S had taken to ensure K, and the investment, 
was legitimate. I consider it likely Mr S wouldve explained the payment was for investment 
purposes, hed found positive reviews about K online, received a business plan setting out 
the investment strategy and that hed also received a £500 return so far.
Although Mr S had received a return, the £5,000 payment he was sending  which ultimately 
ended up being £10,000 - was significantly more than what hed initially invested. And, as C 
has pointed out, a tactic used by scammers is to provide a return to the victim with the aim of 
gaining their trust and inducing further funds from them. HSBC shouldve been familiar with 
investment scams and their prevalence at the time. Given this, and that Mr S was sending 
money overseas for investment purposes, I think it wouldve been reasonable for HSBC to have recommended to Mr S that he carry out additional checks before proceeding any 
further. 
But even if Mr S had listened to this advice, Im not persuaded it wouldve deterred him from 
making the payment. This is because the Financial Conduct Authoritys warning about K 
providing financial services or products in the UK without their authorisation hadnt yet been 
published. And from what Ive seen was available at the time of the March 2018 payments, 
there were largely positive reviews about K on an independent online review platform. So, 
given Mr S had received a return from the investment to date and received investment 
literature (business) from K, I think its most likely he wouldve remained convinced K and the 
investment was legitimate. And this is similarly why, albeit without a scam warning provided 
by HSBC, Mr S felt reassured enough to decline HSBCs offer to recover the additional 
£5,000 sent in error at the time. It follows that, taking all of this into consideration, I dont 
think I can fairly conclude HSBC is responsible for the loss Mr S suffered. 
Ive also considered HSBCs actions upon being told of the scam. And although, ordinarily, I 
wouldve expected HSBC to have contacted the receiving bank to try and recover the funds 
Mr S lost, I think it was reasonable for HSBC not to do so. This is because HSBC were made 
aware of the scam more than four years after the payments were made. And given the 
payments were sent overseas, I dont think there wouldve been any reasonable prospect of 
recovery here. 
Im sorry to hear Mr S fell victim to a scam. But in the circumstances of this complaint, I dont 
think HSBC has acted unfairly. So, Im not going to tell them to do anything further.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 14 August 2023.
 
Daniel O'Dell
Ombudsman