DRN-3626728
The complaint
Mr A complains about Grove Pension Solutions Limiteds (Grove) advice in connection with 
the transfer of the benefits from his defined-benefit (DB) occupational pension scheme to a 
personal pension. He says the advice was unsuitable for him and believes this has caused a 
financial loss.
Professional representatives have helped Mr A to bring this complaint. But for ease of 
reading, except for where I think I need to refer to the representatives specifically, I will refer 
to their comments as being Mr As.
What happened
Mr A approached Grove in February 2013 to discuss his pension and retirement needs. At 
that time Mr A was a deferred member of his former employers DB scheme. Initially Grove 
gave Mr A some general advice and warnings about the valuable benefits that could be lost 
by transferring out of a DB scheme. It gathered information about the benefits from Mr As 
scheme. It then arranged a pension transfer value analysis report. It also spoke with Mr A to 
find out about his personal details and attitude to risk. It noted that:
Mr A was 56, single and had been unemployed for around two years.
His DB scheme had a cash equivalent transfer value of £32,853. It would pay him a 
lump sum of £11,594 together with a yearly pension of £1,739 at age 65.
An alternative pension arrangement would require a critical yield (the yearly growth 
rate required to match the benefits from the DB scheme) of 11.39%.
Mr A had debts of £4,400 including a £4,000 interest free loan from a friend which 
had been outstanding for a number of years.
Hed previously been declared bankrupt but that had been discharged.
Mr A was looking to take tax free cash (TFC) from his pension to allow him to pay 
off his debts and also to give him a security deposit in the region of £2,000 to enable 
him to move away from a nuisance neighbour.
Mr A believed he would need an income of around £500 a month in retirement.
Mr A had a cautious attitude to risk.
Grove emailed Mr A on 8 March 2013. It told him its recommendation was that he should not 
transfer out of his DB scheme as it said he would definitely lose a significant amount of 
money by doing so. Mr A replied to say that hed read and understood Groves email but 
that he wanted to proceed.
On 12 March 2013 Grove sent Mr A a pension report setting out its advice and 
recommendation. Such reports are often referred to within the industry as suitability reports, 
so that's the term I've used in this decision. But for the avoidance of doubt I can confirm that 
there isn't a second separate report other than the pension report. 
Amongst other things the suitability report repeated that Groves advice was that Mr A 
should not proceed with the transfer as he would be worse off in retirement. It added that 
Mr A was adamant he wanted the pension transfer to go ahead. Grove said that on that 
basis it recommended that Mr A transfer his pension to a named personal pension in line 
with his attitude to risk. That would allow him to take TFC of £8,213 with the rest reinvested 
in the personal pension. Mr A went ahead with the transfer.
On 17 February 2021 Mr A complained to Grove about its advice in 2013. Amongst other 
things he said:
His representatives had previously made a subject access request for a copy of his 
file but Grove hadn't complied with that request.
Groves advice to transfer out of the DB scheme was negligent and didnt follow the 
regulators guidance.
It was unlikely that an alternative pension plan would grow at the rate required to 
match the DB scheme. 
Mr A wasn't aware of the guaranteed benefits from his DB scheme.
Grove should have made clear that Mr As desire for TFC wasnt worth giving up the 
guaranteed benefits from the DB scheme for. 
While he did want TFC he didnt want to potentially lose money in retirement. If that 
had been explained to him he wouldnt have proceeded. 
He wasnt paying fees for his DB scheme but would need to pay for those in a new 
scheme increasing the growth rates required. 
Grove replied directly to Mr A on 17 April 2022. It said amongst other things:
Mr A had clear and specific reasons for accessing his pension in 2013. 
It had spoken with him to understand his view on achieving his objectives compared 
with the guaranteed nature of the benefits hed be giving up from his DB scheme. 
Grove had explained all the associated risks and Mr A had confirmed he understood 
those. 
It had advised him not to proceed with the transfer. But hed replied that he wanted to 
go ahead regardless of that advice. 
Mr A brought his complaint to us. At that time his representatives said that Grove had not 
replied to Mr As complaint. 
One of our investigators looked into Mr As complaint. She didnt think Grove needed to take 
any further action. She noted that Grove had initially advised Mr A not to go ahead with the 
transfer but that hed been insistent on proceeding. She added that, given Mr As objectives, 
she thought that Grove had acted reasonably. She felt Mr A would have gone ahead with the 
transfer anyway regardless of Groves advice.
Mr A didnt agree with our investigators assessment of the complaint. Amongst other things 
he said:
There was no evidence Grove had gone through an insistent client process. 
Grove hadn't provided evidence of its emails with Mr A in which it had advised him 
not to transfer. 
Even if it had done that, providing such advice orally and in one email wasnt 
sufficient. 
Grove didnt obtain confirmation that Mr A was aware he was going against its advice 
and understood the associated risks. 
Had Grove been clear that he was proceeding against its advice Mr A would not have 
gone ahead with the transfer. 
Its suitability report is lengthy, complex and contains financial jargon. But Grove 
didnt put measures in place to ensure Mr A understood it. Mr A couldnt remember receiving the suitability report and it didnt ask him to sign to 
confirm hed read and understood it. 
While Mr A owed his friend money he wouldnt have gone ahead with the transfer if 
hed realised this would be to the detriment of his retirement income
Mr A was content with his living arrangements and had no reason to move.
He was not in a bad financial place and was not desperate for cash. 
Our investigator wasnt persuaded to change her opinion, so the complaint was referred to 
me to make a final decision. 
I asked Grove for some additional information. It provided us with a copy of its email to Mr A 
of 8 March 2013 and Mr As response to it as recorded on its system. Grove also told us that 
Mr As representatives had requested information and documents from it in 2020. It gave us 
a copy of its reply to the representatives at the time explaining why it felt that they hadn't 
made a valid personal data subject access request and so declined to provide the requested 
information. It said the representatives didnt come back to it about that. Grove also told us 
that soon after the introduction of changes to pension rules in 2015, widely known as 
pension freedoms, Mr A had  against its advice  drawn down the remaining funds from his 
personal pension.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In bringing this complaint and in replying to it both Mr A and Grove have made a number of 
points. I've considered everything on file carefully. But in this decision I dont intend to 
address each and every issue raised. Instead I will focus on what I see as being the key 
points at the heart of Mr As complaint and the reasons for my decision. 
When considering what is fair and reasonable, I am required to take into account relevant 
law and regulations; regulators rules, guidance and standards; codes of practice; and, 
where appropriate, what I consider to have been good industry practice at the time. This 
includes the regulators Principles for Business (PRIN) and the Conduct of Business 
Sourcebook (COBS). And where the evidence is incomplete, inconclusive or contradictory, I 
reach my conclusions on the balance of probabilities  that is, what I think is more likely than 
not to have happened based on the available evidence and the wider surrounding 
circumstances.
The applicable rules, regulations and requirements
The below is not a comprehensive list of the rules and regulations which applied at the time 
of the advice, but provides useful context for my assessment of Groves actions here.
PRIN 6: A firm must pay due regard to the interests of its customers and treat them fairly.
PRIN 7: A firm must pay due regard to the information needs of its clients, and communicate 
information to them in a way which is clear, fair and not misleading.
COBS 2.1.1R: A firm must act honestly, fairly and professionally in accordance with the best 
interests of its client (the client's best interests rule).
The provisions in COBS 9 which deal with the obligations when giving a personal 
recommendation and assessing suitability. And the provisions in COBS 19 which specifically 
relate to a DB pension transfer.Having considered all of this and the evidence in this case, Ive decided not to uphold the 
complaint for broadly similar reasons to those given by the investigator.
The regulator, the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA), states in COBS 19.1.16 that the 
starting assumption for a transfer from a DB scheme is that it is unsuitable. So, Grove should 
have only considered recommending a transfer if it could clearly demonstrate that the 
transfer was in Mr As best interests or if Mr A was genuinely insistent that it should proceed 
with that transfer against Groves advice.
Financial viability 
Ive noted that before Grove even began the information gathering process its early emails 
with Mr A advised him that transferring out of a DB scheme wasnt suitable for most people. 
It said that guaranteed benefits could be lost as a result. Its evidence also shows that during 
its fact-find conversation with Mr A it also made it clear that he would probably be worse off 
by transferring out of the scheme. 
Similarly in its suitability report Grove said that critical yield would definitely not be 
achievable. It said that a transfer didnt represent good value and that Mr As pension 
income would suffer as a result. It said it had stressed that transferring a pension was a very 
expensive way to raise funds and that by doing so Mr A could be around £14,321 worse off. 
So, its clear to me that all parties to the complaint are agreed that Mr A would likely be 
worse off in retirement by going ahead with the transfer. In those circumstances I dont 
intend to spend further time on an in-depth analysis of the financial viability of making a 
transfer when it clearly wasnt financially viable. 
Was Groves advice suitable?
Where a consumer decides to proceed with an investment against a financial adviser's 
advice then the consumer is known as an insistent client.
In 2013 there was no regulatory advice or guidance in place in respect of insistent clients.
But there were COBS rules which required Grove to act honestly, fairly and professionally in 
accordance with the best interests of its client. In addition, COBS required Grove to provide 
information that was clear, fair and not misleading.
Its notable that from the outset, and before it had gathered Mr As personal details, Grove let 
him know that a pension transfer wasnt suitable for everyone and presented certain risks. It 
provided him with appropriate warnings as well as information on how DB schemes worked 
including why they were considered very valuable. 
Its also apparent from Groves fact-find document that when it spoke to Mr A to gather 
details about his circumstances, it made it clear at that point that transferring from his 
scheme was unlikely to be in his best interests financially. 
I note Grove recorded that Mr A had said that he knew he wouldnt receive as much pension 
by transferring. Theres also evidence that it had warned him of the risks of doing so. For 
example it said in its email of 8 March 2013 and in its suitability report that:
Mr As DB pension was not dependent on investment returns but had guaranteed 
index linked increases which he would lose by transferring to release funds.It had explained the critical yield of 11.39% and this would mean that Mr A would 
definitely lose a significant amount of money by transferring. It said that doing so 
was an expensive way to raise funds.
His income in retirement would be reduced by transferring.
If he lived to his life expectancy of 85 then he would lose £14,321 in pension 
payments.
He was currently managing to make repayments of his debts and didnt need to 
access his pension at that point.
His friends loan didnt need repaying straightaway, so Mr A could put off repaying 
that until, for example, he started working again
I've seen Mr As said that he understood Groves advice but that he wanted to go ahead and 
transfer his pension anyway. And I note the suitability report said that it was on the basis that 
Mr A was adamant he wanted to go ahead with the transfer against its advice that it made 
its recommendation for Mr A to transfer out of the DB scheme. 
So what I need to decide now is whether it was reasonable for Grove to proceed on the 
basis that it did. I note it didnt ever explicitly use the term insistent client when giving Mr A 
advice. But, as there were no specific rules or guidance in place at the time which said 
Grove had to use that term, it was under no obligation to do so. And I don't find the omission 
of that term alone means that its advice was unsuitable. So what I need to decide now is 
whether or not Grove gave Mr A enough information that was clear, fair and not misleading 
to the extent that Mr A understood the advice Grove gave to him and that he was acting 
against that advice.
I think its worth repeating that on several occasions Mr A replied to Groves points to say he 
understood he would be worse off in retirement. He also clearly said that he understood 
Groves advice  not to transfer  and that he wanted to proceed anyway. Further I think 
Grove did a reasonable job of explaining to him exactly how a transfer could affect him 
financially. For example it told him in its 8 March 2013 email that by transferring out of the 
scheme could see him being over £14,000 worse off and that it was an expensive way of 
raising funds. I think those are stark points that told him in no uncertain terms that he would 
be worse off in retirement by transferring out of the scheme. But Mr A clearly said he wanted 
to go against that advice. 
It was only at that point that Grove produced its suitability report. I think that was a flaw in 
Groves process. That is, before it decided to treat Mr A as insistent I think it should have 
given him all the information he needed in order to make an informed decision about what he 
would be losing by transferring out of the scheme. And that would include an analysis of the 
likely benefits from the alternative scheme alongside those he would be giving up by 
transferring from the DB scheme. So I dont think Grove should have treated Mr A as an 
insistent client until after hed had time to read and digest its suitability report. I also think it 
would have been helpful if Groves advice had stopped at the point it told him it wasnt in his 
best interests to transfer. That would then have left it for Mr A to contact it again if he wanted 
to go against its advice.
But, while I think Groves advice process could have been better on that point, I think it did 
enough to clearly warn Mr A of the benefits he would be giving up by going against its 
advice. And, regardless that it didnt actually use the term insistent client or that its process 
could have been more robust, I think it was reasonable for Grove to proceed on the basis 
that Mr A was insistent that the transfer went ahead. And, having made that decision it was 
reasonable for Grove to make a recommendation that would see Mr A take the TFC he 
wanted and reinvest the remaining funds in a suitable personal pension.  Further, even if Groves advice had been entirely flawless, I think Mr A would have gone 
ahead with the transfer anyway. Ive noted that, in response to our investigators view of the 
complaint, Mr As said he was under no pressure to repay his friends loan and that he could 
pay it back when he wanted to. I accept that's the case as Grove noted it at the time. But its 
also clear that Grove addressed this point both in its email of 8 March 2013 and in its 
suitability report. It pointed out that Mr A was under no pressure to repay his friend; that he 
wasnt paying interest; and that he had no prospect of restructuring the loan to something 
more suitable. It also suggested he could tell his friend that the pension was more valuable 
to him, or that Mr A could wait until he again had a job until he repaid the loan. But its 
evident that Mr A didnt wish to accept any of those points. 
The evidence is clear that Mr A was well aware that he didnt have to repay his friend 
immediately. But Grove recorded that Mr A told it that his friend had waited long enough and 
that he didnt want the outstanding loan to ruin the friendship. He was also aware that he'd 
be worse off in retirement by going ahead with the transfer. I find those comments 
persuasive that he was determined to transfer his DB pension. And by doing so could 
release a significant sum in TFC, a sum he couldn't raise from any other source, which could 
solve some problems for him at that time.
Mr As also told us that he was happy with his living arrangements at the time and had no 
need to move; so didnt need the funds to do so. Mr As conversations with Grove took place 
over nine years ago. So, its likely that the passage of time has made his memory of those 
events less clear, but his statements now aren't supported by the evidence at the time. 
Theres very clear references in the paperwork to Mr A saying that he had a nuisance 
neighbour he wanted to get away from and that hed gone as far as looking into securing an 
ASBO against that neighbour. That is a very specific statement to make and not one Grove 
is likely to make a record of by mistake. 
It follows I think its likely that, at that time, Mr A was indeed very keen to move house and 
saw the TFC as being a solution to his problem. I think that, on balance, Mr A was more 
likely than not desperate for the money from the DB scheme, as it would allow him to 
achieve two goals: paying off a loan and moving house. So I'm satisfied that, even if Grove 
had refused to transact the pension transfer for him, Mr A would have gone ahead with the 
transfer from another firm. 
Mr As also said he doesnt recall receiving Groves suitability report. I've seen evidence that 
Grove sent the report to Mr A on 12 March 2013. Its provided us with a copy of the cover 
letter which said that the suitability report was enclosed alongside other documents including 
the papers Mr A needed to sign if he wished to proceed with the transfer. That included a 
statement that Mr A had received, read and understood Groves pension report and other 
documents. And, while I havent seen copies of the signed forms which Mr A returned, I'm 
persuaded  on balance  that he did so as if he hadn't the transfer couldnt have gone 
ahead. 
It follows that I'm satisfied that Grove was clear to Mr A that he would lose valuable benefits 
by transferring out of his pension. I'm also satisfied it made it clear that it felt that doing so 
was not in his best interests. But, as he was determined to do so, it proceeded on an 
insistent client basis. I think that was reasonable given Mr As apparent desire for TFC at the 
time. And I've seen no evidence that the personal pension it recommended to him wasnt in 
line with his attitude to risk or was otherwise unsuitable for him. So I think Grove dealt with 
Mr A fairly and reasonably. 
My final decision
For the reasons given above I dont uphold this complaint.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision before 15 November 2022.
 
Joe Scott
Ombudsman