DRN-1493827
 
The complaint
Mr Cs complaint is about a missing payment not being found quickly and the procedure for 
returning the money to him.
The details of this complaint are well-known to both parties, so I will not repeat them again 
here. Instead, I will focus on giving the reasons for my decision.
My findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. 
Having done so, I agree with the conclusions reached by the investigator for these reasons:
Its clear something went wrong and Mr Cs payment of just over £2,000 went 
missing for some time. Marks & Spencer said its security team followed the wrong 
process. It shouldve taken steps to identify Mr Cs money in a suspense account, 
confirm the transaction was genuine and applied the money to Mr Cs account. 
I understand Mr Cs frustration at what happened and recognise he had to spend 
some additional time contacting Marks & Spencer which was no doubt inconvenient 
for him. But it has acknowledged its error and put things right. It applied a temporary 
payment to Mr Cs account to ensure he wasnt impacted financially, the payment 
was located and correctly applied to his account. Its also paid or credited a total of 
£260 compensation to him.  
Mr C remains unhappy. But overall I think Marks & Spencer has acted fairly and 
taken adequate steps to put things right. Taking everything into account, including 
the level of awards we make, I think its payment of a total of £260 compensation for 
the distress and inconvenience he experienced is fair.  And I dont think I can 
reasonably require Marks & Spencer to do anything more or differently including 
paying Mr C any more compensation. 
We also arent a regulator and cannot require Marks & Spencer to change its 
practices and procedures. General issues about how the banking industry works are 
a matter for the Financial Conduct Authority.
 
For these reasons, I do not uphold this complaint.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint about Marks & Spencer Financial 
Services Plc (trading as M&S Bank).
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 24 May 2020.Stephen Cooper
Ombudsman