DRN-2415255
The complaint
Mr N is director of a company Ill refer to as E. Hes claimed on Es behalf after Accredited 
Insurance (Europe) Limited refused to pay a claim on Es fleet insurance policy. 
Mr N is represented in this complaint by a solicitor. But for ease Ill refer to all actions and 
comments as being those of Mr N.
What happened
E claimed on their policy after one of their vehicles was stolen during the night. Accredited 
turned down the claim as it said the vehicle was in the possession of someone who wasnt a 
named driver on the policy. 
Mr N didnt think this was fair. He said as it was a fleet policy the drivers frequently changed, 
and it had been a genuine oversight that the driver hadnt been added. He said the driver not 
being on the policy wasnt material to the claim as the vehicle was stolen. As Accredited 
refused to pay the claim Mr N brought Es complaint to us.
Our investigator said the policy only provided cover for drivers named on the policy. And he 
thought that was material to the theft, because the vehicle was stolen from the drivers 
house. So, he didnt ask Accredited to do anything differently. 
Mr N didnt agree. He said Accredited would have covered the driver if hed called, so it 
should cover the claim. He said any other driver could have left the vehicle at this drivers 
address so disagreed that it was material. He asked for an ombudsmans decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The policy has an endorsement that says the benefits of the policy wont operate if the 
vehicle is in the possession of anyone other than the drivers named on the policy. Its not in 
dispute that the driver who had driven the van last wasnt one of the drivers named on the 
policy. 
 
Mr N has said the driver not being insured didnt make a difference to the theft, because 
anyone could have driven it to the place it was stolen from. However, I think the uninsured 
driver having the vehicle did make a difference to the theft. Thats because it was stolen from 
his home address. And while another driver could have driven it there, the vehicle was only 
at his address because hed driven it there. 
I appreciate Accredited would have covered the driver if Mr N had called and added him, but 
I think its fair and reasonable that Accredited knows what risks its covering. And as the 
driver wasnt covered by the policy Im not going to interfere with Accrediteds decision to 
turn down the claim. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask E to accept or 
reject my decision before 10 January 2021.
 
Sarann Taylor
Ombudsman