DRN-3239185
The complaint
Mr P and Ms Z complains about how Santander UK Plc dealt with an international payment.
What happened
Mr P says in July 2020 he wished to make a payment from his Santander account to an 
account in the Czech Republic. He says he wanted to make the payment in Sterling as the 
receiving account was a Sterling account. Mr P says he tried to make the payment online but 
was unable to do so and spoke to Santander about the payment. He says he told Santander 
on a number of occasions about the currency he wished the payment to be made in, but 
Santander converted the currency into Czech koruna which meant it was then transferred 
back into Sterling resulting in a loss of £849. Mr P would like that money refunded by 
Santander and says it made a mistake.
Santander says it told Mr P on a number of occasions that it could not send the money in 
Sterling and told him the money would be exchanged. It says it also told Mr P that is why he 
could not send the money by online banking and says it warned Mr P that the money could 
be exchanged twice due to the recipient account currency.
Mr P and Ms Z brought their complaint to us and our investigator didnt uphold the complaint. 
The investigator listened to the telephone calls between the parties and provided Mr P with a 
transcript of the relevant parts. In summary the investigator thought Santander had not told 
Mr P the money would be sent in Sterling and that he had been told the currency the money 
would be converted into, which could mean the possibility of the currency being converted 
twice.
Mr P and Ms Z dont accept that view and say Santander owed them a duty of care as lay 
customers and say that Mr P made his intention clear.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so I have come to the overall view that I dont uphold this complaint. I 
appreciate Mr P and Ms Z will be disappointed by my decision.
I have listened to the telephone calls between Mr P and Santander and I am satisfied that on 
numerous occasions Mr P was told that there would be a currency conversion. I can see that 
the investigator has sent Mr P the recordings and provided him with extracts of the 
conversation. I am not going to repeat that conversation in this decision but am satisfied that 
during both telephone calls Mr P was told his only option was sending the money in Czech 
koruna. I dont think there ought to have been any doubt about what Santander was saying 
as during both calls that information was repeated. I can also hear that Mr P says now 
telling me I cant do it when referring to his attempt to send the money in Sterling. I think 
that indicates that Mr P was aware at that stage that there would be a currency conversion.
I appreciate Mr P didnt want his money converted but I am satisfied that there was a risk of 
a double currency conversation and Santander told him that during one of the calls. Im also 
satisfied that Mr P made the payment himself and that he told Santander he intended to 
speak to the recipient bank before the payment was made.
Overall, Im satisfied that Santander made its position clear and that if Mr P wished it to send 
the money to the Czech Republic then there would be a currency conversion. Im satisfied 
that in those circumstances it was Mr Ps choice to proceed with the payment and it was up 
to him to decide if he wished to send the money via a different business. It follows that I dont 
think Santander misled Mr P or gave him incorrect information. In those circumstances I 
cant fairly order Santander pay Mr P and Ms Z the money they say they lost.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr P and Ms Z to 
accept or reject my decision before 18 March 2022.
 
David Singh
Ombudsman