DRN-1690005
 
complaint
Mrs W complains that Capital One (Europe) plc (Capital One) mis-sold her a payment 
protection insurance (PPI) policy.
background
Mrs W took out a credit card with Capital One in 2003. When she rang up to activate her 
card she was sold a PPI policy which would have helped cover the payments on the card for 
up to a year at a time if she couldnt work due to an accident, sickness or redundancy. It also 
provided life cover for the outstanding balance.
Mrs W says she didnt knowingly take the PPI and that she didnt need or want it. Mrs W 
paid a total of £11.26 for the PPI over the course of the policy.
The adjudicator didnt think Mrs Ws complaint should be upheld. Mrs W disagrees, so her 
complaint has been passed to me to make a decision. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about PPI on our website and Ive taken 
this into account when deciding this case. Having done so, Im not upholding Mrs Ws 
complaint. Ill explain why.
I think Capital One made it clear that Mrs W didnt have to take out the PPI and she chose to 
take it out  although I can understand why she cant remember this. The PPI was sold when 
Mrs W called Capital One to activate her new credit card. Capital One hasnt been able to 
provide a call recording, which isnt surprising given the length of time which has passed. But 
theyve provided a copy of the call script they say wouldve been followed by their 
representative. The script makes it clear that the PPI is optional, and actively seeks the 
consumers permission to add it. I think its more likely than not that the representative 
followed this script. 
Capital One didnt recommend the PPI to Mrs W so it didnt have to check if it was right for 
her. But it did have to make sure Mrs W got the information she needed to decide if it was 
right for her. 
Its possible the information Capital One gave Mrs W about the PPI wasnt as clear as it 
shouldve been. But she chose to take out the PPI - so it looks like she wanted this type of 
cover. Based on what Ive seen of her circumstances at the time it doesnt look like she was 
affected by any of the exclusions to or limits on the PPI cover - so it would have been useful 
for her if something went wrong. It also looks like the PPI was affordable. So I dont think 
better information about the PPI would have put her off taking out the cover. Ive thought about everything Mrs W has said - including what she has said about not being 
aware she had the PPI and she didnt need it. But this doesnt change my decision. I dont 
think Mrs W lost out as a result of anything Capital One did wrong.
my final decision
Im not upholding Mrs Ws complaint, so it follows that Capital One (Europe) plc doesnt have 
to pay any compensation.
 Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs W to accept 
or reject my decision before 21 April 2020.
Sally Allbeury
Ombudsman