DRN-3138967
The complaint
S, a limited company, complains that HSBC UK Bank Plc, restricted its bank account 
causing financial loss and also stress for the director.
What happened
S explains that it had a review meeting booked with HSBC on 1 February 2021. But the case 
manager was unwell, and it was told not to be concerned. But on 16 February 2021 its 
account had been restricted. And this affected payments and meant that it has lost sales. 
This was very stressful for the director and his family.
HSBC said that S had been subject to a safeguard review to ensure that it held correct 
information about it and to help guard against financial crime. The requirement had been set 
out in June 2020 and extensions allowed due to the impact of the pandemic. But it had given 
S notice that its account would be restricted from 15 February 2021. And here it says that 
this happened on 19 February 2021 and the restriction was lifted on 25 February 2021 and S 
allowed a further period until 23 March 2021. The review was completed on 8 March 2021. It 
recognised poor communication and a delay in granting the extension. But it said it hadnt 
made a mistake in restricting the account. It offered to pay S £250 for the inconvenience 
caused.
Our investigator didnt recommend that it do anything more. He said that S was reasonably 
required to meet the safeguard requirements. HSBC had shown it sent a number of letters 
about this to the registered address for S. And an appointment had only been arranged close 
to the deadline. There was no guarantee that the review would have been completed in time 
even if the meeting on 1 February 2021 had gone ahead. He didnt think HSBC should 
compensate S for the sales of up to £15,000 it said hadnt been possible while its business 
had been restricted and it couldnt make payments. He also said he could only consider the 
possible impact on S a separate legal entity from the director.
S didnt agree and wanted its complaint to be reviewed. It was unhappy to have waited for 
this outcome and it maintained that it had lost an estimated £15,000 in this period. This had 
caused significant stress. It took seven days for HSBC to reactivate the account and direct 
debits had been cancelled and S had no online presence, and this was shown in no sales 
being made.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The safeguard review was one way in which HSBC sought to meet regulatory and legal 
requirements. I think that HSBC had set out what it needed and its deadlines. Notably 
following the initial unmet requests, it wrote to S on 16 December 2020 and said that the 
account would be restricted from 15 February 2021 and then closed. And a reminder was 
sent on 11 January 2021. Ive no reason to think that these and other letters werent 
correctly sent. And clearly an appointment had been booked although close to the deadline.
It was unfortunate that this review meeting couldnt take place. S says that it was assured 
there wouldnt be an issue, but HSBC has no record of that. I cant see evidence to support 
any extension of the restriction being made. I can see that HSBC noted a first request for an 
extension on 23 February 2021 and says it agreed to this on 25 February 2021. It accepts it 
could have dealt with things better but in correspondence with this service maintains that 
there was no guarantee that the review could have been completed in the available 
timescale.
I think S had already had an extended period to complete the review. Neither HSBC nor S 
could anticipate a problem with it not going ahead which due to sickness was beyond 
anyones control and caused inconvenience. But I need to think whether HSBC would fairly 
be responsible for any financial loss to S. First Id need to think that the review would 
otherwise have been completed in time and I note that even when the account was 
reinstated the review wasnt completed until 8 March 2021. Second I need to think about 
whether HSBC had made the consequences of the review not completing in time clear to S. 
And I think it had and Im not persuaded it told S that there was any change. Third I need to 
think about S actions in the context of the time it had been given to complete the review, the 
steps it took to complete this in a timely way and whether it could fairly have mitigated or 
even avoided this position. I think that it could have done so and that it wasnt inevitable that 
one cancelled meeting ought to have put it in this position. 
I know S thinks that because HSBC has admitted errors it is automatically responsible for 
what it sees as a financial loss. But Im afraid that for the reasons Ive given the position isnt 
as straightforward in my judgement as S would like me to find. Putting what happened into 
that perspective Ive set out above I dont think HSBC made a mistake in restricting the 
account. When S got in contact it then took action to address what happened. So, it isnt 
fairly responsible for any financial loss for S. Having made that finding I wont be considering 
the trading information that S did provide and which it says supports a financial loss.
I think HSBCs offer to pay £250 for the inconvenience given the full context is reasonable. 
And while I dont doubt the director was distressed as our investigator has said I can only 
consider the impact on S, the complainant here.
My final decision
HSBC has made an offer to pay S £250 to settle this complaint. I think that this is fair in all 
the circumstances and so my decision is that HSBC UK Bank Plc pay S £250.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask S to accept or 
reject my decision before 4 January 2022.
 
Michael Crewe
Ombudsman