DRN-2893624
The complaint
Ms A complains that AXA Insurance UK Plc caused her distress when she called it about a 
potential home insurance claim, and by its response to her complaint about that matter.
What happened
Ms A called AXA about a tree in her garden which was thought to be causing damage to her 
pathway, a shared fence, and her neighbours patio. Ms A complained about the way the 
phone call was handled by AXAs staff member.
AXA didnt consider its staff member had intended to cause upset, and it said he had asked 
appropriate questions and provided correct information. However, AXA acknowledged the 
call could have been handled better. It apologised to Ms A and compensated her £100.
Ms A remained unhappy, so she contacted our service. She says AXAs behaviour caused 
her financial harm and a great deal of emotional stress. She says, during the call, the staff 
member was intimidating and aggressive, and he was unable to efficiently direct her to 
information in her policy terms.
One of our investigators thought £100 was fair compensation. Ms A disagreed, so her 
complaint has been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I have carefully considered all of Mr As submissions. However, its not our role to comment 
on every point made. Its for me to determine the crux of the complaint, and to address the 
issues I consider relevant to its outcome. Where I havent directly commented on a point, 
this isnt intended as a discourtesy. But rather, this is simply a reflection of the informal 
nature of our service, its remit, and my role in it. The crux of Ms As complaint is shes 
unhappy about the service she received during a phone call. 
Ive listened to the phone call in question and kept in mind what Ms A has said in her various 
exchanges with AXA and our service. Whilst I dont consider it necessary to make a finding 
on each and every part of the call, and I didnt find the staff member to be aggressive, the 
service provided was particularly poor in my view. I can understand why Ms A found his 
manner intimidating and why she was upset.
In my view, the staff member came across as rude and dismissive, and sought to put blame 
on Ms A for a tree that had been professionally planted. The suggestion she should have 
had some prior knowledge of trees, or have undertaken research before the tree was 
planted, was unfair and unhelpful to the discussion being had. 
The discussion focused on heave, which as the staff member explained, is unlikely to be the 
cause. Heave occurs when the soil swells, causing upward movement. This can occur after 
a mature tree is removed, that was previously taking moisture from the ground. Ms As tree 
was still in situ.
However, there wasnt a discussion about subsidence. This is downward movement, which 
is often caused by tree roots taking moisture from the soil. The staff member advised Ms A 
that damage caused to her property by the tree roots is excluded, due to it being damage 
caused gradually. This isnt the approach our service would take to subsidence or heave. 
Subsidence and heave are gradual by nature, and such damage is expressly covered by 
Ms As policy. As such, it cant reasonably be excluded by a general policy exclusion for 
gradual damage. 
Having said that, Ms As policy excludes subsidence to fences and paths unless the main 
building is damaged at the same time. If Ms A believes her main building has also been 
damaged, or if shes unsure what the policy terms mean by main building, she should 
contact AXA so it can consider the matter further.
The staff member told Ms A to let AXA know should the neighbour make a claim against her 
for the damage to their property, so it can consider a claim under her liability cover. This in 
my view, was reasonable.
Having accepted the phone call wasnt handled well, Ive considered whether AXA has done 
enough to put matters right. When doing so, Ive kept in mind the impact on Ms A, and what 
shes told us about her circumstances. 
Whilst I understand why Ms A found the phone call upsetting, overall, Im satisfied that £100 
compensation fairly acknowledges the distress the staff member can reasonably be said to 
have caused Ms A. Its not my role to make punitive awards, and I wouldnt have awarded 
significantly more compensation if AXA hadnt made this offer. 
Ms A would like her policy premium returned as shes unhappy with the service provided by 
AXA. However, I dont consider that would be reasonable given shes had the benefit of the 
cover.
My final decision
Im sorry to disappoint Ms A. But for the reasons Ive set out above, Im not increasing the 
compensation AXA gave her. This means, I dont uphold this complaint.
 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms A to accept or 
reject my decision before 27 July 2021.
 
Vince Martin
Ombudsman