DRN-3672959
The complaint
Mrs A is complaining about Great Lakes Insurance SE cancelling her pet insurance policy 
under their abusive behaviour policy.
When I refer to Great Lakes Im also referring to the broker that administers the policy.
What happened
Mrs A had a lifetime pet insurance policy with Great Lakes. The policy provided cover for 
her pets, which have ongoing health issues.
Mrs A is a vulnerable person and has serious health conditions which can affect her 
behaviour. Shes also visually impaired and has reduced mobility.
In 2018 Great Lakes cancelled Mrs As policy due to what they said was her unreasonable 
behaviour. Mrs A brought a complaint to us, and in December 2019 an Ombudsman 
decided that Great Lakes had cancelled her policy unfairly. He didnt think Mrs As 
behaviour had been so extreme that the policy should be cancelled. So, he decided Great 
Lakes should reinstate the policy. He said he wasnt asking Great Lakes to provide a policy 
indefinitely, and Great Lakes still had the right to cancel the policy in line with the terms and 
conditions if there was behaviour from Mrs A they felt was unreasonable in the future.
After the policy was reinstated, Great Lakes put a dedicated team of around six advisers in 
place to deal with all Mrs As queries and claims under the policy. Great Lakes 
arrangement was that Mrs A would call the general helpline and be put through to a 
member of her team if they were available; if not, they would call her back, ideally on the 
same day. Mrs A continued to speak to Great Lakes regularly about her claims.
Following calls between Mrs A and their advisers, Great Lakes sent letters to her on 30 
October 2020 and 8 January 2021 explaining that the things shed said werent 
acceptable under the policy they had in place to protect their staff from unreasonable 
behaviour. 
And after further calls, on 14 January 2022 they wrote to her to say they would be 
cancelling her insurance policy. The policy was cancelled on 14 February 2022. Great 
Lakes said they would honour any claims for treatment received up to this date.
Mrs A brought a complaint to us. She thinks Great Lakes have cancelled her policy 
unfairly. She says, in summary, that if her pets treatment isnt paid for by her insurance 
policy she will need to euthanise her pets as she wont be able to afford the treatment.
Our investigator looked into the complaint. She didnt think Mrs A had been treated 
fairly. She said, in summary:
she didnt think the information about Mrs A that was added to the notes for advisers 
to see when they answered her calls went far enough to explain her health and the 
process for handling her calls - which put an unfair expectation on Mrs A to explain 
this each time;
some of the calls were terminated incorrectly or werent handled with the 
necessary empathy;
in some of the calls the advisers didnt recognise Mrs As behaviour was a result of 
her medical conditions and didnt handle it appropriately;
by having an arrangement where advisers called Mrs A back rather than a 
dedicated phone line to speak directly to advisers in her team, Mrs A was put at a 
disadvantage compared to other customers, who could expect an answer to their 
query immediately; and
she noted that Great Lakes had failed to provide Mrs As documents in large 
print despite her requesting this, and them being aware of her visual 
impairment.
Overall she didnt think Great Lakes had been flexible or adaptive in exploring the best 
way to communicate with Mrs A. Because of this, she didnt think it was fair for Great 
Lakes to have given Mrs A warnings, when she considered that their actions had 
contributed or led to Mrs As behaviour. She asked Great Lakes to reinstate Mrs As policy, 
consider any potential claims she had during the cancellation period, remove any record of 
the policy being cancelled, and pay £500 in compensation.
Great Lakes disagreed with the investigators view. They said, in summary:
they didnt think the investigator had taken everything into account and was 
excusing Mrs As behaviour because they hadnt always got it quite right in how 
they dealt with her;
their understanding of the Ombudsmans decision in 2019 was that they could warn 
Mrs A and terminate her policy if she continued with the unacceptable behaviour after 
the warnings  without that option they couldnt protect their staff;
the process of using a dedicated team for Mrs A was a last resort after 
exhausting alternative options, such as communicating only by email, Mrs A 
appointing a representative or having a senior team member as the only point of 
contact, none of which worked for both sides;
it's difficult to maintain consistency in Mrs As team because the advisers either 
leave, are medically signed off, or Mrs A asks for them to be removed;
there are warnings in place that Mrs A is a vulnerable consumer and needs to be 
called back, but they dont think its necessary to describe Mrs As specific 
vulnerabilities as her team is aware of them; and
theyre an online company so they dont send large print documents by post as 
standard, but they have recently put an arrangement in place that every policy 
document on renewal would be sent to Mrs A in large print from now on  and they 
recognise they could do more in this space for consumers who require reasonable 
adjustments.
They said that members of their staff had left, or needed therapy, purely as a result of 
handling Mrs As calls. They accepted that they hadnt always handled the reasonable adjustments perfectly, but they didnt think that meant they should be required to keep Mrs 
A as a consumer indefinitely.
Mrs As complaint was passed to me for review and a decision.
My provisional decision
I issued my provisional decision on 15 July 2022. This is what I said.
I understand why both Mrs A and Great Lakes feel very strongly about this complaint and 
Ive thought very carefully about it. And, although Im sorry for the distress it will no doubt 
cause Mrs A, Ive provisionally decided Great Lakes havent acted unfairly in cancelling 
her policy. Ill explain why.
The calls
Ive listened to the calls that prompted the two written warnings for unreasonable 
behaviour and then the cancellation of the policy. At times Mrs As language and manner 
during the calls have been unacceptable, but I also think that at times Great Lakes could 
have been more sympathetic in how they spoke to her, and I dont think this has helped 
matters. Ive summarised the calls that led to the warnings below.
Calls of 28 October 2020
Mrs A called and spoke to an adviser about a claim. The adviser explained that Mrs 
As claim wouldnt be covered. Mrs A became upset and raised her voice  she said 
her pet would need to be euthanised, that the adviser was going to kill her pet, and 
that shes previously tried to kill herself. I think the adviser handled this firmly but 
sympathetically.
Mrs A was put through to the advisers supervisor. Its clear from the outset that his attitude 
is less sympathetic than his colleagues. He said he didnt need to know about Mrs As 
personal circumstances and it wasnt fair for his team members to hear she wanted to kill 
herself. Mrs A said (I think, rightly, in terms of the context of her relationship with Great 
Lakes) that her personal circumstances were relevant. The conversation became more 
heated with both parties talking over each other. The supervisor said he was going to send 
a written warning and Mrs A said she was going to ask for him to be sacked.
Following this call, Great Lakes sent Mrs A a first written warning. They said Mrs As 
behaviour during the call was unacceptable. They told her if they needed to warn her 
again, they would only be able to communicate with her in writing.
I do think the supervisor could have handled the call better than he did. And I think this led 
partly to Mrs A saying she was going to ask for him to be sacked. But I think, on balance 
that the first written warning was appropriate and in line with Great Lakes unreasonable 
behaviour policy.
Calls of 29 December 2020
On this day it seemed that Great Lakes systems were down. The first adviser did seem to 
be able to read Mrs As notes. She said shed send a message to Mrs As dedicated team 
for someone to call her back within two days. Mrs A was unhappy with that  she explained 
the arrangement was that someone should call her the same day. Although Mrs A was 
clearly upset and angry about what shed been told, her behaviour and language werent abusive  but the adviser terminated the call citing that Mrs A had been abusive.
Mrs A called back and spoke to a different adviser. She explained that the previous adviser 
put the phone down on her, and said she may get sacked. The adviser explained that due 
to systems issues he couldnt search for Mrs As policy, but he offered to set a time to call 
her back that day, and said he would call her with an update even if the systems werent 
back up. Mrs A said she was a unique customer, who had her own team. But she had to 
make a call to get hold of that team. Mrs A told the adviser to get his supervisor 
immediately  or hed be in trouble. Its not clear from the recording we have how this call 
ended.
Mrs A called back again twice. The first time she asked the adviser to confirm where she 
was based, and then asked if there were systems issues. When the adviser confirmed 
these points Mrs A put the phone down.
Mrs A called again a few minutes later. She asked if there were systems issues and the 
adviser said there were, but he had a manual claim form he could complete. At this point 
Mrs A swore aggressively at the adviser and put the phone down.
After these calls Great Lakes sent Mrs A a second written warning. They said this was 
because Mrs A repeatedly swore, called the agents idiots, stupid, questioned one 
agents dedication to their work and threatened to get them into trouble.
Overall I can see that this experience was very frustrating for Mrs A  she needed to 
explain the reasonable adjustments process to the first agent and in my view the adviser 
ended the first call inappropriately. But given the nature of the following conversations I 
think the warning was appropriate.
Call of 17 June 2021
Great Lakes chose not to take any action after this call as Mrs A was in hospital. But for 
completeness, Im mentioning it here as Great Lakes referred to it in the cancellation 
letter. During this call Mrs A said the adviser was stupid and asked if she was brain 
dead.
Calls of 11 December 2021, and 13 and 14 January 2022.
Mrs A spoke to a member of her personal team on 11 December to talk about a 
payment due to her. They discussed the arrangements for the team  Mrs A thought 
this adviser hadnt been handling her calls on purpose, and said he had a stinking 
attitude. She said other team members didnt have the same bad attitude. She said 
someone should be available to speak to her at all times.
Mrs A went on to say that shes not racist, and the adviser shouldnt play that one with 
me. The adviser asked how Mrs A could determine his race from the call and she replied 
because of how you speak. The adviser said that nobody had said Mrs A was racist, so 
he would gloss over her comment.
On 13 and 14 January 2022 Mrs A spoke to an adviser who had replaced a member of her 
team that had left. The adviser was polite and sympathetic in the calls throughout. In the 
first call Mrs A asked her who the hell are you? and told the adviser to get lost. 
However, the call did end amicably. In the second call Mrs A said that the adviser had lied 
to her, and was trying to blackmail her. Her tone, in my view, was aggressive and 
confrontational.On 14 January 2022 Great Lakes sent Mrs A notice that they would be cancelling her policy 
on 14 February 2022 due to her unreasonable behaviour. They explained that this was due 
to her speaking to the adviser she spoke to on 13 and 14 January 2022 in an aggressive 
and threatening manner, and that during the call of 11 December 2021 she made 
comments about the advisers race which made him uncomfortable. They also referred to 
the comments made during the call of 17 June 2021.
There have been times the level of service has fallen short. I agree that there have been 
times when advisers dont appear to have been aware of Mrs As health conditions and 
the arrangements for reasonable adjustments and have ended the calls prematurely. 
However, as Ive explained I think the warnings have been given appropriately overall, 
and the unreasonable behaviour policy has been applied correctly, leading to Mrs As 
policy being cancelled.
Reasonable adjustments
Great Lakes have an obligation under the Equality Act 2010 to make reasonable 
adjustments to remove barriers to consumers using their services. This could mean 
tailoring their service to a consumers needs or doing something for that consumer that it 
already does for others. But in some situations what the consumer is asking for isnt 
practical and so we wouldnt ask the business to make that adjustment.
When deciding a case we take the Equality Act 2010 into account  because its relevant 
law. But we cant make a legal finding about whether a business has breached the 
Equality act  that would be for a court to decide.
As Ive explained, after Mrs As previous complaints, Great Lakes set up a dedicated team 
to handle Mrs As calls. The arrangement was that Mrs A would contact the helpline, and 
messages for call backs would be passed on to her team.
I can see that sometimes its taken some time for advisers to identify Mrs As needs and 
Mrs A has had to explain that she has a dedicated team that will call her back. Clearly, this 
isnt an ideal situation, and I do think this has contributed to how she reacted at times. 
Great Lakes have explained they have a note on their system to explain Mrs A needs to 
speak to her particular team of advisers, but the adviser taking her initial call will only see 
this message when they open the system, and sometimes they will try to help before 
opening Mrs As details on the system so wont immediately be aware of the process to 
follow.
I do think Great Lakes could have added more detail to the system note to let their 
advisers know why Mrs A has a specialist team and that she requires sensitivity in how 
they handle her calls from the very start of the call. I dont think there should be any 
difficulty with them having a more detailed note which would help their advisers to 
understand they need to handle Mrs As call sensitively, even if their only role is to 
organise a call back. I think there are times when the process hasnt worked as slickly as 
it should have, which has caused Mrs A to become frustrated.
However, Im also mindful that when Mrs A speaks to members of her team who are 
aware of her conditions and who remain patient and calm throughout, her manner 
remains challenging and at times her language has been abusive towards the advisers. 
So, Im not sure that having a more detailed note would have changed things here in the 
way Mrs A communicates or would have prevented the episodes that led to the warnings 
and the cancellation.I do think Great Lakes have offered Mrs A adjustments that are reasonable in view of all 
the circumstances here  and theyve been flexible with their usual process, to 
accommodate her needs, by putting a dedicated team in place for her. Theyve explained 
that her team dont have direct dial numbers and have calls to take from other customers 
too  so theyre not always going to be immediately available and will need to call Mrs A 
back. This seems reasonable to me, and I dont think this means Mrs A is receiving a 
worse service than other customers.
Theyve also continued to communicate with Mrs A over the phone when their usual 
process is to revert to written correspondence only, because this doesnt work well for Mrs 
A due to her visual impairment. While Great Lakes could have done better with how they 
handled some of Mrs As calls, I dont think theyve been unfair overall in how theyve 
applied reasonable adjustments. As Ive explained, the recourse they give needs to be 
balanced with the practical needs of their business and protecting their staff, and I dont 
think I could reasonably expect them to have done any more here.
I also think there was some responsibility for Mrs A to take steps to reassess how she 
interacted with Great Lakes to maintain a relationship with them  such as 
communicating through a third party. I know thats not always an easy solution (and it 
isnt for Mrs A.) But I need to balance this with how long its reasonable for Great Lakes 
advisers to experience Mrs As behaviour.
While I understand that Mrs As behaviour can stem from her medical conditions - which 
can cause mood swings and anger - I dont think its reasonable to expect Great Lakes 
advisers to continue to experience this indefinitely after theyve put reasonable adjustments 
in place to help Mrs A communicate with them. Great Lakes have a responsibility to protect 
their staff too  and theyve told us some of them have left or have developed mental 
health issues as a result of their role on Mrs As team. I dont think its fair for that to 
continue at this point.
From everything Ive seen so far, I dont think Great Lakes have treated Mrs A unfairly 
by cancelling her policy. I know Mrs A will be extremely upset, and Im sorry for this. 
But, provisionally, Im not going to ask Great Lakes to reinstate her policy.
I do agree with the investigator that Great Lakes should have a better process in place to 
send Mrs As documents in large print, rather than expecting her to ask for this every 
time. And I think at times their customer service has fallen short when theyve dealt with 
Mrs As calls. So I think they should pay compensation to reflect the impact this has had 
on Mrs A.
Because of Mrs As health conditions, I think the poor service during some of the calls, 
and the failure to give her the reasonable adjustments shes asked for relating to large 
print documents, has had a considerable impact on her emotional wellbeing. And I think 
£500 is fair and reasonable compensation for this.
I understand that although Great Lakes have said theyll honour any claims up to 14 
February 2022, Mrs A says is having difficulty contacting them to discuss her ongoing 
claims. 
I would like Great Lakes to explain what their position is on how they will manage
any future contact from Mrs A about her ongoing claims in response to my 
provisional decision.Mrs A gave a very detailed response to my provisional decision. Ive considered everything 
shes said, but Ive summarised the main points which relate to the crux of her complaint 
below.
She has major concerns that my provisional decision didnt take into account everything 
shed said about her medical conditions and her health. Shes explained in detail about 
the personal circumstances that have contributed to the issues with her health;
she didnt receive the second warning or the cancellation letter from Great Lakes;
she doesnt think Great Lakes have been truthful in describing how her behaviour has 
affected their staff members;
there was supposed to be someone at Great Lakes available to speak to her at all times;
someone who provides Mrs A a service related to her pets has now agreed to act as a 
representative and she would like Great Lakes to consider a trial period of this 
arrangement instead of cancelling her policy; and
She doesnt think £500 is enough to reflect what shes been through. 
Great Lakes responded to say they agreed with my provisional decision and they would pay 
Mrs A £500 in line with what Id said. 
They said they contacted Mrs A on our request after she said she was having trouble 
speaking to them to log a new claim, but when they did, she didnt have any new claims to 
log. But if she does have any new claims to log relating to the time before the policy ended, 
she can log them in her usual way, by phone or email. 
They also said theyd considered Mrs As proposal to appoint a third party representative to 
communicate with them on her behalf. But they werent confident that this would work out as 
a long-term solution, because they didnt think Mrs A would stick to the agreement not to 
contact them directly. So, they didnt agree to reinstating Mrs As policy.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive not changed my provisional decision that Great Lakes dont need to 
reinstate Mrs As policy. Ill explain why.
Id like to reassure Mrs A that Ive considered everything shes said and provided about her 
medical conditions and her personal history and circumstances. I dont need to see any 
more medical evidence from Mrs A, because I fully accept that what shes told us about her 
health is true. Im very sorry to learn about what shes been through. But as Ive explained in 
my provisional decision, I think Great Lakes made reasonable adjustments for Mrs A to help 
her communicate with them, taking into account her medical conditions, and I dont think its 
reasonable to expect Great Lakes advisers to continue to experience Mrs As behaviour 
indefinitely after theyd put reasonable adjustments in place to help her communicate with 
them. Mrs A mentioned that she didnt receive the second warning (after the call of 29 December 
2020) or the cancellation letter. But she referred to the second warning in detail in an email 
she sent to Great Lakes on 21 January 2021, copying in our investigator. In the email she 
refers to the call of 29 December 2020 and says that Great Lakes wrote to her on the 
Tuesday of the week before her email to issue a warning. She goes on to talk about the 
content of the warning. So, I do think she was aware of the second warning at the time it was 
issued. 
Our investigator emailed Mrs A on 17 January 2022 to tell her Great Lakes had sent her a 
letter explaining her policy had been cancelled. And Mrs A signed for receipt of the letter 
from Great Lakes on 19 January 2022. So I think she was aware her policy had been 
cancelled at that point in time. 
In my provisional decision Ive explained why I dont think it would have been reasonable for 
Great Lakes to have someone from Mrs As team available to speak to her immediately at all 
times, and Ive not seen anything to show Great Lakes specifically agreed to this. I think the 
adjustments they did make to help Mrs A to continue to communicate with them about her 
policy were reasonable. 
Ive not asked for evidence of what Great Lakes staff members have told them about their 
mental health as I dont think this is appropriate or necessary. I think its unlikely that this is 
something they would make up, as Mrs A has suggested. But I think the main point here is 
that Great Lakes have a policy to protect their staff from unreasonable behaviour and I dont 
think theyve used it inappropriately in Mrs As case.
Great Lakes have considered Mrs As recent proposal to appoint a third party representative 
and theyve declined it, for the reasons Ive set out above. From everything Ive seen, I dont 
think thats unreasonable, taking into account whats happened during their relationship with 
Mrs A and the late stage in proceedings that this has been suggested as a possible course 
of action. I agree with Great Lakes that its unlikely this will work out as a long-term solution, 
because I think its likely that Mrs A will continue to contact them directly in any event. And I 
think the relationship between Great Lakes and Mrs A has broken down to the extent where 
it wouldnt be fair to ask Great Lakes to reinstate the policy now, even with a third party 
representative in place.
Great Lakes have now agreed to pay Mrs A £500 for not having a better process in place for 
sending her large print documents, and for the instances of poor service she received, and I 
still think this is fair and reasonable in line with what Ive said in my provisional decision, 
taking into account the impact these particular issues have had on Mrs A.
I understand how disappointed Mrs A will be, and Im sorry to upset her  but I dont think 
Great Lakes have treated her unfairly by cancelling her policy. Im not going to change my 
provisional decision that Great Lakes dont need to reinstate her policy.
My final decision
My final decision is that Great Lakes Insurance SE should pay Mrs A £500 in 
compensation. Ive not found that they should reinstate her pet insurance policy.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs A to accept or 
reject my decision before 12 October 2022.
 
Helen SutcliffeOmbudsman