DRN-3645539
The complaint and what happened
Mrs Is representative is unhappy with how Barclays Bank UK PLC has managed Mrs Is 
current account.
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again 
here. The facts are not in dispute, so Ill focus on giving my reasons for my decision.
Due to Mrs Is health, her representative has control over her finances and is bringing this 
complaint on her behalf. This case relates to Mrs Is account only and the matters dealt with 
in the final responses issued by Barclays in January and April 2022.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the conclusions reached by the investigator for these reasons:
Its accepted by all parties that another person was authorised on Mrs Is account, with 
her initial agreement, for a long period of time. While I accept the reason behind this 
authorisation isnt known and the paperwork for this isnt now available, that doesnt 
change the fact that this party was authorised on the account during the time they made 
withdrawals. And as this authorisation went back over six years, I wouldnt expect 
Barclays to still hold a copy of the original paperwork.
Our investigator has explained to Mrs Is representative the limited remit we have in a 
situations such as hers. A large amount of this complaint concerns criminal/civil matters. 
Its not within or role nor would it be appropriate for our service to make a finding on how 
another party, who is not privy to this complaint, acted. So I cant and wont be making 
findings on all her complaint points.
Mrs Is representative believes that the authorised other party was stealing funds, but 
this hasnt been formally or legally proven. And even if this was later shown, I havent 
seen anything to suggest this wouldve been apparent to Barclays at the relevant time. 
Mrs Is representative considers Barclays couldve done more to protect the account, but 
this is with the benefit of hindsight and as she says the other party was acting 
dishonestly. Barclays had none of this knowledge. And it seems highly likely the other, 
authorised, party couldve provided plausible and reasonable explanations if branch staff 
questioned them about the withdrawals. Its even possible they did do this at the time. 
Mrs Is representative has questioned why Barclays didnt check that the third parties 
access to the account was still valid, as it had been on-going for some time. But I dont 
see how this would have changed things in this case; or agree this was required. The 
third party was in contact with Mrs I and has an on-going relationship with her. And 
considering her health and the language barrier  and the fact that at that time Barclays 
had no obvious reason to be suspicious of the third party  I cant agree this was 
something it should have done, or it wouldve changed their authority. Also, while that 
may not be the situation here, many people in situations similar to Mrs Is have another 
party on their account in the same way she did  and nothing dishonest occurs and they 
wouldnt want to have to regularly re-verify this individual, as theyre trusted and have a 
positive relationship.
Mrs Is representative has raised a complaint point about Barclays breaching her data as 
she says a member of staff shared details about her with the third party. I havent seen 
any evidence of this, but in any event, by the representatives reporting, this occurred 
before she had authority to act as Mrs Is representative. This means I cant consider this 
under Mrs Is complaint.
I accept this will be disappointing for Mrs Is representative, but I havent seen any evidence 
that Barclays has mismanaged Mrs Is account. And as above, a number of issues raised in 
this complaint are not ones that are within the remit of our service and instead are matters 
that need to be, and can be, better dealt with elsewhere. Mrs Is representative has raised 
further issues that havent had a formal complaint response since this case was taken on by 
our service, so I have not commented on these. But again these may be better dealt with 
elsewhere, as they also relate to the third party and their actions on the account when they 
had authority. 
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I dont uphold Mrs Is complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs I to accept or 
reject my decision before 6 October 2022.
 
Amy Osborne
Ombudsman