DRN-3551981
The complaint
Mr F complains that Tesco Personal Finance Plc wont refund payments he made using his 
credit card towards an investment scam.
What happened
The detailed background to this complaint is well known to both parties. So, Ill only provide 
an overview of some of the key events here. 
In 2018 Mr F made payments using his Tesco credit card. Mr F says the payments were to 
invest in online trading with a merchant Ill refer to as M. The payments themselves 
appeared on his statements as going to another merchant Ill refer to as E. Including 
transaction fees, the payments totalled around £8,000. There were also modest credits 
received back onto Mr Fs card from E. Mr F says these were withdrawals that M 
encouraged him to make to reassure him everything was legitimate. Mr F says he didnt get 
the service he paid for as M were operating a scam  he says his money was never traded. 
In August 2019 Mr F asked Tesco to help him get a refund. 
Ultimately Tesco said they were unable to assist. They said that there was no option for a 
refund under either the chargeback scheme or Section 75 of the Consumer Credit Act 1974 
(s.75). Mr F complained and when Tesco maintained their position, he referred his complaint 
to our service. 
One of our Investigators recommended that the complaint should be upheld. In summary 
she thought that Tesco should provide Mr F with a refund under s.75. Tesco said the 
conditions for s.75 hadnt been met and so the matter was passed to me to decide. 
In May 2022 I issued a provisional decision in which I said:
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im intending to reach a different outcome. So Im issuing this provisional 
decision to give everyone a further opportunity to comment. 
Tesco are bound by the card scheme providers chargeback rules which in this case is 
Mastercard. Whilst there is no right to a chargeback, I generally consider it to be good 
practice that a chargeback be raised if there is a reasonable chance of it succeeding. But a 
chargeback can only be made within the scheme rules. 
Under the Mastercard scheme rules there is limited protection for payments going to any sort 
of investment. Our service has clarified with Mastercard that there may be a chargeback 
route to pursue if the merchant doesnt make available on its platform funds transferred to it. 
I understand Mr Fs argument that M didnt have a real trading platform and so never made 
available his funds. Im sympathetic to his situation, but alleging that there was no real 
trading account is essentially saying that M were operating a scam. And this isnt something 
that the Mastercard chargeback scheme provides a dispute resolution process for. 
Further to this Mastercard have confirmed to our service that all that would be required for a 
merchant to defend a chargeback would be evidence showing available funds on the 
customers account. I think this is something the merchant easily would have been able to 
provide. So, I dont think Tesco acted unfairly when declining to raise a chargeback, as I 
think their conclusion that there was no avenue for them to pursue that had any prospect of 
success, was reasonable. 
Section 75
Ive also considered s.75 which gives a debtor the right to pursue a like claim for breach of 
contract and/or misrepresentation against a creditor as he would have against the supplier of 
goods or services. For this to have been a valid option there must have been an unbroken 
chain between the debtor (Mr F), creditor (Tesco) and the supplier (M). Ill refer to this as the 
DCS chain. And any claim being made would have to have related to a breach of contract 
and or a misrepresentation between Mr F and M in relation to a contract that was funded by 
the Tesco credit card.
But in this case, none of Mr Fs payments went directly to M. From his card statements I can 
see that the payments all go to E. Ive researched this and have found no link between E 
and M. There is no right under s.75 to pursue a like claim against a third party (such as E) 
who was not privy to the debtor-creditor-supplier relationship. Ive considered that Mr F has 
supplied documentation that he filled in to confirm authorising the deposits and for them to 
go to M. But this isnt sufficient to evidence that E were party to the contract he had with M. If 
Mr F has further evidence to support this, Id be happy to consider this if he provides it in 
response to this provisional decision. But as things stand, I dont think there is sufficient 
evidence to support that the DCS chain was unbroken. And without this, there isnt a valid 
claim under s.75.
Intervention
Mr Fs payments that he says ended up with M were all made in July 2018. The first warning 
Ive been able to find about M is on the Financial Conduct Authority website where it was 
first published in September 2018 (after all the payments had been made). Also, the 
payments were all made to E and so it wouldnt have been apparent to Tesco that the 
intended beneficiary of the payments was M in any case. 
However, Tesco still have obligations to be alert to unusual and out of character transactions 
with a view to protecting their customer from financial harm from fraud and scams. The final 
two payments to E that Mr F made were each for £3,821.76. They both also attracted a 
foreign exchange fee and they both took place on 27 July 2018. 
It isnt uncommon for people to use credit cards for one off or occasional spending that is 
larger than their typical monthly spend. And Mr Fs payments were still within his available 
credit limit. But I think the second of the payments on 27 July 2018 ought to have given 
Tesco cause for concern. Combined with the previous payment it represented spending of 
over £7,600 on one day. Having looked at the previous statements for Mr Fs card, this is 
clearly unusual and out of character. 
So, I think Tesco should have held the second payment and contacted Mr F before releasing 
it. I dont think Tesco ought to have intervened prior to that point. Id have expected Tesco to 
have asked him probing questions about the nature of the payment he was making and if 
appropriate to have provided him with a warning about common scams. Ive gone on to think about whether Tesco doing this would have made a difference. Ultimately, I dont think it 
would have done, I think Mr F would have gone ahead with his payment even if warned of 
the potential for a scam. 
Mr Fs testimony is that the withdrawals he made were instrumental in convincing him that 
he had a genuine investment. These took place before the larger payments Ive mentioned 
above. As Mr F presumably had checked the withdrawals had arrived on his card before 
making the larger payments, he would have seen that his payments and credits were going 
to E and not M. So, I dont think this is something he would have been unaware of or would 
have questioned further if Tesco had pointed it out. 
I also think that Mr F would have genuinely been reassured by his ability to make a 
withdrawal. In short, I dont think any reasonable level of questioning by Tesco would have 
resulted in Mr F deciding not to go ahead with his payment. And even if hed been prompted 
to make further enquiries at that time, the warnings Ive mentioned above werent published 
or available at the time of the payment. So, I cant say its likely Mr F would have discovered 
information at that time that would have prevented him going ahead. 
Overall whilst I think Tesco should have intervened in the payment Ive described above, as 
Im not persuaded that intervention would have made a difference, I cant fairly ask them to 
do more.
Mr F responded to my provisional decision with some comments and evidence that Ill 
address below. Tesco didnt respond. Now both parties have had an opportunity to 
comment, I can go ahead with my final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr F believes the further evidence hes provided shows a link between E and M and 
establishes that the DCS chain is intact. Mr F provided two emails, one actually indicates 
that his payment went to a different company P and included details of how it would appear 
on his statement (which were incorrect as it appeared to go to E). The other is an 
acknowledgement email from M that said his deposit had been processed and applied to his 
account. 
Ive considered both of these but I dont think either email evidences that E were party to the 
contract between Mr F and M. As such Im not persuaded its been evidenced that the DCS 
chain is unbroken and therefore there cant be a claim made under s.75.
Mr F has also challenged what I said about any intervention from Tesco making a difference. 
He says he is certain he would have withdrawn his money at once had he been warned of 
the possibility of a scam. Again, Ive considered this but Im not persuaded to change from 
the outcome explained in my provisional decision. I think Mr F was already somewhat alert 
to the possibility of a scam due to the small withdrawals that were made which indicated to 
him that M were genuine. I dont think the evidence supports that the possibility of a scam is 
something he wouldnt have even considered prior to an intervention by Tesco. And we still 
have the fact that the warnings referenced previously werent published at the relevant time.
Despite my natural sympathy for Mr Fs loss, there isnt a reasonable basis upon which I can 
tell Tesco to do more. My final decision
For the reasons outlined above, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr F to accept or 
reject my decision before 18 July 2022.
 
Richard Annandale
Ombudsman