DRN-2797809
The complaint
Mr S complains about the quality of a car he has been financing through an agreement with 
Blue Motor Finance Ltd (Blue Motor).
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again 
here. Instead Ill focus on giving my reasons for my decision. 
 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I know it will disappoint Mr S, but I agree with the investigators opinion. Please let me 
explain why.
Where the information Ive got is incomplete, unclear or contradictory, as some of it is here I 
have to base my decision on the balance of probabilities.
Ive read and considered the whole file, but Ill concentrate my comments on what I think is 
relevant. If I dont comment on any specific point its not because Ive failed to take it on 
board and think about it but because I dont think I need to comment on it in order to reach 
what I think is the right outcome.
Mr S acquired his car under a hire purchase agreement. This is a regulated consumer credit 
agreement and as a result our service is able to look into complaints about it.  
The relevant law says, amongst other things, that the car should have been of satisfactory 
quality when supplied. If it wasnt then Blue Motor, who are also the supplier of the car, are 
responsible. The relevant law also says the quality of goods is satisfactory if they meet the 
standard that a reasonable person would consider satisfactory taking into account any 
description of the goods, the price and all the other relevant circumstances. 
In a case like this which involves a car the other relevant circumstances would include things 
like the age and mileage at the time the car was supplied to Mr S. Im persuaded here that 
the car had already completed 90,135 miles and not the 92,000 recorded on the finance 
agreement. I say that because I can see the mechanical report completed a day before the 
agreement was signed shows the mileage at 90,125. I can see that the car was about seven 
years old when supplied and I think a reasonable person would expect a car of that age and 
mileage to be exhibiting quite a bit of wear and tear.
The relevant legislation explains that if the fault occurs after six months we are to assume it 
wasnt present at the point of supply, when Blue Motor were responsible for its quality, 
unless the consumer can demonstrate otherwise. 
Whilst I understand that Mr S suggests the problem became apparent when he had to 
change the tyres in March I dont think we have evidence of anything wrong with the vehicle 
until the independent inspection of 21 July 2020. So, I think the onus was on Mr S to 
demonstrate the faults with the car, that had seemingly been caused by accident damage, 
were there from the beginning.
I dont think Mr S has been able to demonstrate that. I say that because:
neither the first nor the second independent inspector was able to confirm or give a 
view on when the faults occurred;
the second inspector suggested the headlamp misalignment had happened 
sometime after the successful MOT in October 2019 and before the service in June 
2020. That seems reasonable as I can see the independent inspection in July 2020 
identified that the headlamp was broken and detached. I dont think a car would pass 
its MOT in that condition and the inspectors agree: the second inspector commented 
that Had the offside front headlamp been presented to the MOT tester in the 
condition as seen in the images below, the vehicle would certainly not have passed 
its MOT test. 
I think its therefore more likely that the headlight became misaligned whilst in Mr Ss 
possession than in the very limited time it was with the dealership after the MOT was 
completed.
It seems likely that the headlight misalignment is related to the accident damage. 
That seems a reasonable assumption given that the damage is mainly to the front of 
the car. So, as I think its likely the headlight misalignment happened in Mr Ss 
possession it follows that I also think the accident damage is most likely to have 
happened in Mr Ss possession and is not therefore Blue Motors responsibility to 
rectify.
Im not therefore asking Blue Motor to take any further action.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 18 August 2021.
 
Phillip McMahon
Ombudsman