DRN-3387535
Complaint
Mr B is unhappy that CB Payments Ltd didnt do more to protect him from fraud.
Background
In late 2018, Mr B was contacted by someone who invited him to invest with a particular firm. 
He was told that he could earn a generous return on his money and that the most effective 
way for him to invest with this firm was to do so by using an account with Coinbase. He set 
up an account and, as a result, entered into a contract with two separate businesses  
Coinbase UK and CB Payments. Coinbase UK maintained Mr Bs crypto-wallet, whereas CB 
Payments is an electronic-money institution. Mr B deposited money into his CB Payments 
account which was then converted into Bitcoin in his Coinbase account. He was then able to 
transfer the Bitcoin on to the company that had offered him this investment opportunity.
Unfortunately, Mr B hadnt been called by a legitimate investment manager, but a scammer. 
Between November 2018 and February 2019, Mr B transferred Bitcoin to the value of over 
£130,000.  It came to light that hed fallen victim to a scam when he contacted the company 
to ask about withdrawing his investment. All contact stopped at that point.
Mr B was unhappy that CB Payments hadnt done more to protect him from fraud. He thinks 
it should now refund him his losses. 
Because it declined to do so, Mr B referred a complaint to this service, and it was allocated 
to an Investigator. The Investigator noted that CB Payments was an authorised electronic-
money institution and so we could only investigate its acts and omissions in relation to that 
authorisation. Any aspects of Mr Bs complaint that should properly be directed to Coinbase 
UK (such as the actual transfer of cryptocurrency) were outside of this services jurisdiction. 
The Investigator said that CB Payments needed to take reasonable steps to protect Mr B 
from the risk of financial harm from fraud. This would include being on the lookout for 
transactions that were unusual or out of character and taking appropriate preventative action 
in response. The Investigator wasnt persuaded that the transactions ought to have alerted 
CB Payments to the possibility that Mr B was at risk of financial harm. He looked at the 
activity on Mr Bs account and thought it looked typical of the way a CB Payments customer 
would use their account.
Mr B disagreed with the Investigators opinion and thought CB Payments shouldve done 
more to prevent the fraud. He drew the Investigators attention to the code of practice 
published by the British Standards Institution setting out steps businesses should take to 
protect customers from the risk of financial harm due to fraud. He says he thinks its provision 
are applicable in his case. He said that CB Payments shouldve regarded the activity on his 
account as suspicious, particularly in view of his vulnerability. He argued that a business 
such as CB Payments should maintain a blacklist of companies and merchants known to 
engage in fraud and scams and use that intelligence to protect its customers.
Because Mr B disagreed with the Investigators opinion, the complaint has been passed to 
me to consider and come to a final decision.
Findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In deciding whats fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint, Ive taken into 
account the law, regulators rules and guidance, relevant codes of practice, and what I 
consider to have been good industry practice at the time. And having done so, Im not 
persuaded that CB Payments has done anything wrong here.
Its common ground that Mr B authorised the payments in question, albeit I accept that this 
was the start of a chain of events that ultimately led to his losing cryptocurrency to a 
scammer. These were, therefore, authorised payments and so under the relevant rules and 
regulations, Mr B is presumed liable at first instance.
However, good industry practice required that CB Payments be on the lookout for account 
activity that might suggest a customer was at risk of financial harm. This would include 
monitoring account activity for transactions that were unusual or out of character. In some 
circumstances, it was expected to take additional steps, or carry out additional checks, 
before processing a payment, or in some cases decline to make a payment altogether, to 
help protect customers from the possibility of financial harm from fraud. These are all 
examples of good practice that are described in the BSI Code that Mr B has referred to.
Unfortunately, Im not persuaded that CB Payments wouldve had any reasonable basis for 
intervening and questioning these specific payments before allowing them to be processed. 
Accepting transfers of fiat currency and facilitating the purchase of Bitcoin is characteristic of 
the way CB Payments customers would be expected to use their e-wallets. In addition to 
that, the cryptocurrency that was being purchased was being added to Mr Bs account with 
Coinbase. He was asking for a payment to be facilitated between two accounts that he 
controlled, which wouldve reduced the concern that Mr B was at risk of financial harm.
Finally, its easier for a transaction to be unusual or out of character, if theres a payment 
history that can be used as a basis for comparison. That wasnt the case here, Mr B only set 
up his account with CB Payments because the scammers had told him it was the most 
straightforward way for him to make deposits into his investment. It was therefore much 
more difficult for CB Payments to identify the transactions as being out of character.
Mr B has said that CB Payments should be able to maintain a blacklist of merchants that are 
known fraudsters. But Im not persuaded that wouldve made any difference here. The 
payment Mr B asked CB Payments to make was to an account that he controlled with 
Coinbase. He's also said that he was particularly vulnerable to scams at the time given his 
recent medical history. But from what Ive seen, this wasnt information that he shared with 
CB Payments and so it couldnt have taken that into account in its dealings with him.
I know that Mr B has fallen victim to a cynical and manipulative scam here and he has my 
sympathy. But regrettably, I dont find that there are any grounds to uphold his complaint.
Final decision
For the reasons Ive set out above, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 23 April 2022.
 James Kimmitt
Ombudsman