DRN-3318769
The complaint
Mr and Mrs Ls complaint is about Bank of Scotland plc trading as Halifax delaying the 
release the funds for their new mortgage and the impact this had on them.
What happened
Mr and Mrs L arranged a mortgage through Halifax to purchase their family home. 
Completion was set for 27 March 2020. Mrs L was pregnant at the time. On 27 March 2020, 
they moved out of their existing house and went to the new house waiting for confirmation 
that the mortgage had completed. However, Halifax didnt release the funds to the solicitors 
on this day, meaning the mortgage couldnt complete. 
The developers they were buying the property from gave them access to the property at 
5.30pm. But, shortly after, the developers made it clear that steps would be taken to remove 
them from the property if the mortgage didnt complete soon. 
Halifax released the funds on 30 March 2020 and the mortgage completed. Mr and Mrs L 
were able to stay in their home. However, they complained to Halifax about the stress the 
entire experience had caused them.
Halifax accepted it had made a mistake. It said it was, in part, due to the nationwide 
lockdown which started on 23 March 2020 and was caused by the coronavirus pandemic. 
This meant it had to make severe changes to how it was operating, and staff were having to 
adapt to working from home. It offered Mr and Mrs L £500 compensation and to cover any 
additional costs Mr and Mrs L had incurred. 
Mr and Mrs L didnt accept this. They thought the amount of compensation should be 
significantly higher. So, they referred their complaint to us. 
One of our investigators looked into the complaint. He agreed that Halifax had clearly made 
a mistake. But he thought the amount Halifax had offered was fair in the circumstances. 
Mr and Mrs L didnt accept this. They thought that the level of compensation should be 
higher and asked for the complaint to be considered by an ombudsman. So, its been 
passed to me to review and make a final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I realise that Mr and Mrs L feel very strongly about this matter. If I havent addressed a 
specific point, its not because I havent considered it, it simply reflects the informal nature of 
this service and the fact that I have focused on the crux of their complaint  the delays in 
completion and the impact this has had.
Ive absolutely no doubt this mustve been an incredibly stressful time for Mr and Mrs L. They 
were looking forward to moving into their new property, only to end up being told they were 
occupying it illegally because of the fact that the mortgage didnt complete on time. Ive also 
considered the fact that Mrs L was pregnant, and they spent a long time trying to resolve this 
on the intended day of completion. 
Its also very unfortunate that this happened on a Friday, meaning that this couldnt be 
rectified until Monday - the next working day  due to the solicitors and relevant bank 
departments not being open over the weekend.
However, Ive also taken into account that Mr and Mrs L were able to occupy the property, 
albeit not under the circumstances they wouldve liked to have started with in their new 
home. They werent left without anywhere to stay, and the matter was rectified the following 
working day. So, whilst it mustve been a very stressful time, the matter was resolved as 
soon as it reasonably couldve been.
I also need to consider the wider landscape at the time. The UK had gone into a nationwide 
lockdown on 23 March 2020, four days before the intended completion of the mortgage. This 
wouldve undoubtedly added stress to Mr and Mrs Ls moving experience. Furthermore, the 
entire country had been told to stay at home, and work from home where possible. This was 
a sudden and largely unexpected change to many business standard operations, including 
Halifax. It had to arrange for all its staff to be able to carry out their function from home 
almost immediately, and this wasnt always easy early on. Unfortunately, this did lead to 
certain services suffering, as was the case here.
I do think this affects my decision as, whilst its clear Halifax did make a mistake, it has 
explained, and I agree, that this was likely caused mainly by the lockdown and the inability of 
its staff to function at full capacity. This is something Halifax itself had no control over this 
early on in the pandemic. And Im sure that some of the stress Mr and Mrs L wouldve 
experienced wouldve been caused by the recent lockdown and the unknown direction of the 
global pandemic in addition to Halifaxs mistake. 
None of this is intended to minimise the impact that this has had on Mr and Mrs L. But I also 
need to think about to what extent Halifax should be considered responsible and should 
compensate them. Ive thought hard about everything Ive been provided with. Having done 
so, I find myself agreeing with our investigator that £500 is a fair amount of compensation 
taking into account everything Ive set out above. And Im not going to ask Halifax to do 
anything further.  
My final decision
The offer from Bank of Scotland plc trading as Halifax of £500 is fair and reasonable in the 
circumstances. So, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr and Mrs L to 
accept or reject my decision before 7 April 2022.
 
Rob Deadman
Ombudsman