DRN-2679176
The complaint
Mr H, a sole trader, complains that Royal Bank of Scotland Plc (RBS) unfairly recorded a 
default in respect of his overdraft because it didnt do enough to contact him before doing so.
What happened
Mr H had a business account with RBS. In 2018, he set up a company, and opened an 
account for that company with another bank but left his sole trader account with RBS open.
In early 2020, Mr H moved house but didnt update his address with RBS at the time. He 
called RBS in March to do this but wasnt able to do so over the phone as hed forgotten his 
security details and didnt feel comfortable going into a branch because of Covid concerns.
 
Mr H had a £5,000 overdraft facility on his RBS account which had a renewal date in March 
2020.  As there had been no regular credits into the account, RBS decided not to renew the 
overdraft, and wrote to Mr H telling him this and requested he get in touch to discuss the 
situation with the outstanding balance.
RBS made multiple attempts to contact Mr H by phone between February 2020 and the end 
of July 2020 but it wasnt able to discuss his overdraft with him.  It also wrote to him by email 
in March 2020 telling him his overdraft had expired and then sent letters in August about 
clearing his borrowing and giving notice that his account would be reported to credit 
reference agencies if a satisfactory arrangement couldnt be reached.  As Mr H didnt 
respond, RBS sent a letter of demand in September 2020, and recorded a default in respect 
of Mr Hs business with the credit reference agencies. The account was then passed to 
RBSs debt recovery agents in October 2020.
Mr H complained to RBS in November 2020. He said hed tried to contact the bank by phone 
but couldnt get through because of the long waiting times. He also said hed had no contact 
in writing to discuss a repayment plan and hadnt had notice of the action they were going to 
take. 
 
RBS said it had written to him at the address held on file and it had tried to contact him many 
times by phone. It acknowledged that waiting times had been long but noted that he hadnt 
been available to speak when it made outbound calls. It didnt think it had done anything 
wrong in following its default processes and so it didnt uphold his complaint. Mr H brought 
his case to our service.
Our investigator also thought that RBS hadnt acted incorrectly in applying the default.
Mr H wasnt happy with this and so the case has come to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr Hs overdraft facility expired in March 2020. RBS wrote to Mr H about his overdraft at the 
address held on file several times between March 2020 and October 2020. Unfortunately, 
this was not his current address as hed moved house in early 2020, but hadnt given RBS 
his new address. This was his responsibility, and while I can see that he encountered some 
practical difficulties, I think he couldve dealt with this at some point before RBS wrote to him 
in August 2020. I also note that he did update his address details in October 2020.  
   
Looking at what happened, Mr H has said he wouldve changed his address over the phone 
if hed been told how easy it was to change his password in order to pass telephone security. 
He says he was advised to go into the branch to deal with this, but he wasnt comfortable 
doing so due to Covid concerns. He also says that when he later spoke to another person, 
he was told he couldve done this on the phone. However, given the time between his move 
in early 2020, and RBS writing to Mr H in August 2020, I think Mr H couldve told RBS of his 
new address through one means or another during this time. I note that Covid lockdown 
started in mid March 2020 and restrictions started to be eased in June 2020 so there were 
times when he couldve gone into a branch. In the light of this, I cant fairly say that RBS did 
anything wrong by writing to Mr H at the address it held on file.  
Mr H suggests that RBS shouldve contacted him by email rather than by other means. I 
note that RBS did send an email in March 2020 about the expiry of the overdraft but sent 
other letters regarding the expiry of the overdraft, reporting to credit reference agencies and 
formal demand by post. I dont think it was unreasonable of RBS to send formal letters by 
post in line with its normal practice.  
   
RBS also tried to speak with Mr H about his overdraft on the phone. It made eight outbound 
calls to Mr H between the end of February 2020 and the end of July 2020. Three calls were 
made in July 2020.  It was sometimes not convenient for Mr H, so RBS offered to call back, 
and from what I can see, it did so at the agreed times but was still unable to speak to Mr H. 
When it couldnt reach Mr H, RBS left a voice or text message. Mr H says he tried to call 
back but the waiting times were long, and RBS concedes that there were issues at the time. 
Unfortunately, RBS also says it cant locate any record of Mr H calling back. Taking account 
of all of this, I am satisfied that RBS made reasonable efforts to contact Mr H by phone, and 
I think that the number of calls shouldve made it clear to him that it was important for him to 
speak to RBS. 
      
As RBS had been unable to engage with Mr H to discuss his account since March 2020, it 
sent letters in August 2020 which gave notice of intention to default in September 2020 and 
other information about what Mr H needed to do. It followed this with a formal demand in 
September 2020. A default was recorded on Mr Hs business credit file at this time.
 
In the light of the attempts to communicate with Mr H in the period from March when his 
overdraft expired, I cant say that it was unfair or unreasonable for RBS to take these steps.
Mr H was also unhappy that his account was passed to a debt collection agency in October 
2020. RBS was entitled to appoint a third party to collect on its behalf under its terms and 
conditions, so I cant say that this was unfair or unreasonable.
I can see that these events have been very stressful for Mr H, and I know he will be 
disappointed with this outcome, but in the light of everything Ive seen and heard from both 
sides, I am not upholding his complaint.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 4 May 2021.
 
Rosemary Campbell
Ombudsman