DRN-3660678
The complaint
Mr P complains that Halifax Share Dealing Limited recalled funds due to its security 
processes and this led to a delay and inconvenience when he was trying to purchase a car.
What happened
Mr P wanted to cash in two stocks and shares ISAs he held on Halifaxs platform. He 
requested the sale of the assets which completed on 21 September 2020 and requested the 
withdrawal of the cash after. On 28 September 2020, Halifax said the withdrawal had 
triggered its security checks. It sent an email to Mr P asking for a response within one hour 
to confirm the validity of the withdrawal. Mr P didnt see his email, so by the time he called in 
the afternoon the BACS payment had been recalled. This meant the funds had transferred to 
Mr Ps account but were quickly recalled.
Mr P complained about this, he was purchasing a car and was left without the funds to 
complete the purchase. It wasnt until 8 October 2020 that his funds were returned to him. In 
the interim, Mr P borrowed money from his wife  who withdrew it from her ISA  to 
complete the payment. His car wasnt then delivered until three weeks after the original due 
date and he says he had to purchase a dust cover for the car to be stored. Mr P also 
explained that he suffered inconvenience having to spend time sorting out the issue as well 
as the embarrassment.
I sent out my provisional decision on 25 July 2022. I explained that I intended to uphold this 
complaint as I didnt think Halifax had acted reasonably. I went on to assess the losses Mr P 
had incurred and concluded that Halifax should pay him £350 for the trouble and upset it 
caused him.
Both Halifax and Mr P said they had no additional comments to make.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As neither party has provided any additional evidence or comments, my final decision 
remains the same as set out in my provisional decision. My reasons, set out in my 
provisional decision, remain the same. For clarity, these are copied below and form part of 
this decision.
Security checks
Mr P was withdrawing over £100,000 from his account and it flagged up for a security check. 
Halifax is entitled to carry out extra checks to ensure the payment and withdrawal is 
legitimate and I dont think thats unreasonable. But I have concerns around the time limit it 
gave Mr P to respond.
Halifax gave Mr P around 59 minutes to respond to the notification that Halifax sent. But the 
notification was only sent by email. I dont consider this an immediate form of notification  
particularly as many people dont check their emails instantaneously and there are a variety 
of variables, including junk mail filters, that could mean that people may not see the email. 
Effectively, Halifax asked for an immediate response but used a non-immediate form of 
communication. 
Halifax has said it didnt send a text or phone Mr P. Had it done so, I think Mr P wouldve 
been able to respond within the timeframe it set. I understand it said it couldnt do its usual 
method of communication due to the pandemic. Ive not seen evidence as to why this was, 
but I dont think it was reasonable to rely on a non-immediate form of communication and 
give such an immediate time frame. Halifax has acknowledged that because of its 
processes, Mr P couldnt avoid this situation and I agree. As such, Halifax needs to do 
something to put things right.
Mr Ps losses
Mr P has explained to us the losses he considers are direct. Ive made Mr P aware that we 
arent looking to reimburse third party losses here. So, any inconvenience caused to the car 
dealership having to rearrange delivery of the car isnt something Ill be asking Halifax to 
pay. But Mr P made a few points he felt were direct losses caused by the issue. Ill address 
each of these in turn.
Mr P said he had to find the money for the car purchase from other sources. Hes explained 
that he borrowed money from his wife  who withdrew the funds out of her own ISA. I 
understand this means Mr Ps wife has lost her tax benefits on that sum of money, and any 
interest it wouldve attracted. But, I dont think its reasonable for me to ask Halifax to pay for 
this loss. Mr Ps money was in the process of being returned to him, and whilst this caused a 
delay, it was Mr Ps choice to find that money prior to receiving his own. Borrowing his wifes 
money was something Mr P chose to do. 
I understand Mr P felt pressure to make the full payment for the car he wanted, and Im 
pleased he was still able to purchase the same car  but I dont consider it fair or reasonable 
for Halifax to pay the losses his wife may experience. Mr P said that he agreed to reimburse 
his wife the losses, so the loss is his. But as I believe it was Mr Ps choice to make payment 
for the car prior to receiving his funds back I dont think its fair for Halifax to pay for this. Ive 
not seen anything to suggest Mr P had to make payment for the car prior to him receiving his 
funds back. I think he chose to do this as he was worried there were other buyers  but hed 
already paid a holding deposit as well as other payments so Ive not seen enough to say he 
had to borrow his wifes money, rather than wait for his funds to be returned.
Mr P has provided evidence that he purchased a dust cover for the car. Ive had to think 
about this carefully  about whether this is something he had to purchase because of the 
delays. Mr P made his final payment on 5 October 2020. The car originally was supposed to 
be delivered on 2 October 2020 but in the end it wasnt arranged until 21 October 2020. Mr P 
said it was purchased to keep the car in good condition whilst it was being stored. But I cant 
see he ordered the dust cover until 12 October 2020. And from this email it appears the 
invoice was raised and the dust cover was ordered. Its unclear when it arrived. But this was 
something that Mr P ordered over a week after he completed the payment and Im not 
persuaded it was necessary due to the delays. Its unclear how long before the car was 
delivered that the dust cover was used and, in any event, Mr Ps car was being held by the 
dealership. The car itself is a very expensive and prestige vehicle, and Ive not seen 
anything to suggest the dealership wasnt keeping it in the condition that Mr P expected it to 
be in. So, Im not persuaded this car cover was a necessary consequence of the delays Mr P 
incurred due to his funds being recalled.Trouble and upset
Its very clear to me that Mr P has suffered a significant impact because of Halifaxs actions. 
Ive already concluded that it wasnt reasonable to send an email and expect an immediate 
reply. So Ive considered the impact this had on Mr P.
The car Mr P was buying wasnt an ordinary purchase. Its clear its a lifetime achievement 
and something hed managed to have the cash for. Looking through the emails between 
Mr P and the dealership he was making sure he could fund the purchase outright and was 
keen to have the car paid for by 30 September 2020. Mr P had to pay a significant sum of 
money to take a test drive of the car  so I think it wouldve caused him a great level of 
embarrassment when he wasnt able to pay as agreed.
I can also see Mr P sent a number of emails, as well as letters sent special delivery to try 
and get the matter sorted. Whilst I dont think it would be fair to compensate Mr P an hourly 
rate for the time he spent resolving the issue, I do think its an indication as to how upset the 
issue made him. Halifax has offered £200 compensation. It said that this is the general 
amount it would award. But I need to consider this complaint individually. And I dont think 
£200 is enough compensation for the trouble and upset Mr P has experienced.
Mr P was faced with not being able to pay for something on the date he agreed, hes had to 
rearrange delivery  receiving his car three weeks later than planned, and hes experienced 
incredible frustration in trying to understand why his money was transferred to his bank 
account and then recalled. Its important to note that Halifax didnt stop the transaction  it 
reversed it. Ive concluded that Halifax should pay Mr P £350 compensation for the impact 
this situation has had on him. Im pleased Mr P was able to purchase his car and have it 
delivered to him eventually.
I know Mr P will be disappointed with this outcome, but I hope Ive explained why I dont 
think it would be reasonable to ask Halifax to pay for the other losses hes outlined. 
Putting things right
Halifax Share Dealing Limited must pay Mr P £350 for the trouble and upset it has caused 
him.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained above, I uphold this complaint. Halifax Share Dealing Limited 
must pay Mr P £350 compensation.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision before 20 September 2022.
 
Charlotte Wilson
Ombudsman