DRN-3463649
The complaint
Mr Ns complaint against Hartley Pensions Limited is about his Self Invested Personal
Pension (SIPP). He has said:
He is unhappy that Hartley Pensions is using the previous SIPP providers contract 
when that provider was found to have breached the Financial Services and Markets 
Act (FSMA) 2000 and other Conduct of Business Sourcebook (COBS) Rules in court. 
Mr N thinks its unfair to use the original contract as its null and void.
He believes someone else dated the contract he signed and this is another reason 
why its null and void.
He didnt sign a Letter of Authority for Hartley Pensions and so they shouldnt have 
been able to use the one he signed for the previous SIPP provider.
Hartley Pensions litigation team were supposed to call him but never did.
Hartley Pensions ceased all phone contact with him. He says this is discriminatory as 
he has dyslexia and requires contact by phone.
His SIPP bank account was set up using his middle initial, however Mr N doesnt use 
his middle name. Mr N also says the address registered isnt valid. Mr N says Hartley 
Pensions had no authority to change it.
Documents with the land registry hadnt been updated so Mr N thought he shouldnt 
have to pay any fees to Hartley Pensions.
Money was debited from his account on 4 March 2020 and returned on the same 
day.
There was a credit on his account on 9 April 2021 from a business, but Mr N doesnt 
know who it is or what it was in relation to. Mr N says this breached General Data 
Protection Regulations (GDPR) as he didnt give his account details to be shared 
with that business.
What happened
I issued my provisional decision on this complaint on 21 April 2022. The background and 
circumstances to the complaint, and the reasons why I was minded to uphold it in part were 
set out in that decision. To recap, Mr N had opened a SIPP with the previous SIPP provider 
in 2012. He invested just over £37,000 in Store First (storage pods). That SIPP provider 
went into administration, and Hartley Pensions acquired Mr Ns SIPP in September 2019.
By December 2019 the value of the Store First investment had fallen to £1. Mr N complained
to Hartley Pensions about the fees that it continued to charge on the SIPP. The matter was
referred to us, and Hartley Pensions agreed to stop applying them.
Mr N subsequently raised further issues about the administration of his SIPP, and ultimately
made another complaint. In August 2021 Hartley Pensions informed Mr N that it was
stopping all phone contact with him.
Mr N referred his complaint to us, and one of our investigators considered it. She said, in
summary, that as Mr N had informed the previous SIPP provider that he had dyslexia when
Hartley Pensions had taken over its administration, it should effectively have been aware of
it. She said from what shed seen, Hartley Pensions hadnt made reasonable adjustments to
its communications with Mr N. She thought this would have made things more difficult for
Mr N and caused considerable frustration. She thought Hartley Pensions needed to put
things right in this regard.
However the investigator didnt think that Hartley Pensions decision to stop phone contact
had been unreasonable. She said it appeared that the calls between Mr N and Hartley
Pensions had become increasingly unproductive, and communication had broken down. She
noted that the SIPP couldnt be closed whilst the storepods investment remained active.
However Hartley Pensions had refunded some charges and had agreed not to deduct any
further fees. So she thought the position was relatively stable, and regular updates on the
SIPP werent necessary. She noted that Mr N was able to read adapted correspondence, so
phone contact wasnt the only means of communication. The investigator said that she
wasnt going to ask Hartley Pensions to compensate Mr N for stopping phone contact.
The investigator asked Mr N whether he would agree to an arrangement going forward
where he could have phone contact at set times; for example once a month or quarterly.
However Mr N had said that wasnt acceptable. The investigator recommended that Hartley
Pensions adapted its correspondence going forward. She said that the information that
Hartley Pensions had sent to Mr N in the un-adapted correspondence wasnt of an urgent
nature, and hadnt led to any major issues with the account. So she recommended that
Hartley Pensions pay Mr N £300 in compensation for the distress the matter had caused
him.
The investigator said that she wasnt going to ask Hartley Pensions to compensate Mr N for
the losses flowing from the investment in Store First, as Hartley Pensions wasnt responsible
for advising Mr N to open the SIPP, or for that investment.
Mr N didnt agree with the investigators assessment and made several points following
receipt of it. The investigator considered what Mr N had said and sent a further assessment
addressing those points. She said, in summary:
She hadnt changed her view on Hartley Pensions stopping phone contact and for it 
failing to adapt its correspondence. The £300 she had recommended that Hartley 
Pensions pay Mr N in compensation included for the fact it hadnt called Mr N when it 
said it would.
Mr N had said the contract he signed was only legally binding between him and the 
previous SIPP provider. Hed said that following a court ruling, the contracts should 
no longer be used because they were found to be unfair to the investors. The 
investigator said that when the previous SIPP provider had gone into administration 
and the SIPP assets had been bought by Hartley Pensions, the SIPPs were re-
registered to a new arrangement. Hartley Pensions had provided a copy of a letter it 
had sent to SIPP owners on 16 October 2019 which explained that the SIPPs could 
be transferred to a new SIPP of their choice if owners didnt want to transfer to 
Hartley Pensions. It said they should let Hartley Pensions know within 30 days if they 
wanted to transfer elsewhere. Hartley Pensions sent another letter to SIPP owners dated 15 November 2019. This explained that Mr Ns new SIPP trustee was Hartley 
Pensions Trustees Limited. It said the change didnt have an impact on the 
investment, fees or day to day administration of the SIPP. The investigator said that 
Mr N had been given the opportunity to transfer his SIPP to another administrator. 
And that once Hartley Pensions had acquired the SIPPs from the former provider, a 
new letter of authority wasnt required. In order to administer the SIPP Hartley 
Pensions was authorised to continue to use the existing contracts and other 
documents necessary in order to administer it. However when Hartley Pensions took 
over the administration of the SIPPs it didnt assume liability for the previous SIPP 
providers failings. She said if Mr N wanted to complain about the original contract he 
should direct his concerns to the FSCS.
She thought Hartley Pensions was entitled to change the name on the SIPP 
bank account. But that in any event this hadnt caused any loss or detriment to 
Mr N.
Mr N had raised concerns about the registration of documents with the land 
registry. The investigator said that Hartley Pensions had explained it had all the 
documentation necessary to prove its legal ownership as the Trustee and Operator. 
It said re-registration at the land registry wasnt currently legally necessary and 
could take many years to be completed. The investigator didnt think Hartley 
Pensions had made a mistake, or that Mr N had suffered a loss as a result of this 
complaint point.
Mr N had concerns about money being credited and debited from the SIPP 
account. The investigator explained the account credit was from the business 
paying rental income into the SIPP from the storepods. Hartley Pensions had 
explained that a withdrawal had been made from the account through a direct 
debit, but this had been returned on the same day. The investigator said that if Mr 
N had concerns surrounding data protection he could contact the Information 
Commissioners Office (ICO).
Hartley Pensions said that it accepted the investigators assessment.
Mr N didnt agree with the Investigators assessment. He said, in summary:
Hartley Pensions had breached discrimination laws, the Equality Act and the 
Human Rights Act.
The fact he couldnt move his pension was a breach of the Freedom of 
Movement Act.
Hartley Pensions letter of 16 October 2019 was a mere technicality  he had tried 
to transfer his SIPP before and it wasnt possible  Hartley Pensions knew this.
He wanted Hartley Pensions to explain how he could transfer.
Hartley Pensions should have made him aware that money had been debited and 
returned on the same day, rather than he find out on his annual statement.
The FSCS had paid out £35,000 but it should have been £64,000. His case was 
ongoing.
The only acceptable outcome was for his SIPP to be closed and the money in the 
SIPP account to be paid to him.My provisional finding was that I had come to the same overall conclusions as the 
investigator, and largely for the same reasons. 
I said Section 228 of the Financial Services and Markets Act 2000 required that I determined 
a complaint by reference to what is, in the opinion of the ombudsman, fair and reasonable in 
all the circumstances of the case. I said in doing so I was required to take into account, 
amongst other things, relevant law and regulations, regulators rules and guidance, and 
where appropriate, what I consider to have been good industry practice.
I said I thought the starting point was that Hartley Pensions wasnt responsible for the losses 
that Mr N suffered as a result of the investment in Store First. Obviously it wasnt party to 
that transaction at the time. And it didnt accept liability for it when it took over the SIPP. I 
said Mr N appeared to consider he should recover some of those losses from Hartley 
Pensions because of administrative issues hes had with it. But those losses werent caused 
by the administrative issues that he has raised. So it wouldnt be fair to ask it to compensate 
Mr N for losses that he suffered as a result of another business actions, for losses that 
Hartley Pensions didnt cause. I said I had therefore focused on Mr Ns complaints about the 
alleged administrative failings by Hartley Pensions, and any losses, material distress or 
inconvenience caused by any failings.
Mr N had referred to various legislation that hed said the firm had breached, and I said Id  
taken this into account. But I said that a breach, in itself, didnt give an automatic right to 
compensation. I said in deciding whats fair and reasonable in all the circumstances and 
what represented fair compensation, I had to decide what impact any failings by the firm had 
on Mr N.
I said that, like the investigator, I thought the firm failing to make reasonable adjustments to 
its communications with Mr N when it should have been aware that he was dyslexic would 
likely have had a significant impact on him. So I thought Hartley Pensions should pay 
compensation to Mr N for that failing, and the distress and inconvenience it caused. And that 
it should make adjustments to its correspondence with Mr N (I understood that Mr N was 
able to read correspondence with a yellow background). But I said in my view the other 
administrative issues raised by Mr N didnt cause any losses and wouldnt have had a 
significant impact in terms inconvenience caused.
Mr N had said that Hartley Pensions letter of 16 October 2019 was a mere technicality as it
wasnt possible to transfer anyway. I said individual SIPP providers decided whether they 
would accept a transfer of an illiquid investment  not all employed the same policy. 
However I said although it may have been possible that there was another provider that 
would have accepted the Store First investment, I accepted the chances were limited. So I 
tended to agree with Mr N in that sense - he had little option but to move to Hartley 
Pensions. But I said that wasnt the fault of Hartley Pensions - it wasnt responsible for the 
investment in Store First or its failings. 
I said I appreciated Mr N found himself in an unsatisfactory position not of his choosing, and 
the frustration that went with that. But I said the SIPP couldnt be closed until the investment 
had been sold. And another SIPP provider hadnt been found that would accept a transfer. 
So this wasnt a straightforward situation. 
I said I thought it would be in the interests of both parties if a way could be found to enable 
Mr N to sell the investment and transfer or close the SIPP. Hartley Pensions had said there 
were technical issues with selling the investment; there was no market to trade it, there was 
a HMRC issue in respect of the fair market price, and it couldnt be sold without FSCSpermission. However I said it wasnt entirely clear to me what steps Hartley Pensions had 
taken to try and resolve the matter (if indeed that was possible). And the non-closure of the 
SIPP was clearly causing Mr N a considerable amount of anxiety.
I said Hartley Pensions was bound by the Regulators Principles for Business which were set 
out in the FCAs Handbook. Principle 6 provided that A firm must pay due regard to
the interests of its customers and treat them fairly.
I said to meet its obligations to act in Mr Ns interests, I thought Hartley Pensions should 
have provided all assistance it reasonably could to explore options that might enable the 
disposal of the underlying investment, and allow the closure of the SIPP. I said both parties 
could put forward suggestions about how the investment might be sold/the SIPP closed or 
transferred, in response to the provisional decision. I also said in order to address one of the 
issues raised by the firm, it would be helpful if Mr N obtained written clarification from the 
FSCS that it had no objections to his investment in Store First being sold.
Mr N had also said that not allowing him to move his pension was a breach of the Freedom
of Movement Act. I said I wasnt sure if he was referring to the freedom of movement in the 
EU Single Market. If so, I said I didnt think that assisted me in considering the fair outcome 
on his case, however that Mr N could clarify in his response to this provisional decision.
For the reasons outlined, I said my provisional decision was to uphold Mr Ns complaint in 
part. 
I said I intended to order that Hartley Pensions Limited pay Mr N £300 for the distress and
inconvenience caused by its failure to adapt its communications with Mr N appropriately.
I also said I was minded to award Mr N another £500 for the distress the matter was causing 
him if Hartley Pensions couldnt provide evidence to show that it had been acting in Mr Ns 
interests in attempting to find a solution to resolve the matter (selling the investment and 
closing the SIPP).
Mr N responded to re-iterate some of the points he had already made. He also said, in 
summary, that my provisional decision didnt mention the problems that hes had with his 
health. He said he was concerned about leaving his pension to his next of kin, and he 
wanted the issues resolved as soon as possible. He said Hartley Pensions blocking his 
number and refusing to close the SIPP was very stressful. 
Mr N said the storepods had to be sold at market price which he said was £47,500 in 2015. 
He said I should recommend that Hartley Pensions pays him the £47,500, and then he could 
pay back the FSCS. He said the FSCS had already told him that the storepods couldnt be 
sold at nil value; he wanted Hartley Pensions to write to the FSCS to get written confirmation 
of this.
Mr N also said there had been a ruling by the Supreme Court regarding s27 of the Financial 
Services and Markets Act 2000 (FSMA 2000). He said Hartley Pensions was relying on the 
same contracts despite being aware they were breached under FSMA and the regulators 
conduct of business rules. He said his SIPP could be closed completely under s27; hed 
been introduced to the original SIPP provider by an unregulated introducer. Mr N said he 
wanted me to order Hartley Pensions to have a sit-down meeting with him to enable him to 
close his SIPP.
Mr N also said Hartley Pensions had no right to change the SIPP bank accounts and it 
should be changed back into the previous providers name.Hartley Pensions didnt provide any further evidence or arguments for consideration.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr N has told us about how the above issues have had a negative effect on his health. And I 
dont wish to underestimate the impact the matter has had on him; I appreciate Mr N is in a 
very frustrating position. 
The problem is Mr N wants me to order Hartley Pensions to sell the storepods and close the 
SIPP. However there isnt a ready market to buy and sell the storepods. I cant direct the 
sale of the storepods if there is no buyer. And if they arent sold in accordance with HMRC 
regulations there is a risk of incurring a tax charge. As I said in my provisional decision, 
Hartley Pensions isnt responsible for the losses that Mr N suffered as a result of the 
investment in Store First or losses that flow from that original decision to invest in it. But it is  
bound by the Regulators Principles for Business which require it to pay due regard to
the interests of its customers and treat them fairly. So I think it should provide all assistance 
it reasonably can to Mr N to explore options that might enable the disposal of the underlying 
investment, and allow the closure of the SIPP. 
In my provisional decision I asked Hartley Pensions to set out what steps it had taken to try 
and resolve the matter or what steps it would take. Hartley Pensions didnt respond to my 
provisional decision. Hartley Pensions has said there are technical reasons why the SIPP 
cant be closed and I accept that might be the case. However Ive seen no persuasive 
evidence that it is trying to be helpful in the matter and act in Mr Ns interests.
Mr N said I hadnt mentioned some of the issues that had been considered by the 
investigator in my provisional decision; for example the change in name of the bank account.  
However, as I said in my provisional decision, Id reached the same conclusions as the 
investigator and largely for the same reasons. So I didnt specifically comment on every 
matter unless I thought it appropriate to do so. 
The investment losses werent caused by the administrative issues that Mr N has raised. So 
Im not going to order Hartley Pensions to compensate Mr N for losses flowing from him 
making the original investment. As Ive said, what I can consider is the impact that the 
administrative failings have had on Mr N. Like the investigator, Im satisfied Hartley Pensions 
was entitled to change the account name. But even if I was wrong about that, in my view the 
change in name didnt cause any financial detriment to Mr N. And I think would have 
reasonably caused only minimal inconvenience. 
Mr N has said as the storepods had to be sold at market price (which was £47,500 in 2015), 
I should recommend that Hartley Pensions pays him the £47,500, and then he could pay 
back the FSCS. However I dont think there is any reasonable basis to require Hartley 
Pensions to buy the investment at the 2015 price. As Ive said, Hartley Pensions isnt 
responsible for the losses that Mr N suffered as a result of the investment in Store First. And 
in any event, the fair market price has to be a current one. 
Mr N referred to a ruling by the Supreme Court regarding s27 of the Financial Services and 
Markets Act 2000 (FSMA 2000). In summary, s27 may apply where an authorised person 
makes an agreement with another person in the course of carrying out a regulated activity, 
which was a consequence of something said or done by an unregulated party acting in 
breach of the general prohibition (s19 of FSMA). However I dont think that ruling is relevant 
to the circumstances of the complaint that Mr N has referred to us here  against Hartley Pensions Limited. This complaint isnt against the original SIPP provider who Mr N entered 
into his original agreement with; the facts of the complaint against Hartley Pensions are 
different.
Mr N has told us that he has been trying to contact Hartley Pensions by telephone, but it 
hasnt been taking his calls. He has also said Hartley Pensions has ignored letters he has 
sent them. 
As explained in my provisional decision, the investigator had asked Mr N whether he would 
agree to an arrangement going forward where he could have phone contact at set times but 
that wasnt acceptable to Mr N. I think its reasonable for the firm to correspond with Mr N in 
writing  making reasonable adaptions as described. However in order to meet its continuing 
regulatory obligations it should respond to Mr N and, as I have said, provide assistance in 
exploring options to sell the investment and close the SIPP. Clearly its not treating Mr N 
fairly if it is ignoring his correspondence. 
Taking all the above into account, Im upholding Mr Ns complaint in part.
Putting things right
Hartley Pensions Limited should correspond with Mr N and provide all assistance it 
reasonably can to explore options that might enable the disposal of the underlying 
investment, and allow the closure of the SIPP. 
Hartley Pensions Limited should pay Mr N £300 for the distress and inconvenience caused 
by its failure to adapt its communications with Mr N appropriately.
Given that Im not satisfied that Hartley Pensions Limited has been paying due regard to
Mr Ns interests and actively seeking ways to resolve the matter, I also order Hartley 
Pensions Limited to pay Mr N £500. This if for the distress the matter is clearly causing Mr N.
 
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold Mr Ns complaint in part. 
I order Hartley Pensions Limited to pay Mr N what I have set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr N to accept or 
reject my decision before 11 August 2022. 
David Ashley
Ombudsman