DRN-1676196
The complaint
Mr and Mrs W complain, through a claims management company (CMC), that Bank of 
Scotland plc trading as Halifax (BOS) gave them unsuitable investment advice.
What happened
Mr and Mrs W were given advice by BOS in 1996. They were both 54, worked as office 
managers and earned £19,500 and £17,000 respectively. It was recorded that they had 
£30,000 in a unit trust, £2,100 in stocks and shares and £53,780 on deposit. They were 
advised to invest £12,000 across two PEPs, one in each of their names.
They surrendered the investments in 2002 for around £12,900. Some years later, concerned 
about the suitability of advice, Mr and Mrs Ws representatives complained to BOS. In brief, 
they said they felt the recommendation was unsuitable for Mr and Mrs W because they were 
inexperienced investors and weren't in a position where they should have been advised to 
expose their capital to a medium level of risk.
BOS didnt uphold their complaint. In short, they said they were satisfied Mr and Mrs W were 
experienced investors and were able to take a medium level of risk with their investments. 
They also said Mr and Mrs W kept the plans for over six years, so affordability and 
sustainability didn't appear to be an issue. And the recommendation meant around half of 
their savings would be in equity based investments which was appropriate for experienced 
investors.
The complaint was referred to this service but our investigator agreed it shouldn't be upheld. 
Mainly because it looked like Mr and Mrs W were relatively experienced investors and were 
prepared to take a risk with their money. She thought the recommendation made by the 
adviser was suitable even though the fund carried a medium level of risk. And also because 
they'd only invested a small percentage of their overall savings.
In response, the CMC said they disagreed. In summary, they thought Mr and Mrs W could 
have been advised to pay off their mortgage and to leave the endowment investment they 
had in place to support the mortgage to mature for another purpose. They also thought the 
fund was too big a step up for Mr and Mrs W in terms of the level of risk of the fund. 
They also disputed the quote relating to Mr and Mrs W looking for rates exceeding deposit 
accounts. They said they'd seen this phrasing in numerous BOS financial reports and 
thought it was just included to justify the sale. Mr and Mrs W's cash deposits were in 
accounts which could be withdrawn at relatively short notice and didn't pay a top rate of 
interest. If this were the purpose of the meeting then it could have been met by selling an 
appropriate fixed rate bond.
As no agreement could be reached, the matters been referred to me to review.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I'm not going to uphold this complaint. I will now explain why. 
There is limited evidence available given the time since the investments by Mr and Mrs 
W were made. But BOS has provided a copy of both fact finds completed in 1996. Where 
the evidence is incomplete, as some of it is here, I need to decide matters on the balance of 
probabilities.
I've considered whether the advice to invest in the PEP was unsuitable because the fund 
was too risky for Mr and Mrs W. The CMCs argument in support of medium risk being 
unsuitable is largely based on their lack of investment experience. They've said the unit trust 
Mr and Mrs W held was within a with-profit bond fund, so it wouldn't have given them any 
experience of stock market-based investments.
I accept they had little investment experience of equity-based investments. But this 
doesn't automatically mean they weren't able to take a risk with some of their money. They 
had held unit trusts, endowments and TESSAs, so they had some experience of different 
financial instruments.
Im also mindful the amount initially invested was not a large part of their uninvested 
funds and left them with over £40,000 on deposit. In addition to this, they held £30,000 in 
a unit trust which the CMC has said was held in a with-profit fund and would therefore be 
relatively low risk.
They also held a low cost with-profits endowment with a sum assured of £9,500 to repay 
their mortgage. They had no dependents, owned their own house with an outstanding 
mortgage of £7,500 and had a disposable monthly income of around £1,400.
I don't think Mr and Mrs W could realistically have been described as high risk investors who 
were looking to place most of their capital at risk. But taking account of their circumstances, 
including their existing holdings, I think it's more likely than not that they were willing to 
accept at least some degree of risk with a part of their capital in exchange for the potential of 
a higher return. And I'm satisfied that the amount invested was suitable when considered in 
the context of their overall holdings and provided some diversification of their investments.
I've considered if the fund was broadly suitable. The fund fact sheet BOS have provided is 
from a few years later as the guide from 1996 isn't available. But I think it is likely that the 
information in the later guide is broadly the same as the guide that wouldve been available 
in 1996.
I can see it aimed to achieve long-term growth by investing mainly in UK FTSE 100 
companies across a range of sectors  so given Mr and Mrs Ws circumstances, Im satisfied 
the fund was suitable and in line with the recommendation given. 
I've also considered if Mr and Mrs W should have been advised to repay their mortgage 
before investing. I dont think the fact that they had a mortgage means they shouldn't have 
invested for the future if they wanted to, especially as they had an endowment policy in place 
to repay the mortgage. Its not uncommon, or automatically incorrect, to have a mixture of 
investments and borrowing.
So I think, based on the evidence available, that the recommendation at the time was in line 
with their objectives and represented a level of risk which they were both willing and able to 
take. And for these reasons Im satisfied the advice was suitable.My final decision
For the reasons given above, I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs W and Mr W 
to accept or reject my decision before 17 May 2020.
Marc Purnell
Ombudsman