DRN-3797187
The complaint
D, a limited company, complains that Bank of Baroda (UK) Limited sent a payment to the 
wrong account and wouldnt refund this.
What happened
A director of D explains that he set up a payment for an employee. He insists he input the 
correct sort code but says that Bank of Baroda didnt use this. And so, he found out that the 
payment of over £2,500 had gone to the wrong account details. This was reported to Bank of 
Baroda, but it didnt return the payment.
Bank of Baroda said it hadnt made a mistake. The sort code and account number for the 
payment were input by D. And D was responsible for ensuring they were correct. The sort 
code which D said it had used wasnt available in its system. There was no manual 
intervention by Bank of Baroda after the payment had been initiated. And this was a faster 
payment which was non-refundable. It attempted to recall it through its correspondent bank 
and contact was made with the bank of the actual beneficiary. Unfortunately, this recall 
request was rejected and there was nothing more it could do.
Our investigator didnt recommend that the complaint be upheld. She said that the details for 
the payee involved would have been initially registered by D. And then these would be used 
for any subsequent payment. Shed seen evidence that the sort code for the payee wasnt 
available on the system and that a message no record fetched would have been given. The 
payee had been set up with a different sort code and this was used for the payment. She 
didnt think that Bank of Baroda had made a mistake. She said that when D told it what had 
happened it had taken reasonable steps to try and recall the money. But a faster payment 
was generally made immediately and couldnt be cancelled. She said that under the terms 
and conditions for the account D was responsible for checking the beneficiary details and 
that Bank of Baroda wasnt liable if a payment went to the wrong account.
D didnt agree and wanted its complaint to be reviewed. The director that originated this 
payment said that this was a loss to the company. And that its side of the story hadnt been 
considered justly. It maintained that the correct information had been input and that the 
incorrect sort code had been pre-populated by Bank of Baroda. After this had been set up 
all D could see when the payment was originated was the name, account number and 
branch. And as the correct beneficiary has his home address local to that branch the director 
said he could only presume this was correct. He said had he been able to see that this sort 
code didnt match then hed have been able to check the payment. And he insisted that he 
didnt have the sort code that was used with him at the time he set up the payment. D was 
being blamed for something that it couldnt do anything about.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive looked closely at the screenshots provided about the way beneficiaries are established 
and asked Bank of Baroda through our investigator to clarify some points about its payment 
system. I was unclear for example why it wouldnt have a comprehensive list of current sort 
codes, but it told me that this was maintained manually and only updated when a customer 
raised an issue. 
The screenshot our investigator has referred to clearly shows me that if the sort code D 
insists it used was input then an error message would come back. Bank of Baroda has told 
me that there are no drop-down boxes on that field for example with existing sort codes used 
by D for other payments. I asked it to explain a screen comment which states that if you do 
not know the sort/BIC code of the beneficiary bank then click here. It explained that this 
would request the bank name to be input and would then give all available branches with the 
sort code and name. And that the corresponding branch would need to be selected.
Ive no clear basis to find on the evidence that Bank of Baroda would and could have pre-
populated the incorrect sort code here. Im satisfied that the ways the sort code could have 
been used are if D directly input this or as I set out above selected the branch (and so with 
sort code) from a drop-down list of all possibilities on the system. Im also satisfied that when 
the beneficiary is established D has the reasonable opportunity to confirm the details are 
correct. And under the terms and conditions of the account is responsible for this. Bank of 
Baroda has said that it sends a tracker ID by text message which needs to be input to 
confirm the details. I appreciate that D has provided its own system screen shot of all its 
established beneficiaries that doesnt then show the sort code but gives the branch name 
and account number. But as I say each beneficiary would have been established by D and 
Bank of Baroda also states that D is required again to confirm the details before making a 
specific payment.
It's clear from copies of bank statements and the debit card details of the true beneficiary 
that a mistake has been made and the payment misdirected. Im not persuaded that this was 
due to any error by Bank of Baroda.
Id expect it to take reasonable steps to try and recall such a payment in line with industry 
guidance. But theres no refund option on a faster payment and this ultimately relies on the 
response of the person that actually received the money, whether any of the money remains 
and the related actions of that beneficiarys bank. Unfortunately, despite the evidence Ive 
seen of the efforts made by Bank of Baroda, its not been able to recover any of this money 
for D. 
I can appreciate that D still needed to make the correct payment and so was subject to a 
loss. But I dont have a reasonable basis to require Bank of Baroda to take any further 
action.
My final decision
My decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask D to accept or 
reject my decision before 27 January 2023.
 
Michael Crewe
Ombudsman