DRN-4482139
The complaint
Mr and Mr W are a partnership. They complain that RECOGNISE BANK LIMITED 
(Recognise) failed to honour an agreement to lend them £480,000 by way of a second 
tranche of a loan.
What happened 
In June 2021, Recognise provided Mr and Mrs W with Heads of Terms for a commercial 
property loan for £980,000. Mr and Mrs Ws plan was to borrow this amount in two tranches, 
the first being £500,000.
In July 2021, Mr and Mrs W signed a facility letter for a £500,000 loan. This loan was drawn 
down in September 2021. 
In August 2022, Mr W contacted Recognise to say the partnership was ready to draw down 
the remaining £480,000. Recognise initially said it was only willing to lend £280,000, then 
agreed to lend £480,000 but subject to a rental assignment and the provision of various 
other financial information. 
Mr W thought Recognises lending terms were unacceptable. He complained and said he 
would be forced to remortgage elsewhere. 
Recognise didnt uphold the complaint as it said it had followed its procedures correctly and 
done nothing wrong. But it offered to reduce its early repayment charge from 3% to 1% if 
Mr and Mrs W chose to remortgage. 
Mr and Mrs W remortgaged and referred their complaint to the Financial Ombudsman. They 
told us they had incurred around £29,000 of fees because they had to move to a new lender. 
One of our investigators looked into what had happened, but didnt recommend upholding 
the complaint. 
Mr W disagreed and asked for an ombudsmans decision. He felt our investigator had 
overlooked the intentions of the parties at the time of the original drawdown. He said:
They had always intended to borrow £980,000. If they had only wanted £500,000, 
they could have borrowed that from a high street lender at a more competitive 
interest rate. 
The loan of £980,000 was only to be secured against one property, as detailed in the 
Heads of Terms. 
Before drawdown, when it became clear that they hadnt yet identified a suitable 
asset for the full amount, Recognise said they would split the loan into two. There 
was no mention of additional security for the second tranche. 
The second tranche was mentioned regularly by Recognise following initial 
drawdown.   
When a suitable asset was identified, Recognise demanded so much additional 
security, they effectively made it impossible to draw down.
It was well known in the commercial finance industry that Recognise effectively 
withdrew from the market between the first drawdown and the second request. This 
was the key driver in Recognises decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive reached the same conclusion as our investigator, for essentially the 
same reasons. I know this will be a disappointment to Mr and Mrs W, who have had to 
spend a considerable amount, for which they hadnt budgeted, to borrow what they wanted. 
But my role is to decide whether Recognise has done anything wrong. Id like to explain why 
Ive concluded that the bank hasnt acted unfairly or unreasonably.
To uphold this complaint, I would need to be satisfied that Recognise had unfairly reneged 
on a formal commitment to lend. I havent seen evidence that this clear commitment existed. 
Theres no doubt that the second tranche was discussed with Recognise, or the Heads of 
Terms letter would never have been issued for £980,000. This letter said that this loan is to 
be drawn at an amount of £500,000 initially with the remainder to be drawn once a further 
target business acquisition is located. This seems very clear about what was discussed in 
June 2021. 
However, I think all parties would probably accept that there is no written evidence of a 
contractual commitment to lend £480,000. The Heads of Terms document is headed up 
Indicative and says it is only valid for 14 days, so I think its clear that it wasnt intended to 
form a binding commitment. The later Facility Letter, which, together with the Key Terms and 
the security documentation, forms the contract under which £500,000 was lent, makes no 
mention of a second tranche.  
Where there are disputes like this about what was agreed between parties, I need to make a 
decision on the balance of probabilities  in other words, I must decide what I think is most 
likely to have happened. In this case, I am not persuaded that a contractual agreement ever 
existed. I dont doubt that discussions took place about the banks willingness to lend more, 
and even the terms under which this might happen. But I think if a formal agreement had 
been reached over the terms of that lending, then it is more likely than not that it would have 
been documented in some way. 
My finding is that Recognise might well have mentioned a willingness to lend more, but this 
didnt constitute a commitment. And in the absence of any commitment, I consider that the 
bank was able to change its mind and didnt make any error by doing so.  
I also note that in June 2021, after the Heads of Terms were produced but before the Facility 
Letter, there was an exchange between Mr W and his broker, in which Mr W queried why the 
Heads of Terms specified an arrangement fee on the whole £980,000 when they were only 
drawing £500,000 initially. Mr W asked if this could be restructured and his broker replies 
Absolutely  well structure it as two loans so the 1.5% will be payable on the actual drawdown amounts. It therefore seems to me that Mr and Mrs W wanted the lending to take 
the form of two loans at that stage in order to save on the upfront fee. I say this, because if 
Mr and Mrs W had signed a Facility Letter for £980,000, then Recognise would have wanted 
an arrangement fee for the whole amount upfront. 
In my view, where there is no contract between the parties, banks are entitled to make a 
commercial decision to change their risk appetite. So whether Mr W is correct about 
Recognises change of policy or not wouldnt alter my decision as to whether the bank has 
acted fairly in the individual circumstances here. 
I appreciate that what has happened has been both frustrating and expensive for 
Mr and Mrs W. They may well have been unfortunate in the timing of their acquisitions. But 
Im afraid I think this is a risk they took and is not due to any error on the part of Recognise. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont require Recognise to do anything further. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr and Mrs W to 
accept or reject my decision before 2 January 2024.
 
Louise Bardell
Ombudsman