DRN-4148792
The complaint
Mr C complains that HSBC UK Bank Plc (HSBC) refuses to refund him money he says he 
lost as a result of scam.
The bank account concerned in this matter is jointly held: Mr C and Mrs C.
What happened
The circumstances of this complaint are well known to all parties, so I will not repeat them all 
again here in detail.  But I will provide an overview of events below.
In broad summary, Mr C says a scammer  purporting to be a financial adviser  duped him 
into making several payments from his HSBC joint-account, to an account with W (in Mr Cs 
name) and then onto cryptocurrency exchanges.  Mr C says he believed he was making 
these payments in relation to a genuine cryptocurrency investment.  However, he says he 
later discovered he had fallen victim to scam and lost all his money.
All the payments Mr C made to his account with W were payment transfers; and amounted 
to approximately £113,000.  The payments were all made between 7 and 27 May 2022.
When this matter was brought to HSBCs attention, it refused to refund the money Mr C says 
he lost.  Because of this, Mr C raised a complaint which he also referred to our Service.
One of our investigators considered Mr Cs complaint and did not uphold it.  Because Mr C 
did not accept the investigators findings, this matter has been passed to me to make a 
decision.
What I have decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the conclusions reached by the investigator for reasons I set 
out below.
But first, I would like to say at the outset that I have summarised this complaint in far less 
detail than the parties involved.  I want to stress that no discourtesy is intended by this.  If 
there is a submission I have not addressed, it is not because I have ignored the point.  It is 
simply because my findings focus on what I consider to be the central issues in this 
complaint.
It is not in dispute that Mr C authorised the payments concerned.  However, that is not the 
end of the story.  HSBC has a regulatory obligation to be on the lookout for, amongst other 
things, unusual and out of character transactions  to protect its customers from financial 
harm from fraud.
27 May 2022 telephone call
Mr C had attempted to make a £18,500 payment to his account with W.  Because HSBC did 
not process this payment, Mr C telephoned HSBC and spoke to one of its advisers on 27 
May 2022.  I have listened to this call carefully.
During the call, the adviser explained to Mr C, amongst other things, that his attempted 
£18,500 payment had been held for fraud checks.  The adviser also highlighted features of 
various scams and asked Mr C why he wanted to make the payment.  Mr C answered by 
saying it was for foreign currency as W had good exchange rates.  This was untrue.  The 
adviser asked whether a third-party had told Mr C to open a new account and credit it with 
money.  Mr C answered no.  This was untrue.  Mr C went on to say that a personal friend 
introduced him to the W account as he (the friend) had dealt with foreign currency.  This was 
untrue.  The adviser asked whether a third-party had told Mr C how to answer HSBCs 
questions or mislead it about the purpose of the payment.  Mr C answered no.  This was 
untrue.
It should be highlighted that Mr C accepts that his answers to the advisers questions were 
misleading  something he says the scammer instructed him to do.
Based on the above, I am persuaded that HSBC provided Mr C with a robust scam warning 
and asked him meaningful questions about the payment he wanted to make.  Despite this, 
Mr C was determined to make the payment and instructed HSBC to do so.
I am also persuaded that Mr C was able to alleviate the concerns HSBC had about the 
payment by providing misleading answers to the advisers questions.  I do not take the view 
that it would have been reasonable for the adviser to have identified that Mr C was being 
misleading  particularly given Mr C provided his answers confidently, his reasons were 
plausible and the fact his payment was going to an account in his name which he says he 
had opened.
In circumstances where a customer has misled their bank about why they want to make a 
payment  it would not be fair of me to conclude that the bank should be liable for its failure 
to go further in the scam warning provided and its questioning.  In my judgment, this is what 
has happened in Mr Cs case.  I find that the HSBC advisers scam warning and questions 
were proportionate to the information and answers Mr C provided.
For these reasons, I am satisfied that it was reasonable for HSBC to process Mr Cs £18,500 
payment to W.
26 May 2022 branch visit
Mr C had attempted to make a £14,000 payment to his account with W.  HSBC did not 
process this and required Mr C to attend a branch.  Based on the evidence before me about 
the branch visit, I am persuaded  just like with the 27 May 2022 call  that HSBC provided 
Mr C with a robust scam warning and asked him meaningful questions.  Moreover, Mr C 
accepts that his answers were misleading when he was questioned in branch  again, 
alleviating HSBCs concerns about the payment.  Further, the payment was going to an 
account in Mr Cs name which he says he had opened.
For these reasons, I am satisfied that it was reasonable for HSBC to process Mr Cs £14,000 
payment to W.
Payments prior to 26 and 27 May 2022I have considered the other payments  prior to 26 and 27 May 2022  Mr C made to W 
where there was no interaction with HSBC.  Having done so, I do take the view that it could 
be argued that some of those payments should have flagged HSBCs systems.  However, I 
am not persuaded that had HSBC intervened in any of those payments it would have made 
a difference.  That is, I take the view that Mr C would have gone ahead with those payments 
anyway  despite HSBCs scam warnings and meaningful questions.  I also take the view 
that Mr C would have alleviated HSBCs concerns about the payments by, likely, providing 
misleading answers to questions asked of him.
To assist me in reaching this conclusion, I have reflected on Mr Cs branch visit on 26 May 
2022, and his telephone call with HSBC on 27 May 2022.  In doing so, I am persuaded that 
had HSBC intervened in any of the payments prior to these dates: the same outcome would 
have occurred.  That is, despite HSBC providing scam warnings and asking meaningful 
questions  Mr C would have gone ahead with his payments regardless; and would have 
alleviated any concerns HSBC would have had about the payments due to Mr Cs likely 
misleading answers to questions asked.
For these reasons, whilst I take the view that there is an argument to say HSBC should have 
intervened in Mr Cs payments prior to 26 and 27 May 2022  I do not take the view that 
such interventions would have made a difference in the circumstances.
Attempted payments to cryptocurrency exchanges
I can see that Mr C attempted three sperate payments to three different cryptocurrency 
exchanges in February and March 2022.  These payments were returned, so Mr C has not 
suffered a loss here.  He says that he spoke to HSBC over the telephone about two of these 
attempted payments.  Although I have not been provided with these alleged calls, I do not 
consider that they would have any bearing on the subsequent payments Mr C made to W.  I 
say this because at best, during those alleged calls, I would have expected HSBC to block 
any payments to the cryptocurrency exchanges if it had concerns about them  but not block 
Mr Cs account entirely.  Therefore, I have considered Mr Cs payments to W separately. 
Ancillary points
I note Mr Cs personal circumstances which he has put forward.  However, based on the 
evidence before me, I cannot see that HSBC was ever made aware of Mr Cs personal 
circumstances at or before the relevant time we are concerned with.  So, I am unable to say 
HSBC should have done more to protect Mr C.  In terms of recovery, I find that HSBC took 
reasonable steps to try to recover Mr Cs money.  However, W confirmed to HSBC that once 
the money had credited Mr Cs W account  the funds were moved on.
In conclusion
Ultimately, banks have to balance their duty to follow their customers payment instructions, 
with their duty to protect their customers from financial harm from fraud.  However, if the 
banks customer puts forward compelling and persuasive reasons as to why they want to 
make a payment which may put them at risk: then this can seriously frustrate the banks 
attempts to identify fraud and protect their customer from such harm.  This is what, to my 
mind, has happened in Mr Cs case for the reasons I have already given.
Taking all the above points together  I do not find that HSBC has erred in the 
circumstances of this complaint.  Therefore, I will not be asking it to do anything further.My final decision
For the reasons set out above, my final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint
.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs C and Mr C to 
accept or reject my decision before 1 September 2023.
 
Tony Massiah
Ombudsman