DRN-3223132
The complaint
Mr and Mrs B complain that Vitality Health Limited refused to give any refund of their health 
insurance policy premiums or extend the cover date for their policy. They also complain 
about how Vitality handled their complaint.
What happened
Mr and Mrs B had private health insurance from 1 December 2019 to 30 November 2020, 
insured by Vitality. When they received information about policy renewal for November 2020 
they were unhappy at the increase in the premium. 
Mrs B contacted Vitality to ask for the renewal price to be reduced. She also asked Vitality to 
refund a proportionate amount of the 2019/20 policy premium or extend the renewal date. Mr 
and Mrs B said the policy hadnt been able to deliver the full benefit they paid for as during 
2020 private hospitals had been requisitioned into the NHS to assist with the Covid-19 
pandemic.
Vitality offered a discount on the renewal premium but wouldnt provide a proportionate 
refund on the 2019/20 policy or an extension to the renewal date. It said private hospitals 
being unavailable was outside of its control, it continued to fund private treatment, the policy 
offered benefits of other services beyond hospital treatment and it had added additional 
benefits to its Partner and Reward programmes.
Mr and Mrs B complained to us. In summary they said:
The Financial Conduct Authority (FCA) issued guidance that insurers were expected 
to consider the value of their products given the exceptional circumstances due to 
Covid-19. They had this policy to meet the cost of in-hospital treatment and they had 
no use for Vitalitys Partner and Reward programmes. They didnt accept Vitalitys 
point that it would have still met the cost of any treatment as private hospitals werent 
accepting referrals as usual. 
They want a proportionate refund of the premium to reflect the period when private 
hospitals were unavailable. They said Vitalitys costs for claims must have been 
reduced so giving them a refund would mean Vitalitys savings were fairly distributed. 
They were unhappy about how Vitality handled their complaint. They said Vitality 
initially didnt acknowledge theyd made a complaint and they want Vitality to explain 
how that happened. Also its final response letter showed tracked changes and they 
want an assurance from Vitality that it has appropriate supervision and controls in 
place.
They originally had a policy with Vitality as an employee benefit for Mrs B and took 
this policy when she left employment. Mrs B paid the premium and dealt with the 
policy but all Vitalitys correspondence was addressed to Mr B. They want Vitality to 
apologise for not addressing its correspondence to Mrs B. 
Our investigator said Vitality had acted fairly in not paying a proportionate refund of the 
2019/20 policy premium. She explained that the rules we operate under state were only able 
to consider complaints about regulated financial activities. As complaint handling isnt 
classed as a financial activity we couldnt consider Mr and Mrs Bs complaint about Vitalitys 
complaint handling.
Mr and Mrs B disagree and want an ombudsmans decision. They added that some other 
insurers were offering premium refunds and although the private hospital requisition was 
outside of Vitalitys control it wasnt their fault either. 
 What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In making my decision about Mr and Mrs Bs complaints to us Ive taken into account the 
circumstances of the complaints, the terms and conditions of Mr and Mrs Bs contract with 
Vitality as well as other relevant considerations such as the law and industry guidance.
The FCA DISP rules we operate under set out what we can and cant consider. Those rules 
and the relevant case law say that a complaint about an insurers complaint handling is not a 
complaint about a financial service, so falls outside of our compulsory and voluntary 
jurisdictions. That means we cant consider Mr and Mrs Bs complaint about Vitalitys 
complaint handling.
As Mrs B says Vitality addressed all its correspondence to Mr B I understand it wasnt just 
the complaint correspondence so I think I can look at that issue. I see from the certificate of 
insurance that Mr B is the plan holder for this policy, with Mrs B also being insured. Insurers 
generally address correspondence to the plan holder so I think Vitality has acted reasonably 
in addressing correspondence to Mr B. If Mrs B wants to be the plan holder for this policy 
she should contact Vitality about the matter. 
As to the complaint about the premium refund, I understand some insurers are considering 
some form of refund to policyholders. But I have to decide whether Vitality acted fairly and 
reasonably in the circumstances of this case, and I think it did. Ill explain why.
The terms and conditions of Mr and Mrs Bs policy say the policy is for one year (but can 
generally be renewed) and premiums must be paid for Vitality to provide cover during that 
year. Insurance policies are intended to cover the risk of an uncertain event happening over 
the duration of the contract. An insurer is entitled to retain the benefit of the premium paid to 
cover the risk during that time even if no successful claim has been made under the policy. 
Vitality provided cover under Mr and Mrs Bs policy from 1 December 2019 to 30 November 
2020. Theres no evidence Mr and/or Mrs B needed to claim under the policy during that 
time. But Vitality is still entitled to retain the premium it charged to cover the risk of them 
making a claim during that time even though they didnt make a claim
Even if Mr and/or Mrs B had needed to claim on the 2019/20 policy I dont think its correct to 
say the policy wouldnt have met their medical needs if theyd contacted Vitality to make a 
claim, subject to the claim being covered by the policy terms and conditions.
Vitality told Mr and Mrs B that they may not have had access to the usual treatment at 
private hospitals for a period of time, but that was temporary and it would cover the medical 
bills once policyholders treatment could take place. It also said that urgent treatment (for 
example for cancer and neurological conditions) was being prioritised and would continue 
and, at the time of its final response letter, that private hospitals were beginning to accept 
non-urgent referrals. So Mr and/or Mrs B could have had private treatment where it was 
available then or at a later date. Vitality also said the policy still had a package of benefits to help policyholders get 
healthcare services and support beyond in-hospital treatment including virtual GP 
consultations and referrals, remote specialist consultations, remote or telephonic 
physiotherapy and talking therapies treatment. And there were new additions to its Partner 
and Rewards programmes.
Mr and Mrs B say the reason they had the policy was for in-hospital treatment not for the 
Partner and Rewards programmes. Although they may not be interested in the programmes 
Vitality was still providing health care services, as detailed above. If Mr and/or Mrs B had 
needed to claim for treatment that was covered under the policy and Vitality had been 
unable to provide the necessary private health care services that would have been a 
consideration in my decision. But in this case as they didnt need to claim theres no 
evidence that they wouldn't have received the policy benefits they would have needed.
I appreciate that the requisitioning of private hospitals for use by the NHS was outside of Mr 
and Mrs Bs control, as well as not being within Vitalitys control.  But I wouldnt generally 
expect an insurer to refund premiums if medical treatment or medical services were 
unavailable due to circumstances outside of its control because of, for example, the lack of 
availability of certain medical professionals. The requisitioning may have led to some 
medical services under the policy being reduced, but for the reasons Ive given above that 
doesnt mean Vitality has to refund any premiums Mr and Mrs B paid. In their circumstances 
I dont think theres any reasonable basis for me to say Vitality has to refund a proportion of 
the premiums.
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B and Mrs B to 
accept or reject my decision before 9 May 2022.
 
Nicola Sisk
Ombudsman