DRN-2105272
The complaint
Mr Z says that Clydesdale Bank Plc (trading as Virgin Money) discriminated against him 
when closing his credit card account.
What happened
In early 2020 Mr Z was due to receive a replacement credit card. When this didnt arrive, he 
contacted Virgin who said the reason he hadnt received a new card was because his 
account was closed. Virgin said they had written to Mr Z let him know about this, but he said 
he never received the letter. 
Mr Z complained saying he had always kept up to date with payments and found this 
disrespectful as a long-term customer. Mr Z also said he thought Virgin was discriminating 
against him due to his race.
One of our investigators looked into what happened. She thought the decision to close the 
account was in line with the terms and conditions, and that Virgin had given the right amount 
of notice. She provided Mr Z with a copy of the closure letter that Virgin had sent, as well as 
a copy of the complaint response which he also said he hadnt received. Overall our 
investigator didnt think Virgin had discriminated against Mr Z, and nor had they acted 
unfairly or unreasonably when closing the account.
Mr Z remained unhappy, so the complaint has come to me for a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive looked to see if Virgin acted in line with terms and conditions when closing the account. 
Having done so, Im satisfied they have. Section 17.3 says that Virgin can end the 
agreement if they reasonably believe, as a responsible lender, it is necessary to do so. 
Ive also looked at the notice Virgin says it will give when this decision is made. The terms 
and conditions say Virgin will give at least two months notice when ending the agreement. 
The letter Virgin sent Mr Z dated 8 October 2019 says that they will not be issuing a new 
card when the existing one expires. Mr Zs existing card was due to expire in January 2020, 
so Im happy that Virgin gave the right amount of notice.
Mr Z says he never got the letter, and whilst I cant say why this was the case; Im satisfied it 
was sent. Because of this Im happy that Virgin have done what they needed to do to let 
Mr Z know about the closure though I can appreciate Mr Zs frustration at not receiving the 
letter.
As part of his complaint Mr Z is unhappy about the customer service he received from Virgin. 
One of Mr Zs concerns is that Virgin wrote to him when he has asked for correspondence by 
email as he was having problems with the delivery of his post.
The account closure letter was sent before Mr Z was having problems with his post and 
sending a letter is common practice in this kind of situation. Virgin didnt know of any postal 
problems at that time, so I think they acted reasonably doing so. 
Virgin also wrote to Mr Z with a response to his complaint. Mr Z says he asked to be 
contacted about his complaint by email and hes unhappy Virgin didnt do this. Also, Mr Z 
says Virgin didnt reply to numerous emails. I can appreciate this must be frustrating, but this 
isnt something I can look into as I dont have the power to look into problems about 
complaint handling. Im glad however to see our investigator gave Mr Z copies of both the 
letters he says he didnt receive so he can now read them.  
Mr Z says he feels Virgin discriminated against him given what happened when closing his 
credit card account. I can understand why Mr Z feels this way but having looked at the 
evidence I dont think Virgin has done so. Virgin has a fixed process for closing accounts for 
all customers, and thats the process that was used here. So Im satisfied Virgin havent 
treated Mr Z any differently from other customers. Nor do I think theyve acted unfairly or 
unreasonably. I hope it helps Mr Z to know that someone impartial and independent has 
looked into his concerns.
The terms and conditions of the credit card allow Virgin to close the account, and the 
required notice of this was given to Mr Z. Im satisfied Virgin acted fairly and reasonably in 
their actions and I wont be asking them to do anything further.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained above, my decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr Z to accept or 
reject my decision before 9 November 2020. 
Warren Wilson
Ombudsman