DRN-1600513
 
Complaint
Mrs N and Miss N complain that Bank of Scotland plc (BoS) mis-sold them a monthly 
premium mortgage payment protection insurance (MPPI) policy.
Background
Mrs N and Miss N were sold a MPPI policy in 2002 during a meeting. 
The MPPI would have provided a monthly benefit for up to 24 months per claim in the event 
of sickness/accident and unemployment. This benefit was split equally between Mrs N and 
Miss N. 
Our adjudicator didnt think Mrs N and Miss Ns complaint should be upheld. Mrs N and Miss 
N didnt agree with our adjudicator and so the complaint has been passed to me to decide.
My findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding Mrs N and Miss Ns case.
Having done that, Ive decided not to uphold Mrs N and Miss Ns complaint. I will now 
explain why.
First of all Ive considered whether Mrs N and Miss N were eligible under the policy. Based 
on their ages and employment (amongst other things) at the time of the sale, Im satisfied 
they were eligible.
BoS had to make it clear to Mrs N and Miss N that the MPPI was optional and needed their 
consent before it could be applied to Mrs N and Miss Ns account.  Mrs N and Miss N say 
they were unaware that they had been sold PPI.
I cant know for sure what took place during the sale and unfortunately (though 
understandably) due to the length of time that has passed since the sale, BoS no longer 
have the documents from the time of the sale. However, my understanding of BoS sales 
process from around the time of the sale is that PPI was presented as optional and would 
only have been applied to the account if Mrs N and Miss N had agreed to take it out. And 
although I appreciate what Mrs N and Miss N have told us, I havent seen sufficient evidence 
to conclude that on this occasion its more likely that BoS didnt present the policy as 
optional and/or didnt get their consent.
BoS say they advised Mrs N and Miss N to take MPPI. This means they had to check it was 
suitable for them. I dont know if BoS took all the steps they should have to check if the MPPI was suitable for Mrs N and Miss N but I do think the policy was suitable for them. I say this 
because:
 
The MPPI would have paid out in addition to Mrs N and Miss Ns employee sick pay 
and would have done so for a much longer period of time. It would also have paid out 
in addition to any redundancy pay they may have been entitled to. The MPPI was 
protecting a valuable asset and I havent seen any evidence that Mrs N and Miss N 
had any other guaranteed means of meeting the repayments. I appreciate what Mrs 
N and Miss N have told us about their parents supporting them. But the responsibility 
to repay the mortgage was Mrs N and Miss Ns alone and although I dont doubt that 
their parents would have wanted to help them, their help could not have been 
guaranteed if/when the need arose.
 
In the most recent correspondence from Mrs N and Miss Ns representative, we have 
been told that Mrs N and Miss N had access to funds to be able to pay off the entire 
mortgage. However, I have seen no evidence of these funds. Mrs N and Miss N were 
asked questions about other means of meeting their repayments specifically in their 
PPI questionnaire. They didnt mention here that they could have paid off the entire 
mortgage. Mrs N and Miss N mentioned their parents support (Ive dealt with this 
above) and that they had savings. But again there is no evidence in relation to these 
savings. 
 
Mrs N and Miss N dont appear to have been affected by the terms in the policy 
which would have made it difficult for them to make a successful claim under the 
policy.
 
I havent seen anything to suggest the policy was unaffordable for Mrs N and Miss N 
at the time of the sale.
 
Mrs N and Miss N could have cancelled the MPPI at any time without losing out 
financially if they no longer wanted or needed it.
 
As well as checking that the MPPI was suitable for Mrs N and Miss N, BoS also had to give 
them clear information about the MPPI  in particular about the costs, benefits and main 
exclusions in the policy  so that they could make an informed decision about whether or not 
to take it out.
Its possible the information BoS gave Mrs N and Miss N wasnt as clear as it should have 
been but this in itself doesnt mean the policy was mis-sold as I have to go on and consider 
whether better information would have put them off taking it out. And I dont think it would 
have. I say this for the same reasons I think the MPPI was suitable for them.
So having taken everything into consideration, I dont think BoS mis-sold Mrs N and Miss N 
this MPPI policy.
My final decision
I dont uphold Mrs N and Miss Ns complaint against Bank of Scotland plc.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss N and Mrs N 
to accept or reject my decision before 27 May 2020.
Navneet Sher
Ombudsman