DRN-4468627
Complaint
Mr P complains that Moneybarn No. 1 Limited (Moneybarn) unfairly entered into a 
conditional sale agreement with him. Hes said that it was unaffordable due to his existing 
position. 
Background
In March 2019, Moneybarn provided Mr P with finance for a used car. The purchase price of 
the vehicle was £6,315.00. Mr P paid a deposit of £400 and took out a conditional sale 
agreement with Moneybarn for the remaining £5,915.00. The loan had interest and charges 
of £6,861.18 and a 54-month term. This meant that the total amount to be repaid of 
£12,776.18 (not including Mr Ps deposit) was due to be repaid in 54 monthly instalments of 
£265.27.
Mr P complained that the agreement was unaffordable and so should never have been 
provided to him. Moneybarn didnt uphold the complaint. It said that its checks confirmed that 
the finance was affordable and so it was reasonable to lend. 
Mr Ps complaint was considered by one of our investigators. He didnt think that Moneybarn 
had done anything wrong or treated Mr P unfairly. So he didnt recommend that Mr Ps 
complaint should be upheld. Mr P disagreed with our investigator and the complaint was 
passed to an ombudsman for a final decision.  
My findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve explained how we handle complaints about irresponsible and unaffordable lending on 
our website. And Ive used this approach to help me decide Mr Ps complaint. 
Having carefully thought about everything Ive been provided with, Im not upholding           
Mr Ps complaint. Id like to explain why in a little more detail.
Moneybarn needed to make sure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In practice, what this 
means is that Moneybarn needed to carry out proportionate checks to be able to understand 
whether any lending was sustainable for Mr P before providing it. 
Our website sets out what we typically think about when deciding whether a lenders checks 
were proportionate. Generally, we think its reasonable for a lenders checks to be less 
thorough  in terms of how much information it gathers and what it does to verify that 
information  in the early stages of a lending relationship. 
But we might think it needed to do more if, for example, a borrowers income was low, the 
amount lent was high, or the information the lender had  such as a significantly impaired 
credit history  suggested the lender needed to know more about a prospective borrowers 
ability to repay. 
Moneybarn says it agreed to this application after Mr P provided details of his monthly 
income and it carried out credit searches on Mr P, which had shown he had previously 
defaulted on credit but the but the most recent of these was almost two and a half years ago. 
The credit search also showed that Mr P no had county court judgments (CCJ) recorded 
against him. In Moneybarns view, when the amount Mr P already owed plus a reasonable 
amount for Mr Ps living expenses were deducted from his monthly income the monthly 
payments for this agreement were still affordable. 
On the other hand, Mr P says his existing commitments meant that these payments were 
unaffordable and there was no way he was going to be able to maintain them.
Ive thought about what Mr P and Moneybarn have said. 
The first thing for me to say is that Im not persuaded that the checks Moneybarn carried out 
did go far enough. For example, Im not persuaded that it was reasonable to rely on an 
estimate of Mr Ps living costs given what Moneybarn saw on its credit checks. 
And I think that this ought to have led Moneybarn to do more to verify Mr Ps actual regular 
living costs. That said, I dont think that obtaining further information on Mr Ps actual living 
costs would have made a difference to Moneybarns decision to lend in this instance. 
I say this because the information Mr P has provided about his finances  particularly the 
detailed income and expenditure assessments he completed when he ran into difficulty on 
his agreement - appears to show that when his visible committed regular living expenses 
and existing credit commitments were deducted from his monthly income, he did have the 
funds, at the time at least, to sustainably make the repayments due under this agreement. 
I accept its possible that Mr Ps actual circumstances at the time might have been worse 
than what the information he provided to Moneybarn showed. But a lender is only able to 
make a decision based on what it has, or at the very least is likely to have. So while I do 
appreciate that it might have proved more difficult for Mr P to make his payments than hed 
anticipated, the crucial thing here is that I dont think that asking for more information would 
have prevented Moneybarn from lending in this instance. 
  
Overall and having carefully considered everything, while Im not persuaded that 
Moneybarns checks before entering into this conditional sale agreement with Mr P did go far 
enough, Im satisfied that carrying out reasonable and proportionate checks wont have 
stopped Moneybarn from providing these funds, or entering into this agreement with him. 
As this is the case, I dont think that Moneybarn acted unfairly or unreasonably towards         
Mr P. So Im not upholding this complaint. I appreciate that this will be disappointing for       
Mr P. But I hope hell understand the reasons for my decision and at least consider that his 
concerns have been listened to.
Although Im not upholding Mr Ps complaint, I would remind Moneybarn of its obligation to 
exercise forbearance and due consideration (bearing in mind what it is now aware of) in the 
event that it intends to collect the remaining balance and Mr P is experiencing financial 
difficulty.
My final decision
My final decision is that Im not upholding Mr Ps complaint.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision before 4 January 2024.
 
Jeshen Narayanan
Ombudsman