DRN-1699123
The complaint
Mr F complains that a car he acquired with the assistance of finance with Close Brothers 
Limited isnt of satisfactory quality.
What happened
Mr F entered in to an agreement with Close Brothers to finance the purchase of a used car 
on 26 August 2019. The car cost £18,995 and had travelled 45,000 miles. Soon after 
purchase Mr F said there were problems with the brakes and issues with the car changing 
gear. On 31 August 2019 Mr F paid for the brake pads to be replaced and the brake calipers 
had seized. Mr F explained that he tried to raise concerns with the supplying dealership but 
he had difficulty contacting them and they eventually went out of business.
The problem with the gearbox continued to deteriorate and in November 2019 Mr F 
contacted Close Brothers to complain that the car was not of satisfactory quality.
Close Brothers responded to arrange an independent inspection of the car which was 
carried out in December. The conclusion of the report was that the faults could not have 
been present at finance inception given the miles travelled. Close Brothers rejected Mr Fs 
complaint. 
Mr F obtained a report from a main dealership that concluded that the fault with the gearbox 
was there and developing at the point of sale. Mr F paid to replace the gearbox which cost 
around £5,000. Mr F brought his complaint to this service.
Our Investigator considered Mr Fs complaint and thought it should be upheld. She thought 
there was enough evidence to say that the car wasnt of satisfactory quality given the failure 
of the gearbox after such a short period of ownership. She thought that there was enough 
evidence to conclude that the fault was developing at the point of sale and recommended 
that Close Brothers should pay for all of the repairs and refund one monthly instalment for 
the period when the car was out of use. She also thought Close Brothers should pay Mr F 
£200 for the trouble and upset caused.
Close Brothers didnt agree with the Investigators view and responded with comments from 
the independent report which it said hadnt been properly taken into account. Close Brothers 
commented that the independent report concluded that the car was of satisfactory quality at 
the point of sale and should be the evidence that was preferred.
 
Close Brothers asked for the matter to be passed to an ombudsman to decide. This is the 
final stage in our process.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Close Brothers, as the supplier of the car, was responsible for ensuring that it was of 
satisfactory quality when it was supplied to Mr F - whether or not it was of satisfactory quality 
at that time will depend on a number of factors, including the age and mileage of the car and 
the price that was paid for it.
The car that was supplied to Mrs F was over eight years old, had been driven for 45,000 
miles and had a price of £18,995. Satisfactory quality also covers durability which means 
that the components within the car must be durable and last a reasonable amount of time  
but exactly how long that time is will also depend on a number of factors. Clearly, it can be 
reasonable to expect an older car to have more faults and require replacement of items 
more often than a brand-new car.
There were some issues with the cars brakes at the outset which required an immediate 
repair. Mr F has explained that he paid for the brakes to be repaired as he thought it was 
dangerous to continue driving the car. Mr F also said that he tried to get hold of the 
supplying dealership to explain about the faults with the brakes and the fact that the car was 
slipping out of gear. Mr F has said that the dealership were difficult to get hold of and 
eventually ceased trading. Ive no reason to doubt Mr F when he says that the car had a fault 
with the gears slipping as soon as he took delivery of the car.
Mr F said that the fault with the gearbox got progressively worse until it failed in November 
2019. This was around three months after taking ownership and Mr F had driven just under 
4.000 miles. Mr F took the car to a main dealership who inspected the gearbox and stated as 
follows, I believe this was not a sudden mechanical failure and was something that had 
been failing for some time and would have been becoming progressively worse the more the 
vehicle was driven over a period of time. This is consistent with Mr Fs explanation that the 
car had issues with gear selection from the outset that got progressively worse until the 
gearbox failed.
Close Brothers inspection report states as follows, No faults would have been present at 
finance inception. The condition has most likely occurred due to general in service wear and 
deterioration within the gearbox unit. The report unhelpfully concludes that the car could not 
have been in its current condition at finance inception as Mr F wouldnt have been able to 
drive it.
The mechanical experts both conclude that this wasnt a sudden failure and would have 
been deteriorating over time. Close Brothers engineer doesnt address the account given by 
Mr F that the car had gear selection issues from the outset that got progressively worse. 
There is no time frame in his report for when the issue may have begun save to say it 
couldnt have been as bad as it is now at finance inception and so it wasnt there at finance 
inception. I cannot see that there is any evidential basis for the engineers conclusion that the 
car had no faults at finance inception. This is in direct contrast to the account given by Mr F 
and the opinion of the Audi specialist who replaced the gearbox. 
The Consumer Rights Act sets out that if a fault develops within the first six months following 
supply it is presumed to be present at the point of supply  unless it is established otherwise. 
I dont think the report of Close Brothers engineer does demonstrate that the fault wasnt 
present at the point of sale.
It isnt surprising that there were no faults found with the brakes by the engineer instructed 
by Close Brothers as Mr F had replaced them at the time of the inspection. Ive no reason to 
doubt what Mr F says about the brakes and he has provided receipts for the replacement 
only a few days after taking delivery of the car.In these circumstances I think that it is likely that the car did have faults with gear selection 
as well as the brakes at the time it was supplied to Mr F. I say that because of the problems 
reported by Mr F with the gear selection and his attempts to get the dealership to repair the 
car. Mr F has owned the car for a short amount of time and the car has travelled relatively 
few miles. Taken together with the opinion of the Audi specialist this all suggests that the car 
had a developing fault with the gearbox at the time of supply. 
I accept that the car wasnt new and it would be reasonable to expect a failure of parts over 
time. But in this case, I think that for a car with this mileage costing nearly £19,000 it isnt 
reasonable to expect it to require a new gearbox costing £5,000 after only 3 months and 
4,000 miles. So I dont think the car was of satisfactory quality when it was supplied to Mr F.
  
Putting things right
I think Close Brothers should put things right by paying for all of the repairs that Mr F has 
had to have done together with associated expenses. 
Close Brothers should now reimburse Mr F for the following expenses;
Gearbox diagnostics £375
Gearbox replacement on £52001.01
Replacement brake parts £68.50
Brake repair labour £100
Recovery costs £120
Mr F has been unable to use the car for a period whilst the repairs were ongoing and I agree 
with our investigator that Close Brothers should refund one contractual monthly instalment to 
reflect this loss of use.
In addition, the fault has caused Mr F considerable inconvenience, worry and upset and I 
agree with the investigator that Close Brothers should pay Mr F £200 to reflect this. 
 
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint and Close Brothers Limited should put things 
right by paying the amounts set out above. Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman 
Service, Im required to ask Mr F to accept or reject my decision before 12 November 2020.
 
Emma Boothroyd
Ombudsman