DRN-4300454
The complaint
Mr M complains about Astrenska Insurance Limited (Astrenska) for missing an annual 
service for his boiler. He wants to be refunded for the years premiums and compensation for 
his distress and inconvenience in the same amount, as he has had to source alternative 
boiler services.
What happened
Mr M was a customer of Astrenska for some years. He bought emergency boiler and central 
heating breakdown insurance from them, which included an annual service of his boiler. 
The insurance period ran from October to October. 
At some point prior to October 2022, Astrenska wrote to Mr M advising that it would not be 
renewing his policy for the following year (October 22 to October 23). The letter set out that 
Astrenska would continue to service the policy up until the end date (October 2022). 
Mr Ms boiler services usually took place in November of the year, and he understood that 
this was based on the completed previous years premiums. He therefore expected a service 
to be carried out in November 2022. 
Mr M called Astrenska in November 2022 to arrange the service. He was told that his policy 
had expired. He explained that his service usually took place after the end of the previous 
policy period and was told by the agent that he would be called back. Astrenska then does 
not appear to have contacted him. 
Mr M submitted a complaint. Astrenska has no record of receiving it. 
Mr M contacted us. Astrenska then considered Mr Ms complaint to our service and sent a 
final response in April 2023. It did not uphold Mr Ms complaint and set out that services had 
been completed in November of each policy year since 2018. It therefore considered it had 
met all obligations of the insurance contract. 
Our investigator looked into this matter and set out their view to the parties. This was that 
Astrenska had not failed to carry out the service, but that it had provided poor customer 
service by not responding to Mr Ms November call and complaint. They recommended that 
Astrenska pay to Mr M £100 compensation to reflect this. 
The parties did not accept that view. 
I issued a provisional decision in respect of this complaint in August 2023. In that provisional 
decision I set out the limitations on what this service can consider and I explained that I did 
not see evidence that Astrenska had failed in any of its regulated activities, and so I did not 
consider we could make it do anything further. 
That provisional decision has been shared with the parties. Astrenska has indicated that it 
accepts the decision and has nothing further to add. Mr M does not accept the decision and 
has made additional comments. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr M feels that I have uncritically backed Astrenska, and he reiterates that he only received 
a service after each insurance period ended. He likens this to when buying other services, 
such as a holiday, and the provider needing to be paid in full before the consumer travels. 
He believes that I have favoured the business and has queried why he would have 
continued paying after the letter saying that the insurance would not renew, if he was not 
due to get another service. 
I have considered Mr Ms comments and have again reviewed the evidence available. I 
appreciate why he feels that I have favoured the business, but I do not agree. I have set out 
the evidence available, and in particular the service records, and that these appear to show 
that he received a boiler service for each period of insurance from 2018 onwards. 
I am not certain of when his relationship with Astrenska began, but it has not been 
suggested that these records were inaccurate or incomplete, so I have relied on them. They 
show a November service in each of the insurance years from October 2018 onwards, up 
until the relationship ended in October 2022. 
To address Mr Ms comments about other service providers only providing the service after 
the full price has been paid, I again understand his view, but this relationship is different. 
The agreement he had with Astrenska was for insurance for the year, and this included a 
service of the boiler. The insurance coverage ran from the start of each insurance year, well 
before the full premium was paid, so he did receive a benefit of coverage throughout all 
insurance years. In this instance it also appears that he received a service early on in each 
insurance year, before he had paid the full premium. It is therefore not the same as other 
agreements where payments are made in stages before the service is provided.
In response to his last point, about why he would continue paying his premiums after 
receiving the letter saying that the service would end if he knew he would not receive a 
further service, again this is because the agreement was primarily for insurance, and this 
could be cancelled earlier if he had stopped paying the premiums. I therefore think that Mr M 
would have continued paying in order to continue his coverage. 
Overall, the evidence I have seen shows that a service was completed in each of the 
insurance years from 2018-2022 and so I remain of the view that Astrenska was not 
unreasonable in its conclusion that it had completed its side of the agreement. 
I also have not received any evidence or arguments which dispute my other comments in the 
provisional decision and so I remain of the view set out in that provisional decision. I adopt 
that decision and reasons, as supplemented by this decision, as my final decision. 
I accept that this will be disappointing to Mr M, but I hope he feels that his comments have 
been fully heard.  My final decision
For the reasons given above, and in my provisional decision, I do not uphold Mr Ms 
complaint and do not ask Astrenska Insurance Limited to do anything further. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 18 September 2023.
 
Laura Garvin-Smith
Ombudsman