DRN-4024780
The complaint
Ms C and Mr S complain that Royal & Sun Alliance Insurance Limited, trading as RSA 
unfairly declined their contents claim following a fire in their home.
Reference to RSA includes its agents.
What happened
Ms C and Mr S both hold a home insurance policy with RSA, intended to cover their building 
and contents.
When their home was damaged by a fire, they made a claim to RSA for the damage to the 
buildings and their contents.
RSA accepted the building aspect of the claim but declined the contents part. It said this was 
because Ms C and Mr S didnt tell it they were operating a business from the premises. It 
said if it had known, it would have restricted cover to buildings only. It says no contents 
cover would be in place, so feels its fair it declines Ms C and Mr Ss contents claim on that 
basis.
Ms C and Mr S think this is unfair and so they brought their complaint to us. One of our 
investigators recommended it be upheld. He agreed Ms C and Mr S should have let RSA 
know about the business they were operating from the premises, but he didnt think RSA had 
done enough to show that it wouldnt have offered contents insurance had it known.
RSA disagreed and asked for an ombudsmans opinion. So, the case has come to me.
I issued a provisional decision explaining I was thinking of not upholding the complaint. That 
decision said:
The relevant law I need to consider here is the Consumer insurance (Disclosures and 
Representations) Act 2021 (CIDRA). This requires consumers to take reasonable 
care not to make a misrepresentation when taking out a consumer insurance contract 
(a policy). The standard of care is that of a reasonable consumer. If a consumer fails 
to do this, the insurer has certain remedies provided the misrepresentation is  what 
CIDRA describes as - a qualifying misrepresentation. For it to be a qualifying 
misrepresentation the insurer has to show it would have offered the policy on 
different terms or not at all if the consumer hadnt made the misrepresentation.
CIDRA sets out a number of considerations for deciding whether the consumer failed 
to take reasonable care. And the remedy available to the insurer under CIDRA 
depends on whether the qualifying misrepresentation was deliberate or reckless, or 
careless.
RSA thinks Ms C failed to take reasonable care not to make a misrepresentation 
when they said that their property wasnt ..used for any trade, profession or business 
purposes other than clerical work when in truth Ms C was operating a beautician 
business from the premises. Im satisfied RSAs decision that Ms C and Mr S failed to 
take reasonable care here is reasonable. They should have let it know about the 
business they were operating.
RSA has shown that if it had been told about the business it would have referred the 
decision on whether to offer the policy and what terms to offer it on to its 
underwriters. And its shown us as best possible what the result of that referral would 
have been were it made at the time. Its said that due to the nature of the business, it 
would have restricted cover to buildings only, added an endorsement and not offered 
any cover for business liability. So, Im satisfied RSA has shown it would have 
offered the policy on different terms  and so its shown the misrepresentation is a 
qualifying one.
RSA, by its actions, has treated the misrepresentation as careless rather than 
deliberate or reckless, so Im not going to question that further  it represents the 
most favourable outcome for Ms C and Mr S.
In line with CIDRA, because RSA would have offered the policy on different terms if 
no qualifying misrepresentation was made, its entitled to treat the policy as if it were 
entered into on those different terms. So, because RSA would have not offered 
contents cover, its entitled to decline Ms C and Mr Ss claim for contents  because 
it wouldnt have insured them for that.
Therefore, Im satisfied RSAs decision to decline Ms C and Mr Ss contents claim is 
fair and reasonable and something CIDRA allows it to do.
Ms C and Mr S responded. In summary they said they didnt think the nature of their 
business posed an increased fire risk so didnt think RSAs decision was fair.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, my decision remains the same as that set out in my provisional decision 
above  I dont uphold this complaint. The reasoning too doesnt differ from that set out 
above. I understand this will be hugely disappointing for Ms C and Mr S.
But Ill address Ms C and Mr Ss comment. Like in all insurance policies it is for RSA, the 
insurer to assess the risk, not the policyholder. Understandably at times this means itll make 
decisions policyholders dont agree with. But this is a decision on whether or not to offer the 
policy and on what terms its not directly related to the circumstances of the individual claim. 
So, the increased risk considers the risk of any insured event not just fire.
I can understand why they dont consider the nature of their business an increased risk, but 
RSA does, and thats a decision its entitled to take. Insurers are able to decide what factors 
they take into account and what weight to place on those factors, the variation in this is what 
keeps the market competitive.
As set out above, I think Ms C and Mrs S failed to take reasonable care when they didnt let 
RSA know about their business. While this may have been careless, were RSA made aware 
of the business at the time the policy was taken out, its shown it wouldnt have offered 
contents cover. So, in line with CIDRA as explained above, its entitled to not deal with Ms C 
and Mr Ss contents claim.My final decision
For the reasons set out above, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms C and Mr S to 
accept or reject my decision before 12 April 2023.
 
Joe Thornley
Ombudsman