DRN-3930933
The complaint
Mrs H complains that esure Insurance Limited wouldnt renew her motor insurance policy 
following a minor accident. 
What happened
Mrs Hs policy was due for renewal with esure. Unfortunately, Mrs H had a minor accident 
and she reported this to esure and on the same day she renewed her policy which was due 
to begin four days later. But esure decided Mrs H no longer met its acceptance criteria and it 
declined to renew the policy. esure wrote to Mrs H to tell her this but she didnt receive its 
letter until after the renewal date. 
Our Investigator recommended that the complaint should be upheld in part. She thought 
esure was entitled to decide not to renew Mrs Hs policy. This was because the new claim in 
the policy year meant that she no longer met its acceptance criteria. But she thought esure 
should have given Mrs H seven days notice of the cancellation of the renewal. And she 
recommended that esure should pay Mrs H £75 compensation for the trouble and upset this 
had caused her.
esure didnt respond to the Investigators view, so the complaint has come to me for a final 
decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
esure told Mrs H that because of the claim she had reported, it wouldnt be able to continue 
with her insurance as she no longer met its underwriting criteria for acceptance. And I think 
its for esure to decide what risks its prepared to insure, so I cant say that this was unfair or 
unreasonable. 
But Mrs H had already renewed her insurance and I can see that her new policy schedule is 
dated a day after she called esure to renew, but three days before the start date. So I think 
Mrs H could reasonably expect that her new cover was in place. 
esure then reviewed the terms in light of the new claim. And it wrote to tell Mrs H that it 
couldnt continue to insure her two days later. 
Mrs Hs policy states on page 27 of the policy booklet,
We have the right to cancel your policy at any time by giving you seven days notice in 
writing where there is a valid reason for doing so. We will send our cancellation notice to the 
latest contact details we have for you and will set out the reason for cancellation.
But esure gave Mrs H just two days notice that her renewal had been cancelled. So I think 
this wasnt in keeping with the policys terms and conditions. And Mrs H has told us that she 
was driving uninsured before she received this letter.
This service believes that insurers should take reasonable steps to ensure that policy 
holders are told that their policy has been cancelled as this will have serious consequences 
for them and expose them to possible court action. And we also think its good practice to 
inform consumers about pending cancellations by more than one means. 
Mrs H has told us that esure had her email address, so it could have emailed her. This would 
then have given Mrs H some warning about the pending cancellation and time to find 
alternative cover elsewhere before her old policy ended. So I think that it wasnt fair or 
reasonable for esure to send Mrs H just a letter notifying her of the cancellation. 
Our Investigator thought esure should pay Mrs H £75 compensation for the trouble and 
upset caused by its level of service. I think thats fair and reasonable as its in keeping with 
our published guidance for the impact the errors had.
Putting things right
I require esure Insurance Limited to pay Mrs H £75 compensation for the distress and 
inconvenience caused by its level of service. 
My final decision
For the reasons given above, my final decision is that I uphold this complaint in part. I 
require esure Insurance Limited to carry out the redress set out above. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs H to accept or 
reject my decision before 15 March 2023.
 
Phillip Berechree
Ombudsman