DRN-2232499
The complaint
Mr T complains that Legal and General Assurance Society Limited unfairly declined his 
income protection claim. 
What happened
Mr T has an income protection policy with Legal and General. The policy is designed to 
provide a regular benefit in the event that Mr T becomes incapacitated and unable to work in 
his own occupation. And in 2019, he made a claim on this policy.
Mr T said that stress and anxiety were preventing him from working, so Legal and General 
assessed his claim and reviewed the available medical evidence. However, it went on to 
decline Mr Ts claim and said that he hadnt demonstrated incapacity in line with the policy 
terms and conditions.
Legal and General explained that the available medical evidence indicated Mr T had been 
off work because of a stress related problem, rather than as a direct result of a clinical 
condition. It also said that stress wasnt a clinical illness, and instead, it was an adverse 
reaction which could manifest itself as physical and or psychological symptoms. 
Unhappy with that decision, Mr T complained and said the policy terms didnt exclude stress 
as an illness. He also said that Legal and General had delayed assessing his claim. 
In response to that complaint, Legal and General maintained its position. Mr T referred his 
concerns to this service and our investigator looked into what had happened. But they didnt 
think Legal and General had acted unreasonably in declining the claim and, in summary, 
said:
The medical evidence showed Mr T had been diagnosed with a stress-related 
problem. But the only commentary around its cause was Mr T having fallen out with a 
previous manager, and his condition was reported as improving whilst away from 
work. 
Stress was not considered to be an illness. Instead it was a reaction to a set of 
circumstances which improved once those circumstances were removed, without 
medical intervention or treatment. 
Mr Ts policy was an own occupation one, which meant if working at another 
company on any basis would reduce his stress, the policy was not met.  
The policy would only pay out if a policy holder was receiving regular and appropriate 
treatment for the condition being claimed for, but:
Mr T had been advised twice by his GP to have counselling and there was no 
record of him going on to do so. 
Mr T had been prescribed vitamins, but they were to correct deficiencies.
There was no evidence of medication being prescribed to directly treat Mr Ts 
stress. 
The predominant medical advice had been for Mr T to improve his lifestyle 
habits.
L&G hadnt caused any unreasonable delays in dealing with the claim. 
Mr T disagreed with the investigators findings and reiterated his position about meeting the 
terms of the policy and there being delays. So as no agreement was reached the matter was 
passed to me to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In line with the relevant rules and industry guidelines, Legal and General is required to 
handle claims both promptly and fairly, and it should not reject them unreasonably. 
Mr Ts policy sets out that it will pay a regular benefit in the event that he is unable to work 
due to incapacity. It specifically defines incapacity as, Your inability, caused by illness or 
injury, to carry out your gainful employment or gainful self-employment.
And it further states, If you are in gainful employment or gainful self-employment at the time 
of incapacity we will consider you to be incapacitated once we have assessed your claim as 
set out in the section headed Assessing your claim and are satisfied that you have no 
capacity for working in your own occupation, on any basis, as direct result of your injury or 
illness. 
I understand that Mr T has said stress is an illness and he has satisfied the terms of the 
policy. But it isnt enough for the available evidence to show that Mr T was unwell. It would 
need to show that Mr T had no capacity to work in his own occupation, on any basis, as a 
direct result of an injury or an illness. 
The medical records show that in early June 2019, Mr T visited his GP with reports of being 
stressed out over the past few months. The entry says that Mr T had experienced a falling 
out with the boss of the company hed been working for. And that he was looking for new 
work too. It also reports that Mr T was signed off work and counselling was recommended to 
him. 
The records also show that Mr T saw his GP for a review in late June 2019, during which he 
was reported as generally doing ok but still struggling with stress and neck tension leading to 
headaches. The entry reports that Mr T hadnt had any counselling, so it was recommended 
to him again. And that vitamin D and folic acid supplements were prescribed to address 
some deficiencies recent blood tests had found.
Further, the records show that Mr T saw his GP in mid-July 2019 to obtain another note 
signing him off work. And again in late July 2019 for a blood pressure check, and a review of 
his diet. No reference to Mr Ts stress was noted within the late July 2019 entry. And the 
next reference to any stress related issues was in an entry dated mid-August 2019  where 
Mr T was reported as working in a very stressful occupation, not feeling ready to return to 
work yet, and feeling that he just needed more time off.
Within the available evidence, the only commentary relating to the cause of Mr Ts stress 
suggests it had stemmed from a falling out hed experienced at his former place of work and 
looking for new employment. And in a letter to Legal and General in September 2019, Mr Ts 
GP also said:
In conclusion, I would say that the outlook is very good. There is no significant past history. 
He is having the opportunity now through the time away from work to engage in better lifestyle habits in regard to exercise and diet. He is developing more self-awareness of his 
needs in regard to mental health. I would anticipate that he should be able to return to the 
workplace in the near future.
So although I appreciate that Mr T has said his stress is an illness, based on the available 
evidence in this case I dont think Legal and General acted unreasonably in saying that Mr 
Ts stress was a reaction, rather than an illness. 
Separate to the above, the terms and conditions of Mr Ts policy also set out that:
 you must be under regular and appropriate medical treatment as agreed with your 
treating doctor(s) for the condition that you are claiming for and must comply with the 
treatment recommendations. This may include:
medication,
physiotherapy, and/or
taking part in a rehabilitation programme, counselling or therapy.
Mr T has explained why he thinks he has satisfied this aspect of the policy too. But the 
evidence in this case shows that Mr Ts GP had recommended counselling to him twice. 
There is no evidence to show that Mr T followed that recommendation though. 
Mr T doesnt appear to have been on any medication to directly treat his stress either. I note 
he was prescribed vitamins/supplements, but the available evidence implies they were 
primarily prescribed to treat his deficiencies. I say this because within their letter of 
September 2019, Mr Ts GP also wrote:
He had a serious of blood tests done on 18 June, which showed borderline raised blood 
sugar estimation, low folic acid, low vitamin D and a borderline raised cholesterol
The low folic acid and slightly low vitamin D levels were managed by giving a few weeks of 
supplements for those compounds. These minor deficiencies may not have any significance 
on his conditions. I would however support the GPs policy in giving the supplements, as 
sometimes it can have a beneficial effect physically and mentally. 
So even if I was persuaded that Legal and General had acted unreasonably in stating that 
Mr Ts stress was not an illness, I would still not be persuaded that Mr T had satisfied the 
terms and conditions of his policy because of the above term. 
Beyond the outcome of his actual claim, Mr T has raised concerns about delays. It isnt 
unreasonable or unusual for an insurer to request supporting evidence when assessing a 
claim. And in this case I can see that Legal and General received Mr Ts claim towards the 
end of July 2019. It asked his GP for medical records and a report the same month. But 
despite its request, Legal and General didnt receive the medical records until August 2019 
and the report until September 2019. 
The delays in the medical evidence being provided to Legal and General appear to have 
been because of issues surrounding the address originally provided for Mr Ts GP. And 
because the GP only provided part of the information that it had been asked for at first.
By September 2019, Legal and General had received all of the information it had requested 
from Mr Ts GP, and it had decided his claim by early October 2019. I dont think that is an 
unreasonable amount of time. And although I appreciate Mr Ts frustrations around the 
length of time he was waiting for the outcome of his claim, I cant fairly hold Legal and 
General liable for the delays in this case. I realise that Mr T will likely be disappointed by my findings. But, for the reasons given above 
I will not be interfering with Legal and Generals decision. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr T to accept or 
reject my decision before 10 December 2020.
 
Jade Alexander
Ombudsman