DRN-2469382
The complaint
Miss A complains that Capital One (Europe) plc did not carry out  affordability checks 
correctly when her credit card was opened.
What happened
Miss A opened a credit card with Capital One but within a few months was unable to 
maintain the minimum monthly repayments. She complained to Capital One for accepting 
her application for the credit card as she had financial difficulty prior to this, as she had had a 
County Court Judgment (CCJ), defaults and late payments registered on her credit file and 
she says the credit card was not affordable to her. As a result of her complaint she wanted to 
be refunded any late payment charges and any late payment/default markers/CCJs to be 
removed from her credit file.
Capital One said in a final response letter that when they checked Miss As credit file at the 
application stage it showed she had defaulted on two debts and had a CCJ registered 
against her but these were not within two months of the application, all of her current 
agreements were in good order and had been for several months. They also said she 
recorded her income was £27,000 and her occupation was an auditor and based on all the 
information on the application and her credit file they said there was no indication the 
payments would be unaffordable to her. They also added that initially her payments were on 
time and the first repayment made was more than the minimum monthly payment.
Capital One said they gave Miss A extra time when she was notified from her Insolvency 
Practitioner that her debts were being prepared to be entered into an Individual Voluntary 
Arrangement (IVA) but as this was rejected, they had to default the account. 
Miss A disagreed with the outcome of the complaint and brought this to our service. She said 
that she wouldnt have been working at the time of the application, they didnt verify her 
income and said the IVA wasnt rejected, just she didnt go ahead with it as it would stay on 
her credit file for six years and maintains that the correct affordability checks could not have 
been carried out otherwise she should not have been accepted for it based on her credit 
history.
In a response to further information from the investigator, Capital One said they used 
information from the application form and credit checks to make their decision on whether to 
accept an application or not.
The investigator looked at both sides of the complaint and said Capital One do not need to 
do anything further as they did take into account Miss As financial situation at the time of the 
application and that they can accept applications for individuals that have had poor credit in 
the past and would have a responsibility to register late payments/defaults to credit 
agencies.
Miss A wanted her complaint to be looked at by on ombudsman as she said Capital One 
should not be exempt from checking customers are in a position to borrow before providing 
credit. She also said she doesnt recall receiving letters from them as she was in a 
depressed and anxious state so would have been unable to respond to them.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Generally speaking, I have arrived at the same conclusions as the investigator  and for very
much the same reasons.
A business like Capital One is entitled to decide who to lend to and, if its willing to lend, how 
much and on what terms. What they need to have done before lending to Miss A, is to have 
made reasonable and proportionate checks to see whether the credit card was affordable for 
her.
Capital One have provided the signed credit card agreement. They also had recorded her 
occupation as an auditor with an annual income of £27,000. The agreement states to the 
applicant to please make sure all of the information you have given to us it true and 
complete. They say they considered this information alongside credit checks to consider 
whether she could afford the card. Having made these checks  Capital One were satisfied 
Miss A could afford the limit on the card even if she previously had issues with other credit 
agreements. 
I dont think that Capital One have done anything wrong in how they came to that decision - 
as they relied on the information which Miss A provided, such as occupation and salary. So if 
Miss A wasnt working at the time she applied for the credit card, I cant see that Capital One 
could have been aware of this unless she told them this was the case. But I cant see that 
she did. By seeing that she was making payments on other accounts it would have looked to 
Capital One that she would be able to manage the small limit on the card.
Capital One have also explained that they were aware of the CCJ and previous defaults in 
Miss As name. But they said that because they hadnt been recorded within two months of 
the application being made, this wasnt a reason for it to automatically decline the 
application. Instead, Capital One took account of her active agreements which they felt were 
in good order.
I realise that Miss A thinks that Capital One should have gone further with its checks. But the 
amount being lent here was £200  which was quite a low amount of credit to offer. So I 
dont think Capital One needed to do any further checks here or take steps to verify any of 
the information they received, as that wouldnt have been proportionate in the 
circumstances. Capital Ones website also does show they may be able to accept applicants 
who have had bad credit to help people build their credit score with credit limits starting 
from £200 which was the limit Miss A was offered.
Miss A made payments for several months  which, again, meant this would have looked 
affordable to Capital One. But after she missed a number of payments  Capital One took 
further action to try and recover what was due  including sending certain notices of arrears 
and default. Im sorry to hear that Miss A was suffering from depression and anxiety at the 
time. I can understand it would have been a difficult time and a reason she didnt look at the 
correspondence that Capital One had sent. But they have a regulatory requirement to keep 
customers informed of arrears/defaults and to report these accurately to credit agencies 
which is what they have done. So I cant say that theyve acted unfairly in sending these 
letters or in taking the actions they described when Miss A wasnt able to do what was 
necessary to bring the account back in order.So I think Capital One has acted fairly in the steps it took to assess whether this credit card 
was affordable for Miss A. I think theyve also acted fairly in how they have dealt with her 
financial difficulties, so theres nothing more I can tell them to do here. 
My final decision
I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss A to accept 
or reject my decision before 25 February 2021.
 
Gregory Sloanes
Ombudsman