DRN-1958531
The complaint
Ms G complains that Barclays Bank UK PLC trading as Barclaycard (Barclaycard) 
mishandled her debt with them.
What happened
Ms G had a credit card with a card issuer since 2004. It was taken over by Barclaycard and 
her debt was transferred to Barclaycard in 2011. She was making payments of £45 per 
month. In 2014 she asked for the debt to be written off as she was in financial difficulty. And 
advised her change of address. In August 2019, she offered £110 in full and final settlement 
of the debt which was then £280. At the same time, payments stopped. A default notice was 
issued in February 2020.
Ms G complained about several issues. 
She first advised Barclaycard in 2014 that she was in financial difficulty and asked 
then that the debt of £600 be written off. She also advised them then of her change 
of address. She continued to pay monthly instalments but by 2019, she was suffering 
further financial difficulty and had mental health problems - she showed us evidence 
of this. She showed us evidence that shed written to Barclaycard in 2014  and their 
acknowledgment to her.
In August 2019, she asked again that the debt of £280 be written off  she offered 
£110 to settle it. Shed had further mental health problems, and her financial situation 
had got worse. She had got help from Step Change and Citizens Advice Bureau  
who supported her with a statement of affairs. They said that her offer should be 
accepted. She said correspondence was still being sent to her old address  shed 
moved in 2014. She asked for entries on her credit file to be removed, and for a copy 
of her original credit card agreement  as she wasnt certain about the legality of the 
debt. She said that over the years, she had given Barclaycard a lot of information 
about her health problems and financial difficulties.
In October 2019  after shed written to Barclaycard in August 2019, she said she 
was being chased again by them for repayment. She wrote to Barclaycard again 
about her offer of repayment, her change of address and financial difficulties. 
Barclaycard opened a formal complaint.
In October 2019, Barclaycard placed a freeze on interest and charges on Ms Gs account 
and asked her for information about her circumstances. They issued a default notice in 
February 2020  they said they were legally obliged to do this. In February 2020, 
Barclaycard said in their final response that they wouldnt remove the entries on Ms Gs 
credit file and the debt was payable. They said they enclosed a copy of the original credit 
agreement. They apologised that Ms Gs address hadnt been changed  and didnt know 
why - but it had now been done. They said to us they didnt have a record of Ms Gs contact 
with them in 2014.
Later, after discussion with us, Barclaycard agreed to write off the balance of £299 and to 
remove the entries on Ms Gs credit file. They accepted they shouldve changed her address 
on file sooner. They said theyd written to Ms G in August 2019 at her old address in error. 
And accepted that they didnt send a copy of the credit agreement with their final response. 
They also agreed that they took too long to deal with Ms Gs complaint and to issue their 
final response. Later, in June 2020, they found that Ms G did in fact contact them in 2014  
and a payment plan of £25 per month was then agreed.
In December 2019, Ms G brought her complaint to this service. Our investigator looked at 
what had happened. In June 2020, she said that Barclaycard hadnt acted reasonably. She 
said:
That more likely than not, Barclaycard had received Ms Gs letter in 2014. Because 
this hadnt been dealt with, Ms G had continued to make payments and suffered 
distress and inconvenience over the years. She suggested compensation of £250.
Barclaycard shouldve updated Ms Gs address earlier than they did. Even though Ms 
G told them about her new address in August 2019, they still wrote to her at her old 
address in October 2019. Theyd accepted their error in their final response in 
February 2020. She suggested £50 compensation. This also meant that Ms G didnt 
get Barclaycards letter asking her to call them to discuss her situation, causing a 
further issue  a further £50 compensation was recommended.
She said default notices werent fair  because Ms G wasnt sure her debt was valid, 
(as it was originally with another lender) and Barclaycard hadnt given her a copy of 
the agreement as shed requested. She said £100 should be paid for the distress the 
default notices caused. And the credit file entries should be removed. And further £50 
for not supplying the credit agreement as theyd promised to do.
She said that there should be a further award of £500 for the distress and 
inconvenience caused for Ms G over the years  Barclaycard shouldve done more to 
support her regarding the provision of information shed asked for, and in responding 
to her requests for support.
Barclaycard said they didnt completely agree. They had responded to Ms G in 2014 and 
so the £250 wasnt appropriate. And theyd only been advised of her new address in 
August 2019  so the £50 wasnt fair either. And there shouldnt be any doubt about the 
validity of the debt as it was discussed with Ms G in 2014  so the £100 wasnt fair 
either.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
 Ive looked at Ms Gs complaint and thought about it a lot. Ms G has obviously suffered over 
the years in terms of her financial difficulties, her personal situation, and her mental health. 
Shes provided us with a lot of information and has argued passionately that she needed 
support from Barclaycard and didnt get it. I can see thats the case here  and while 
Barclaycard have ultimately acted fairly and reasonably since Ms G brought her complaint to 
us, unfortunately, they didnt act earlier, causing her a lot of distress in the meantime as she 
tried to sort matters out. 
At the heart of what happened is that Ms G contacted Barclaycard in 2014  she said then 
was in financial difficulty and asked that her debt be written off. Barclaycard said they had no 
record of this taking place. This in itself caused Ms G distress  she had to bring to us evidence and arguments that the contact did happen  and Barclaycard eventually found in 
their records that this was so. But - not until June 2020. I acknowledge that with the passage 
of time, records from several years ago may be difficult to find - but it took several months for 
Barclaycard to do this. Ms G told us that shed tried to deal with Barclaycard about her 
difficulties several times over the years  but they dont have a record of any other contact. I 
accept that we dont have specific details of her finances in 2014  and payments of £25 per 
month were agreed. But she said she was in financial difficulty then  so - if Barclaycard had 
got to grips with her situation then  a lot of distress may have been avoided. 
Ms G also told us that she advised Barclaycard of her change of address at a similar time. 
And when Ms G advised Barclaycard of her change of address again  in August 2019  
they still wrote to her at the wrong address in October 2019  about overdue payments.
Ms G wanted to establish the validity of her debt with Barclaycard and asked for a copy of 
the credit agreement. Barclaycard say they sent it with their final response  Ms G said it 
wasnt enclosed. Ms G also says she didnt get her statements over the years  because the 
wrong address was held by Barclaycard  and she didnt chase them as she wasnt in a 
good place to deal with her problems. I can quite see this. 
When Ms G contacted Barclaycard in August 2019, they had the opportunity to deal with Ms 
Gs problems positively, but unfortunately didnt. She sent to them a completed income and 
expenditure form and medical information. But they then wrote back to her to her at the 
wrong address  asking her for the same information - and continued to send her chasing 
letters  although I accept the default notice had to be sent to her. 
To be fair, Barclaycard did respond positively in discussions with us as they:
Agreed to write of the debt of £299.
Agreed to change Ms Gs credit file to delete the information about defaults and late 
payments.
Apologised for their error in not changing her address and writing to her old address.
Apologised for not send her a copy of her credit agreement.
Apologised to us for taking too long to reply to her formal complaint
Barclaycard have argued that the compensation recommended by our investigator in respect 
of what happened in 2014 wasnt appropriate  as theyd established they had discussed the 
debt with Ms G at that time. But equally, Barclaycard maintained for a significant time while 
during our investigation that the events of 2014 may not have taken place  causing more 
distress to Ms G. And they said theyd only been advised of her change of address in August 
2019. On the latter point, its not clear whether Ms G did, or didnt advise her change of 
address earlier.
But  taken in the round, and on balance, I think theres enough evidence here for me to 
decide that Ms G suffered significant distress and inconvenience here over several years - 
and I agree with our investigator regarding the total amount of compensation that should be 
paid to her. So  my decision is that Barclaycard must pay to Ms G £1000 for distress and 
inconvenience. For completeness, Id also ask Barclaycard to ensure that Ms Gs credit file 
is updated to remove the default and late payments information, and that the debt has been 
written off and the account closed.
I hope that the resolution of her complaint in some way helps Ms G to get her life back on track.
Putting things right
 Barclaycard must pay to Ms G compensation of £1000 for distress and inconvenience. Ms 
G should advise Barclaycard how she would like this payment to be made  to which bank 
account. She can advise us of this if she wishes.
Barclaycard must ensure that the default and late payment markers on Ms Gs credit file are 
removed, and the account is written off and closed.
My final decision
 I uphold this complaint.
Barclays Bank UK PLC trading as Barclaycard must:
Pay £1000 compensation to Ms G. 
And ensure the debt is written off and account closed. 
Remove late payment and default markers at credit reference agencies in respect of 
Ms Gs debt.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms G to accept or 
reject my decision before 29 April 2021.
 
Martin Lord
Ombudsman