DRN-4040845
The complaint
Mrs S says that she has claims against the supplier of a timeshare. Because she paid for the 
timeshare using a credit card issued by Lloyds Bank PLC, she says that she has similar 
claims against the bank.   
What happened
In May 2016 Mrs S and her husband bought a timeshare from HLT Craigendarroch Suites 
Limited (HLT) for a total of £16,273.00, including fees. Mrs S used her credit card to make 
payment. 
As well as the purchase price, Mr and Mrs S had to pay an annual maintenance charge. For 
the type of accommodation they had bought, the charge in 2016 was £490.93; it rose to 
£505.66 in 2017 and to £546.12 in 2018. 
In 2019 and 2020 however, the increase in the charge was more than 9% over that charged 
the previous year. Mrs S queried the level of the increases, which were significantly above 
the rate of inflation at the time, with HLT. It explained that it needed to build up a reserve 
fund and that it was likely that the increases would be above 10% a year from 2020 until 
2026. 
In a letter to HLT Mrs S said that, during the sales presentation, she had been given to 
understand that the maintenance charge of £490.93 in 2016  represented a true and 
accurate indication of the anticipated level of the annual maintenance/management charge, 
subject to inflation.   
Mrs S went on to express concern at the apparent deficit in the reserve fund. She said she 
would have expected an experienced operator such as HLT to have properly established the 
costs of running the resort before selling timeshare certificates. Because it had not done so, 
she and her husband had not been provided with all the information required under 
timeshare legislation before agreeing to the purchase. She thought too that the overall 
financial position had been misrepresented to them and that the request for an annual 
contribution to the reserve fund was a breach of the terms of the purchase agreement. HLT 
did not accept Mrs Ss claim and so she contacted Lloyds. 
Lloyds acknowledged that, under section 75 of the Consumer Credit Act 1974, if Mrs S had a 
claim for breach of contract or misrepresentation against HLT, she would have a like claim 
against the bank. It did not believe however that she did have any such claim and so did not 
accept that it had any liability either. 
Mrs S was not happy with the banks response and complained about it  first to the bank 
and then to this service. She said that she had a reasonable expectation that increases in 
the management and maintenance charge would be broadly in line with inflation. In addition, 
she said that the large increases were only needed because HLT had not budgeted ahead 
as it should have done and that it was an implied term of the contract that it had done so. 
She also argued that HLT, by not providing more detail about its budget, was in breach of 
The Timeshare, Holiday Products, Resale and Exchange Contracts Regulations 2010 (the 
Timeshare Regulations). 
Our investigator was not persuaded however that the increases in the fees amounted to a 
breach of contract or that they had been misrepresented to Mr and Mrs S. She did not 
therefore recommend that the complaint about Lloyds be upheld.
Mrs S did not accept the investigators findings and asked that an ombudsman review the 
case.   
I did that and issued a provisional decision, in which I said:
Mrs S has made quite detailed submissions, and I have considered carefully everything she 
has said. My findings are however rather less extensive, in line with this services role as an 
informal dispute resolution body. 
Mrs Ss underlying complaint is of course about the actions (or, more accurately, omissions) 
of HLT. She says it failed to budget properly and did not alert her and Mr S to that fact or to 
the likely consequences. Lloyds was not directly involved in the way HLT ran its timeshare 
resort or in the sale of the timeshare to Mr and Mrs S. 
That does not mean that the bank cannot be responsible for the acts or omissions of HLT. It 
does mean however that the circumstances in which it is are very limited; not everything that 
Mrs S say HLT has done wrong leads to a valid claim against Lloyds.
One effect of section 75(1) of the Consumer Credit Act is that a customer who has a claim 
for breach of contract or misrepresentation against a supplier can, subject to certain 
conditions, bring that claim against a credit provider. Those conditions include:
that the credit financed the contract giving rise to the claim, either in whole or in part; 
and 
that the credit was provided under pre-existing arrangements or in contemplation of 
future arrangements between the credit provider and the supplier. 
Credit includes the use of a credit card account, and the arrangements under which 
suppliers are able to take credit card payments are, through membership of card schemes 
such as Mastercard and Visa, sufficient to constitute pre-existing arrangements. I am 
satisfied that such arrangements were in place here. I have therefore considered what Mrs S 
has said about her claims against HLT.  
Mrs S has been clear that she was not told directly that increases in the management and 
maintenance charges would be in line with inflation. And there was nothing in the contract 
with HLT about how much they might increase, although it was clear that they were not 
fixed. Rather, she says that:
there was an implied term that HLT had budgeted properly and, therefore, that there 
was already a reserve fund; 
HLT had acted negligently in setting its budget; and 
she was not provided with sufficient information to make an informed decision  as 
required by the Timeshare Regulations. 
The timeshare contract included Key Information, which included information about annual 
charges. That included:The annual maintenance/management charge includes charges for electricity rates, water 
rates, television and telephone rental, cleaning and weekly laundry, buildings and contents 
insurance and maintenance.
The annual maintenance/management charge is agreed by the Association on an annual 
basis and for the year 2016 is as follows for each Time Ownership shown in Schedule A and 
the Holiday Certificate, exclusive of Club Dues:
Studio Pius/Studio Premier; £490.93
One bedroom Premier: £608.63
Two bedroom Premier: £735.45
In my view, it was clear that the charge could change from year to year. The contract was 
silent on how much any change might be, save that it was to be agreed by The 
Craigendarroch Suites Members Association. Mrs S does not suggest that the changes were 
implemented other than by agreement in line with the contract.
I can see why Mrs S might think that the budget could have been handled better, so that 
sudden large increases in the charges werent necessary. She says that the failure to budget 
properly was negligent. I make no comment on that, since Lloyds is not liable for any 
negligence on the part of HLT.
I do not believe there was an implied term that that a reserve fund had already been 
included in the budget. Generally, a court will only imply a term into a contract if, without it, 
the contract makes no sense, or if it is clear that the parties intended to include the terms but 
didnt. I dont think such considerations apply here. 
A misrepresentation is, in very broad terms, a statement of law or of fact, made by one party 
to a contract to the other, which is untrue and which induces the other party into the contract. 
Mrs S does not suggest that there was any positive statement made in this case about 
increases in the charges. 
A misrepresentation can be made by silence, but such cases are unusual. They are 
generally limited to cases where one party to a contract is  to the knowledge of the other  
labouring under a misapprehension, and there is, in effect, an obligation on the other to 
correct that misunderstanding. I do not believe that can properly be said to be the case here. 
Nor was there any duty on HLT in this case to ensure that Mrs S was making, as she has put 
it, an informed decision. Its obligation under the Timeshare Regulations was to provide the 
information required under those regulations. It appears to me that HLT did that. Even if it 
didnt, however, any breach of the regulations on the part of HLT does not automatically give 
rise to a claim against either HLT or Lloyds. The regulations specify the relevant sanction; a 
failure to provide Key Information is an offence, not a breach of contract. 
I stress that it is not for me to decide whether Mrs S has a claim against HLT or whether it 
was in breach of the Timeshare Regulations. What I must decide is how her complaint about 
Lloyds should be resolved. In dong that I must have regard to any relevant law  which 
includes in this case the law of contract, misrepresentation, the relevant provisions of the 
Consumer Credit Act, and The Timeshare Regulations. Having done so, however, I have 
come to the conclusion that the banks response to Mrs Ss claim was reasonable.
I decided, provisionally, that I should not uphold the complaint. Lloyds said it had nothing to 
add. Mrs S however did not accept my provisional conclusions and made further 
submissions, saying, in summary:  Her complaint is that she was induced into the timeshare contract by a false statement 
about the additional costs for which she would be liable. 
HLT failed in their duty to ensure that representations about the 
maintenance/management charges were correct. The complaint is not that HLT was 
negligent in setting the budget, but that it was negligent in the way it represented it to Mr 
and Mrs S. That is, the claim against HLT is for negligent misrepresentation. 
It was not her case that there was an implied term that there was a reserve fund; it was 
expressly referred to in the purchase contract. 
The inclusion in the management/maintenance fee of a specific contribution to the 
reserve fund was and is a breach of contract.  
The claim in misrepresentation does not depend on a positive statement about the 
charges. Rather, it is that, in making a forecast about the charges and intending that Mr 
and Mrs S would rely on that forecast, HLT was giving a warranty that the forecast had 
been made with reasonable care and skill. 
The purchase agreement said that HLT would provide details of costs due under it, 
including taxes. It did not mention any taxes at the time of sale. So either no taxes are 
due, and HLT cannot require Members to pay them, or taxes are due and HLT should 
have disclosed them. 
Even if HLT did not have to ensure that Mr and Mrs S were making an informed 
decision, it did have a duty to ensure that they had sufficient information to enable them 
to do so. 
Lloyds response to the issue of tax liability was to say that no tax liability had been 
passed to members, but that did not take into account that the Members Association 
confirmed that it had been paid from the reserve fund and that members would need to 
replenish it.       
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mrs Ss response to my provisional decision clarified that she believes HLT made negligent 
misrepresentations because, amongst other things, it allowed her and Mr S to believe that 
budgets had been prepared properly. It also failed to disclose that it had a potential tax 
liability to the local authority; it had known about that at the time of the sale. 
I said in my provisional decision that Lloyds is not responsible for the negligent acts of HLT. 
Here, that means that, even if HLT owed Mrs S a duty of care in the way it prepared its 
budget and was in breach of that duty, section 75 of the Consumer Credit Act would not 
make the bank responsible. 
Mrs S says however that the negligence on the part of HLT was in its failure to disclose that 
it had not budgeted in the way it should have done and in its failure to disclose the possibility 
that it faced a large tax liability  which would ultimately have to be met by members. That 
amounted to a negligent misrepresentation, for which Lloyds was equally liable. 
Mrs S does not suggest that HLT made positive representations about either of these 
matters. Rather, she says that HLTs silence about them amounted to misrepresentation. I acknowledged in my provisional decision that silence can amount to a misrepresentation. 
But I also noted that such cases are unusual and are generally limited to situations where 
one party to a contract knows that the other has misunderstood the position, or where there 
is an obligation to disclose a material fact. I am not persuaded that that applies to Mrs Ss 
concerns about HLTs budget. I have no doubt that proceeded on the assumption that 
budgets had been prepared with the level of diligence she thought was necessary, but I have 
seen nothing to suggest that this was in HLTs mind.  
I have considered too the issue of the tax dispute. I think that is a little different from Mrs Ss 
general concerns about budget planning, because there was a real risk that there would be 
an additional tax liability, and that risk was known to HLT. Had HLT told Mrs S about it, I 
think at the very least she would have wanted to know more about it before deciding whether 
to go ahead with the purchase. I do not however believe that is enough to amount to an 
exception to the rule that silence will not amount to a misrepresentation. I cannot fairly say, 
for example, that there was active concealment. The question of tax did not arise.
Mrs S says too that HLT did not meet its obligations under The Timeshare, Holiday 
Products, Resale and Exchange Contracts Regulations 2010. It was therefore in breach of 
contract. Those regulations require a trader to provide key information before entering into 
a regulated timeshare contract. That information must be in the form set out in the 
regulations. It must include:
Outline of additional obligatory costs imposed under the contract; type of costs and 
indication of amounts (e.g. annual fees, other recurrent fees, special levies, local taxes) 
This section of the contract referred to charges for electricity rates, water rates, television 
and telephone rental, cleaning and weekly laundry, buildings and contents insurance and 
maintenance. It also said that members must comply with the Rules of the Association (that 
is, the resorts members association). The Rules of the Association included, at Rule 12, 
provisions about contributions to costs. Members were to contribute according to the number 
of holiday certificates they held. The costs to which they should contribute included:  
The whole outgoings incurred in respect of the Suites and additional facilities including 
electricity, rates, water charges, salaries, fuel costs and other charges whether of an annual 
or recurring nature or otherwise. and   
All works which are required to be done to comply with any statutory provisions or the 
directions or notices of any governmental, Local or Public Authority.
Rule 12 was widely drafted and was not, in my view, intended to be exhaustive. It gave an 
indication of the types of costs that might be incurred, including some of the charges that 
might fall to be paid to the local authority. It left open the possibility that there might be 
others.   
I note that the regulations require only a Outline of the additional costs, not a full schedule. 
A full schedule is unlikely to be practical in many cases, since a timeshare membership can 
run for many years, and the nature and level of costs will change over time. Having reviewed 
the contract along with the regulations, I am not persuaded there was a clear breach in this 
case. 
Be that as it may, I dont accept that a breach of regulations necessarily amounts to a breach 
of contract. Regulation 15(2) does say that a breach of the requirement to provide key 
information makes a contract unenforceable against a consumer (as well as being an 
offence), but that is not the same as saying it gives rise to a breach of contract.      I stress again that it is not for me to say whether Mrs S has a claim against HLT  whether 
for misrepresentation, breach of contract or otherwise. Nor is it for me to say whether there 
has been a breach of the regulations. I have considered and discussed those matters, as I 
am required to do, but I make no findings on them. 
What I must do is decide what I consider to be fair and reasonable in all the circumstances 
of Mrs Ss complaint about Lloyds. Having done so, I remain of the view that its response to 
Mrs Ss claim was fair in all the circumstances.       
My final decision
For these reasons, my final decision is that I do not require Lloyds Bank PLC to take any 
further steps to resolve Mrs Ss complaint.  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs S to accept or 
reject my decision before 24 April 2023.
 
Mike Ingram
Ombudsman