DRN-3536525
The complaint
Mrs H complains that One Insurance Limited (One) refused to pay a claim on her motor 
insurance because it said she had given incorrect information when taking out the policy.
What happened
Mrs H had motor insurance with One which she had taken out online. Her car was involved 
in an accident and she made a claim on her insurance policy. When One looked into the 
claim, it said Mrs H had failed to declare that the car had previously been a write off, and it 
voided her policy from its inception and refused to pay the claim.
Mrs H complained to One. She said she hadnt seen a question asking if the car had 
previously been a write off, and in any event, although she knew the car had previously been 
involved in an accident, she didnt know it had been written off. 
One said there a was pop-up box on the online form which asked Mrs H to confirm, among 
other things, that the vehicle wasnt a registered write off. One said Mrs H also received a 
new business welcome letter asking her to read the insurance documents carefully to ensure 
the details were correct, and explaining that failure to provide correct information could result 
in her having no cover. One said that if Mrs H had disclosed at the time that the vehicle had 
previously been written off it wouldnt have given her the insurance. 
One said that this was a misrepresentation under the Consumer Insurance (Disclosure and 
Representations) Act 2012 (CIDRA). One said it accepted that the misrepresentation may 
not have been intentional, so it considered that Mrs H had made the misrepresentation 
carelessly. One said that under CIDRA if it wouldnt have entered into the contract with Mrs 
H it would be entitled to make the insurance void, refuse to pay the claim and return the 
premiums. 
However One accepted that the service Mrs H had received had been below the standard it 
expected and it offered to pay her £100 in recognition of this.
Mrs H wasnt happy with Ones response and complained to this service. Our investigator 
upheld her complaint. He said he didnt think it was fair and reasonable for One to have 
treated the misrepresentation as a qualifying one, as he couldnt say the answers werent 
completed carefully, accurately and to the best of Mrs Hs knowledge. The investigator 
asked One to pay Mrs Hs claim in full, plus interest, and less any refund of premiums. He 
also asked One to update any information held on databases about voidance of the policy 
and indemnify any claims up to the original expiry date of the policy.
One didnt agree, saying Mrs H was aware the car had previously been in an accident, 
presumably because the garage that sold it had told her. One said a garage would usually 
also confirm if the car had been a total loss, and it was her duty to ask about the vehicles 
history when buying it. 
Because One didnt agree with the investigators suggestions, the complaint has been 
passed to me. Mrs H wants compensation for the damage to her car and the upset caused 
to her. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im upholding Mrs Hs complaint. Ill explain why. 
CIDRA potentially applies if a consumer answers a question incorrectly when taking out an 
insurance policy. This is called misrepresentation. CIDRA says a consumer should take 
reasonable care not to make a misrepresentation when taking out a policy. There are a 
number of actions an insurer can take if it establishes the consumer has misrepresented 
something, including cancelling the policy.
However the first step is to establish if there has actually been a qualifying 
misrepresentation. If there hasnt, theres no need for me to consider CIDRA further.
The pop-up box said:
It is important that you are aware of the following
Your vehicle must not be registered a write off.
There are a number of other statements then a box to click which says: Confirm and 
continue. 
Mrs H says she didnt see the pop-up box, and anyway she didnt know the car had 
previously been written off. She said this wasnt mentioned on the V5C registration 
documents and the car had a valid MOT certificate and was roadworthy. Ive seen the V5C 
and there is no mention of a previous write off. Mrs H says at no point did she intend to 
mislead One.
I dont think it was reasonable for One to just assume that Mrs H would have been told by 
the seller that the car was previously written off. I think Mrs H gave One information that was 
correct and accurate to the best of her knowledge and so there was no qualifying 
misrepresentation under CIDRA. As there was no qualifying misrepresentation, I dont think 
it was fair or reasonable for One to refuse to pay the claim.
My final decision
For the reasons given above Im upholding Mrs Hs complaint. I require One Insurance 
Limited to pay Mrs Hs claim in full less any refund of premiums. 
This to include interest at 8% a year simple from the date Mrs H was advised the policy was 
voided to the date of payment. If One Insurance Limited considers that its required by HM 
Revenue & Customs to deduct income tax from that interest, it should tell Mrs H how much 
its taken off. It should also give Mrs H a certificate showing this if she asks for one, so she 
can reclaim the tax from HM Revenue & Customs if appropriate.
I also require One Insurance Limited to update any information held on internal or external 
databases about voidance of the policy, and indemnify any claims up to the original expiry 
date of the policy in line with its standard claims procedure.
One Insurance Limited has already paid Mrs H £100 in recognition of the below standard service she received. I think this was fair and reasonable and Im not asking it to pay more 
for this.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs H to accept or 
reject my decision before 19 October 2022.
 
Sarah Baalham
Ombudsman