DRN-3168118
The complaint
  This complaint is about a mortgage Mr J holds with Santander UK Plc. Mr J is unhappy that 
Santander has continued to report missed monthly payments on his credit file after he went 
into bankruptcy. He also thought the mortgage had been mis-sold at the outset.
What happened
 By way of a provisional decision issued on 3 November 2021, I set out, with reasons, the 
extent of our remit to consider this complaint. The following is an extract from that provisional 
decision.
The history and background of this complaint are well known to both parties so I wont 
repeat them in detail here. Instead Ill give a brief summary, rounding the figures involved, 
and then focus on giving the reasons for my decision. If I dont mention something, it wont 
be because Ive ignored it. Itll be because I didnt think it was material to the outcome of the 
complaint. 
Mr J was made bankrupt in May 2018; his mortgage was part of the bankruptcy. The 
mortgaged property was let out to a tenant. In June 2018, Mr Js trustee-in-bankruptcy (TIB) 
issued a disclaimer bringing to an end the rights, interests and liabilities of Mr J and the 
bankruptcy estate in both the property and the tenancy agreement.
Santander didnt take immediate possession because the tenant refused to move out. It 
finally obtained a possession order in February 2020, but has been unable to enforce it due 
to the moratorium on evictions introduced as a consequence of the pandemic. Mr J says that 
during that time, Santander reported missed payments on his credit file every month, even 
though he is no longer responsible for the mortgage payments.
Our investigator explained that the sale of the mortgage fell outside our remit due to the time 
limits in our rules. As for the credit file reporting, she didnt recommend the complaint be 
upheld, Mr J asked for it to be reviewed by an ombudsman.
What Ive provisionally decided  and why
Ill make some general observations before dealing with the substance of the complaint. 
Were not the regulator of financial businesses, and we dont police their internal processes 
or how they operate generally. Thats the job of the Financial Conduct Authority. We deal 
with individual disputes between businesses and their customers. In doing that, we dont 
replicate the work of the courts. Were impartial, and we dont take either sides instructions 
on how we investigate a complaint. We conduct our investigations and reach our 
conclusions without interference from anyone else.
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments in order to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. 
If I dont comment on any specific point its not because Ive failed to consider it but because 
I dont think I need to comment on it in order to reach what I think is the right outcome in the 
wider context. My remit is to take an overview and decide whats fair in the round.
Mr J hasnt contested the investigators view that the sale of the mortgage is time-barred 
under our rules. However, for completeness, I agree with investigator on this point, and my 
review of the complaint is confined to the credit file reporting after Mr J went into bankruptcy.
On that, the investigator was right when she said that Santander still had an obligation to 
report accurate data to credit reference agencies. However, having seen Mr Js credit file, 
Im not persuaded Santander has recorded what it should have done. It has recorded him as 
having failed to make his monthly payment ever since the bankruptcy began, and thats not 
right.
Santanders right to enforce the security in the event of discharge from bankruptcy is 
preserved by section 281(2) of the Insolvency Act 1986. However, section 281(1) says that 
where a bankrupt is discharged, the discharge releases the borrower from all the bankruptcy 
debts. In the case at hand, this would mean that, although Santander is entitled to enforce its 
security over the property, Mr J isnt liable to pay the monthly instalments and Santander 
shouldnt pursue Mr J for payment or record the fact that the monthly instalments havent 
been paid on his credit file.
But whilst Mr Js requirement to pay the monthly instalments ended, Santander is still 
entitled to report the account, but in the appropriate manner for bankruptcies. This means 
the mortgage account should have been shown on Mr Js credit file as defaulted at the date 
of bankruptcy (and for six years after that). If and when Santander is able to enforce the 
possession order and sell the property, it should then report the mortgage debt as either 
settled or part-settled (depending on whether or not theres a shortfall) for six years from the 
date the mortgage account is closed following sale in possession.
I appreciate this might not be what Mr J was hoping the outcome of this complaint would be; 
he feels his capacity to obtain credit has been impacted by what Santander has reported. I 
appreciate why he might think that, but if Santander had reported what it should have 
reported, the likelihood is that the wider effect on Mr Js credit profile would have been 
broadly the same.
The parties were given until 17 November 2021 to make any further comments; Mr J 
accepted my provisional findings; Santander made no comment.
 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
 Ive considered afresh everything that both parties have said and provided. Having done so, 
I wont be departing from my provisional conclusions.
My final decision
  My final decision is that I uphold this complaint and order Santander UK Plc to remove the 
missed payment entries reported after May 2018 from Mr Js credit file, and substitute a 
default, effective from the date of bankruptcy, in their place. My final decision concludes this services consideration of this complaint, which means Ill 
not be engaging in any further discussion of the merits of it.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr J to accept or 
reject my decision before 16 December 2021. 
Jeff Parrington
Ombudsman