DRN-2901477
The complaint
Ms B has complained that Experian Limited wont refund her CreditExpert fees when she 
didnt use the account. Shes also complained about the password on her credit file.
What happened
In December 2020, Ms B applied for insurance and was asked for a password for her 
Experian credit file  otherwise known as a Password Notice of Correction. She didnt 
remember the password and called Experian to remove it. She was advised to email them a 
copy of her ID.
On this call, Ms B was also told shed had an active CreditExpert subscription since 2015, 
though she hadnt been using it. Ms B said she wasnt aware she still had it, and she 
arranged to cancel it then.
Ms B sent Experian a picture of her passport, though it took three attempts to get a picture 
that was clear enough for Experian to accept. Experian then removed the password and 
Ms B successfully applied for her insurance.
Ms B complained, as she thought shed cancelled her CreditExpert subscription during the 
free trial. She thought she might have been paying for it since 2006, rather than 2015. She 
also questioned whether it was set up fraudulently. She felt that Experian shouldve done 
more to contact her about this account, and should refund all the fees she paid if she didnt 
then use it. She said she hadnt set up the password, and she was unhappy Experian would 
not remove it without ID.
Experian explained the password was put in place so long ago they didnt still have a record 
of how it was set up, but normally only customers could add a password. It was there to 
protect Ms B from fraud, so they needed ID to remove it. They explained Ms B had signed 
up for CreditExpert in 2015 and never cancelled it before December 2020. Theyd sent her 
regular emails about it. They refunded £125 of fees as a goodwill gesture, and paid Ms B 
£25 compensation for the small delay in removing her password.
Our investigator looked into things independently and felt Experian had already resolved 
things fairly. Ms B didnt agree, so the complaints been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Given the years that have passed, its understandable if Ms B no longer recalls setting up 
this CreditExpert subscription. But I can see it was registered using her genuine details, 
including sensitive information like her mothers maiden name, and was paid for using her 
genuine payment method. Theres nothing about the account which indicates it was set up 
fraudulently  as far as I can see, it was Ms Bs. 
I understand Ms B no longer recognises the email address used. Ive listened to her calls 
with Experian from December 2020, where she explained this was an old email that a family 
member helped her set up. So I think this was an email address she was using at the time 
and later stopped using. I also understand Ms B thought this account mightve been from 
2006, but from Experians records and Ms Bs bank statements Im satisfied it started in 
2015. And during the phone calls, Ms B said that she remembered signing up in 2015, 
though she thought she mightve then cancelled it.
So Im satisfied that Ms B signed up for this CreditExpert subscription in 2015. Ive looked at 
screenshots of the application process, and it looks like it wouldve been made clear that 
Ms B would have to pay for the service once the free trial ran out, as well as how much 
those payments would be. So I think Ms B agreed to those payments when she signed up.
Ive looked at Experians records including the contact history, and as far as I can see the 
first time Ms B asked them to cancel the subscription was in December 2020 during her 
phone calls. And Ms B does not have any evidence she put in a cancellation request any 
earlier. So I think its most likely she didnt cancel it until December 2020.
I can completely understand Ms Bs frustration at paying for something she didnt then use. 
I also appreciate she would like Experian to have made more effort to contact her. But in 
fairness, Experian did send regular emails to the address shed given them, which I think 
was sufficient. They werent required to write to Ms B by post in the way shes suggested. 
These payments were also displayed on Ms Bs statements each month. I understand Ms B 
didnt check that email address or that bank account, but Experian couldnt have known that. 
Im afraid Ms B did also have some responsibility to monitor her accounts. And ultimately, 
she did agree to these payments and does not appear to have cancelled them earlier.
So I dont think Experian have to refund all of Ms Bs CreditExpert fees. However, Experian 
have refunded £125 of fees, to acknowledge that Ms B hadnt been using her account. 
I think that was reasonable.
In regard to the password on Ms Bs credit file, it was registered too long ago for there to still 
be a record of what happened. And again, its understandable if she no longer recalls putting 
it in place after so long. But normally, only Ms B herself could have added it. It was there to 
prevent fraud, and to make sure that any credit applications in Ms Bs name were genuine. 
Because this password was important for Ms Bs security, it makes sense that Experian 
wanted to see her ID before removing it. I appreciate this was not convenient for Ms B, and 
that it took longer than she wouldve liked. But I think Experian acted reasonably by 
protecting her security. Further, I understand her password was successfully removed and 
she successfully applied for her insurance. And Experian paid her £25 as compensation for 
the delay. I think that was a fair resolution to her complaint.My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, I think Experian have already resolved things fairly, so I dont 
require them to do anything further.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms B to accept or 
reject my decision before 25 August 2021.
 
Adam Charles
Ombudsman