DRN-4302055
The complaint
Mrs P has complained that Citibank UK Limited (Citi) failed to inform her of a corporate 
action that was to take place on one of her investments. She says she has lost out financially 
as a result.
What happened
Since June 2021 Mrs P held a holding of Fidelity Taiwan USD Fund with Citibank. In   
October 2021 Fidelity announced the Fund was to merge into the Greater China Fund on   
17 January 2022. Mrs P should have been given the opportunity to either sell her holding, 
exchange the Fund for other Fidelity funds or receive shares in the newly merged Fund.    
Mrs P wasnt notified of the merger and she is unhappy as she says she would have sold her 
shares on the day before conversion. She suffered a loss when she did sell her shares in the 
newly merged Fund and wants to be compensated for this.
Mrs P complained to Citi. In its response dated 17 June 2022 it rejected the complaint. It 
said;
The merger was a mandatory corporate action and as such it didnt have to notify 
clients prior it taking place.
Mrs P could sell her holding of Fidelity Greater China USD Fund if she wanted to.
It apologised that Mrs P wasnt responded to when she asked for details about the 
merger.
Mrs P wasnt happy with the outcome to her complaint and brought it to the                
Financial Ombudsman Service. Our investigator who considered the complaint thought it 
should be upheld. She said;
Citi had referred to its Investment Terms of Business  clause 2.22.15 but the 
investigator didnt think it was fair for Citi to rely on that term.
Mrs P did have options to choose from prior to the merger and it would have been 
reasonable for Citi to have passed this information on to her.
She was persuaded Mrs P would have opted to sell her holding prior to the merger.
She thought Mrs P should be compensated if there was a difference in the price she 
would have received on 7 January 2022  the cutoff date for a sale in the         
Fidelity Taiwan USD Fund prior to the merger  compared to the dates the Fund was 
sold. 8% interest should be added to any loss for the period to the date of payment.
Mrs P should also be paid £100 for the inconvenience and frustration she had been 
caused.
Mrs P agreed with the investigator.
Citi said that if it used the date of 7 January 2022, as recommended by the investigator,    
Mrs  P wouldnt have suffered a loss. As a gesture of goodwill, it said it was willing to offer to 
pay redress as if the shares had been sold on 17 January 2022  the date of the merger  
compared with the price on 17 February 2022. It used this date as it was the date the new 
fund holding was added to Mrs Ps account. It said that Mrs P was free to sell her holding 
from this point onwards. The redress would be USD1,162.87.
Mrs P didnt agree with the proposed dates. She said that the first she was aware of the new 
fund was on 1 March 2022. Between then and the date she raised her complaint she kept 
chasing Citi for information about the new fund and how many shares she held. Citis reply to 
her complaint on 17 June was the first response or clarification she had received and she 
was then told on 4 July that her account was being closed  with 60 days notice  at which 
point she tried to transfer the holding but was prevented from doing so by Citi. She saw that 
the fund share price had fallen and didnt sell the holding as she didnt want to crystallise any 
losses. Mrs P had no option but to sell the holding in October.
The investigator wrote to the parties again. She was satisfied with the reasons Mrs P gave 
for not selling her fund earlier than October  she didnt want to incur losses and 
compensation by Citi had been discussed during phone calls. She didnt think it was 
unreasonable for Mrs P to have retained the fund pending her transferring it to another 
nominee.
Even though the account closure notice said that Mrs P could transfer to another provider it 
appeared that her attempts to do so were blocked by Citi. So, the investigator had no reason 
to doubt Mrs Ps testimony. And as Citi didnt provide any information about why it decided to 
close Mrs Ps account she could only conclude that Citi was responsible for Mrs P being put 
in the position whereby she was forced to sell her holding in October. And that was because 
of Citis original error in not telling Mrs P about the impending corporate action. She 
maintained that Citi should pay any redress to Mrs P if she suffered a loss when she did sell 
her shares compared to the price on 7 January 2022. If there was no loss, nothing was due 
to Mrs P with the exception of £100 for the inconvenience and frustration she had been 
caused.
Citi didnt agree with the outcome and asked for the complaint to be considered by an 
ombudsman, so it was passed to me. It provided additional information for my consideration. 
I issued a provisional decision. I agreed with the overall outcome reached by the investigator 
but thought the matter should be put right in a different way. But I wanted to give the parties 
the opportunity to provide any further information or evidence for me to review. Heres what I 
said;
Citi has accepted that Mrs P should have been informed about the choices that were 
open to her prior to the merger. The crux of the complaint that remains is how to put 
the matter right. Mrs P has been consistent throughout the complaint process that 
she didnt want to hold shares in the Fidelity Greater China Fund. So, I have to 
consider at what point, if Mrs P had been appropriately informed by Citi about the 
impending merger, it is reasonable to assume that Mrs P would have sold her shares 
in either the Taiwan Fund prior to the merger or the Greater China Fund post the 
merger.
Citi has argued that Mrs P could have sold her shares much earlier than she did. To 
support its argument Citi has provided us with a notification it sent to Mrs P on        
17 February 2022. I understand that postal delivery to Mrs Ps (overseas) address 
would take between three to five days. So, I assume she received it on or around 
20/22 February. That notice is headed STRUCTURED NOTES/MUTUAL FUNDS 
MERGER and goes onto say;Receipt of 1,736.6567 units/shares of Fidelity Greater China Y-Acc-USD and
delivery of 1,958.4800 shares/units of Fidelity Taiwan Y-Acc-USD on account 
of merger in the ratio .89 new share/unit for every one old share/unit held.
Citi has also provided copies of emails sent to Mrs P.
I see that on 1 March 2022 she was notified by Citis representative that the Fidelity 
Taiwan Fund was converted to the Greater China Fund. Citis representative then 
said they were now collecting all the information and will return to you in the coming 
days with comments which suggests to me that Mrs P had raised a query by that 
time, maybe in response to receiving the merger information notice that was posted 
to her.
On 17 March Mrs P was updated that management was reviewing the situation  I 
again assume this was further to her queries about what had happened. And on      
31 March Mrs P was updated again that management was reviewing the situation.
Citi also provided us with call transcripts for calls it said took place after that. While I 
dont know the dates of those calls, I can see that during the first one Mrs P was 
advised that her queries had been passed on to the relevant team and that team was 
considering the compensation amount. Mrs P wanted a clear explanation from Citi as 
she didnt understand what had happened to her Fidelity holding.
For the second of the calls Mrs P still hadnt received an answer (for over a month) to 
her queries. She was advised to raise a complaint. For compensation she wanted the 
value of her shareholding at the time of the conversion and she was happy for 
Fidelity to redeem the fund if necessary. Its explained to her that Citi wouldnt have 
the right to sell the holding and she would need to raise it. She was advised to 
include it in her complaint which she said she would make that day and which she did 
on 29 April. And I note the final paragraph of her letter of complaint says;
I request Citibank to reimburse me for all losses associated with Fidelity 
Taiwan USD Fund conversion. This can be done through sales of my existing 
shares of Fidelity Greater China USD Fund plus paying compensation making 
total proceeds equal to the amount of proceeds as if my shares of Fidelity 
Taiwan USD Fund have been sold the day before conversion.
I have to consider whether Mrs P made reasonable attempts to mitigate her losses. 
So, Ive thought about whether theres an argument Mrs P should have taken further 
action sooner than she did by selling the investment.
Mrs P has said that it took her several months to figure out the reality and the details 
of the conversion and all this time the Fund was losing money. I dont think that is 
unreasonable as Mrs P wasnt made aware of the impending merger and didnt know 
for sure what had happened. She was already in a loss position by the time she knew 
all of the details in late April. And she wasnt willing to sell the holding at a loss and 
wanted to wait for it to recover, hence her intention to transfer it in specie to another 
provider when she was told her account was being closed. However, that option 
wasnt open to her and Mrs P had to sell the shares in October which crystallised a 
loss.
As quoted above, Mrs P did refer to selling the holding in her letter of complaint to 
Citi. And in its response to that complaint on 17 June 2022 I note it says Please 
notify us should you wish to sell your existing shares Mrs P then brought her 
complaint to Financial Ombudsman on 8 July 2022.Mrs P has said that At the time I knew all the details (and filed the complaint) I was in 
a loss position which I was not willing to fix and this is why I took all the efforts to 
transfer the shares to a different bank (not to sell).
So, I am satisfied that Mrs P was fully aware of her holding in the new fund and how 
it came about at the point she made her complaint to Citi as evidenced by the phone 
calls and emails she had with Fidelitys representative just prior to that. And its clear 
from her complaint letter to Citi that she didnt want to hold the investment. She could 
have sold at that point as she was now fully informed. If her complaint had been 
upheld by Citi, then I would have expected Citi to pay for any losses that she incurred 
if she had sold it any time prior to making her complaint.
But as the complaint was rejected by Citi, Mrs P continued to hold the shares 
pending transfer to another provider and bringing her complaint to this service. But I 
dont think Citi can be held responsible for that delay in selling the shares. That was 
an investment decision made by Mrs P  to retain the shares hoping for an 
improvement in the share price. At that point if she had sold the shares at a profit, 
she would have retained that profit and I doubt this complaint would have arisen. But 
equally I dont think it would be fair to Citi to underwrite any losses Mrs P could have 
incurred after that point as it was her own decision to retain the shares.
So, I think it is the date that Mrs P made her complaint to Citi that should be the date 
for any redress calculation. Its clear that up until that point Mrs P didnt fully 
understand what had happened to her Fidelity holding and what action she could 
take which was only clarified in her final call with Citi which I assume was on the 
same day she made her complaint  29 April 2022.
Mrs P has been consistent throughout her complaint that she doesnt want to hold 
the Fidelity Greater China USD Fund. I see from the documentation provided by 
Fidelity prior to the merger that the last date Mrs P could have sold her holding of the 
Fidelity Taiwan Fund prior to conversion was on 7 January 2022. And while I think its 
more likely than not that Mrs P would have made a sale prior to the merger I cant 
know for sure what date Mrs P would gone ahead with the sale. Bearing in mind that 
uncertainty I think it would be fair and reasonable to both parties to assume that Mrs 
P would have sold her Fidelity Taiwan Fund shares on 7 January 2022.
I see that when Citi decided to close Mrs Ps account, she had to sell her holding. 
The Fidelity Greater China USD Fund was sold in two tranches;
1,465.0267 shares on 10 October 2022 raising USD30,487.21
271.6300 shares on 26 October 2022 raising USD5,109.36.
I said that Citi should calculate to see if Mrs P had suffered a loss but initially I quoted the 
incorrect dates in my provisional decision and the parties responded to that provisional 
decision on that basis. But I wrote again, apologising to the parties and quoted the correct 
dates. To put the matter right I said Citi should;
Calculate what Mrs P would have received if she had sold her holding of the     
Fidelity Taiwan USD Fund on 7 January 2022 and;
Compare that with what Mrs P would have received if she had sold her shareholding 
of the Fidelity Greater China USD Fund on 29 April 2022 which was the first date she 
was fully informed about the new fund. If Mrs P had incurred a loss, that amount 
should be repaid to her plus 8% simple interest on that amount from 7 January 2022 
to the date of settlement. If Mrs P hadnt suffered a loss nothing was due to her.I also said Citi should pay Mrs P £100 for the inconvenience she had been caused.
In response Mrs P said that she was satisfied with the corrected calculation. 
Citi commented that the corrected dates were quite a significant change in what was 
originally outlined in my provisional decision. 
It also commented that as I had said that 29 April 2022 was the date that Mrs P was first fully 
informed about the merger it wanted to draw my attention to the notification it had sent to 
Mrs P on 17 February 2022 which gave details of the merger. It believed that notification 
demonstrated that Citi had made Mrs P aware of the merger and she could have sold her 
holding from this point. 
As Citi didnt agree, the complaint has been passed back to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I should first like to again extend my apologies to the parties for the typographical error in my 
provisional decision regarding the dates for redress purposes. The uncorrected copy was 
sent rather than the corrected copy, for which I apologise. 
Mr P has accepted the corrected dates, but Citi has made comment about the notification 
document it sent to Mrs P on 17 February 2022 and that should be the date chosen for 
redress purposes. 
I did refer to that document in my provisional decision, as quoted above. I said that as Mrs P 
lives overseas and my understanding was that assuming a delivery time of between three 
and five days, she would have received the notification around 20/22 February. 
But in addition to that notification, Citi had also provided email correspondence from around 
that time which suggested to me that Mrs P was in touch with Citis representative about 
what had happened to her holding. I say this because of the email of 1 March which said, 
with reference to the Fidelity Taiwan Fund, that Citi was now collecting all the information 
and will return to you in the coming days with comments. 
I was satisfied that this indicated that Mrs P had already been in touch with Citi about the 
holding and wasnt clear about what had happened  and her questions may have been 
prompted by the notification sent on 17 February but I couldnt know that for sure. But upon 
reflection, I dont think its an unreasonable assumption to make bearing in mind when she 
would have received the notification.
So I remain of the opinion that it wasnt until 29 April 2022 that Mrs P was fully up to speed 
with what had happened with her Fidelity holding and that she wasnt happy she hadnt been 
made aware in advance of the merger as she should have been. 
Mrs P wasnt made aware in advance of the merger and I am satisfied that Mrs P didnt want 
to hold the merged Greater China Fund and she has been consistent throughout about that 
point. So, I think it most likely Mrs P would have sold the Fidelity Taiwan Fund the day prior 
to merger  the 7 January 2022. But bearing in mind Mrs P wasnt given that opportunity I think its fair and reasonable to 
assume that the first date Mrs P could have sold her (merged) holding was on 29 April 2022 
as it was at that point she was fully aware of what had happened. 
Because of that I remain of the opinion that Citi should calculate redress as outlined in my 
corrected redress method for the provisional decision.   
Putting things right
To put the matter right Citi;
 should calculate what Mrs P would have received if she had sold her holding of the 
Fidelity Taiwan USD Fund on 7 January 2022.
 Citi should compare that with what Mrs P would have received if she had sold her 
shareholding of the Fidelity Greater China USD Fund on 29 April 2022 which was 
the first date she was fully informed about the new fund. 
If Mrs P has incurred a loss, that amount should be repaid to her plus 8% simple 
interest on that amount from 7 January 2022 to the date of settlement. If Mrs P 
hasnt suffered a loss nothing is due to her.
Citi should also pay Mrs P £100 for the inconvenience she has been caused.
My final decision
For the reasons given, I uphold Mrs Ps complaint and Citibank UK Limited should pay 
redress as outlined above. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs P to accept or 
reject my decision before 21 September 2023.
 
Catherine Langley
Ombudsman