DRN-3027989
The complaint
Mr W complains Automobile Association Insurance Services Limited (AA) mis-sold him his 
roadside assistance policies.
What happened
On 18 August 2021 I issued a provisional decision explaining whatd happened, and my 
thoughts on how to put that right. Ive copied the relevant sections below, and this forms part 
of my final decision.
In 2016 Mr W bought a brand-new motorhome, which came with a one-year membership to 
AAs roadside assistance cover.
In 2017 Mr W took out a policy for two years and then renewed it for a further year in 2019. 
He says he was told at this time that cover when his 2019 policy would expire would be 
supplied by a different provider.
In 2020 having spoken to this different provider, Mr W says he established that the length of 
his motorhome was longer than allowed by AAs policy. Having spoken to AA he says he 
was told had he broken down then hed have been responsible for all costs of the recovery. 
Mr W says his main concern at this point is why are policies being provided by the dealer 
which are clearly unsuitable when purchasing a new motorhome, and he was also felt hed 
been mis-sold the policy for the three out of the four years hed had it and wanted his 
premiums back. So, he complained.
AA replied to Mr Ws complaint. They said the policy set out the dimensions of what could be 
recovered  which they had provided to Mr W. And although Mr W wouldnt be recovered, 
theyd still have provided assistance at the roadside if hed broken down. Because AA felt 
the onus was on Mr W to have ensured the cover met his needs, they didnt think theyd 
done anything wrong and wouldnt be refunding his premiums.
Mr W wasnt happy with this, so asked us to look into things and he explained hed never 
received the full policy booklets in 2017 or 2019, so couldnt check the dimensions as AA 
said he should have.
We asked AA for their evidence to help us get a full picture of the complaint. AA provided 
their information including the policy booklet that applied. But said they didnt hold evidence 
of the policy information being sent out to Mr W when he took out the policies in 2017 and 
2019. They said they arent provided with the dimensions of the motorhome when initially 
placing it on cover  and as motorhomes can be modified, they cant ever know if theyll 
meet the relevant requirements for a recovery. AA also reiterated Mr W would have been 
covered for breakdown services (as in, theyd have come out to him to see if they could fix 
his motorhome at the roadside), but not for recovery if it couldnt be fixed. So, he could still 
have benefitted from the policy.
Our investigator considered everything, but overall didnt uphold Mr Ws complaint. He felt 
AA had given Mr W enough information to decide whether the policy was right for him.
Mr W emphasised he was never given this information to be able to understand the 
restrictions on the dimensions of his motorhome. He also said hed managed to speak to lots 
of other people who bought their motorhome new like he did, and none of them knew about 
the restrictions either. He said no conversations hes had with AA highlighted these issues 
and questions why he was given free cover for a motorhome which didnt meet the size. He 
also provided all the documents he said he received, which included the Insurance Product 
Information Document (IPID). 
The purpose of an IPID is to highlight the key benefits and restrictions on cover.
The IPID included details of the maximum width and weight  but not length. Mr W said his 
motorhome met the maximum width and weight, but not the length. He felt it very strange 
that this isnt included in the IPID when the other two aspects are.
AA said Mr W had quoted to them during his complaint in 2020 from the policy booklet he 
said he never received  and Mr W explained this was acquired from a friend, and not one 
he received from AA previously.
Our investigator remained of the opinion Mr Ws case shouldnt be upheld, so the 
complaints been passed to me to decide.
 
What Ive provisionally decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I think its helpful to explain that Mr Ws policies were sold on a non-advised basis. This 
means that AA didnt have to check whether they were suitable for Mr W, but they did have 
to provide him with clear, fair and not misleading information.
For reasons Ill go on to explain, I dont think theyve done that, so I currently plan to uphold 
this complaint.
Mr W has said consistently from the beginning of his complaints he never received the full 
policy booklets from AA. Weve asked AA for evidence they sent them to Mr W, and theyve 
said they cant provide this due to the time thats passed. I find this surprising, as generally 
financial businesses keep records for longer than the four years from Mr Ws first policy in 
2017.
So, without definitive proof they were sent to Mr W, I need to think about the information I 
can see Mr W definitely did receive.Hes pointed to the IPID as lacking information about any restrictions on length of the 
motorhomes. The IPID is dated 2018, suggesting its the one he received with his policy 
renewal in 2019, and it says:
Are there any restrictions on cover?
The driver must be with the vehicle at the point of breakdown and when resource 
arrives
The vehicle must be roadworthy, within 3.5 tonnes and no wider than 2.3m
When comparing this to the full policy booklet Ive noted this says:
Vehicle type, weight and size restrictions
Assistance is only available in relation to vehicles which:
a) Have been registered as an Eligible Vehicle with the AA
b) Comply with the relevant restrictions set out below:
Maximum vehicle weight (applies to all services)
All Vehicle: 3.5 tonnes gross vehicle weight (GVW)
Maximum vehicle length Relay Service: 6.4m (21 ft)
Maximum vehicle width Relay Service: 2.3m (7ft 6in)
The purpose of the IPID is to clearly set out any key information. And I think by explicitly 
saying are there any restrictions on cover and not including information on length (which is 
set out as a restriction in the full policy booklet alongside weight and width which are 
included in the IPID), this is misleading. 
Mr W has been clear and consistent in saying he never received the full policy booklets  
and AA cant provide any evidence to show they did send them to him. I do understand AAs 
view that Mr W demonstrated he received a policy booklet when he was making his 
complaint in 2020, but hes explained this was given to him by a friend. I find that a plausible 
explanation and have seen no other evidence he did receive the policy booklet in full. So, 
Ive seen no evidence he could or should have known about the length issue before he 
began discussing a new policy in 2020.
Mr W has also been clear and consistent in saying hed never have paid for a policy if it 
wouldnt have recovered him. The fact that hes not had to use the policy isnt really relevant 
to whether it was mis-sold or not.
I also note AA have said Mr W could have benefitted from the policy by technicians coming 
out to him, just not the recovery element of the policy. Ive not considered this in detail, 
because I find if Mr W had been told his policy wouldnt recover him if his motorhome 
couldnt be fixed then hed more likely than not have taken out a policy that would have.
Taking all of this information into account, Im currently planning to uphold this complaint, 
and require AA to refund Mr Ws premiums. And as hes been deprived of that money, Ill 
also require AA to pay 8% interest on the premiums.
Responses to my provisional decision
Mr W replied, and said he hopes AA take notice of my decision about needing to clear about 
the maximum length under their breakdown cover. He said many hundreds, if not thousands, 
of people with motorhomes similar to his are under a false expectation their policy will 
recover them if theres an issue. He said he looks forward to a final conclusion on this issue 
and hopes AA will pay him out for a policy that was obviously inappropriate for his needs.But AA didnt accept my decision. They said they wanted to draw my attention to issues they 
felt had unfairly impacted the outcome. Ive summarised what I consider to be their key 
points:
In the original renewal call on 31 October 2017 the agent asked if the cover met 
Mr Ws needs, said hed receive his policy documents within 28 days, and went to 
great lengths to check the terms and conditions.
AA said they can certainly agree sometimes things go wrong  but for things to go 
wrong twice is improbable at best  and felt I was making unfounded accusations 
theyd withheld critical information from Mr W on two occasions.
They said they couldnt believe Mr W didnt get the terms and conditions, or that he 
didnt chase them up  given how diligent hes been with his complaint that hes been 
chasing up for a year.
They asked what rule I was referring to when I said I was surprised about AA not 
being able to prove they sent the policy booklets. 
In a call in September 2020 the agent had confirmed weight is the deciding factor on 
whether to do a recovery  not length. So, they said Mr W was surely aware his 
motorhome was over the weight limit, and wider than the width limit. 
In the same September 2020 call AA have categorised Mr Ws comments about the 
policy booklet as having had it  saying hed only ever had one booklet that covered 
anything. And saying hed admitted Ive noticed for the first time now that Ive read 
into it. With that in mind, AA asked on what grounds I felt Mr Ws explanation for 
being given the policy booklet by a friend was plausible.
They said, in the same call, Mr W had confirmed his motorhome was 7.62 meters in 
length, and 2.41 metres wide  too wide for the policy terms. They ask that, given 
Mr W has admitted his motorhome is too wide, how can it be theyve given 
misleading information.
Overall, they felt Id reached the wrong decision, and asked me to review it.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive listened to the call on 31 October 2017 when Mr W took out the two-year policy. AA 
have said they went to great lengths to check the policy terms met Mr Ws needs  
particularly at the end. In the call, the agent does ask if it meets Mr Ws needs  and he says 
I hope so, I presume nothings changed from the original. I find this is consistent with 
Mr Ws expectations that, when the free policy was given with his motorhome, he believed 
itd cover his needs. 
And, at the end of the call, the agent does say the policy documents will be sent within 28 
days, and make sure you check them. While I understand why AA have now chosen to 
provide this call, it doesnt prove to me they sent the documents to Mr W  or that he knew, 
or should have known, about the restrictions.
In the September 2020 call Mr W calls to complain because hes been told AA wont recover 
his motorhome as its too long and has been since he first had the policy. So, he wanted to 
know what hed been paying for.During this call AA do say they dont really discriminate on the length its more about the 
weight. So, if the motorhome is too long more than likely not theyll still recover it. Mr W says 
thats not what he was told last week when he spoke to someone. He said hes only ever 
had one booklet that covered anything  its always just been a letter and a leaflet says 
nothing. But the little booklet does talk about length  and he does touch on the weight and 
width.
But Ive not heard anything in this call that proves Mr W was sent the policy booklet, or that 
his motorhome was too heavy as theyve argued as he doesnt give the weight of it. He does 
say its too wide  but has also told us when he folds his wingmirrors in then itd fit those 
dimensions.
I do accept AAs point that Mr W doesnt say the policy booklet was provided by a friend  
but when we asked him thats the answer hes given. And I dont think its particularly 
unusual for someone not to chase up their policy booklets until they might need them.
AA have also said I made an unfounded accusation that they didnt send Mr W policy 
documents on two occasions  but that isnt what I said. I simply said AA have no evidence 
they did send the documents. Where information is incomplete or contradictory then Im 
required to decide matters based on what I think is more likely than not taking into account 
the information I do have. As I said in my provisional decision, Ive seen no reason to doubt 
what Mr W has said  so Im more persuaded by his testimony than AAs.
I also wanted to address AAs comments about length not being the deciding factor in a 
recovery. Mr W was seemingly told it was but AA have repeated in their response to my 
provisional decision it isnt  its weight. This may explain why length isnt included in the 
IPID but is included in the policy documents  but Im still not satisfied it meets the test of 
clear, fair and not misleading. I say that because in Mr Ws circumstances it effectively 
means if he broke down, itd be at AAs discretion on whether hed be recovered if needed. 
And, as Ive said above, Im satisfied Ive not seen anything to show Mr W received the 
policy booklet from the AA at renewal, rather than from a friend as hes said. So, with that in 
mind, I think Mr W only ever received the IPID, and wouldnt have known about the length 
restrictions. So, he was denied the opportunity to make an informed choice about the type of 
policy hed bought.
Finally, AA have asked what rules I was talking about when I said I found it surprising they 
didnt have evidence to prove theyd sent the policy documents. I wasnt quoting or intending 
to quote from any rules  I was only making the point that usually financial businesses such 
as the AA are able to provide this kind of evidence. And while one of the policy renewals was 
from now four years ago  the complaint was made a year after the 2019 policy and AA 
didnt have records then either to show the policy documents were sent  which I continue to 
find unusual. 
Putting things right
I require AA to:
Refund Mr W the two premiums hes paid
Pay 8% simple interest from the date each payment was made, to the date of 
settlement*
*HM Revenue and Customs requires AA to deduct tax from the interest payment referred to 
above. AA must give Mr W a certificate showing how much tax theyve deducted if he asks 
them for one.  My final decision
It follows I uphold this complaint, and order Automobile Association Insurance Services 
Limited to carry out the actions in the putting things right section above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision before 1 October 2021.
 
Jon Pearce
Ombudsman