DRN-3709184
The complaint
Mr B has complained that Omni Capital Retail Finance Limited (OCRF) rejected his claim 
against it under sections 56, 75 and 140A of the Consumer Credit Act 1974 (the Act) in 
relation to his purchase of some solar panels.
Mr B is represented by a claims management company (the CMC).
Background
Mr B bought solar panels for his home in August 2018. The purchase was funded by a ten-
year loan from OCRF, and under the Act that business is therefore liable for the acts and 
omissions of the installer. Mr B says the installer misled him into believing that the panels 
would be self-funding, which they werent.
One of our adjudicators looked into what had happened. Having considered all the 
information and evidence provided, our adjudicator didnt think that P had misrepresented 
the system to Mr B and found no reason to uphold the complaint. The CMC did not agree 
(for reasons which I will summarise below), and so the case was referred for an 
ombudsmans decision.
My findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having carefully considered everything provided, I do not uphold this complaint. That is 
because the sales documentation sets out the cost and the estimated benefit of the panels 
very clearly, and the benefits did not begin to approach the cost.
The sales documentation consists of OCRFs loan agreement and four further pages 
provided by the installer. I have focused on the latter, because the loan agreement only sets 
out the cost of the panels and not the expected financial benefits.
There is a dispute about whether these four pages constitute one document or two separate 
documents. The significance of this is that our services starting point in such cases is that a 
consumer should generally not have to compare two different documents with each other in 
order to see whether the benefits from the solar panels will meet the cost or not. We would 
usually expect the cost and benefits to appear in the same document (although not 
necessarily on the same page).
In this case, the CMC argues that the installer failed to do this. It says that the four pages 
appear to be two documents, of two pages each, one titled Solar PV Performance 
Estimate Annual AC Output (Part 1) and the other titled Solar PV Quote & Contract 
Order Form (Part 2) (original emphasis). For convenience, I will refer to these as Part 1 and 
Part 2. Part 1 shows the benefits from the panels, and Part 2 shows the cost, but neither 
shows both.
Our adjudicator thought these four pages were a single document, and so in line with our 
usual approach she concluded that the installer had made it sufficiently clear to Mr B that the 
monthly loan repayments would exceed the expected income and savings from the panels. 
The CMC says that she fell into error by doing so, as the different titles suggest that these 
are really two different documents.
I can see the CMCs point. Two of the four pages are certainly title pages, on which the 
respective titles appear in a massive font, with almost nothing else on them but the installers 
logo. That does strongly suggest that they are strictly two documents, rather than one. And 
both of them have been signed by Mr B, which I think lends further support to that view. So 
I accept that they are technically two documents.
But on the other hand, the fact that they are subtitled Part 1 and Part 2 also suggests that 
it is intended that they should be read together. The fact that they have each been 
separately signed by Mr B on the same date also proves that they were both brought to his 
attention on the same occasion. And each document consists of only one substantive page 
of information, so comparing them with each other would hardly have been an onerous task.
So while I respect the CMCs submissions on this point, I still think that it would be a mistake 
if I were to attach much weight to it. On the particular facts of this case, the observation that 
these are really two different documents seems to me to be rather more technical than real. 
Therefore, for the reasons I have given in the previous paragraph, I think it would be fair and 
reasonable of me to depart from our usual approach, to the limited extent that I propose to 
read Part 1 and Part 2 together as if they were one document. On that basis, I conclude that 
the installer did enough to make the costs and benefits clear and obvious to Mr B in writing, 
in a way that did not conceal the fact that the costs considerably exceeded the benefits (as 
I shall show shortly).
I agree with the CMCs argument that, if the salesman did tell Mr B that the panels would pay 
for themselves, then it is no defence to a claim for misrepresentation for OCRF to show that 
the installer contradicted that claim in writing, and that it was Mr Bs responsibility to discover 
that for himself. On the contrary, if I accepted that this is what happened, then I would 
uphold this complaint. But the evidence which I have described above, which shows that 
Mr B signed one page that set out the cost of the panels and at the same time signed 
another page that set out the estimated benefits, leads me to conclude on the balance of 
probabilities that it is not likely that the salesman told him something that contradicted these 
figures.
Part 1 states that the estimated total annual benefit is £661.88. Part 2 says that the total 
price is £12,595, and that after a deposit of £100 the balance of £12,495 will be paid by 
finance. It goes on to say that there will be 120 monthly payments of about £161 (the figures 
for the pence are not clear on my copy of Part 2, but for the present purpose rounding to the 
nearest pound will do).1 So I think it would have been obvious that in the course of one year, 
twelve payments of £161 would come to much more than the benefit figure in Part 1 (about 
three times as much, in fact). An even simpler calculation is to say that ten monthly 
payments, instead of twelve, would be £1,610, which is nearly a thousand pounds more than 
the annual benefit of £661.88.
Another way of looking at it is to say that ten times the total benefit figure is £6,618.80, which 
is barely more than half the cash price of the panels. I think that is clear too.
1 The loan agreement states that the first payment will be £162.36, followed by 119 payments of 
161.52. However, it was not necessary for Mr B to compare the loan agreement with Part 1 to see that 
the cost would exceed the benefit.The CMC has argued that all of this maths is too much to expect of an average consumer, 
but I do not agree. Each of these comparisons is very straightforward.
For these reasons, I am not persuaded that the installer misled Mr B about the benefits and 
cost of the panels. It was clear that the panels would not be self-funding during the term of 
the loan, and so I do not accept that the salesman told him otherwise.
My final decision
My decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 17 November 2022.
 
Richard Wood
Ombudsman