DRN-3024171
The complaint
Mr W complains about the overdraft charges that National Westminster Bank Plc 
(NatWest) applied to an account he didnt know he had. 
What happened
Mr W complained to NatWest that it charged him overdraft fees without informing him. 
NatWest say that Mr W was using an account with it up until October 2017. It says Mr W 
made a point of sale transaction which took Mr W into an unarranged overdraft which 
subsequently incurred overdraft charges and there is a debt owing of £253. 
One of our adjudicators looked into Mr Ws concerns and reached the conclusion NatWest 
hadnt done anything wrong or treated Mr W unfairly and so didnt recommend the complaint 
be upheld. Mr W disagreed and so the complaint was passed to an ombudsman for a final 
decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having considered everything provided, Ive decided not to uphold Mr Ws complaint. Ill 
explain why in a little more detail. 
My role is to look at problems that a consumer has experienced and see if the bank has 
done anything wrong. If it has, we seek to put the consumer back in the position they 
wouldve been in if the mistakes hadnt happened. And we may award modest compensation 
that we think is fair and reasonable.
Mr W is unhappy that NatWest charged him overdraft fees without informing him and doesnt 
remember having this account.
 
NatWest says Mr W wouldve received electronic monthly bank statements showing what 
was owing on the account. I have seen that the registered email address NatWest holds for 
Mr W is the same address Mr W is using to bring this complaint, so Im satisfied the contact 
information NatWest held is correct. 
I accept that Mr W may not remember having the account and that he stopped using the 
account some years ago in October 2017. But not remembering an account exists doesnt 
absolve him from settling a debt owed or not managing his account properly. Indeed, before 
Mr W stopping using the account he was able to settle previous debts on the account when 
he went into unarranged overdraft. 
So I cant say that NatWest has done anything wrong by charging for a service it provided Mr 
W with by allowing a point of sale transaction to go through when Mr W didnt have sufficient 
funds in his account. I havent considered whether the various amounts NatWest charged 
over the years were fair and reasonable, or proportionate in comparison to the costs of the 
service provided. 
Ultimately how much a bank charges for services is a commercial decision. And it isnt 
something for me to get involved with. That said, while Im not looking at NatWests various 
charging structures per se, it wont have acted fairly and reasonably towards Mr W if it 
applied any interest, fees and charges to Mr Ws account in circumstances where it was 
aware, or it ought fairly and reasonably to have been aware Mr W was experiencing financial 
difficulty. From what Ive seen of Mr Ws bank statements I cant see anything to suggest that 
NatWest ought to have realised he might have been experiencing financial difficulty. 
 
So, in these circumstances I dont think that it was unreasonable for NatWest to proceed 
with adding the interest, fees and charges in line with the terms and conditions of the 
account and I dont think NatWest treated Mr W unfairly or unreasonably which means that 
Im not upholding this complaint.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, Im not upholding Mr Ws complaint.  Under the rules of the 
Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W to accept or reject my decision 
before 10 November 2021.
 
Caroline Davies
Ombudsman