DRN-4392213
The complaint
Miss D is complaining that Specialist Motor Finance Limited (SMF) shouldnt have lent to her 
 she says they were irresponsible in doing so. Miss D brought her complaint to us via a 
representative, but for ease Ive written as if weve dealt directly with her.
What happened
In May 2017, Miss D took out a hire purchase agreement with SMF to finance the purchase 
of a vehicle. She paid no deposit and borrowed £4,478  the cash price of the car. The 
agreement required Miss D to make one payment of £250, 59 monthly repayments of 
£146.33, and a final instalment of £341.33. The total amount shed have to pay to SMF was 
£9,224.80. 
In April 2023, Miss D complained to SMF, saying that she thought SMF had failed to conduct 
appropriate checks before lending to her. 
In response SMF said when shed applied, Miss D told them she earned £1,200 net monthly 
income, was single, and lived in rented accommodation. They said they verified her income 
using one of the credit reference agencies and used statistical data to estimate her non-
discretionary expenditure. They said they calculated her disposable income was £149 per 
month so the loan repayments of £146.33 were affordable for her. SMF added that theyd 
carried out a credit check before lending to Miss D, but as they specialise in providing credit 
to people whove previously experienced financial difficulty, some level of missed payments 
on a credit file wouldnt be a reason for them to decline an application.
SMF said Miss D had made her first six months repayments on time and then unfortunately 
had an accident in which the car had been written off. They said that between the insurance 
payments and Miss Ds payments the account had been overpaid by around £100 and 
offered Miss D a refund of £125.
Miss D was unhappy with SMFs response and brought her complaint to our service, where 
one of our investigators looked into it. Our investigator thought the complaint should be 
upheld, saying that SMFs checks seemed to show the loan was unaffordable for Miss D. 
SMF didnt respond to our investigators view so the complaints been passed to me for a 
decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im upholding Miss Ds complaint for broadly the same reasons as our 
investigator  Ill explain why below.
The Financial Conduct Authority (FCA) sets out in a part of its handbook known as CONC 
what lenders must do when deciding whether or not to lend to a consumer. In summary, a 
firm must consider a customers ability to make repayments under the agreement without 
having to borrow further to meet repayments or default on other obligations, and without the 
repayments having a significant adverse impact on the customers financial situation. 
SMF said they reviewed Miss Ds credit file and carried out an income and expenditure 
assessment using her stated income and estimates of her expenditure using statistical data 
and details from her credit file.
Looking at the credit report they reviewed, SMF would have seen that Miss D had missed a 
number of payments on two unsecured loans. Both loans were taken out towards the end of 
2015 and one defaulted in February 2017. The other was still active but the credit report 
suggests Miss D had missed six monthly payments. So although Miss D had managed to 
maintain monthly payments of £180 on a different two-year loan from March 2014, it appears 
that Miss D might have been in some financial difficulties by the time of her application.
SMF said they verified Miss Ds income and estimated that her non-discretionary 
expenditure would be around £888 per month. And they took her monthly credit 
commitments figure of £163 from her credit file. Deducting those figures from her monthly 
income suggested her disposable income was around £149 per month. 
Its not clear whether SMFs estimate of non-discretionary expenditure includes car 
insurance, road tax and fuel. If it doesnt then the repayments of £146 per month were 
clearly unaffordable for Miss D. But even if it does, SMFs income and expenditure 
assessment suggested Miss D would have less than £3 each month after paying all her 
credit commitments and non-discretionary expenditure.
Given the agreement was for five years, Im not satisfied it would be sustainable for Miss D 
to have less than £3 per month to cover emergencies and unexpected expenditure. So on 
that basis SMF shouldnt have lent to Miss D.
Putting things right
As I dont think SMF should have approved the loan, I dont think its fair for them to charge 
any interest or other charges under the agreement. SMF should therefore only retain the 
original cash price of the car, being £4,478.
To settle Miss Ds complaint, SMF should do the following:
Refund all the payments theyve received in excess of £4,478, adding 8% simple 
interest per year from the date of each overpayment to the date of settlement. 
Remove any adverse information recorded on Miss Ds credit file regarding the 
agreement.
If SMF consider tax should be deducted from the interest element of my award they should 
provide Mrs B a certificate showing how much theyve taken off so that Mrs B can reclaim 
that amount, assuming she is eligible to do so.
My final decision
As Ive explained, Im upholding Miss Ds complaint. Specialist Motor Finance Limited need 
to take the steps outlined above to settle the matter.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss D to accept 
or reject my decision before 11 January 2024.
 
Clare King
Ombudsman