DRN-1811263
Complaint
Mrs M says Gain Credit LLC (trading as Lending Stream) irresponsibly lent to her.              
Background
This complaint is about six high-cost short term credit instalment loans that Lending Stream 
provided to Mrs M between April 2013 and March 2016. 
Our adjudicator partially upheld Mrs Ms complaint and thought she shouldnt have been 
provided with loan 6. Lending Stream didnt agree. So the complaint was passed to me.
My findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Weve set out our general approach to 
complaints about short-term lending - including all the key relevant rules, guidance and good 
industry practice - on our website. 
Lending Stream needed to take reasonable steps to ensure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. 
In practice this means that it should have carried out proportionate checks to make sure     
Mrs M could repay the loans in a sustainable manner. These checks could take into account 
a number of different things, such as how much was being lent, the repayment amounts and 
the consumers income and expenditure. With this in mind, in the early stages of a lending 
relationship, I think less thorough checks might be reasonable and proportionate.  
But certain factors might point to the fact that Lending Stream should fairly and reasonably 
have done more to establish that any lending was sustainable for the consumer. These 
factors include:
the lower a customers income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make any 
loan repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income);
 
the higher the amount due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income); 
 
the greater the number and frequency of loans, and the longer the period of time 
during which a customer has been given loans (reflecting the risk that repeated 
refinancing may signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, 
unsustainable).
 
There may even come a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly 
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable.
Ive carefully considered all of the arguments, evidence and information provided. Having 
looked at the overall pattern of Lending Streams lending history with Mrs M, I think that 
Lending Stream should reasonably have seen that Mrs M was unlikely to have been able to 
make her payments in a sustainable manner by the time it provided Mrs M with loan 6. I say this because by this stage I think that proportionate checks would more likely than not 
have shown that Mrs M was already making payments to debt collectors as a result of 
running into difficulty repaying previous credit. So Mrs M was taking loan 6 because she was 
in financial difficulty rather than to cover a short-term need.  
In my view, Lending Stream lent to Mrs M in circumstances where it ought reasonably to 
have realised that any further loans were more likely than not unsustainable for her. 
Mrs M had to pay interest and charges on a loan that Lending Stream shouldnt have 
provided her with. So I think that she lost out and Lending Stream should put things right.
Putting things right  what Lending Stream needs to do
refund all interest and charges Mrs M paid on loan 6;
 
pay interest of 8% simple a year on any refunded interest and charges from the date 
they were paid to the date of settlement;
 
remove any adverse information recorded on Mrs Ms credit file as a result of loan 6.
 
 HM Revenue & Customs requires Lending Stream to take off tax from this interest. 
Lending Stream must give Mrs M a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if she 
asks for one.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, Im partially upholding Mrs Ms complaint Gain Credit LLC 
should pay Mrs M compensation as set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs M to accept or 
reject my decision before 15 June 2020.
Jeshen Narayanan
Ombudsman