DRN-2887627
The complaint
Mr S complained that his claim for accidental damage under his commercial buildings 
insurance policy with Ocaso SA, Compania de Seguros y Reaseguros (Ocaso) was unfairly 
declined.
What happened
Shortly after Mr S rented out his property to a new tenant, the tenant identified some chips to 
the cast iron bath. The bath was around 50 years in age. Mr S said the tenant hadnt noticed 
the chips when the tenant viewed the property before moving in. He said the tenant thought 
the damage may have been covered by a towel during the viewing. Mr S said he also hadnt 
noticed the chips a few days earlier.
Mr S said there was a large chip to the enamel on the top edge of the bath and two smaller 
chips by the plug hole. Mr S made an unsuccessful attempt to repair the bath, so instructed 
his managing agent to replace it. Mr S made a claim for accidental damage under his policy 
for the cost of the replacement. He said the only time he could think it was damaged was 
when a tradesman replaced the shower head for a heavier one during the period of the last 
tenancy and he may have dropped a drill in the bath.
Ocaso reviewed the photographs of the damage and decided to decline the claim. It said 
based on the evidence provided it was concluded that not only was this damage not 
attributable to one incident but also the bath was showing clear signs of deterioration.
Our investigator didnt uphold the complaint. He thought Ocaso were fair in declining the 
claim. He didnt think the cause of the damage had been proven and thought it was likely the 
damage had occurred over a period of time. Mr S disagreed, so the case has been referred 
to an ombudsman.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I have reviewed why Ocaso rejected the claim. It rejected the claim for two reasons:
It said the damage was not attributable to one incident
It said the bath was showing clear signs of deterioration
I will consider each of these points. There are no expert reports provided for this complaint, 
so I have reviewed the photographic evidence that is available along with the accounts from 
Mr S and Ocaso.
Mr S has admitted hes unsure what caused the damage. He said he thinks its most likely 
the damage was caused by a tradesman when he replaced the shower head and he thought 
he may have dropped a drill causing the damage.
Ocaso have said the damage doesnt look like it was caused by a single incident, as there 
were separate chips and signs of rust. I have reviewed the photographs provided and can 
see the one chip is on the top edge of the bath and then there are two separate chips near 
the plug hole with some staining. On reviewing the photos, I think its unlikely a single 
incident would have caused the damage. The pattern of damage / the chips suggests to me 
all the damage didnt happen at the same time. So, I dont think its reasonable to attribute 
the damage to a single accidental incident.
I think if the damage was caused by a tradesman, then I think it would have been picked up 
at the time when the work might have been checked. Even if the work wasnt checked by the 
managing agent, I think it would be likely the sitting tenant would have escalated any 
damage that may have been caused. Therefore, for these reasons, I agree with Ocasos 
view that its unlikely the damage was caused by a single incident.
Ocaso said there is evidence the bath was showing signs of deterioration. I can see the 
policy did contain an exclusion clause for this. Therefore, I have looked at why Ocaso thinks 
the damage was consistent with gradual deterioration. Ocaso say that rusting is visible 
around the three indentations on the bath. I have looked at the photos and I agree that there 
are signs of rust. This suggests that the damage has been there for some time. The rusting 
is also accompanied by staining which suggests the bath has not been well maintained.
However, Mr S also provided some earlier photos which seems to show the bath in 
reasonable condition. So, its difficult to conclude with 100% certainty what happened. I can 
see that Mr Ss account is plausible. I have considered what I think was more likely to have 
happened. I dont think its likely a single accidental event caused the damage due to the 
location of the separate chips. The rusting suggests the damage is longer standing in nature, 
so possibly down to more recent wear and tear. 
I dont think Mr S has been able to prove the damage has been caused by a recent single 
accidental incident as required by the policy, so I dont think Ocaso has been unreasonable 
in declining this claim. The burden of proof for showing an insured event has occurred lies 
with the policy holder. As Mr S hasnt shown the damage was caused by a known accidental 
event, the damage wouldnt be covered by the policy.
I know this will be disappointing to Mr S, but its not fair for me to decide Ocaso are liable for 
the damage, as I dont think there is enough evidence to support the damage has been 
caused by a single insured event.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. I dont require Ocaso SA, Compania de 
Seguros y Reaseguros to do anything more.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 10 August 2021.
 
Pete Averill
Ombudsman