DRN-1943686
 
The complaint
Mrs R is unhappy that when she tried to use her debit card issued by State Bank Of India 
(UK) Limited (SBIUK) in a cash machine belonging to SBI India the card didnt work. 
What happened
Mrs R travelled to India for some dental treatment. She attempted to use her debit card 
issued by her bank SBIUK, in a cash machine (ATM) but the transactions didnt go through 
and Mrs R wasnt able to use her card whilst she was abroad. Mrs R had another bank card 
with her that she was able to use during her stay, but this didnt have the funds available for 
her to continue to have the dental treatment  the purpose of the trip. Mrs R wants SBIUK to 
reimburse her the cost of the plane tickets so she can arrange a return trip to India for the 
treatment. 
SBIUK says its terms and conditions explain that its not responsible if a customer cant use 
their card in an ATM which is operated by another bank. It has provided activity logs during 
the period Mrs R was away and it shows on 20 September 2019 that Mrs R tried to transfer 
money. SBIUK has explained this isnt something that can be done at a cash machine, so 
the transaction was declined. But as a gesture of goodwill it has offered Mrs R £40.00 to 
cover any fees she incurred whilst using her other bank card when she was abroad. 
Our investigator didnt uphold the complaint. She said she couldnt hold SBIUK responsible 
for another banks ATM and she felt the goodwill offer was fair in the circumstances. Mrs R 
didnt agree and asked for her complaint to be reviewed. So, the complaint has been passed 
to me to make a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive decided not to uphold this complaint, for largely the same reasons as our investigator. Ill 
explain why.
It has already been explained to Mrs R that SBI is a different entity to SBIUK, so I dont 
intend to reiterate this again. I understand Mrs R tried to gain assistance from the branch of 
SBI whilst she was away, but it was unable to help as it doesnt have access to SBIUKs 
customer accounts. 
I understand Mrs R says she didnt try to transfer money but was attempting to withdraw it. 
And that she attempted this, five times. The activity log that shows the transactions on her 
card provided to us by SBIUK doesnt match to what Mrs R has told us. It shows there were 
four attempts to transfer money on 20 September 2019. But regardless if Mrs R was 
attempting to transfer or withdraw her funds, the attempts were not successful and the 
balance on her bank account was unaffected.
Ive therefore looked at the terms and conditions of the account Mrs R holds with SBIUK. It 
says under self-service machines:
 4.7 We will not be responsible if you cannot use your card in a machine operated by 
another financial institution, as this is outside our control.
Mrs R was trying to use cash machines that were located at State Bank India (SBI), so these 
machines arent operated by SBIUK, and its not responsible for any problems that Mrs R 
encountered when using these machines.
I can understand Mrs R wouldve been concerned that she couldnt access her funds, but I 
cant see that Mrs R made any attempt whilst she was away to contact her bank in the UK. If 
she had done this, it mayve been able to assist her.  
I cant see there were any errors with Mrs Rs account or her card that I can hold SBIUK 
responsible for. And Mrs R has shown she was able to use her card on her return to the UK 
with no problems. So, Im not persuaded SBIUK has done anything wrong and I wont be 
asking it to do anything further.
Mrs R has said she incurred fees of £21.73 for using her other bank card to withdraw funds. 
SBIUK has offered a goodwill gesture of £40.00 to cover this. I think this is a fair and 
reasonable offer in the circumstances.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above, I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs R to accept or 
reject my decision before 20 August 2020.
 
Angela Casey
Ombudsman