DRN-4333186
The complaint
Miss K complains about the way U K Insurance Limited (UKI) handled a home emergency 
claim. 
Any reference to UKI includes the actions of its agents.
What happened
The circumstances of this complaint are well known to both parties, so Ive summarised 
whats happened. 
In late February 2023, Miss K contacted UKI to make a claim under her home 
emergency policy when she discovered a vermin problem at her property. 
UKIs engineer attended six days later and put bait stations in her kitchen. At a follow 
up visit the agent recorded that there hadnt been any activity and that nearby 
building work may have caused the vermin to disperse. 
A further follow up appointment was booked but was cancelled, and another claim 
was raised for a different engineer to attend. 
The second engineer attended and blocked an entry point with wire wool and 
installed snap traps. Job notes from a follow up visit say essential proofing works 
were discussed with Miss K  though she refutes this.
Unhappy with the service she received  namely, unattended appointments, poor 
communication, and delays on UKIs part  Miss K complained. UKI accepted its 
service had fallen short and offered £275 compensation to recognise the difficulties 
she had experienced. 
Miss K asked UKI to reimburse her for food and accommodation costs shed incurred 
whilst waiting for UKIs engineer to re-attend her property. She said she was unable 
to use her kitchen due to the infestation. But UKI said such costs werent covered 
under the policy. 
Miss K also thought UKI should pay for the damage caused to her property by the 
vermin  she said it had worsened because UKI had failed to act promptly and hadnt 
provided adequate advice. But UKI disagreed. 
Unhappy, Miss K brought a complaint to this Service. An Investigator considered it 
and upheld it. Whilst she thought the compensation offered was fair, she said UKI 
ought to cover the accommodation and food expenses Miss K had incurred whilst 
awaiting UKIs reattendance. 
UKI accepted the Investigators findings, but Miss K remained unhappy and so, the 
complaint has been passed to me for an Ombudsmans decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Compensation
Home emergency policies are designed to provide a temporary solution or repair in an 
emergency  and so, its reasonable Miss K expected UKI to respond to her problem quickly, 
but it didnt. UKI has accepted its service fell short on several occasions and its offered 
compensation to recognise this. As its not in dispute that Miss K didnt receive the service 
she ought to, I need to decide whether the compensation UKI has awarded reflects the 
difficulties shes experienced  and having looked at things, Im satisfied it does. 
Understandably, the vermin problem was stressful for Miss K, but it wouldnt be reasonable 
to hold UKI responsible for distress and inconvenience which is inevitable in a situation like 
this. 
I appreciate Miss K took time off work for appointments and she thinks she should be 
compensated for this. We dont usually make specific awards for someones time or 
calculate it using a set amount. But we do factor in the inconvenience someone may have 
experienced spending time dealing with a matter. Here, Miss K incurred avoidable delays 
and inconvenience when engineers arrived for appointments she hadnt been informed 
about, and when she took time off work for appointments which werent then adhered to. 
Keeping in mind the overall impact on Miss K, Im satisfied £275 compensation is fair and in 
line with awards this Service makes in respect of distress and inconvenience. And so, I wont 
be asking UKI to increase this. 
Food and accommodation costs
UKI has agreed to pay the accommodation and food expenses (as outlined in the 
Investigators view) Miss K incurred whilst waiting for UKI to reattend her property. Im 
satisfied this is fair in the circumstances. If she hasnt already done so, Miss K should share 
these receipts with UKI so it can arrange payment.
Repairing the damage
Miss K says she understands her policy is designed to provide emergency assistance, but 
she expected the emergency to be resolved, and to be told how to resolve it. She says the 
latter didnt happen and has explained that if she had been told, she would have arranged 
for proofing works to have been carried out earlier on  which would have prevented the 
vermin from causing further damage and her incurring costs to repair it. 
As our Investigator explained, the policy isnt designed to provide an ongoing pest control 
service  it instead covers the cost of dealing with pests that cause an emergency in your 
home. The final job report from May 2023 says: no fresh evidence of target pest activity 
found. So, on the face of it, I consider it reasonable for UKI to have considered the 
emergency resolved. 
Whilst Miss K disputes being told shed have to carry out essential proofing works to prevent 
an infestation, job notes from the final visit state the engineer discussed this with her. Whilst 
I cant be certain what was discussed at the time, on the available evidence, I think its more 
likely than not Miss K was informed shed need to arrange proofing works. And so, I dont 
think its reasonable to ask UKI to cover the costs shes incurred in repairing damage  
especially when these works would have never been covered by the policy.  My final decision
My final decision is I uphold this complaint and direct U K Insurance Limited to:
Pay Miss K £275 compensation (if it hasnt already done so). 
Reimburse Miss K the food and accommodation expenses (subject to proof of 
receipt) she incurred. UKI should pay simple interest at 8% a year from the date each 
payment was made until the date it is refunded.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss K to accept 
or reject my decision before 5 October 2023.
 
Nicola Beakhust
Ombudsman