DRN-4305945
The complaint
Miss L complains about what happened when she applied to remortgage her home with 
Lloyds Bank PLC. She said the offer was considerably delayed, leaving her little time to 
complete, and the stress of achieving this made her unwell.
What happened
Miss L applied online to remortgage her home with Lloyds in late May 2022. She got an 
online agreement in principle, then details by post. A surveyor visited her home to value it. 
And she said solicitors contacted her, asking for more information, which she supplied.
Miss L said communication with the solicitors continued, and she understood her mortgage
was progressing. But in September the solicitors asked if she had received a mortgage offer
from Lloyds, as they still didnt have it. Miss L said she hadnt realised this was outstanding.
Miss L contacted Lloyds. She said that was when she realised she hadnt received an offer,
and that this was needed to confirm the agreed rate. Mis L said Lloyds told her she needed
to pay her product fee for the mortgage she wanted, and to supply some information on her
leasehold property. Miss L said Lloyds had never asked her for either of these things.
Miss L said she provided the leasehold information immediately, and tried to pay right away,
but Lloyds system wouldnt let her, so although she tried repeatedly, it took some days for
her payment to be successful.
Miss L said she got her mortgage offer on 19 October, but then found out it expired on 30th
November. Miss L said Lloyds previously told her she would keep the same interest rate if
she took out the mortgage by the end of the year. But she had a month less to complete,
including finalising all the necessary paperwork, and finding the funds to pay a large early
repayment charge to her old lender. Her request for an extension was refused. Miss L said
the stress of finalising everything in such a short timeframe made her quite unwell.
Miss L said she complained, but Lloyds said it had been her responsibility to progress and
manage her application. It did pay £75 for the difficulties she had making her payment, but it
wouldnt do more than this. Miss L didnt think that made up for what had gone wrong here.
Lloyds response to our service has remained consistent throughout with what it said to Miss
L when she complained. It says the process Miss L chose for her application was execution
only which means Miss L is responsible for managing the application. She needed to go
online to check the progress of her application. Lloyds said it doesnt proactively contact
customers about this sort of application.
Lloyds said the mortgage illustration it sent Miss L told her she needed to pay a product fee.
It was clear no offer would be issued until this was paid. Lloyds said it wasnt its fault that
Miss L hadnt paid this earlier. And it said the details of the valuation were also available
online, including the request for the leasehold information which Miss L hadnt supplied.
Lloyds showed us that automated emails were sent to Miss L on 19 May (when her
mortgage illustration was produced) 23 May (when her valuation was booked) 30 September
(Miss L has shown us she called Lloyds that day) 14 October, and 19 October (when her
offer was issued). And Lloyds has shown us these emails. All but the final email have the
same content. They gave her mortgage roll number, asked her to have this number to hand
when she contacted Lloyds, and then said 
Thanks  your application for the loan amount of £193,930 has been received and is
currently being assessed. If we need any additional information to help with your
application, well let you know by email.
Lloyds said it called Miss L on 1 October to tell her that the product fee was still unpaid, but
couldnt speak to her. It was also waiting for information on her leasehold property. On 3
October it sent her a link to pay her fee.
Lloyds said it had paid £75 for difficulties Miss L had trying to get in touch, but it didnt think
there had been any delay or error with the process. It hadnt agreed to extend her offer. It
said not all offers are for six months, and this offer was only valid until the date when the
underlying product was being withdrawn.
Our investigator didnt think this complaint should be upheld. She said Miss L was informed
shed need to pay the product fee on her mortgage illustration. Lloyds wasnt then obliged to
chase up payment, it had already let Miss L know she needed to pay. Our investigator said
Lloyds should have requested the leasehold information sooner, but she thought if Miss L
had paid the product fee earlier, then this would have happened sooner too.
Our investigator said Lloyds was clear how long the mortgage offer lasted, and didnt have to
extend this. And the product itself didnt last for ten years, rather it had a fixed end date,
which was set out in the mortgage illustration.
Our investigator thought Lloyds had done enough to make up for what had gone wrong here,
and she wouldnt ask it to do any more.
Miss L didnt agree. She felt it wasnt reasonable for Lloyds to say she was responsible for
chasing up payment of the fee. She showed us Lloyds had told her that it would normally
email to request the product fee, and she said it hadnt done this in her case. Miss L said
Lloyds had previously told her she had until the end of the year to draw down her mortgage,
then changed this to the end of November. She still didnt think £75 made up for this.
Our investigator didnt change her mind. She still thought an execution only application
meant the onus was on Miss L to fulfil the requirements. And if Lloyds had made a mistake
about how long the offer was valid for, this was quickly corrected.
Miss L shared emails shed received from Lloyds, which match the content quoted in italics 
above. She said thats why she thought Lloyds should have asked her if it needed anything. 
She stressed that the online portal didnt tell her she needed to pay. When she did discover  
she needed to pay, she was sent a link, and she said Lloyds had told her its usual process 
was to send this to customers. So she thought this should just have been sent earlier.
Our investigator asked Lloyds if it could provide more details on its process, including how
the fee would be paid. But Lloyds said it couldnt provide screenshots of what Miss L would
have seen on the portal, or details of what information is provided in regard to the payment.
It remained of the view that it was Miss Ls responsibility to move her application forward,
and said that Miss L could have seen on the portal that her fee was outstanding.
Lloyds said it couldnt send our service the email it had sent to Miss L to make payment, butit could provide a template of the email that it used for payment. This template told Miss L to
make payment through the portal. The template Lloyds sent us wasnt the same as the email
Miss L had shown us she received, which supplied a secure link to make payment.
Our investigator wasnt able to negotiate an agreed settlement between Lloyds and Miss L,
and she said she wouldnt recommend Lloyds pay more compensation. She still thought the
problem was that Miss L hadnt paid the product fee. Because no agreement was reached,
this case then came to me for a final decision. And I then reached my provisional decision on 
this case.
My provisional decision
I issued a provisional decision on this complaint and explained why I did propose to uphold 
it. This is what I said then: 
Lloyds position, in short, is that the application type Miss L chose meant she was 
obliged to manage this process herself. It says what went wrong here is just that Miss L 
didnt do so.
Lloyds also says all the information Miss L needed to manage this process and to 
ensure progress was available to her at all times, on the application portal. It hasnt 
been able to show us that the portal did tell Miss L she needed to make a payment, or 
otherwise provide screenshots of how a customer is normally alerted to the need to be 
proactive in logging in to the portal. And Miss L is adamant that the portal did not tell her 
to make payment.
My decision here isnt that requiring its customers to manage their own applications, and
relying on them to proactively check an application portal, would be an unreasonable
approach for Lloyds to take. However, my provisional view is that this isnt consistent 
with the emails Lloyds issued to Miss L.
Lloyds has shown us the emails it sent to Miss L. The key phrase appears to me to be 
this  If we need any additional information to help with your application, well let you 
know by email. And Miss L has shown us these are the emails she received.
So I think the reason Miss L thought Lloyds would contact her if it needed more 
information, is because thats what Lloyds told her it would do. And I also think that is 
simply inconsistent with the process Lloyds has since described, where Miss L wont get 
reminders or prompts, but is herself responsible for taking proactive steps to check the 
progress of her application.
I think it was reasonable for Miss L to rely on the contents of the emails she received 
from Lloyds, and to work on the basis that Lloyds would contact her if it needed more 
information.
We know Lloyds did need more information in this case. It needed information on Miss 
Ls leasehold property, which it had not requested. Lloyds has been clear that Miss Ls 
offer could not have been issued until this was received.
Miss L has shown us Lloyds confirmed to her that it normally asks customers to pay the 
fee. But even if it doesnt normally do that, and relies on the mortgage illustration as its 
only notification that a payment is due (which does not currently seem most likely, given 
that both Lloyds and Miss L have evidenced emails sent to remind clients to pay the fee) 
Ive still seen nothing in this case to make me think that, if Miss L had been proactive in making this payment, Lloyds would then have asked for the outstanding leasehold 
information any sooner than it did.
Lloyds position on this was also that the valuation information was available on the 
portal, and it mentioned the need for information on the leasehold property. But as Ive 
already noted, I dont think it was reasonable to expect Miss L to proactively look for 
this, when Lloyds had previously reassured her it would ask for the information it 
needed.
I think the delay in this case happened because Lloyds repeatedly emailed Miss L to
reassure her it would ask for more information if it needed it, and then didnt do that. And 
I think Miss L didnt notice this lack of communication, because she was discussing her
mortgage with Lloyds solicitors, and supplying additional information in response to 
their requests.
When Lloyds did issue an offer in this case, Miss L then found she had a very short 
period to complete her remortgage. Lloyds declined to extend the offer, as the product 
itself was about to expire. I dont think Lloyds had to extend the offer in this case. But, 
because I think Lloyds is primarily responsible for the delay in issuing this offer, and 
thats why the offer was only issued so close to the product expiry date, I do think Lloyds 
ought to pay Miss L a little more compensation than it has paid to date. Thats to make 
up for the inconvenience and stress caused to Miss L by having to meet a tight deadline, 
or lose this mortgage deal.
Lloyds has already paid £75 in compensation in this case. I think Lloyds should now pay
£225, to make a total of £300 in compensation.
I invited the parties to make any final points, if they wanted, before issuing my final decision. 
Both sides replied to the provisional decision in this case, to accept it.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Neither side has offered any further evidence or argument, and I havent changed my mind. 
Ill now make the decision I originally proposed.My final decision
My final decision is that Lloyds Bank PLC must pay Miss L £225 in compensation, in addition 
to the £75 it has already paid in this case.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss L to accept or 
reject my decision before 18 September 2023.
 
Esther Absalom-Gough
Ombudsman