DRN-2338330
The complaint
Miss M complains that Santander UK Plc didnt deal with her porting request fairly. She asks 
that it refunds the early repayment charge (ERC) she paid, and pays compensation for her 
additional rent, legal costs and her stress. Shed still like to port the mortgage.
What happened
In mid-2019 Miss M applied to Santander to port her mortgage. The property she wanted to 
buy didnt meet Santanders lending criteria, and it declined her application. Miss M says this 
was unfair. She also complains about Santanders service, saying she had to explain her 
situation repeatedly and Santander didnt call back when it promised. She says Santanders 
adviser accused her of trying to outsmart it.
Our investigator said Santander wasnt unfair to decline the application as the property didnt 
meet its lending criteria. She said Santander hadnt treated Ms M unfairly, and the time taken 
by Santander to review the application wasnt unreasonable in the circumstances.
Miss M didnt agree. She said she took her solicitors advice about how to meet Santanders 
policy and her proposal was legal and not unusual. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Miss M applied to port her mortgage. The house she wanted to buy had 31 acres, which was 
outside Santanders lending policy. 
Miss M then asked to port the mortgage to the house with 8 acres. Her intention was to 
divide the property into two titles. The mortgage would be ported to the house and 8 acres, 
and Miss M would buy the remaining land using her own funds. Santander said this was also 
outside its lending policy. Its policy would require a charge over the contiguous land owned 
by Miss M  this would then mean the property was outside its lending policy due to the 
amount of land.
I understand Miss Ms frustration here, that however she arranged her purchase and the 
property title, the property still didnt meet Santanders lending policy. Miss M says owning 
adjoining land isnt a reason for Santander not to lend, especially given the low loan to value 
ratio. However, Santander is entitled to make a commercial decision about its lending policy, 
and I think it applied its policy correctly here.
Miss M says her solicitor told her dividing the property into two titles would meet Santanders 
lending policy. Unfortunately this was incorrect. It was Miss Ms decision to look into ways to 
re-arrange her purchase to try to meet Santanders lending policy. And it was Ms Ms 
decision to continue with the application, after Santander had told her the property didnt 
meet its lending policy. So if Ms M incurred additional legal costs, I dont think Santander 
was responsible for this.
Miss M says Santander accused her of trying to outsmart it. Santander has a note that it 
doesnt like its lending policy being avoided and there might well have been a robust 
conversation between Miss M and Santander about this. I appreciate that Miss M spoke to 
Santander a number of times, and no doubt had to explain her particular circumstances on 
many of these occasions. But I havent seen evidence that Santander was rude or 
unreasonable when talking to Miss M. And I dont think the time taken by Santander to 
review Miss Ms application was unreasonable. 
Miss M sold her property and repaid her mortgage. I dont think Santander made an error 
when it declined her porting application, or treated her unfairly. It follows that I dont think its 
fair and reasonable in the circumstances to require Santander to refund the ERC or pay 
compensation to Miss M for her costs and upset.
My final decision
My decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss M to accept 
or reject my decision before 4 January 2021.
 
Ruth Stevenson
Ombudsman