DRN-3311085
The complaint
Mr R complains that AXA Insurance UK Plc unfairly declined a claim he made on his
household insurance policy.
What happened
Mr Rs property was burgled in June 2019. He submitted a claim for the damage caused
during the break in along with items that had been stolen. AXA initially accepted and dealt
with the claim, covering repairs that were required to several parts of the home.
But, while validating the claim for missing jewellery and cash, AXA felt Mr R had made some
statements which didnt add up, and which threw doubt onto what had been lost. In
particular, whether or not a safe had been stolen. After looking into the matter further AXA
decided not to make any more payments, and they said Mr R was exaggerating his losses.
Mr R complained about this, but AXA maintained that the claim was being made in a
fraudulent manner and his policy was cancelled. That said, AXA offered £200 compensation
for some delays they felt could have been avoided.
With the matter unresolved, Mr R came to our service. An investigator here looked into it and
felt Mr R had been treated unfairly. In their opinion, there was clearly a burglary  as seen in
the CCTV footage  and they didnt believe the losses claimed for had been exaggerated.
The investigator said the claim should now be paid as the theft of a safe was plausible.
AXA didnt agree. They said they felt no safe had been stolen because no safe could be
seen on the CCTV footage, the burglars could only be seen with carrier bags.
Because agreement couldnt be reached, the case waspassed to me to decide. I issued a 
provisional decision last month, explaining why I didnt think AXA had treated Mr R unfairly, 
its copied below.
I would like to start by saying that I believe all parties accept Mr Rs property was burgled,
and that he incurred a loss from that. AXAs concern is though that Mr R has sought to claim
for more than he is entitled to.
Mr R has said that a safe containing jewellery and upwards of £20,000 cash was stolen from
his property  although he has said he isnt claiming for the cash. Having reviewed
everything very carefully Im afraid I dont think AXAs concerns are unreasonable. They
dont believe a safe was stolen, and I havent seen enough to make me think one was, in
large part because it cant be seen on the CCTV footage.
The footage thats available doesnt cover the whole property so there is a gap between the
burglars being seen exiting the property and them then escaping to an alley way.
I take on board that there may have been additional CCTV footage given to the police, which
may in turn have been available to AXA. Its unfortunate that this isnt available now  and
while I can take account of the point made, about a potential failure here, I can only consider
the evidence thats available to me.
From viewing the available footage, it seems clear to me that the burglars made their exit
around the property, rather than taking the more direct route to the nearby alley way. Mr Rs
representative has put forward a theory that a safe was dropped out of a window (in the area
which cant be seen on CCTV) and was collected after exit. With it then possibly being
dropped off with someone else at the bottom of Mr Rs garden  which is why a safe cant be
seen in the footage when the burglars later emerge near the garage. Although I note Mr Rs
representative said that is a guess, because exactly what happened simply isnt known.
Theres nothing Ive seen to make me think there was someone ready and waiting to collect
a safe from the burglars, nor that they would have known there was a need to do so.
I also dont think, taking the route they did, necessarily means they did so to collect a safe,
they may have considered it to be a less conspicuous way of making off. And given the safe
has been described as small and lightweight, I think its more likely that it would have simply
been carried out instead of going to the effort of opening a window to drop it outside.
I appreciate the argument that the perpetrators would stick out as burglars, even more than
they already did, by carrying a safe. But I think their high vis bulky clothing and face
coverings, during summer, along with bags of items would have raised suspicion regardless.
So, I dont find that to be very persuasive.
I also think theres further reason to suggest a safe wasnt stolen. There was no mention of it
in the police report obtained by AXA, nor was it mentioned during the initial claim call. It
doesnt seem to have been mentioned until quite some time further down the line, when the
settlement was being negotiated.
And the original loss adjuster reported that Money totalling around £25,000 hidden in plastic
pouches behind the bidet was stolen and jewellery and watches were stolen from the
bedside cabinet and wardrobe in the ground floor master bedroom.
If there was cash and jewellery in a safe, I think that would have been mentioned and
recorded. With the detail of it being hidden in plastic pouches makes me think there was no
safe otherwise that would have been noted too. Id have expected Mr R to have mentioned it
much earlier on if there had been a safe, even if he was in shock on the day of the burglary.
Because Mr R is claiming for jewellery he says was in a safe, but no safe appears to have
been stolen, I dont think AXA were unreasonable in declining his claim  and cancelling his 
policy. As I said, I dont doubt that Mr R has been a victim of crime nor that significant losses
may have been incurred. But I think it was reasonable of AXA to say Mr R was exaggerating
his losses by claiming for the contents of a safe when they dont believe a safe was stolen.
Mr Rs representative (who Ill call S) replied to say she disagreed with my provisional 
decision. S made a number of points which I have considered. I wont refer specifically to 
them all, but they have been taken into account.
AXA replied to my provisional decision to say they agreed with it.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.First of all, Id like to address what S has said about the standard of proof that should be 
used when coming to my decision. It is indeed the balance of probability. If Mr R does not 
agree with my decision, he is entitled to reject it.
Id like to make clear again, that I dont doubt Mr R has been a victim of crime nor that he 
may have incurred a significant loss. I also acknowledge the various theories advanced in 
respect of who may have been involved in the burglaries. But my assessment isnt really 
concerned with who committed the burglary or whether Mr R may have been targeted.
What I have considered is whether AXA were reasonable in what they did. And I think they 
were, for much the same reasons as set out in my provisional decision.
So, while I appreciate the efforts S has gone to, Im not persuaded by her recent 
representations, and I believe they have led to further discrepancies.
A significant part of the argument being made now is that Mr R, in fact, had something more 
akin to a small cashbox hidden in the bathroom. I have some difficulty with this because of 
the volume of cash and jewellery that was previously said to have been in it (even though it 
is now being said that not all of the money was in the box, presumably because such an 
amount wouldnt fit into a small box). But if I accept that is the case it only serves to confuse 
matters further.
For example, S had previously said shed seen the safe and that it resembled the type you 
would find in a hotel. But the small cashbox sized safe now being described does not 
resemble the type of safe I think you would commonly find in a hotel room. I dont think a 
receptacle of the size now being suggested would provide much peace of mind to a guest in 
a hotel given how small and portable it is.
If I stick with the theory of the safe being the size of a cashbox that could have been hidden 
in the burglars padded jackets  or been inside one of the carrier bags seen on the CCTV  
then I dont see why there would be a need for it to be dropped out of the bathroom window 
for collection on exit. That was what had previously been suggested.
This is of particular note given that S has recently said Mr R remembers looking at CCTV 
images which showed the safe being carried around the building. And that the thieves were 
doing so to drop the safe off with an accomplice. However, it is now being suggested that the 
safe was in one of the carrier bags. If the safe had been in one of the carrier bags I dont 
think it would a) have been visible on the CCTV nor b) have been said to have been dropped 
off with a third person  because Mr R would have known that wasnt what happened. So, 
what has been said on various occasions doesnt match up.
And if I return to the recent explanation that not all of the cash was in the safe, that doesnt 
match what S said in a previous letter to AXA. While Ss statement was in relation to the 
possibility of there being two lots of £30,000, she said there was only one lot of £30,000 in 
the safe. So, Im afraid this does confuse matters further if its now being said that there 
wasnt £30,000 in the safe, but some inside it and some around it. Mr R had also assured 
AXA that most of the items (I assume items claimed for) including the cash and watches 
were in the safe. But hes also said the watches were in his bedroom.
As part of her efforts to assist Mr R, S has obtained further evidence from the police. One of 
the documents provided refers to the suspects exposing hidden compartments. This isnt in 
doubt in my mind, but theres still no reference to a safe  which I think there would have 
been if there was a safe.And Mr Rs witness statement doesnt refer to a safe either. It said Numerous items of 
jewellery and cash were hidden behind the toilet as I use it as a secret place for my assets. 
Again, if items were kept in a safe, Id have expected such detail to be disclosed to the police 
and be recorded by them  given its relevance to any investigation.
There is a third extract from police records. This refers to the bathroom unit being a man-
made hiding place where £20,000 cash was kept. This does use the words secret safe 
location but I think that could be read as a location where a secret safe is kept, or that it had 
been believed to be a secret and safe location to hide cash and valuables. Given the 
absence of it being mentioned elsewhere I think its more likely to be the latter. And given the 
discrepancies, Im still not persuaded that a safe was stolen. I think such an important thing 
would have been clearly detailed both with the police and with the first loss adjuster.
Ive tried not to pay too much heed to Mr Rs previous representative  who Ill call B  
because S has said he is not a reliable witness. But some of his statements add to AXAs 
overall concerns. For example, he suggested the safe may have been dropped out of an 
upstairs window. And he described a larger safe with a combination lock, as opposed to the 
recent description of a small one with a key operated lock. It is also of note that B told AXA, 
on at least one occasion, that he had spoken at length with Mr R before providing them with 
his answers. So, I dont think its unreasonable of AXA to have taken this into account.
Overall, I think AXA had reasonable concerns that Mr Rs claim included the loss of a safe 
containing cash and jewellery  despite no safe apparently being taken. If the safe wasnt 
stolen, then it follows that nor were its stated contents. So, I think it was reasonable for AXA 
to say Mr R was claiming for items that hadnt been taken.
My final decision
It is my final decision that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision before 18 March 2022.
 
Will Weston
Ombudsman