DRN-1741060
 
The complaint
Mrs D says Novaloans Ltd  trading as cash4unow (Nova)  irresponsibly lent to her.
What happened
This complaint is about four short-term loans Nova provided to Mrs D between July 2016 
and September 2017. Mrs Ds borrowing history is as follows:
Loan Date 
TakenDate 
RepaidInstalments Amount Repayment
1 01/07/2016 31/10/2016 3 £400.00 £201.50
2 21/04/2017 28/06/2017 3 £300.00 £130.39
3 30/06/2017 28/09/2017 3 £350.00 £178.21
4 29/09/2017 sold on 4 £550.00 £231.93
At the time of writing this decision, the outstanding balance on loan 4 had been sold on to a 
third party. 
Our adjudicator upheld Mrs Ds complaint and thought loan 4 shouldnt have been given 
because proportionate checks would have shown Mrs D was struggling to manage her 
money. Nova didnt respond to the view. 
As the complaint couldnt be resolved informally, it was passed to me for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about short-term lending - including all the 
relevant rules, guidance and good industry practice - on our website. 
Nova needed to take reasonable steps to ensure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In practice 
this means that it should have carried out proportionate checks to make sure Mrs D could 
repay the loans in a sustainable manner. These checks could consider several different 
things, such as how much was being lent, the repayment amounts and the consumers 
income and expenditure. In the early stages of a lending relationship, I think less thorough 
checks might be reasonable and proportionate.  
But certain factors might point to the fact that Nova should fairly and reasonably have done 
more to establish that any lending was sustainable for the consumer. These factors include:
the lower a consumers income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make 
any loan repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income);
the higher the amount due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
meet a higher repayment from a level of income); 
the greater the number and frequency of loans, and the longer the period during 
which a customer has been given loans (reflecting the risk that repeated 
refinancing may signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, 
unsustainable).
There may even come a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly 
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable.
I think that it is important for me to start by saying that Nova was required to establish 
whether Mrs D could sustainably repay her loans  not just whether the loan payments were 
affordable on a strict pounds and pence calculation. 
Of course, the loan payments being affordable on this basis might be an indication a 
consumer could sustainably make their repayments. But it doesnt automatically follow this is 
the case. This is because the relevant regulations define sustainable as being without undue 
difficulties and the customer should be able to make repayments on time, while meeting 
other reasonable commitments; as well as without having to borrow to meet the repayments. 
And it follows that a lender should realise, or it ought fairly and reasonably to realise, that a 
borrower wont be able to make their repayments sustainably if theyre unlikely to be able to 
make their repayments without borrowing further. 
Ive carefully considered all the arguments, evidence and information provided in this context 
and what this all means for Mrs Ds complaint. Having done so, Im partially upholding the 
complaint. Ill explain why.
Our adjudicator thought Nova had carried out proportionate checks for loans 1 to 3. Mrs D 
didnt respond to the view. As there is no dispute about these loans, I wont be making any 
findings on them. 
Nova says it carried out checks before it lent loan 4 to Mrs D and the results of these checks 
didnt raise any concerns. But as this was Mrs Ds fourth loan in 14 months, I think Nova 
should have been looking to build a clearer picture about Mrs Ds finances before lending 
her this loan. 
Had Nova carried out proportionate checks before lending loan 4, its likely to have found that 
Mrs D was borrowing from a large number of other short-term lenders. And that some of 
these loans had defaulted. In the six months prior to taking out this loan, Mrs D had 
borrowed nearly £3,000  not including what she was borrowing from Nova. The repayments 
for these loans would have been significantly increasing her monthly outgoings. This 
behaviour was most likely an indication she was in a cycle of debt and the further borrowing 
to cover the hole that repaying her previous loans were leaving in her finances. 
So, Im also upholding the complaint about loan 4 and Nova should put things right.
Putting things right
As Nova has sold the outstanding debt, it should buy it back. If Nova is able to do so and 
then take the following steps. If Nova cant buy the debt back, then Nova should liaise with 
the new debt owner to achieve the results outlined below.
A) Nova should add together the total of the repayments made by Mrs D towards interest, 
fees and charges on all upheld loans without an outstanding balance, not including anything 
Nova has already refunded.
B) Nova should calculate 8% simple interest on the individual payments made by Mrs D which were considered as part of A, calculated from the date Mrs D originally made 
the payments, to the date the complaint is settled.
C) Nova should remove all interest, fees and charges from the balance on loan 4, and treat 
any repayments made by Mrs D as though they had been repayments of the principal on the 
loan. If this results in Mrs D having made overpayments then Nova should refund these 
overpayments with 8% simple interest* calculated on the overpayments, from the date the 
overpayments would have arisen, to the date the complaint is settled. Nova should then 
refund the amounts calculated in A and B and move to step E.
D) If there is still an outstanding balance due then the amounts calculated in A and B 
should be used to repay any balance remaining on loan 4. If this results in a surplus, then 
the surplus should be paid to Mrs D. However, if there is still an outstanding balance then 
Nova should try to agree an affordable repayment plan with Mrs D. Nova shouldnt pursue 
outstanding balances made up of principal Nova has already written-off.
E) Nova should remove any adverse information recorded on Mrs Ds credit file in relation to 
loan 4. 
 HM Revenue & Customs requires Nova to take off tax from this interest. Nova must give Mrs D a 
certificate showing how much tax its taken off if she asks for one.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, Im partially upholding Mrs Ds complaint. Novaloans Ltd 
should put things right as set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs D to accept or 
reject my decision before 29 July 2020.
 
Claire Marchant-Williams
Ombudsman