DRN-3519833
The complaint
A charity, which Ill refer to as M, complains that HSBC UK Bank Plc closed its bank account 
following a safeguarding review.
Mrs S, who is a trustee of M, brings the complaint on Ms behalf.
What happened
Mrs S told us:
M held a charity bank account with HSBC for many years.
In late 2019 or early 2020, she received a letter from HSBC asking her to complete a 
safeguarding review. She completed the review, and supplied all the documents 
HSBC asked for.
She then received another letter asking her to complete a safeguarding review. She 
rang HSBC and was told the letter had probably been submitted in error.
She received a series of further letters asking her to complete a safeguarding review 
 and warning her Ms account would be closed if she did not do so. Each time, she 
contacted the person who had carried out the review and was reassured everything 
had been submitted and she should ignore the letters.
HSBC closed the account, and send a cheque for the balance. But the cheque was 
made out to the wrong payee and couldnt be cashed. That issue has since been 
resolved.
HSBC now says that before it closed Ms account, it wrote to M explaining that the 
accounts signature mandate needed to be updated  and that the safeguarding 
review could not be completed unless the mandate was updated. However, she 
didnt receive that letter. She had been intending to update the mandate, but she saw 
no urgency in that. From her perspective, the mandate change was something the 
trustees wanted to do, not something imposed on them by HSBC.
The impact of the account closure was that all the monthly standing orders M 
received from donors were cancelled. M does now have a new bank account 
elsewhere, but some of the donors cannot now afford to make up the donations that 
they missed when Ms bank account was closed. In addition, M does not have 
contact details for all of its donors  so donations from those people will be 
permanently lost. It continues to lose £205 per month as a result.
To resolve the complaint, she would like HSBC to re-open the account, reimburse the 
missing donations, and reinstate the standing orders from donors.
HSBC told us:
The account was initially set up as a business account. When it started its 
safeguarding review, the account was in the names of a Mr and Mrs L. HSBCs 
records showed Mr and Mrs L were using the name M as their trading name.
It acknowledges that Mrs S says she called HSBC and was told letters about the 
safeguarding review had been sent in error, but it has not been able to trace those 
recordings.
It is not prepared to re-open the account, but it accepts that there have been 
significant delays in carrying out the safeguarding review, and in issuing a cheque for 
the balance of the account. It has already paid M £400 for those delays, and it would 
like to offer a further £250 for poor service and errors made. It would also like to offer 
£205 in respect of the losses M claims.
One of our investigators looked at the complaint, but he did not recommend that HSBC pay 
any additional compensation. He didnt think HSBCs mistakes were the sole reason M had 
lost out on donations, and overall he thought a total payment of £855 (that is, the £400 
already paid plus £250 plus £205) was fair. 
Ms trustees did not accept our investigators conclusions, and asked for the matter to be 
referred to an ombudsman. Mrs S provided evidence from a donor who was not able to 
make up missed contributions, as well as comments about the amount of time the trustees 
had spent on resolving the matter.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im sorry to further disappoint the trustees but there is very little I can add to 
what our investigator has already said.
Its clear that HSBCs service could have been considerably better. It is unfortunate that 
HSBC cant provide telephone recordings of Mrs Ss conversations with its staff, and it is 
also unfortunate that Mrs S did not receive all of the letters HSBC says it sent. But ultimately, 
I think HSBC did give appropriate notice, and it was entitled to close the account M had been 
using. In the circumstances, I do not think it would be appropriate for me to require HSBC to 
reopen that account. But I do think it should pay compensation for its poor service.
Putting things right
Like our investigator, I am not satisfied that HSBCs errors were the sole reason that M lost 
donations. Given that I think HSBC was entitled to close the account, it would not be fair for 
me to require HSBC to pay compensation for any donations missed because of the account 
closure itself. But it would be fair for HSBC to compensate M for any donations lost because 
of HSBCs delays in dealing with this matter, and for the inconvenience caused by those 
delays.
It is impossible to be certain how much money M has missed out on as a result of the 
delays. The evidence Mrs S provided shows that many of Ms donors set up new standing 
orders and made lump sum payments for the shortfalls, M did not miss out on any payments 
from those donors. Other donors set up new standing orders but could not afford to make up 
the shortfalls. There were also donors  some of which M no longer has contact details for  
who did not set up new standing orders for Ms new bank account. However, if any of those donors wish to continue contributing to M, it is of course open to those donors to contact M 
and set up new standing orders.
Overall, I dont have sufficient evidence to make the finding that HSBC should pay M more 
than the £855 it has already offered. 
My final decision
My final decision is that HSBC UK Bank Plcs offer to pay a total of £855 in compensation is 
fair and reasonable. I understand HSBC has already paid at least £400 of that compensation 
 and if it has not already done so, I order it to pay the remainder to M.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask M to accept or 
reject my decision before 5 July 2022.
 
Laura Colman
Ombudsman