DRN-3514143
The complaint
Ms A has complained that Casualty and General Insurance Company (Europe) Ltd (CGI) 
has rejected her claim for veterinary treatment for her dog. 
What happened
Ms A has a dog that Ill refer to as M which has been insured by CGI since 27 March 2021.
In May 2021, M was diagnosed with a cruciate injury. This required surgery which cost 
£3,200. When Ms A claimed for this on her policy with CGI her claim was rejected on the 
ground that the nature of the condition that required treatment was a pre-existing condition 
and was therefore excluded by her policy.
CGI obtained Ms medical history from both her current vet and her previous vet from when 
Ms A and M lived abroad. 
Her previous vet provided the following information:
in January 2018 M was brought in with right forelimb lameness. Radiographs showed 
arthritis in her elbows. 
in July 2019 she was again brought in with elbow pain and was given anti-
inflammatory medication.
In April 2020 M was brought in as she was showing signs of stiffness in the 
mornings. Examination suggested bilateral hind leg stiffness. No anterior drawer was 
noted and no medial swelling of the stifles. It is recorded that her patellas were 
slightly loose. Further investigation and radiographs under sedation were 
recommended if the symptoms continued.
In May 2020 there continued to be forelimb lameness. Radiographs showed both 
elbows had mild osteoarthritis and degenerative joint disease changes. The hind 
quarter stiffness had resolved.
Ms current vet provided the following information:
On 24 April 2021, M was brought in for lameness on her hind limbs. She showed 
reduced mobility in her hips, particularly the left. Arthritis suspected. X-ray 
recommended.
On 4 May 2021 was still quite lame on her left hind leg. X-rays taken of hips and left 
hind leg. A cranial drawer test was positive and a full cranial cruciate ligament (CCL) 
rupture was suspected.
M then underwent surgery for a near complete (95%) CCL rupture. There was no evidence 
of meniscal injury. This cost £3,200 which Ms A claimed from CGI.
In rejecting Ms As claim, CGI referred to the terms of Ms As policy which defines a Pre-
existing condition as:
any diagnosed or undiagnosed Condition and/or Associated Condition which has 
happened or has shown Clinical Signs or Symptoms of existing in any form before the 
Policy Start Date or within the Waiting Period.
The following definitions are also given in the policy:
 Clinical signs means:
Any observable changes in Your pets normal healthy state; condition; appearance;
bodily functions and observed by You or Your Vet either visually; diagnostically; or
otherwise
 Symptoms means:
any change in Your pets normal healthy state, conduct or appearance
Having considered Ms clinical history, CGI is of the view that it confirms that M displayed 
signs and symptoms of left hind lameness and confirmed osteoarthritis prior to the inception 
of the policy on 27 March 2021.It says these amount to a Pre-existing condition which is 
excluded from cover. 
CGI says that when setting up the policy for M, Ms A didnt disclose any Pre-existing 
condition for the hindlimb lameness or elbow osteoarthritis although it was discussed with 
Ms previous vet during the consultation in January 2018, July 2019, April 2020 and May 
2020. Had she done so, CGI says it wouldve applied endorsements to the policy excluding 
cover for all claims relating to stifles, patellas, elbows, degenerative disease and other 
associated conditions.
Ms A has provided letters from Ms current vet and her previous vet both of whom confirm 
that the previous symptoms are not connected with the injury that required M to undergo 
CCL surgery. 
Ms previous vet has confirmed that her lameness occurred and was resolved abroad in 
2020 and stayed resolved. He says that the cruciate problem came later and is different to 
the previous lameness. He says that if hed noted a cruciate problem, it wouldve been 
addressed then as M was fully insured.
Ms current vet has stated that she had noted Ms history from her previous vet and that he 
hadnt identified any cruciate injury at that time. She also stated that the cruciate injury was 
first diagnosed in her clinic after Ms A had taken out a policy with CGI. She stated that it was 
her medical opinion that:
 this injury only occurred at this time judging by the radiographs and subsequent lack 
of degenerative changes in the stifle on radiographs that would be present if this were 
an ongoing chronic issue.
Ms A wasnt satisfied with CGIs rejection of her claim and brought her complaint to this 
service.
Our investigator consulted information about cruciate ligament injuries and noted that M 
appeared to have been displaying some of the common symptoms of these prior to her 
policy being taken out, such as limping, stiffness getting up and down, and lameness. She 
was satisfied that M presented with physical signs and symptoms of cruciate ligament 
disease before she was seen by her current vet in April 2021 although this was undiagnosed. 
She noted that CGIs definition of Pre-existing conditions simply requires there to have been 
signs of the disease observed in the past. She didnt see any evidence that Ms cruciate problem was in fact an acute injury, suffered when she was playing ball, as Ms A had 
explained. 
Our investigators conclusion was that Pre-exiting injuries includes any undiagnosed 
conditions and merely requires there to have been signs or symptoms of the condition in the 
past. Her view was that M had presented with symptoms of cruciate ligament disease before 
her policy started. CGI had therefore applied the terms of Ms As policy fairly and hadnt 
acted unreasonably in rejecting Ms As claim.
Ms A didnt agree with our investigators view. She argued that M sustained a cruciate injury, 
which should be distinguished from a condition, and Ms injury wasnt related to her previous 
lameness. She comments that symptoms of cruciate injury are also common in many other 
conditions and are not only evidence of a cruciate problem. She has asked that an 
ombudsman review her complaint.
As my view of this complaint differed from that of our investigator, I issued a provisional 
decision. Ms A and CGI were invited to provide any further comments they wished me to 
take into consideration by 1 June 2022. On 1 June, CGI told our investigator that it was 
obtaining a vet report, and this would be sent in the week commencing 6 June. On 9 June 
our investigator told CGI that if nothing had been received from it by 13 June, I might 
proceed to issue my final decision based on the information I then had.
Having received no further information from CGI, and Ms As having accepted my provisional 
decision, Im now issuing my final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im upholding Ms As complaint and Ill give my reasons for doing so.
Ms current vet, in her email of 3 November 2021, has referred to M having a cruciate injury, 
and subsequent repair surgery. Her email goes on to say (my emphasis underlined):
Before examining M initially, we received her history from her veterinarian in [other 
country] and became aware of her forelimb lameness and associated arthritis. There 
was a mention of hindlimb lameness in one consult in 2019 but this was an acute 
issue. In 2020 she presented with hindlimb stiffness but according to vet there was no 
anterior drawer present which is an important diagnostic test for cruciate injury and no 
swelling at the stifle meaning that it was stable i.e. there was no evidence of cruciate 
injury at this time. It is also mentioned in the history in May 2020 that the hindlimb 
lameness had resolved.
 
M was fully insured in [other country] so if there was any suspicion of cruciate damage 
prior to moving to [current home] the vet would have recommended intervention at this 
time or at least noted it in her history. 
The cruciate injury was first diagnosed in our clinic after the [As] had taken out a 
policy with you. It is my medical opinion that this injury only occurred at this time 
judging by the radiographs and subsequent lack of degenerative changes in the stifle 
on radiographs that would be present if this were an ongoing chronic issue.
Ms previous vet has also stated (my emphasis underlined):I examined M on the 304/2020 with the complaint of a stiff left hind limb. My finding 
was that both hind legs were a bit stiff and that there was no indication whatsoever that 
the stifles were involved. There was no anterior drawer present and no medial 
buttressing. The patellar findings were of no significance either. She responded to anti-
inflammatories and Gabapentin and at her next visit on the 15/5/2020 the hind limb 
issue was resolved.
I am confident that there was no cruciate disease present at the abovementioned
visits.
The treatment Ms A is claiming for is surgery for a CCL rupture. I therefore need to consider 
whether Ms previous medical history provides clinical signs or symptoms of the condition 
being claimed for, whether previously diagnosed or undiagnosed, which would make it a 
Pre-existing condition. 
Im not persuaded that the symptoms of limping, stiffness when getting up, and lameness 
are exclusively clinical signs or symptoms of cruciate ligament disease. They could, for 
example, indicate arthritis. This was discounted by Ms previous vet having undertaken the 
appropriate diagnostic drawer test. I consider it likely that if he had identified a cruciate 
problem it wouldve been addressed at the time as M was fully insured. And Ms current vet 
has expressly stated that M sustained her CCL rupture as an injury occurring after her policy 
was taken out and not as the consequence of a pre-existing condition.
I therefore have the clinical findings of two vets with specific knowledge of M, both of whom 
had treated her. Taken together, these provide persuasive evidence to me that there was no 
cruciate disease or injury present in 2020, whether diagnosed or undiagnosed, and that Ms 
surgery was to address a cruciate injury that only occurred after Ms policy had been taken 
out and which had not previously displayed clinical signs or symptoms. 
My view is that this was not therefore a Pre-existing condition, and that CGI has unfairly 
rejected Ms As claim.
Im therefore upholding Ms As complaint and I require CGI to settle her claim in accordance 
with the other terms and conditions of her policy.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above, Im upholding Ms As complaint and I require Casualty and 
General Insurance Company (Europe) Ltd to settle her claim in accordance with the other 
terms and conditions of her policy.
I also require Casualty and General Insurance Company (Europe) Ltd to pay interest on the 
sum payable to Ms A at the simple rate of 8% a year from the date Ms A made her claim to 
the date payment is made to her.
If Casualty and General Insurance Company (Europe) Ltd considers that its required by HM 
Revenue & Customs to take off income tax from that interest, it should tell Ms A how much 
its taken off. It should also give Ms A a certificate showing this if she asks for one, so she 
can reclaim the tax from HM Revenue & Customs if appropriate.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms A to accept or 
reject my decision before 13 July 2022.
 
Nigel BremnerOmbudsman