DRN-3573838
The complaint
Mrs M complains that HSBC UK Bank Plc (trading as first direct) hasnt treated her fairly 
when dealing with a mortgage on her home. Mrs M is represented by a solicitor. She asks 
that First Direct improves the way it deals with her and pays her solicitors invoice.
What happened
Mrs M is the joint owner of a property with her ex-husband (who Ill refer to as Mr M). The 
mortgage, which was taken out in 2009, is in Mr Ms sole name. 
Mrs M says that as part of their financial settlement it was agreed that she will live in the 
property, make mortgage payments and be entitled to the equity in the property. 
The representative says that First Direct hasnt been fair to Mrs M. In particular:
it wont accept payments from her, which means Mr M makes the mortgage payments 
and makes a deduction from maintenance payments. 
it wont send monthly statements to her, even though Mr M provided authority for it to 
provide such information as Mrs M requires about the account. Mrs M is concerned that 
if payments are missed she could lose her home. 
Mrs M was upset to find out Mr M had taken a payment deferral between April and June 
2020.
Our investigator said in the circumstances it was reasonable for First Direct to ask Mrs M to 
put requests in writing or provide additional information when she called about the account. 
She said it wasnt fair to ask First Direct to pay the solicitors invoice, as it was Mrs M's 
choice to involve them.
The representative didnt agree, saying First Direct had refused to engage with Mrs M until 
they got involved. The representative said there was nothing to stop First Direct sending 
information to Mrs M, given Mr M had agreed to this, or allowing Mrs M to make mortgage 
payments herself.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Where the evidence is incomplete, inconclusive or contradictory, I reach my decision on the 
balance of probabilities  in other words, what I consider is most likely to have happened in 
light of the available evidence and the wider circumstances. 
Mrs M is in a difficult position, and I can understand her concerns. But I do have to be fair to 
both parties here. While Mrs M signed the mortgage deed (the charge on the property) she 
isnt a party to the loan that the mortgage secures. 
Because Mrs M isnt named on the mortgage account, she isnt entitled to information about 
the account. Mr M provided authority for First Direct to provide information to Mrs M. First 
Direct says its systems dont allow it to send statements automatically to a third party. The 
mortgage account isnt shown as one of Mrs Ms accounts on First Directs systems when 
she calls. 
First Direct has arranged for Mrs M to receive information about the mortgage. She can write 
to First Direct to request the information. Mrs M can call First Direct, in which case she has 
to provide the mortgage account details and explain the situation, including directing the 
member of staff to a note on the file. I appreciate the arrangement is inconvenient, as 
compared to information being sent automatically to Mrs M. But I think in the circumstances 
this is a reasonable solution to allow Mrs M to request the information she needs about the 
mortgage account. 
First Direct says as this is an offset mortgage (which means monthly payments vary) it has 
to send a pre-notification of the interest to the account holder, and make the account holder 
aware of the amount due. Payments have to come from an account with First Direct, and it 
cant take payments from a third partys account. 
Mrs Ms representative says this means that Mr M has to make mortgage payments and 
deduct the payment from the maintenance he pays to Mrs M. The representative says Mrs M 
cant check if the amount of maintenance she receives is correct. Because the amount can 
vary she cant apply for an attachment of earnings order. 
I dont know if Mr M would agree to send a copy of the pre-notification of the monthly 
payment to Mrs M  if the court order doesnt already provide for this. If not, First Direct has 
put in place a process for Mrs M to request information. So she can check that the 
maintenance payments she receives are correct. I appreciate there would be a delay in her 
being able to do this while she waits for the information from First Direct. 
First Direct isnt a party to or responsible for the agreement between Mr and Mrs M. Im sorry 
if Mrs M hasnt received the correct amount of maintenance payments from Mr M, and I 
appreciate her concerns about this. But this is a matter between Mr M and Mrs M. 
I do understand that this is a difficult situation. But I dont think I can reasonably require First 
Direct to do more.
Is it fair for First Direct to pay Mrs Ms legal expenses?
We provide an informal dispute resolution service. Customers dont need representation to 
make a complaint, or to bring their complaint to us. 
I asked why Mrs M needed representation. Her representative said First Direct was 
dismissive and unhelpful when Mrs M requested information, and only agreed to provide 
information on the telephone after the representative got involved. 
Mrs Ms representative says the court order setting out the financial arrangement between 
Mr and Mrs M was dated mid-September 2017.
Mrs M had contacted First Direct in early September 2017 to ask about being on the 
mortgage account. First Direct said this wasnt affordable for her, and Mrs M said she was 
taking independent mortgage advice and would look into her options. 
In October 2017 First Direct received a letter from the representative saying Mr and Mrs M 
had reached agreement that Mrs M would be added to the mortgage as a borrower and Mrs M would be responsible for all future mortgage payments. It asked First Direct for its 
requirements to put this in place. First Direct said Mrs M should contact it. 
There are notes of First Direct telling Mrs M that payments needed to be made by Mr M. And 
of Mrs M calling in December 2017 to try to make a payment  this was unsuccessful as she 
didnt have the mortgage account details. Theres no record of further contact from Mrs M 
relating to the mortgage until May 2020, when Mrs Ms solicitor contacted First Direct with a 
formal letter of complaint. It seems this was prompted by Mr M saying hed arranged a 
mortgage holiday.
Mrs M says she sent a letter to First Direct in 2018 with authority from Mr M to provide 
information to her. Its unclear whether First Direct received the letter and only put a copy on 
Mr Ms records, or didnt receive the letter at all. Mrs M said she didnt get a response.
While it would have been frustrating for Mrs M to contact First Direct and be told she couldnt 
have information about the account, theres no evidence in First Directs records of this 
happening. The representative says Mrs M was rebuffed when she called asking for 
information, she didnt however provide evidence of when this happened. This doesnt of 
course mean Mrs M didnt try to contact First Direct. But I hope Mrs M will understand that I 
cant fairly require First Direct to put something right without evidence that it acted 
inappropriately. 
The representative wrote to and spoke to First Direct several times on behalf of Mrs M. The 
representative says First Direct had been unhelpful when Mrs M contacted it and its 
unreasonable to expect Mrs M to deal with this herself. But the representative hasnt 
explained why Mrs M couldnt have made a complaint and dealt with this herself. If she 
wasnt happy with First Directs response she could have brought her complaint to us. 
Mrs M is of course entitled to instruct a solicitor to represent her. But it was her choice 
whether to do so. I dont think its fair and reasonable in the circumstances to require First 
Direct to pay her solicitors costs.
My final decision
My decision is that I do not uphold this complaint
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs M to accept or 
reject my decision before 10 October 2022.
 
Ruth Stevenson
Ombudsman