DRN-2537262
The complaint
Mr N has complained that he was mis-sold a payment protection insurance (PPI) policy.
Its been agreed in this case that AXA France IARD (AXA) as the insurer, should accept 
responsibility for the complaint. To keep things simple, Ill refer to AXA in my decision.
What happened
Mr N bought the policy in August 1995 at the same time as taking out a store card.
The policy cost no more than £1.00 per £100 of Mr Ns outstanding monthly statement 
balance. And if he was too ill to work or made involuntarily redundant, it would have paid off 
15% of that balance until the end date, unless the balance was repaid in full, or Mr N 
returned to work.
Our adjudicator didnt uphold the complaint. Mr N disagreed with the adjudicators opinion, 
so the complaint has been passed to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding Mr Ns case. Having done so, Ive decided not to 
uphold Mr Ns complaint and Ill explain why.
AXA had to make it clear to Mr N that the policy was optional, and it had to get his consent 
before it added PPI to his account. Mr N says he wasnt made aware that it was optional. But 
AXA says Mr N chose to take out PPI on his store card application form and its provided a 
copy for me to review.
Looking at the form, there is a section about protection with boxes to tick yes or no to PPI. 
I can see a tick in the yes box on Mr Ns form and he has signed the agreement, confirming 
that he agrees with the selections on it. So, I think Mr N would have understood the PPI was 
optional and I dont think he would have signed the agreement if he didnt want to take it out.
AXA says it didnt recommend PPI to Mr N, but Mr N says it did. I havent seen anything on 
the application form to suggest AXA reviewed Mr Ns circumstances at the time of sale and 
Mr N said himself that the form was completed very quickly and information about the PPI 
wasnt highlight to him. So, I dont think AXA did recommend the PPI to Mr N, which means it 
didnt have to check it was right for him. But AXA did need to give him enough information 
about the PPI, so he could decide himself whether to take it or not.
Its possible the information AXA gave Mr N about the terms and cost of the PPI wasnt as 
clear as it should have been. But Mr N doesnt appear to have been affected by any of the 
main things the policy didnt cover, such as pre-existing medical conditions or unusual 
employment circumstances. And based on what I know about his circumstances, it looks like 
the policy could have been useful to him, so I dont think better information would have 
stopped him buying it.
Mr N says he was entitled to employee benefits, such as sick pay, if he was too ill to work. 
But Mr N didnt have any other way to make his repayments and the policy would have paid 
out on top of Mr Ns employee benefits and potentially for longer. So, I think Mr N could have 
found the PPI useful if he fell on hard times. 
Considering everything, I dont think better information would have changed Mr Ns decision 
to take the policy and I dont think AXA mis-sold it to him.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I dont uphold Mr Ns complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr N to accept or 
reject my decision before 5 April 2021.
 
Hanna Johnson
Ombudsman