DRN-4088298
The complaint
Mr F complains that Volkswagen Financial Services (UK) Limited (VWFS) gave him 
incorrect financial statements when he was in arrears with his agreement with them. 
What happened
Mr F acquired a car using a hire purchase agreement with VWFS in July 2020.
Mr F said he attempted to reject the vehicle in November 2020 and at that time had left the 
car at the supplying dealership. I will not comment further on Mr Fs intention to reject the car 
in November 2020 as our service has already explained in a separate complaint that we are 
unable to look into this.
Mr F stopped making payments under the agreement from January 2021. The car was 
eventually recovered by VWFS and sold at auction.
Mr F fell into arrears with his agreement. VWFS sent Mr F Notice of Sums In Arrears 
(NOSIA) letters to inform him of the arrears amount and actions they would take if payment 
wasnt made by a certain deadline.
Mr F said that the NOSIA letters he received were incorrect. He said out of approximately 12 
documents he received, only 1 of them perhaps was accurate. Mr F also said inaccurate 
information was reported to his credit file and was unhappy that VWFS had not informed him 
that the car was sold and what the sale proceeds from it were. Mr F also said that he and 
VWFS had instructed solicitors to try to resolve this issue.
Mr F complained to VWFS and they provided him their final response in January 2023. 
Within it they said, among other things, that Mr F had the opportunity to contact them when 
each NOSIA was sent if he felt they were inaccurate, but they couldnt find a record of any 
contact made by him regarding the letters. They said it was a legal requirement to send 
these NOSIA letters and it reflected the various debits/credits which were recorded on their 
systems. VWFS also said in the absence of payment made to them, following the NOSIA 
letters, a Notice of Default was issued for the arrears. And due to the lack of remedial action 
the agreement was terminated and was reflected as a default on Mr Fs credit file. VWFS 
went on to explain how much the car sold for at auction and that the net proceeds of the sale 
was credited against the sums outstanding on the agreement. VWFS confirmed the total 
outstanding balance to Mr F.
Mr F also told our service he wasnt given the option to take the car back when he left it at 
the supplying dealership.
VWFS told our service that the annual statement issued to Mr F in June 2022 was incorrect, 
however the correct balance owed on the agreement was confirmed to Mr F in their arrears 
letters.
Our investigator issued her view, not upholding the complaint. In summary, she said she had 
seen correspondence from VWFS advising Mr F that he needed to collect the car from the 
supplying dealership and saw copies of arrears letters sent to him. So she couldnt find 
VWFS to have treated Mr F unfairly by repossessing the car and terminating the agreement 
after Mr F stopped making payments towards it and also didnt collect the car from the 
dealership. As Mr F stopped making payments, the investigator found that VWFS were 
within their rights as a lender to record accurately the missed payments on Mr Fs credit file. 
She also acknowledged inaccuracies in statements VWFS sent to Mr F, but said the correct 
outstanding balance was confirmed to him in arrears letters.
Mr F disagreed with the investigators findings. And so the complaint has been passed to me 
to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im not upholding this complaint and Ill explain why below.
Im aware Ive summarised this complaint very briefly, in less detail than has been provided, 
and largely in my own words. No discourtesy is intended by this. Instead, Ive focussed on 
what I think is at the heart of the matter here. Namely, did VWFS treat Mr F unfairly in the 
way they communicated the arrears accrued on his account to him.
If theres something Ive not mentioned, I havent ignored it. Im satisfied I dont need to 
comment on every individual point or argument to be able to reach what I think is a fair 
outcome. Our rules allow me to do this. This simply reflects the informal nature of our service 
as a free alternative to the courts.
The case is about a hire purchase agreement in Mr Fs name taken out with VWFS which is 
a regulated financial product. As such, we are able to consider complaints about it.
The terms of the agreement Mr F signed explain his obligations to make repayments on the 
date set and actions that may be taken if repayments arent made. It explains how missing 
payments could have severe consequences and may lead to VWFS serving a default notice 
on Mr F. It also explains how the car must be kept in Mr Fs possession.
Im satisfied the terms are clear in Mr Fs obligations under the agreement and the 
consequences if the terms are breached.
It isnt in dispute that Mr F stopped making payments towards the agreement and as a result 
arrears accrued. Mr F said his complaint was based on VWFS inaccuracies in financial 
statements sent to him and in what he believes to be bullying behaviour. Mr F said he 
instructed solicitors with the aim to negotiate pragmatically with VWFS, to avoid contractual 
issues, among other things.
Ive considered Mr Fs comments carefully here. Its unfortunate the relationship between Mr 
F and VWFS had broken down to a point where both parties felt the need to instruct 
solicitors. And I appreciate Mr Fs intention was to negotiate a pragmatic approach to 
resolving the issue for both parties. But Im also mindful that it was VWFS choice whether 
they wanted to pursue this matter in a different way to those set out in the terms of the 
agreement Mr F had signed. Ultimately, by Mr F not keeping up with payments and arrears 
accruing on the agreement, Mr F was in breach of it. And as per the terms in the agreement, 
VWFS were within their right to repossess the car and terminate the agreement.I have seen copies of NOSIA letters and financial statements that were sent to Mr F. I accept 
that a financial statement sent to Mr F had an incorrect outstanding balance on it. But Im 
also mindful that regular NOSIA letters sent to Mr F recorded the accurate outstanding 
balance. Mr F also stopped making payments from January 2021. And I cant see anything 
to suggest that, even if accurate information was given on all occasions, Mr F would have 
begun to make payments owed as several letters had passed before Mr F raised a complaint 
about this issue. Mr F still had the opportunity to query the outstanding balance or make 
payment in relation to it after receiving the NOSIA letter, but hadnt. The letters and NOSIA 
letters sent to Mr F were also clear on who to contact if Mr F questioned the accuracy of the 
outstanding balance remaining.
It's important that credit files are an accurate record of a persons financial history. This is 
because other lenders may rely on that information when making credit decisions. So its a 
lenders obligation to record information accurately if there are arrears and outstanding 
payments on an account. As there were arrears on Mr Fs account, I cant say VWFS have 
acted unfairly by reporting the information they have to credit reference agencies.
Mr F says he wasnt given the option to take the car back and pay off his arrears when he 
left it at a supplying dealership. VWFS has supplied a copy of a letter that was sent to Mr F 
in January 2021. It said:
you will need to collect your vehicle from Can I ask that you contact the Service 
Manager at to advise of a collection date.
Im satisfied from what I have seen that Mr F had the opportunity to collect the car but chose 
not to. As the car wasnt in Mr Fs possession and payments werent being made towards 
the agreement, I dont think VWFS had done anything wrong in recovering it, terminating the 
agreement and selling the car.
Overall, Im satisfied VWFS dont need to do anything in this instance.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr F to accept or 
reject my decision before 7 September 2023.
 
Ronesh Amin
Ombudsman