DRN-2941025
The complaint
Mr B is unhappy that British Gas wont cover the cost of a replacement boiler under his 
HomeCare policy. 
What happened
Mr B took out an upgraded HomeCare policy with British Gas in November 2020. Prior to 
this he held a policy with British Gas that was provided to him free through his energy tariff. 
In December 2020 British Gas carried out a first visit on the boiler to determine if it could be 
covered. Following this visit, Mr B says he experienced problems with the boiler and 
arranged for British Gas to visit and diagnose the problem. British Gas missed the 
appointment.
Mr B raised a complaint with British Gas in January 2020. He was unhappy about the missed 
visit and that his boiler hadnt been repaired. He had since arranged for a local engineer to 
look at the boiler and as it was 15 years old, they couldnt source the parts, so he then had 
to pay for it to be replaced. He wanted British Gas to cover the cost of the replacement boiler 
and to pay him compensation.
British Gas responded to Mr Bs complaint not upholding it. It said that the engineer who 
completed the first visit had determined the boiler unsafe and at risk, so it wasnt able to 
cover Mr B under the policy hed taken out. It issued him with a refund of the premiums hed 
paid, but said it wouldnt cover any other costs or compensation.
Mr B brought his complaint to our service and said that until the policy was cancelled by 
British Gas in January 2021, he was under contract with it. So it was legally required to cover 
the replacement boiler cost. Our investigator didnt uphold his complaint, as she was 
satisfied British Gas had informed Mr B during the first visit his boiler was unsafe. And that 
under the policy terms this meant his cover was cancelled. Mr B asked for an ombudsman to 
review the complaint, so its been passed to me for a decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Its not in dispute that the type of policy Mr B took out required a first visit/service. But Mr B is 
arguing that his cover ran until British Gas cancelled his policy and as this wasnt actioned 
until January 2021, he is covered for anything before this time.
However Mr Bs policy terms state that if the boiler fails the First service then cover cant 
and wont be provided for the boiler and a premium refund will be given. I appreciate it took a 
number of weeks for the cancellation and refund to be actioned in this case, but that doesnt 
change the fact that at the first visit on 17 December 2020, the boiler failed.
Mr B has provided us with a copy of the first visit notes, which state that all four elements the 
engineer has checked are unsafe. Mr B argues that this wasnt communicated to him and 
the notes dont say the boiler failed. But he held the paperwork, which is clear that the boiler 
is unsafe. And the notes on British Gass system from when the engineer spoke to him on 24 
December 2020 state the same thing.
As Mr Bs first visit was a number of weeks after he took out cover, hes asked about what 
happens if a problem occurs with the boiler before the first visit, but after cover has 
technically started. But I dont see the need to look into this in his case. I say that because 
hes argued his boiler was fine before the first visit. And also the reason British Gas couldnt 
cover him is because his boiler ventilation wasnt up to acceptable standards, which was 
already the case before Mr B took out this cover. So I cant agree this is a relevant 
consideration in this complaint or something that I need to answer.
Mr B has argued that the local business he tried to use to repair the boiler couldnt get the 
appropriate part, so this meant he had to get a new boiler. And as this was during his time 
on cover, that British Gas should cover this cost. However, when British Gas wrote out to 
him about taking out this policy in September 2020, it noted the make of his boiler and said 
the manufacturer had stopped making this model a while ago, so some parts were difficult to 
source. It also stated that this meant it may not be able to fix the boiler if it broke down  and 
if this was the case, Mr B may be able to get a refund back dated to when he renewed this 
policy. So, putting aside that British Gas didnt accept to cover this boiler, even if it had, it 
pre-warned Mr B that in the event of a breakdown he may receive a premium refund  not 
what hes now asking for, a new boiler paid for by British Gas.
Mr B has questioned why he was previously covered with British Gas for the same boiler. 
And an engineers report from January 2020 doesnt report the ventilation issue. I agree with 
our investigator that, while this does seem an error, it doesnt change the outcome of this 
complaint.
Mr Bs previous policy wasnt the same level of cover as the one he purchased in November 
2020, so didnt come with the same initial checks. And hes benefited from cover the 
previous year he possibly shouldnt have. The key fact is that British Gass engineer 
determined his boiler was unsafe in December 2020 and Mr B hasnt provided any evidence 
to show that was untrue. So Mr B having previous cover doesnt change my decision.
Ive considered the delay between Mr B taking out the policy and British Gass first visit; then 
between this and the policy cancellation; alongside Mr Bs cover being upgraded after the 
First service. But I dont consider Mr B is due any compensation from British Gas.
As our investigator explained, the first visit was within the timescales British Gas sets out. 
And I consider the engineers report is clear from the first visit that the boiler was unsafe. 
Also, even if Mr B was uncertain of what the report meant, the notes from his call with British 
Gas a few days later suggest it was made clear his boiler was at risk and unsafe. It was 
unfortunate Mr Bs policy was upgraded after the first visit and the boiler had failed. But I 
accept British Gass explanation that this was put through the system a few days after the 
engineer visited, but before Mr Bs account wasnt yet up to date with the result of this visit, 
so that is why it went through. 
Mr B has said he believed he wasnt able to get other cover while he held the British Gas 
policy, so the delays have impacted him in that respect. But considering the age and issues 
with the boiler  and that replacement parts were unavailable when it did breakdown  I 
consider it most likely he wouldve struggled to obtain any cover. This kind of insurance is 
designed to protect you from the risk of a loss, it isnt designed to cover things that have 
already happened or are highly likely to happen. The First service term British Gas is 
relying on is commonplace in insurance, so I think its unlikely Mr B wouldve been able to 
insure this boiler elsewhere.I understand that Mr B wants British Gas to cover the cost of his replacement boiler. But as 
Ive set out, even if he was covered by this policy, its possible British Gas wouldnt have 
paid this cost. And ultimately, he wasnt covered, so he isnt due this money. I appreciate 
Mr B and his family were left without hot water for two days in winter, while he sourced a 
replacement boiler. And had to have engineers in their home during the pandemic, which 
caused distress. But they are inconvenient consequences of a boiler breakdown and 
wouldve likely been the same if British Gas worked on the boiler. They arent the fault of 
British Gas and I dont consider it has done anything wrong, so Im also not awarding any 
compensation for this either.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I dont uphold Mr Bs complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 7 October 2021.
 
Amy Osborne
Ombudsman