DRN-3726416
The complaint
Mr T complains that Lloyds Bank PLC (Lloyds) unfairly failed to extend a repayment plan in 
relation to his overdraft.
What happened
Mr T held an account with the bank which included an overdraft facility. He was made 
redundant from his work, and made use of the overdraft. The account was then overdrawn 
from 21 November 2018 until it was closed by the bank in March 2022.
In September 2019, Mr T contacted Lloyds to seek financial assistance in relation to the 
overdraft fees which were being charged to his account. While Mr T could not afford 
payments which would clear the overdraft in an acceptable period, Lloyds says that it agreed 
a six-month plan to make payments to reduce the overdraft, and says that it stopped 
applying the contractual charges in relation to this overdraft from this point. As part of this, a 
temporary overdraft was agreed, with a limit which would reduce as he made payments. 
When that plan was set up, it was explained that there would be an option to take out a loan 
in order to clear the outstanding overdraft. The bank says it explained that failing to keep to 
this agreement could cause the overdraft to be closed and a default registered against the 
account.
At the end of October 2019, Lloyds says that Mr T contacted it to say that he wanted to 
adjust the payment date on the agreement for November, as he had paid another debt in 
October. The bank says he was told that this would break the agreement and put him at risk 
of default on the account. The bank says that Mr T did not agree to this, and the call was 
ended. Mr T complains that the issue was that the initial payment date for November was set 
up incorrectly and that he wanted to maintain that arrangement as originally agreed.
The payment due on 1 November 2019 was not made. On 2 November 2019, however, Mr T 
again contacted the bank to say that he was still in difficulty and needed to rearrange the 
plan. The bank says it could not offer another six-month plan once the previous one had 
failed, but agreed a three-month payment plan, on the understanding that Mr T could call 
them toward the end of the period to seek to extend it. Mr T made these calls to repeat the 
three-month agreement repeatedly, with the last agreement being made on 28 May 2021. 
The bank says that it warned him during this call that it might be the last such plan which 
was offered.
On 24 September 2021, Mr T called again and asked for a three-month repayment plan to 
be put in place on similar terms to those offered previously. On this occasion, Lloyds refused 
to offer a further plan. Mr T says that he had come to rely upon this plan, and that removing 
it and cancelling his temporary overdraft left him without money that he needed to live on.
Lloyds says that such plans are only ever intended to be short-term, and that continuing to 
extend them in this way was simply prolonging customer debt. Mr T was reducing the 
overdraft by a small amount each month, which would have led to the account remaining 
overdrawn for some years. On review of the file, Lloyds says that, in fact, the agreements 
ought to have been ended earlier and that the account ought to have been registered as 
being in default from 15 June 2020. 
It says that it offered a brief temporary overdraft on the account in October 2021 to allow Mr 
T access to the money that had been paid into the account, rather than having it swallowed 
by the cancelled overdraft, and that this properly protected him in the short term, while also 
properly reflecting the state of the account. The bank agrees that it was not clear in its 
communications with Mr T, and paid him £30 to reflect this.Mr T says that he has been treated unfairly as he had kept to these periodic agreements and 
had as a result reduced his overdraft by around a third. He says that the bank should have 
allowed him to continue to make these arrangements.
Our investigator thought that the bank had acted properly in not continuing these 
arrangements in September 2021, but that its communications had been less clear than the 
£30 payment reflected. In particular, they thought that the bank had led Mr T to believe that 
he would continue to have normal use of his account and that the loan to clear the overdraft 
at the end of the six-month agreement was, in effect, pre-approved. They thought that the 
bank ought to pay Mr T an additional £100 to reflect this.
Mr T did not think that this properly reflected the difficulties caused to him, and so this has 
come to me for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.Under the rules of this service, I am able to make a decision in relation to matters which 
have been complained of to the business, to which it has provided a final response or else 
failed to respond. During the course of our investigation, there have been ongoing 
interactions and decisions in relation to Mr Ts account which do not fall under these 
headings. I will limit myself to those events which took place prior to the banks final 
response dated 4 November 2021. 
I have looked at the terms and conditions on the account. At page 3, under the heading 
Overdrafts, it is stated that overdrafts are repayable on demand. I am satisfied that this is a 
common term in banking, but that its meaning might not be obvious to all customers. In 
Section F of the terms, however- again headed Overdrafts- it is defined as meaning the 
bank can ask you to repay it (or part of it) at any time. I think that this is clear wording and 
am satisfied that it is not hidden away or masked by jargon. Under the terms of the account, 
the bank was entitled to ask Mr T to repay the overdraft as it did.
By September 2019, Mr Ts account had been overdrawn for a long time, and the overdraft 
was generally getting larger with each passing month. Lloyds did not call for the repayment 
immediately, but agreed a six-month reduction plan, after which it proposed to offer a loan to 
pay off the remainder. I think that this was a reasonable approach, particularly given that it 
meant contractual overdraft charges were no longer being applied. While I agree that 
suggesting that the loan was automatically offered was potentially misleading, it is a point 
which had no impact upon the matter, as Mr T was unable to make the second months 
payment and the six-month agreement ended at that point. 
I have listened to the call which was made ahead of that missed November payment. I am 
satisfied that Mr T describes having prioritised another debt ahead of this one, and that he 
does not there suggest any error in payment date. So, I am satisfied that the agreement was 
more likely than not set up as had been agreed and the agreement had not been kept to by 
Mr T.
The bank is entitled to set what it feels to be an acceptable amount to pay towards an 
amount that it is owed. But in deciding whats an acceptable way forward, Id expect it to take 
into account Mr Ts circumstances in terms of what it knows about his financial situation and 
what hes told it. Given the fact that Mr T had only made a single payment under the six-
month plan, I am satisfied it was both fair and reasonable not to offer another of the same 
sort, where he looked to have been struggling with this sort of arrangement.
The three-month rolling plans were then put in place in November 2019. It appears from the 
call notes that Mr Ts circumstances were changing over this period, but that the terms were 
broadly kept to. But that does not mean that the bank had to continually renew the 
agreement until the debt was repaid. The initial plan had only been for a period of six 
months, with a specific way of bringing the account out of the overdraft at the end of that 
period. These periodic plans had no such end point, and were, as the bank says, simply 
maintaining an ongoing debt. I agree with the bank that it was a mistake to continue to offer 
these from March 2020. Their policy was to use such measures as a short-term step 
covering no more than twelve months in appropriate cases, and this is not the manner in 
which they were being used.
I have considered the call notes from September 2021. Here, it is clear that the bank stated 
that the account would be placed on a 30-day hold, which would freeze charges. There is no 
mention of the fact that this would also end his temporary overdraft facility. I am therefore 
satisfied that this was likely not brought to Mr Ts attention, and I think that this was unfair to 
him.While I can certainly understand Mr Ts argument that he had come to rely upon these 
arrangements and that he was keeping to them, I am not satisfied that extending the debt 
with short term agreements would have been reasonable. The bank had called in the 
overdraft as it was entitled to do, and had agreed a measure which would have achieved 
this. To simply make short term measures with no end in sight would be to undo the decision 
already made and to replace it with continued deferral of that same decision. I am further 
satisfied that it was neither unfair or unreasonable to refuse to do so. The bank was entitled 
to require repayment of the debt. It delayed this on acceptable terms, and then further 
delayed upon acceptable short-term agreement. These did not have to be extended 
indefinitely, nor was it reasonable to require that the contractual overdraft payments be 
waived indefinitely. I am satisfied that the brief temporary overdraft in October 2021 allowed 
him to withdraw his income on that day, and that the only further payments into the account 
during the relevant period were unpaid direct debits.
I am satisfied that the appropriate way of handling an account in this sort of debt, where no 
plan can be agreed for repayment in a reasonable period, is to register it as being in default. 
Mr T was unable to meet the contractual obligations in relation to this debt. He could not pay 
the overdraft charges or clear the overdraft within a reasonable period once repayment had 
been demanded in line with the terms of the account. Lenders have a responsibility to 
provide accurate and up to date information to the credit reference agencies, and defaults 
form part of this. The bank says that the process should have begun in March 2020, and that 
the default will be registered from June 2020 in order to reflect this. I have considered this 
carefully, and I am satisfied that it is the most appropriate approach. It accurately reflects the 
state of the account in June 2020, and means that the default will be removed from Mr Ts 
credit file sooner than would be the case if the later agreements were treated as properly 
applied. He will not suffer a disadvantage as a result of the banks mistakes in delaying the 
default.
Putting things right
While I do not think that the bank acted unreasonably or unfairly in how it approached the 
extensions, except for acting too slowly to start its default procedures, I think that its 
communications were unclear and potentially misleading in relation to the removal of the 
temporary overdraft facility. While it was fair to remove this, Mr T should not have been left 
surprised by it. While reapplying a temporary facility was a reasonable way of addressing 
this, the mistake caused Mr T some degree of distress an inconvenience. I am satisfied that 
£100, in addition to the £30 already paid, properly reflects this.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, Lloyds Bank PLC must pay Mr T £100 to reflect the distress 
and inconvenience caused.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr T to accept or 
reject my decision before 23 February 2023.
 
Marc Kelly
Ombudsman