DRN-4102219
The complaint
Mr H has complained about Skyfire Insurance Company Limited. He isnt happy that it turned 
down a claim under his motor insurance policy.
What happened
Mr H made a claim under his motor insurance policy. He drove through a flooded road and 
hit a pothole causing damage to his car. But when he made a claim under his policy Skyfire 
turned it down. It appointed an investigator to look into the claim and it wasnt satisfied that 
the accident happened as described. And it believed Mr H hadnt fully repaired his car after 
he was involved in a similar incident a few months before when Mr H was paid out by his 
insurer after it was agreed his car was a total loss and he retained the salvage.
So, Mr H complained to Skyfire and then this Service about this as he wasnt happy that it 
wouldnt deal with his claim. Our Investigator looked into things for Mr H but didnt uphold his 
complaint. He was of the view that Skyfire had undertaken a full investigation into the 
circumstances surrounding the claim including interviewing Mr H; looking at the road where 
he hit the pothole; and trying to verify whether Mr H had undertaken repairs to his car from 
the previous incident. 
As Mr H didnt agree the matter has been passed to me to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so I dont think the complaint should be upheld. I know this will come as a 
disappointment to Mr H, but Ill explain why.
I understand Mr H has raised other complaints that dont form part of this complaint so I 
wont consider those issues here as they will be advanced separately. This complaint has 
solely focussed on whether Skyfire acted fairly in declining Mr Hs claim as they feel he 
hasnt been truthful in advancing his claim. And, in considering the evidence available, I cant 
say Skyfire has acted unfairly in turning down Mr Hs claim. Plus, if Mr H gains further 
evidence that shows his car was fully repaired after the first accident it will reconsider its 
position which seems fair.
Although I can understand Mr Hs position there isnt sufficient evidence to say his car was 
fully repaired after the previous incident which was very similar to this. And so, when he 
made this claim Skyfire, understandably, wanted to verify that it wasnt being asked to pay 
for the same damage again. It has genuine concerns that Mr Hs car wasnt fully repaired 
after the previous incident and that he is claiming for the same repairs again having been 
paid the market value of his car before when he retained the salvage. 
Skyfire also had other concerns as well. It has provided photos of the road Mr H said he hit a 
pothole on causing the damage that he is claiming for now and there clearly isnt any pothole 
on the stretch of road concerned that would have caused the damage to Mr Hs car. I know 
the road was flooded and so it is possible something else was involved. But Mr H has 
provided photos from the time of the flooded road and I dont think there is anything in the 
photos that would cause the level of damage outlined in his claim. And Mr H has changed 
his account at times as well so I can understand why Skyfire has some doubt about his 
account and events generally. 
I know Mr H feels he has provided some evidence to show that he repaired the car after the 
first incident, but this isnt very detailed. And it doesnt cover key damage that was sustained 
in both the first and second incidents. And just because his car passed its MOT doesnt 
mean Mr H had all the previous repair work undertaken that he was paid out for. 
Given this, and the various concerns Skyfire has about Mr Hs claim I dont think it has acted 
unfairly in declining his claim.
My final decision
It follows, for the reasons given above, that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 4 August 2023.
 
Colin Keegan
Ombudsman