DRN-3070416
The complaint
Mr E believes Advantage Finance Ltd acted irresponsibly by agreeing a hire purchase 
agreement hed applied for.
What happened
On 6 January 2016, Mr E took out a hire purchase with Advantage. The loan was for £3,975 
over 48 months, with 47 monthly repayments of £145.90, and a final payment of £320.90. 
The agreement was used to finance the purchase of a used car. Mr E has said that the car 
broke down in July 2019 and it was uneconomical for him to repair this. So he arranged to 
have the car scrapped, and hes no longer in possession of it.
Mr E has complained Advantage didnt act responsibly when approving the agreement. He 
said he was in default with several payday lenders, and that it was clear from his bank 
statements that he has a gambling problem. He also didnt think that Advantage took into 
consideration the he was a sole income earner with two dependent children. 
Advantage thought theyd acted reasonably, but Mr E wasnt happy with this response. So 
he brought his complaint to the Financial Ombudsman Service for investigation.
Advantage said theyd carried out a credit check, but they werent able to provide a copy of 
this. But, from the income check they did, and from what they said was on the credit check, 
Advantage considered the monthly payments were affordable.
Our investigator reviewed Mr Es credit file and considered what it wouldve showed at the 
time of the application. And she said that, at the time, Mr E had historic payday loans, and 
defaults. And he also had active credit cards and a loan with a high cost lender. She thought 
this showed that Mr E had struggled financially, so she thought Advantage shouldve carried 
out further checks before approving the finance.
The investigator considered what Advantage would most likely have seen if theyd carried 
out additional checks. And she said these wouldve shown that Mr E wasnt able to afford the 
monthly payments to Advantage. So she said that Advantage shouldnt have approved the 
finance.
The investigator said Advantage should refund all of the payments Mr E made (less the 
amount he originally borrowed) and refund all of the interest and charges. And, if that meant 
that Mr E has paid back more than he borrowed, then Advantage should also pay interest. 
She also said that Advantage should remove any adverse credit from Mr Es credit file.
Advantage didnt agree with the investigator. They said that the credit search they carried 
out didnt suggest he was in financial difficulties; and they maintained the payments were 
affordable. They also said that Mr E was responsible for his own budgeting choices and 
considered he would be perfectly capable of organising his own domestic finances and 
could decide if any new agreement was something he could afford along with his essential 
expenditure.
Because Advantage didnt agree, this matter has been passed to me to make a final 
decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
When someone complains about irresponsible and/or unaffordable lending, there are two 
overarching questions I need to consider in order to decide whats fair and reasonable in all 
of the circumstances of the complaint. These are:
1. Did Advantage complete reasonable and proportionate checks to satisfy itself that Mr 
E would be able to repay the credit in a sustainable way?
a. if so, did Advantage make a fair lending decision?
b. if not, would reasonable and proportionate checks have shown that Mr E 
could sustainably repay the borrowing?
2. Did Advantage act unfairly or unreasonably in some other way?
And, if I determine that Advantage didnt act fairly and reasonably when considering Mr Es 
application, Ill also consider what I think is a fair way to put things right.
Did Advantage complete reasonable and proportionate checks to satisfy itself that Mr E 
would be able to repay the credit in a sustainable way?
Theres no set list for what reasonable and proportionate checks are, but Id expect lenders 
to consider things such as the amount, duration and payments of the finance being applied 
for; as well as the borrowers personal circumstances at the time of each application. 
After the investigator had issued her view, Advantage provided a copy of the credit search 
they did at the time of Mr Es application. This shows Mr E had five previous defaults 
between December 2010 and July 2012, two of which hadnt been repaid, with outstanding 
balances totalling £6,759.The only active credit showing was a current account, and all of Mr 
Es existing credit agreements had been settled (or defaulted) by no later than July 2012.
Different lenders have different criteria, so I dont think the presence of historic defaults was 
a reason for Advantage to automatically declined the application. But I would expect them to 
take these into consideration when making their overall lending decision. So I wouldve 
expected Advantage to establish Mr Es income and expenditure, and account for payments 
to the existing default balances as part of that expenditure.
Mr E had declared he earned £1,651 a month; and Advantage confirmed this from his 
December 2015 payslip, which showed a net pay of £1,701.53. Advantage say that they also 
completed an income and affordability check. This was based on data from a number of 
sources, including the payslip and credit file, and used an average cost for rent and utility 
costs for Mr Es area. But they havent provided a copy of the calculation they actually did.
Given that Advantage cant provide a copy of the checks they did, I cant say if what they did 
was either reasonable or proportionate.
Would any additional checks Advantage couldve done have shown that Mr E could 
sustainably repay the borrowing?Because Advantage have evidenced what checks they did, Ive gone on to consider what 
they wouldve seen if these checks had been carried out. 
Mr E declared a monthly income of £1,651. Hes also said that his monthly expenditure at 
the time was £650 rent, £95 council tax, £190 utility bills and £100 TV and internet  a total 
of £1,035. There were no outstanding credit commitments on the credit search, but he did 
have £6,759 outstanding on his default balances. And I think its reasonable to assume he 
was paying (or should have been paying) towards these. Assuming 3% of the outstanding 
balance, this would be £202.77 a month.
So, even allowing for the higher income of £1,701.53 showing on the December 2015 
payslip, Mr E would have £463.76 disposable income each month, with which to pay for 
food, travel and other discretionary expenditure; as well as Advantages payment of £145.90. 
And, as Mr E has said that he was paying £450 a month for food alone, this would make the 
finance unaffordable.
Given this, I wouldve expected Advantage to have done further checks into Mr Es income 
and expenditure, before making any decision to lend.
Mr E has provided us with his bank statements for the period 1 October to 31 December 
2015. If Advantage had asked for more information about Mr Es income and expenditure, 
then the bank statements for this period give a good indication of what Advantage would 
likely have discovered.
The bank statements show Mr Es average monthly income was £1,710.94. And while they 
show the rent (£695) and mobile phone payment (£78.37), they dont show the council tax or 
other utility bills Mr E paid. Mr E has said that he had pre-paid energy meters that he topped 
up at the local shop, paying cash. So, they wouldnt show on the bank statements.
However, the bank statements also show a high number of gambling transactions  150 over 
the three months  and that Mr E was betting an average of £587.92 a month. The bank 
statements also show that Mr E was paying regular bank charges, going overdrawn, and 
was reliant on payments into his account from other people to cover his expenditure.
Taking all the above into consideration, Im satisfied that Mr E was in financial difficulties, 
and the finance wasnt affordable for Mr E when considering what he was actually paying out 
each month. Whats more, making payments over the full term of the loan also wasnt likely 
to be sustainable.
So, given this, Im satisfied that Advantage shouldnt have approved the finance.
Did Advantage act unfairly or unreasonably in some other way?
I havent seen anything to make me think Advantage acted unfairly or unreasonably in
some other way.
Putting things right
As I dont think the finance shouldve been approved, Ive thought about how to put Mr E 
back in the position he wouldve been in if this hadnt happened. But Ive also taken into 
consideration that Mr E had the benefit of the money he borrowed and should pay this back.
So, Advantage end the agreement, with nothing further to pay. They should add up the total 
amount of money Mr E has paid them and deduct the amount of money Mr E received from 
them.a) if this results in Mr E having paid more than he received, Advantage should refund 
any overpayments, along with 8% simple interest a year calculated from the date of 
the overpayments to the date of the refund ; or
b) if this results in an outstanding capital balance, Advantage should attempt to arrange 
an affordable and sustainable repayment plan with Mr E.
HM Revenue & Customs requires Advantage to take off tax from this interest. Advantage 
must give Mr E a certificate showing how much tax theyve taken off if he asks for one.
Advantage should also remove any negative information, relating to the agreement from Mr 
Es credit file.
My final decision
For the reasons explained above I uphold Mr Es complaint. Advantage Finance Ltd must 
follow my directions above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr E to accept or 
reject my decision before 28 December 2021.
 
Andrew Burford
Ombudsman