DRN-2781785
The complaint
Mr and Mrs P complain about how U K Insurance Limited dealt with a claim against their 
travel insurance policy. Reference to UKI includes reference to its agents. 
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again 
here in full. In summary, Mr and Mrs P have travel insurance as a benefit of a current 
account. They planned a trip to Australia and New Zealand with departure and return 
dates of 30 January 2020 to 29 February 2020 respectively. 
In January 2020, Mr P contacted UKI about rearranging part of the itinerary in order to 
avoid disruption caused by bush fires, rather than cancelling or curtailing the trip. UKI 
said that it would consider the claim up to the amount it would have paid if the trip had 
been curtailed. Mr and Mrs Ps trip proceeded with a rearranged itinerary. 
On 3 March 2020, Mr and Mrs P made a claim against their policy in relation to 
additional transport and accommodation costs for the rearranged part of their trip. UKI 
asked for further information. In June 2020, UKI asked for information from                    
Mr and Mrs Ps travel provider about whether the unused accommodation was 
refundable and about the amendment fee. 
Mr and Mrs P complained about how UKI dealt with their claim and complaint. UKI 
offered Mr and Mrs P compensation of £200 in relation to service issues. That wasnt 
acceptable to Mr and Mrs P. They want UKI to settle their claim and to pay 
compensation for the time theyve spent dealing with this matter. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I agree with the conclusions reached by the investigator for these reasons:
Its common ground that there were delays in UKI dealing with Mr and Mrs Ps claim. 
Ive looked at the chronology of the claim. Mr and Mrs P submitted their claim on       
3 March 2020, but it wasnt reviewed until 2 June 2020. And UKI asked for additional 
information on more than one occasion. That was no doubt frustrating for                    
Mr and Mrs P.
Having said that, its for Mr and Mrs P to provide UKI with information and 
documentation in support of their claim. Its reasonable for UKI to ask Mr and Mrs P 
to provide evidence from their travel provider about whether the unused parts of their 
original itinerary were refundable. I dont think that UKI acted unfairly or unreasonably 
in asking Mr and Mrs P for that information.
Based on what Ive seen, I dont think that I can conclude that, on balance, but for 
UKIs delay in asking Mr and Mrs P for the additional information, it would have been 
provided by the travel provider. And I dont think that I can fairly direct UKI to deal 
with a claim without the relevant information its requested. 
Considering everything, I think that UKIs offer of compensation of £200 for its delay 
in dealing with the claim is fair and reasonable. In reaching that view, Ive taken into 
account the nature, extent and duration of the delay.
Mr and Mrs P have also expressed concern about how UKI handled their complaint. 
As the investigator explained, we can only consider complaints about financial 
services. So, I cant consider the additional points that Mr and Mrs P have raised 
about the handling of their complaint, because it isnt a regulated activity. 
For these reasons, I dont uphold Mr and Mrs Ps complaint. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold Mr and Mrs Ps complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr P and Mrs P to 
accept or reject my decision before 16 August 2021.
Its not clear to me whether UKI has already paid Mr and Mrs P the compensation of £200 it 
offered. If it hasnt done so, Mr and Mrs P should contact UKI direct about that. 
 
Louise Povey
Ombudsman