DRN-1612410
The complaint
Mr V complains about a late payment fee and interest charged by Creation Financial 
Services Limited (Creation) on his credit card.
What happened
Mr V paid his 26 March 2019 credit card statement in full on 12 April 2019. He says he did 
this by way of a faster payment from his bank account. 12 April 2019 was the payment due 
date recorded on Mr Vs 26 March 2019 credit card statement.
On receipt of his 25 April 2019 credit card statement Mr V noticed his payment had been 
treated by Creation as having cleared on 16 April 2019 (four days after he had paid it) and 
that he had been charged a late payment fee of £12.00 and interest of £21.38.
Following receipt of his 25 April 2019 statement Mr V complained to Creation that he had 
always paid his statement balance in full by faster payment on the due date and he had 
never been charged a late payment fee or interest for doing so. And because of this it was 
only fair that £33.98 be refunded to him.
Creation considered Mr Vs complaint but didnt uphold it. In summary it said it doesnt 
accept faster payments and payments made take between three and five working days to 
clear.
Unhappy with Creations response Mr V referred his complaint to our service where it was 
considered by one of our investigators.
Our investigator, having considered what both parties had said and submitted, came to the 
view that Mr Vs complaint should be upheld. She then went on to say that Creation should 
refund Mr V £33.98 and ensure no reference to a late payment in April 2019 is recorded with 
credit reference agencies.
Creation didnt accept the investigators view so Mr Vs complaint has been passed to me for 
review and decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
This includes the views expressed by our service in the past on complaints similar to this 
one brought by Mr V.
When considering what is fair and reasonable, Im required to take into account; relevant law 
and regulations, relevant regulatory rules, guidance and standards and codes of practice; 
and, where appropriate, what I would consider to have been good industry practice at the 
relevant time. 
I appreciate Mr Vs credit card terms and conditions state payment must be made by the due 
date (not on the due date) and that the minimum time that should be allowed for payments 
made to clear is three working days. I also appreciate that Creation says it doesnt, nor is it 
able, to accept faster payments. 
So based on the credit card agreement, Creation was entitled to charge Mr V the late 
payment fee and interest that it did. But it doesnt automatically follow that this is the fair and 
reasonable outcome in the particular circumstances of this individual case.
Based on what both parties have said and submitted, Im satisfied that Mr V consistently 
paid his balance in full on the due date without incurring a late payment fee or interest. And 
that regardless of how each payment was processed by Creation, they are recorded on 
Mr Vs bank statements, since at least October 2017, as faster payments. 
So I think its fair to say that, despite the payment information on the credit card statements, 
this created an expectation for Mr V that hed be able to make payment on the due date 
without incurring late payment fees and/or interest. While I note the contractual position, it 
doesnt bind Creation to applying a charge whatever the circumstances.
I think that it would have been fair for Creation to have taken this expectation into account 
when deciding whether to apply the fee and interest that it did. And I think in light of the 
circumstances at play in Mr Vs case, it would be fair for Creation to have treated Mr Vs 
payment as having been made on time, perhaps with a warning that payments would need 
to be made ahead of the due date to avoid the possibility of fees and interest becoming 
payable in the future. 
Putting things right
Therefore I think Creation should refund Mr V £33.98 and ensure no reference to a late 
payment in April 2019 is recorded with credit reference agencies. But Mr V needs to 
understand that in future he needs to make payment in line with his credit card terms and 
conditions, and not in the manner that he has historically done, if he wishes to avoid 
incurring any new late payment fees and interest.
For the sake of completeness I would add that Ive considered whether Creation should have 
to pay Mr V more than £33.98, for example interest and/or anything for distress and 
inconvenience. But having considered what both parties have said and submitted I dont 
think, in the particular circumstances of this case, further payment would be appropriate.
My final decision
My final decision is that Creation Financial Services Limited must refund Mr V £33.38 and 
ensure no reference to a late payment in April 2019 is recorded with credit reference 
agencies.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr V to accept or 
reject my decision before 9 September 2020.
 
Peter Cook
Ombudsman