DRN-3252649
The complaint
Miss P complains about the handling of her claim by Royal & Sun Alliance Insurance
Limited, regarding replacement carpets under her home contents insurance policy.
What happened
Miss Ps neighbour suffered a flooding incident, which caused damage to her carpet. She
made a claim to RSA, which it accepted and replaced the damaged carpet. This was along
with a contribution towards replacing areas of matching carpet in her home.
Miss P says 11mm underlay was agreed, which she was paying for as it wasnt covered by
the insurance claim. She was advised new grippers were required because of the depth of
the underlay. But she noticed 9mm underlay had been installed instead. She also noticed
that the carpet in the lounge is different to the carpet that was fitted throughout the rest of
her home when this is supposed to be the same.
Miss P says she has waited a long time for the manufacturer to inspect the carpet, and the
time effort and disruption caused has been stressful for her.
RSA didnt provide a final response to Miss Ps complaint within the timeframe required.
From the available information the company says Miss P received what she had paid for, in
relation to the underlay. It says that there is no manufacturing fault with the lounge carpet,
and it cannot identify a difference between it and the other carpets installed.
One of our investigators reviewed Miss Ps complaint and decided to uphold it in part. He
thought RSA had fairly relied on an inspection report from the manufacturer which hadnt
found any faults with the carpet. He thought it likely that the company hadnt provided the
agreed underlay but acknowledged Miss P hadnt been charged for this. Our investigator
didnt think the matter had been handled well, given the delays experienced and thought
RSA should pay £100 in compensation to Miss P.
Miss P disagreed with this outcome and asked for an ombudsman to review her complaint
It has been passed to me to decide.
I issued a provisional decision in December 2021 explaining that I was intending to uphold 
Miss Ps complaint. Heres what I said:
provisional findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so I have decided to uphold Miss Ps complaint. Let me explain.
Miss P has another complaint relating to damage caused to her lounge carpet during the
fitting process. This has been dealt with separately. My remit here is to consider whether
RSA treated Miss P fairly in relation to her concerns about manufacturing faults with the
carpet, the underlay and the handling of her claim.
Manufacturing faults
The manufacturer inspected Miss Ps carpet and provided the following comments:
The complaint was on Natural Berber twist carpets an 80/20 wool mix. As far as I could see
it had been fitted in the standard way on an underlay fixed with grippers around the
edges.
The complaint was of a lineal effect in the lounge carpet only as there was no complaint in
the other rooms. Upon inspection I could see very minimal evidence of the complaint in
question. I checked the pile direction from room to adjoining hallway and office and all were
running in the same direction and all pieces were off the same roll.
In conclusion in my opinion there is no manufacturing default present and would deem the
carpets not to be faulty.
Miss P has supplied photos that show the lounge and the adjoining dining room carpet. She
refers to a linear effect with the lounge carpet that she says is not there on the other carpet.
She has also supplied photos taken with a red filter to highlight the issue she is concerned
with.
I have considered the photos provided. I cant identify any differences between the two areas
of carpet highlighted. Some faint lines can be seen on the red filtered images, but not on
those shown in normal light. I cant reasonably say there is something that stands out as a
fault with the carpet based on these photos. I must be guided by the expert opinion that has
been provided. This explains there is no manufacturing fault, and the effect Miss P has
described is very minimal. Based on what I have seen the experts view appears
reasonable.
Miss P hasnt supplied an alternative expert opinion for me to consider. I can sympathise
that she is unhappy with the look of her lounge carpet. But, based on the information I have
seen, RSAs view that there isnt an identifiable fault with the carpet is persuasive.
Underlay
Miss P says she agreed with RSAs carpet fitter to use an 11mm underlay. She says she
had to buy a different carpet gripper because of the increased depth of the underlay. When
she measured an offcut, she discovered the underlay was in fact 9mm in depth. Miss P says
she did notice a difference in the price but didnt think to query this as she hadnt thought
changes would be made without discussing this with her first.
RSA says its carpet fitter has no details of underlay being replaced other than one square
metre that was included as part of the claim. My understanding is this small area of underlay
was matched to the underlay already in place, which was 9mm in depth. RSA also refers to
a private agreement between the carpet fitting company and Miss P. My understanding is
this was the agreement to fit the 11mm underlay.
Based on what I have seen, I think its likely there was an agreement to use 11mm underlay.
Its not clear why this wasnt installed. But based on RSAs comments, Miss Ps testimony
and the fact she bought a new carpet gripper for the thicker underlay, I think its reasonable
to accept there was an agreement in place to do this.I havent seen evidence that shows there is a problem with the carpet because of the
underlay that was used. This is supported to some extent by the manufacturers inspection
report, which highlights no issues with the carpet. Its also apparent that Miss P was not
charged for the 11mm underlay.
That said I must acknowledge that this isnt the depth of underlay Miss P had agreed for
RSAs contractor to install. If there was a reason this couldnt be used, it hasnt explained
why. Because of this I think its reasonable that RSA compensates Miss P for not providing
the underlay she requested. As above, there is no evidence to show this is detrimental to the
carpet. But Miss P chose the underlay for a reason and the thinner version will have an
impact on the level of cushioning provided. I think £100 compensation is fair.
Delays
Miss P first raised concerns in March 2021. I understand RSAs contractor dealt with this
initially, and it wasnt involved until June. An inspection of the carpet was then arranged but
this didnt take place until September. I understand the company was reliant on its
contractors and suppliers. But Miss P was reliant on RSA to resolve the issue for her, and
ultimately, I must consider it responsible for the delays that occurred.
I dont think RSA has treated Miss P fairly given the time it took to deal with her concerns,
arrange an inspection and confirm what it was willing to do. This has prolonged matters,
caused frustration and been stressful for Miss P to deal with. Because of this I think its
reasonable to pay £100 compensation to Miss P along with an apology.
In summary, I think RSA treated Miss P fairly when carrying out an inspection and
concluding there is no fault with the carpet. I dont think it treated her fairly when failing to
install the agreed depth of underlay, telling her why this wasnt possible or for the delays
when handling her claim. Because of this I think RSA should pay £200 compensation in
total, along with an apology.
I said I was intending to uphold this complaint and require Royal & Sun Alliance Insurance 
Limited to:
- pay £200 compensation to Miss P for its failure to install the agreed underlay and for
the delays in handling her claim; and
- provide an apology for the delays and failure to install the requested underlay.:
I asked both parties to send me any further comments and information they might want me 
to consider before I reached a final decision.
RSA responded to say that the delay in the manufacturer visiting was beyond anyones 
control. It says it visited Miss P as soon as possible, but backlogs had developed as a result 
of government restrictions imposed during the coronavirus pandemic. 
RSA also says that the underlay issue wasnt part of the insurance claim, but was an 
agreement made between its retail partner and Miss P. It says it wasnt aware of the request 
to add this to the scope of works until the issue with the thickness was brought to its 
attention. RSA believes this is a private agreement between the retail partner and Miss P.
Miss P responded to say that she had nothing further to add. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I have thought about RSAs further comments regarding the time taken for the manufacturer 
to inspect the carpet. In the information it initially provided to our service it says it didnt have 
any record of communication with the manufacturer. So, it had to refer to its contractor it 
appointed to deal with the claim. Its contractor says the manufacturer had re-opened at the 
time of the claim, but it assumed it had a back log of work to get through.
In response to my provisional decision RSA says it consulted further with its contractor. And 
it says the inspection was arranged as soon as possible, but there was a backlog of visits 
that needed to take place. This was because of government restrictions previously in force. 
I acknowledge the further comments provided by RSA. But it took from March 2021 to 
September for an inspection to take place. I understand restrictions had been in place due to 
the pandemic. These were being lifted around the time of Miss Ps claim. I accept this is 
likely to have had some impact. But I dont think RSA has clearly demonstrated, by its 
comments, that its reasonable for the inspection to have taken six months to arrange. 
Because of this I think its fair for RSA to compensate Miss P for the delay this caused, 
which resulted in frustration and inconvenience.
RSA says it isnt responsible for the issue with the agreed underlay being installed. It says 
this is because the agreement was between Miss P and its retail partner. 
I acknowledge the point made. But within her complaint Miss P refers to confusion and 
miscommunications between RSAs contractor and the retail partner. Miss P was reliant on 
RSAs contractor handling her claim effectively. I am mindful of the delays and 
communication issues described. On balance I think its likely that this contributed to the 
wrong underlay being installed. 
Its reasonable to expect RSAs contractor to communicate clearly and effectively with Miss 
P when handling her claim. Based on the evidence provided Im not persuaded it did. 
Because of this, and for the reasons provided above, I think my provisional decision was fair 
that RSA should compensate Miss P, along with an apology. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained above, and in my provisional decision, I uphold Miss Ps 
complaint. Royal & Sun Alliance Insurance Limited must:
pay £200 compensation to Miss P for its failure to install the agreed underlay and for
the delays in handling her claim; and
provide an apology for the delays and failure to install the requested underlay.
 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss P to accept 
or reject my decision before 17 February 2022.
 
Mike Waldron
Ombudsman