DRN-2670531
The complaint
Mr M complains that PDL Finance Limited trading as Mr Lender provided him with several 
loans between 2015 and 2017 which were unaffordable.
What happened
Mr M took out four loans with Mr Lender between May 2015 and July 2017. He says he was 
experiencing financial hardship, was behind with is priority payments and had entered an 
individual voluntary arrangement (IVA). He says the loans were unaffordable and caused his 
debts to spiral out of control.
Loan Amount Date Settled
1 £300 14-May-15 04-Jul-15
2 £250 27-Nov-15 29-Jan-16
3 £250 12-May-17 15-Jul-17
4 £1,000 16-Jul-17 12-Jan-18
 
Mr Lender issued a final response letter dated 22 October 2020. It said that before the loans 
were provided affordability and credit checks were carried out in line with the regulations and 
guidance. It said that Mr Ms credit score improved over the period of lending and that he 
didnt indicate he was struggling financially. It said that based on its checks the loans were 
affordable for Mr M. It did offer him £25 of vouchers and to remove any adverse information 
from Mr Ms credit file as a gesture of goodwill.
Mr M didnt accept Mr Lenders final response or the offer of vouchers. This offer has since 
been removed. He referred his complaint to this service.
Our investigator noted that there was a break of over a year between Mr M repaying loan 2 
and taking out loan 3. She said that she didnt have enough evidence to say it was unfair of 
Mr Lender to provide loans 1 to 3 but she didnt think loan 4 should have been provided. She 
thought that by loan 4 further checks should have taken place due to the size and term of the 
loan. She said had these happened they would most likely have shown Mr M was having 
problems managing his money and it was unlikely Mr M wouldve been able to sustainably 
repay this loan.
Mr Lender didnt accept our investigators view. It said that the increase in loan amount alone 
wasnt a reason for further checks to be required. It said Mr M had explained the additional 
money was needed for car repairs which was a one-off unexpected cost and that fitted the 
purpose of a short term loan. It noted Mr Ms borrowing pattern and the break in its lending 
which didnt suggest Mr M was reliant on the loans and there was no evidence of financial 
difficulty that would have meant further checks were required.
My provisional conclusions
I issued a provisional decision on this complaint. I concluded in summary:
Mr M entered his first loan with Mr Lender in May 2015. The loan was for £300 
repayable over three instalments and I thought the checks carried out before this 
loan was provided were proportionate. These checks suggested the loan was 
affordable.
Mr M repaid his first loan early and then didnt take out another loan for over four 
months. I didnt think this was enough of a break to suggest a new lending chain had 
started but I noted the gap in borrowing in my assessment. Mr Ms second loan was 
for £250 an again I found the checks carried out at this time were proportionate and 
suggested the loan was affordable.
Mr M missed his first repayment on the second loan and contact was made and a 
settlement discussed and agreed. I noted that missing a payment couldve raised 
concerns about how Mr M was managing his money, but as he repaid the second 
loan and didnt take out the third loan until more than 15 months had passed, I found 
that loan 3 started a new lending chain.
Loan 3 was for £250 repayable over three instalments. As this was the first loan in 
the new lending chain and given the size of the repayments compared to Mr Ms 
declared income I thought the checks carried out were reasonable. As these 
suggested the loan was affordable I didnt find I could say this loan shouldnt have 
been provided.
Mr M made the repayments due on loan 3 and settled it early. He then took out a 
much larger loan the next day. Our investigator upheld loan 4, noting that it was for 
four times the amount of the previous loan and for a longer term. While I noted these 
comments, I didnt think there was enough to say this loan shouldnt have been 
provided. Mr Ms declared monthly income was over £3,900 and this had been 
consistent over the period of his borrowing from Mr Lender. His expenses were also 
consistent leaving him with a disposable income of over £1,700. The highest monthly 
repayment was noted as being £373. This was still only the second loan in the 
lending chain and the previous loan had been repaid. Therefore, I thought the checks 
carried out at this stage in the relationship were proportionate and as these didnt 
raise concerns about the affordability of the loan I didnt uphold this complaint.
Mr M didnt agree with my provisional decision. He said that given the size and duration of 
the fourth loan further checks should have taken place. He said that had Mr Lender carried 
out these checks it would have seen he was having problems managing his money. He says 
at the time he had an unarranged overdraft, other outstanding short term loans as well as 
other debts and was behind with his priority bills.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
We've set out our general approach to complaints about short-term lending - including all of 
the relevant rules, guidance and good industry practice - on our website.
Mr Lender needed to take reasonable steps to ensure that it didn't lend irresponsibly. In 
practice this means that it should have carried out proportionate checks to make sure that 
Mr M could repay the loans in a sustainable manner. These checks could take into account a 
number of different things, such as how much was being lent the repayment amounts and the consumer's income and expenditure. With this in mind, in the early stages of a lending 
relationship, I think less thorough checks might be reasonable and proportionate.
As I set out in my provisional decision, I think the checks carried out by Mr Lender before the 
loans were provided were proportionate. Mr M said that further checks should have taken 
place before the fourth loan was provided. I note his comment and that the loan was for a 
much higher amount and repayable over a longer period. However, as this was only the 
second loan in the lending chain and having considered the repayment amounts compared 
with Mr Ms income I dont think, at this stage, that further checks were required.
I have looked through the information Mr M provided in response to my provisional decision. 
His bank statements show that he had other short term loans and credit commitments at the 
time. However, I also note that Mr M was asked about his credit commitments at the time of 
the loans and this information was included in the assessment. I can see from Mr Ms banks 
statements for the months leading up to loan 4 he had higher payments to make to his 
outstanding debts than he had declared in his expenses. But as I do not find that further 
checks or verification was required at this stage and as the information provided to 
Mr Lender suggested the loan was affordable, I do not find that I can uphold this complaint.
Overall, while I understand this will be a disappointment to Mr M, I think the checks carried 
out before the loans were provided were reasonable and as these didnt raise concerns 
about the affordability of the loans, I do not uphold this complaint.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint against PDL Finance Limited trading 
as Mr Lender.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 23 April 2021.
 
Jane Archer
Ombudsman