DRN-2969894
The complaint
Mr A complains that UK Insurance Limited (trading as Direct Line) undervalued his car when 
he claimed on his motor insurance policy.
What happened
Mr As vehicle was stolen when he was overseas. It wasnt found, and Mr A claimed under 
his motor insurance policy with Direct Line. Direct Lines engineer valued his vehicle at 
£25,390 and Direct Line said that it would pay Mr A that amount less the excess payable 
under the policy.
Mr A says Direct Lines valuation falls far short of the amount hed need in order to buy a 
comparable car. Hes pointed out that its significantly less than the price hed paid for the 
car only a few months before it was stolen. And he says that he couldnt even buy a lower- 
specification version of his car for the amount that Direct Line has offered him. Hes referred 
to a valuation and adverts to support his view.
One of our investigators considered Mr As complaint, and initially recommended that Direct 
Line pay £28,432, based on the average of valuations in three motor trade guides. Direct 
Line queried the figures the investigator had used. After some discussion, it increased its 
valuation to £26,025, which it explained was the average of the three closest valuations 
shown in the trade guides. The investigator then explained that shed made an error with the 
details shed input. After further discussion with Direct Line, she recalculated the value of 
Mr As car. She was no longer able to get valuations from two of the trade guides. But using 
an average of valuations in the remaining two guides, she calculated the value of Mr As car 
to be £26,395.
Direct Line still wasnt happy with the investigators recommendation. So the complaint was 
passed to me.
My provisional findings
After considering all the evidence, I issued a provisional decision on this complaint to Mr A 
and to Direct Line on 8 July 2021. I said:
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive provisionally decided to uphold the complaint. Ill explain why.
Valuing Mr As car
I should explain at the outset that my role isnt to place a value on Mr As car. Instead, I need 
to decide whether Direct Lines settlement figure is within a fair and reasonable range, and in 
line with the terms and conditions of his policy. So my starting point is to look at the policy 
wording.
The policy provided that Direct Line wouldnt pay more than the market value of the vehicle 
at the time of the loss, less any excess payable. This is a term we see in most motor 
insurance policies.
Market value is defined in the policy document as the cost of replacing your car with 
another of the same make and model and of a similar age and condition at the time of the 
accident or loss.
Establishing the replacement cost of a stolen vehicle isnt an exact science. Its usually 
possible to find adverts for cars for sale for a significantly higher price than someone would 
actually have to pay if they shopped around.
We think the fairest way for an insurer to decide the market value of a vehicle is to look at 
the main motor trade guides for valuing second-hand vehicles. We find these persuasive 
because their valuations are based on nationwide research and likely sales figures. The 
guides refer to advertised and auction prices to work out what the likely selling price for the 
same vehicle would be. If a guide price is significantly higher or lower than the others, we 
may think its reasonable to ignore it.
Direct Line based its final valuation of Mr As car on the average of the following figures:
£26,720 (the average figure the investigator got from the Parkers guide)
£25,390 Glasss guide (used by Direct Lines engineer)
£25,965 (the retail transacted figure shown in the CAP guide) 
Average: £26,025
By the time Direct Line increased its offer, our investigator was no longer able to get a 
Parkers valuation, as they only cover a period up to three months after the date of loss. But 
using an average of the market value shown in the CAP guide (£27,300) and the retail 
transacted value shown in the report shed got from Glasss guide (£25,490), she thought 
£26,395 was a fair value to place on Mr As car at the date of loss.
Direct Line is unhappy that the investigator used the market value shown in the CAP report 
in her calculation, and not the retail transacted value, which shed used in the case of 
Glasss guide. But as the investigator explained to Direct Line, when looking at CAP reports, 
we rely on the market value figure because the retail transacted figure doesnt take into 
account any adjustments made for extras. Instead, its a generic value for all similar cars. 
The extract from the screenshot of its CAP report which Direct Line provided didnt show a 
market value. So we asked it to provide a copy of its complete CAP valuation, but it was 
unable to do so.
In the circumstances, I think its reasonable to rely on the market value shown in the CAP 
report our investigator got. That was £27,300. I acknowledge that thats more than the retail 
transacted value shown on the CAP report. But that remains the case if a CAP valuation is 
carried out for Mr As particular car as at todays date. I dont know exactly what the reason 
for the difference is, but Im satisfied that given that the CAP guide consistently shows a 
market value for Mr As car which is higher than the retail transacted value, it is reasonable 
to take CAPs market value into account.And as Ive said above, averaged with £25,490, which is the retail transacted value shown in 
Glasss guide using the date of loss shown in Direct Lines engineers report (8 September 
2020) gives a value of £26,395. And based on what Ive seen so far, I think that Direct Line 
should pay Mr A that amount for the loss of his car, less the excess payable under the 
policy.
Travel costs
When he brought his complaint, Mr A also mentioned that he had to make his own way back 
to the UK and that Direct Line had refused to cover his expenses in doing so. Direct Line told 
Mr A that his policy provided European Cover, and that this meant that he was entitled to 
the same level of cover as hed receive in the UK. But it couldnt provide Mr A with a hire car, 
as he was abroad when his car was stolen. So under the terms of the policy, it would 
reimburse Mr A up to £50 per day for travel costs.
Our investigator didnt comment on this aspect of Mr As complaint in her view. But Im 
satisfied that Direct Lines response about Mr As travel costs is fair. The policy specifically 
provides that it wont provide a hire car for any loss which takes place outside Great Britain, 
Northern Ireland, the Isle of Man or the Channel Islands. And where the policyholder had 
extended their cover to apply abroad, instead of a hire car, Direct Line would reimburse their 
travel costs, up to £50 a day, up to a maximum of £500 over 21 days following the claim.
Theres no provision requiring Direct Line to do more in terms of paying Mr As travel costs. 
I dont think this is surprising. As Direct Line has pointed out, Mr As policy is a motor 
insurance policy, and not a travel insurance policy. As Direct Line has offered to do what the 
policy required it to do in terms of reimbursing Mr As travel costs, I cant fairly require it to do 
more.
And I said that to put things right, Direct Line should do as Ive set out below. 
Further submissions
Direct Line isnt happy with the findings I set out in my provisional decision. It says its belief 
that I should have referred to the transacted value shown in the CAP report when 
assessing a fair value to put on Mr As car was based on what this service has used in other 
cases. It doesnt see why this one should be different. Its referred to what I said in my 
provisional decision about the retail transacted figure not taking into account any 
adjustments made for extras, and instead being a generic value for all similar cars. And it 
says we should be consistent in our approach. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im not persuaded that theres a good reason to depart from the findings 
I set out in my provisional decision.
I explained in my provisional decision that it wasnt clear to me why the market value shown 
in the CAP report for Mr As car was higher than the retail transacted value. Nonetheless, 
this was consistently the case. As the market value takes into account any optional extras 
that the vehicle may have, I remain of the view that it is a more appropriate figure to use than 
the more generic, retail transacted value, which is less fine-tuned.I acknowledge that Direct Line has commented that there are other cases in which we 
havent taken this approach. But my role is to decide whats fair and reasonable in all the 
circumstances of the complaint. We consider each complaint individually. There may be 
cases in which theres no significant difference between the retail transacted value and the 
market value shown in the CAP report. But Im not satisfied that its reasonable to refer to 
the retail transacted figure where, as in this case, a more precise figure is available, which 
takes into account the particular features of an individual vehicle. And since, in this case, 
that figure is significantly higher than the retail transacted figure shown, I consider it would 
be unfair to use the retail transacted value.
Putting things right
To put things right, Direct Line should pay Mr A £26,395 minus the excess payable by Mr A 
under the policy. It may subtract from this any payment its already made to Mr A for the loss 
of his car.
Direct Line should add 8% simple interest per year to the payment due, calculated from the 
date of loss to the date of settlement. If Direct Line considers that its required by HM 
Revenue & Customs to take off income tax from this interest, it should tell Mr A how much 
its taken off. It should also give Mr A a certificate showing this if he asks for one, so that he 
can reclaim the tax from HM Revenue & Customs if appropriate.
Direct Line should also reimburse Mr As travel costs of up to £50 per day, up to a maximum 
of £500 over 21 days, as it has offered to do.
My final decision
My decision is that I uphold this complaint. I require UK Insurance Limited (trading as Direct 
Line) to put things right by doing as Ive set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision before 17 September 2021.
 
Juliet Collins
Ombudsman