DRN-2968224
The complaint
Mr L complains that The National Farmers' Union Mutual Insurance Society Limited trading 
as NFU Mutual unfairly declined his claim under his home insurance policy. 
What happened
Mr L has held a held a non-advised Home Insurance policy with NFU Mutual since 2009. 
Hed automatically renewed his policy each year.
On 9 March 2020, Mr L contacted NFU Mutual through their local agent. He thought that the 
damp proof course the previous owner of his home had installed was failing. This was 
causing damage. The agent told Mr L this would fall under faulty workmanship and wouldnt 
be covered under his policy. Mr L was unhappy with this.
On 18 March 2020 the local agent instructed a loss adjuster to fully review the damage. 
On 19 March 2020 NFU Mutuals claim department called Mr L to discuss his claim. They 
noted that the claim related to the failure of the damp proof course. And said that they 
wanted to better understand the reason for this failure. And identify if it was due to any of the 
perils covered by his policy. 
Mr L tried to invoke the guarantee the damp proof course had come with. But this wasnt 
possible as the company whod installed it had gone into liquidation. So he asked NFU 
Mutual to process his claim.
On 28 April 2020 the loss adjuster carried out a desktop defect diagnosis. They issued their 
report the following day. This recommended that a leak detection firm should be employed to 
carry out further enquiries. An instruction for this task was given to a leak detection firm on 
29 April 2020.
The leak detection inspection took place on 24 July 2020. A report was issued the following 
day. This concluded that the water damage was likely to have occurred due to an external 
source of dirty water, potentially a breach of ground water. 
On 11 August 2020, after noting the leak detection report, NFU Mutual told Mr L that his 
claim had been repudiated due to poor workmanship. Mr L was unhappy with this decision 
and complained to NFU Mutual. 
NFU reviewed Mr Ls claim, but still felt their decision to decline was correct. So on 12 
October 2020 they issued their final response letter. This noted that when they receive a 
claim, they look to see whether the damage has been caused by a one-off insured event 
listed in the policy. If the damage cant be covered in that way they look to see if it can be 
covered under the accidental damage section of the policy. But that in this case there was 
no evidence of an insured peril. And the exclusions under accidental damage for gradually 
operating causes and faulty design, materials or workmanship all applied. 
NFU Mutual agreed that the policy wording didnt explicitly exclude damage caused by rising 
damp. But said that it would be unrealistic to list all types of exclusions individually. 
So Mr L brought his complaint to this service. Our investigator didnt uphold the complaint. 
She didnt think NFU Mutual had acted unfairly or unreasonably. She felt that theyd relied on 
expert opinion which suggested the damage was caused by the failing of the damp proof 
course due to faulty workmanship. So she was satisfied that NFU Mutual had declined the 
claim in line with their policy terms and conditions.
Mr L didnt agree with our investigator. So his complaint has come to me for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done that, Im not going to uphold it. Ill explain why.
When a customer makes a claim for damage in their home, its for them to show the insurer 
that one of the things theyre covered for has happened. These are often called events and 
are described in their policy.
I understand that Mr L feels that any exclusions to potential claims should be explicitly listed 
in the policy terms and conditions. But because the possible causes of damage are limitless, 
we dont expect insurers to list all the causes which arent covered. Only damage caused by 
the events listed in the policy can be covered. So if damage has been caused by an event 
that isnt listed in the policy, theres no cover for that damage.
Based on the expert reports that NFU commissioned, its very likely that the damage was 
caused by the damp proof course failing or being breached. From what Mr L has said, its 
also possible that no damp proof course exists. In any case, Ive seen no evidence that the 
damage was caused by an insured event listed under the policy.
Renewing damp proof courses is part of the ongoing maintenance of a house rather than an 
unexpected one-off event that insurance covers. 
I acknowledge that Mr L has said that he wasnt made aware that the policy excluded 
damage caused by a failing damp proof course. And had he known he wouldnt have 
purchased the policy. But the policy was sold on a non-advised basis. So NFU Mutual have 
a duty to provide clear information which isnt misleading. Its then up to the potential 
policyholder to decide whether the policy is suitable for them. From what Ive seen, the policy 
clearly explains which insured events are covered. And details the exclusions under the 
policy. Im satisfied that the policy documentation isnt misleading. So, Im not persuaded 
that the policy was mis-sold. And Im satisfied that NFU Mutuals decision to decline the 
claim for the failed damp proof course met the terms and conditions of the policy. 
I can also see that NFU Mutual have consistently informed Mr L that his claim was unlikely to 
be successful from the start. From what Ive seen, they took reasonable steps to assess his 
claim under the terms and conditions of his policy. But they could find no insured event. Nor 
could the claim be covered under accidental damage, which also excludes faulty 
workmanship. So Im satisfied that NFU Mutuals decision to decline the claim was fair. 
I can see that Mr L considers NFU Mutuals decision to decline this claim at odds with a 
previous successful claim he made. I dont have the full details of that claim. But I can 
confirm that Ive not seen evidence of an insured event for this claim. So I dont consider that 
NFU Mutual acted unfairly or unreasonably when they declined this claim.
I know my decision will be disappointing to Mr L. But Ive not found that NFU Mutual did anything wrong when they declined his claim.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr L to accept or 
reject my decision before 29 September 2021.
 
Jo Occleshaw
Ombudsman