DRN-2980587
The complaint
Mr L complains that Soteria Insurance Limited (Soteria) avoided his contents insurance 
policy and refused to pay his claim. He doesnt think Soteria took his individual 
circumstances into consideration. The policy is in Mr Ls name and his complaint was 
brought to this service by his healthcare professional. For ease, Ill refer only to Mr L 
throughout my decision.
What happened
Mr L took out contents insurance with Soteria in 2020 after getting a quote over the phone. 
The cover included personal belongings away from the home. His bag was taken after he 
accidentally left it behind, so Mr L claimed under his policy. 
On investigation, Soteria didnt think Mr L had answered its questions correctly when it 
asked him during the application process whether hed made any previous claims. Soteria 
said Mr L declared one claim but it found that hed also made four other claims during the 
last five years. Mr L said hed forgotten about the other claims because of a health condition 
affecting his memory. 
Soteria treated this as a deliberate or reckless misrepresentation, which entitled it to avoid 
his policy from the start; keep his premiums, and refuse to pay his claim.
Mr L complained to Soteria because he didnt think it had taken his circumstances into 
consideration. His healthcare professional wrote to Soteria confirming his health condition.
Our investigator agreed thered been a qualifying misrepresentation and that Soteria was 
entitled to avoid the policy and retain Mr Ls premium.
Mr L didnt agree. He said Soteria disregarded his vulnerability and failed to take into 
consideration his health problems when it decided to avoid his policy. 
The complaint was passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
While I realise Mr L will be disappointed, Ive decided not to uphold his complaint. Ill explain 
why. 
The relevant law in this case is The Consumer Insurance (Disclosure and Misrepresentation) 
Act 2012 (CIDRA). This requires consumers to take reasonable care not to make a 
misrepresentation when taking out a policy. 
If a consumer fails to do this, the insurer has certain remedies provided the 
misrepresentation is what CIDRA describes as a qualifying misrepresentation. For that to be 
the case, the insurer must show it wouldve offered the policy on different terms or not at all if 
the consumer hadnt made the misrepresentation.
CIDRA sets out a number of considerations for deciding whether the consumer failed to take 
reasonable care. And the remedy available to the insurer depends on whether the qualifying 
misrepresentation was deliberate or reckless, or careless.
Soteria said Mr L didnt take reasonable care to provide a full account of his claims history 
during the application process because he only declared one out of five claims made. 
Ive listened to the call recording of Mr Ls request for a quote to see what was asked of him. 
The agent asks whether hed had any claims in the last five years and Mr L said, yes. 
Although unsure of the exact date, he provided details of one claim. Mr L accepts that he 
only told Soteria about one claim, but he says hed forgotten about the others.
Ive also looked at the policy documents Soteria sent to Mr L after he bought the policy. The 
statement of fact, which is the record of Mr Ls answers to Soterias questions when he took 
out the policy, shows one claim in the past five years. The statement also says:
Please check that the information listed below is correct and you have answered all 
questions honestly, fully and to the best of your knowledge. If any of the information is 
incorrect your policy may be cancelled or treated as if it never existed, or your claim may 
be rejected or not fully paid.
Ive thought carefully about this. Soteria specifically asked about claims made in the last five 
years, and the policy documents confirmed it was the total of claims. Based on the evidence, 
Im satisfied that Soteria made Mr L aware that he needed to declare all claims made in the 
last five years, not just the most recent one. 
The issue is whether Mr L took reasonable care to make a fair presentation of facts. Mr L 
says his health condition means he forgets things, so he doesnt think he failed to take 
reasonable care. He said he just didnt remember the other claims. Mr Ls healthcare 
professional sent Soteria a letter to confirm his medical conditions in support of what he 
says. 
Im sorry to hear of Mr Ls condition. Ive thought about what that means in these 
circumstances. Going back to the call when Mr L took out the policy, he didnt make Soteria 
aware of any memory problems. So, I cant fairly say that Soteria shouldve done anything 
differently to accommodate his condition. Mr L had another opportunity to correct the 
information hed provided when he received the policy documents. Hes aware he forgets 
things, and I think its fair that Soteria expected him to take reasonable care to check his 
recorded claims history. Mr L didnt contact Soteria to say the total claims history was 
incomplete, which suggests he didnt take reasonable care. Im satisfied that Soteria fairly 
concluded that Mr L misrepresented the facts when he took out the policy.
Soteria said it wouldnt have offered cover if Mr L had declared all five claims. Ive looked at 
the underwriting criteria and the evidence shows that Soteria wouldve declined to offer 
cover. Im afraid I cant share the detail with Mr L because the information is commercially 
sensitive. However, I trust he will accept that Ive considered the information carefully. Its 
clear that Mr Ls claims history exceeded the risk level Soteria wouldve accepted and Im 
satisfied that Soteria wouldnt have offered cover if Mr L had declared all five claims. That 
means his misrepresentation was a qualifying one.
Soteria treated Mr Ls misrepresentation as deliberate or reckless because he didnt take 
reasonable care to make sure he presented full details of his claims history when it asked him. In its letter to Mr L, Soteria detailed the five claims hed made over the last three years. 
Two of the claims have the description handwritten next to them, and I see that the lost items 
are personal belongings, such as jewellery. While Mr L may not have remembered the 
claims, they shouldve been recorded on his previous insurance policy renewals. So, I think 
its fair to say that Mr L had a responsibility to check important information, especially as he 
had the opportunity to do so once he received the new policy documents asking him to 
check the details.   For these reasons, I think it was fair that Soteria treated the 
misrepresentation as deliberate or reckless.. 
Under CIDRA, the remedy available to Soteria for deliberate or reckless misrepresentation is 
to avoid the policy, refuse the claim and it may keep the premiums paid. Soteria has acted in 
line with CIDRA and I see no reason to make any requirement of it in respect of Mr Ls 
complaint about his policy avoidance.
Customer Service
Mr L says Soteria didnt return calls when it promised to and he thought its overall customer 
service was poor. Soteria agreed that it hadnt phoned him as often as it shouldve done, and 
paid Mr L £50 compensation by way of apology.
Ive looked at Soterias investigation into the customer service provided. I can see that it 
explained delays in correspondence happened because Mr L didnt include his claim 
reference, and postal delivery took a little longer because of the time of year. Im satisfied 
that Soterias explanation is reasonable and the delays were unavoidable. However, Soteria 
did accept that it shouldve contacted Mr L by phone more often than it did. Because of that 
shortfall in customer service, he had to chase contact which he says caused inconvenience 
and stress. In recognition of that, Soteria paid Mr L £50 by way of apology. 
Having considered the overall circumstances, I think the compensation payment is 
reasonable and in line with awards this service would make in similar circumstances. I see 
no reason to ask Soteria to make a further compensation payment.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, my final decision is that I dont uphold the complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr L to accept or 
reject my decision before 7 January 2022.
 
Debra Vaughan
Ombudsman