DRN-2190990
The complaint
Mr A is unhappy with Barclays Bank UK PLC in respect of his landlords insurance. Barclays 
is an intermediary for the cover which is provided by an underwriting insurer.
What happened
Mr A asked Barclays to arrange insurance for his let property along with his mortgage. At 
that time the policy arranged by Barclays was provided by a particular underwriter (UW1).
Prior to the policy renewing in 2013 Barclays wrote to Mr A. It said it had changed which 
insurer it worked with, so Mr As policy had been migrated to a policy provided by UW2. 
Barclays advised the cover was similar but not the same, a comparison of key features was 
provided. An option to discuss the cover and/or cancel was provided.
The cover renewed without Mr A questioning it. It renewed in subsequent years with a 
direction on the paperwork stating the cover could be cancelled if it was not suitable. As of 
2017 the paperwork began to state that a better price might be available if Mr A shopped 
around. It also showed a comparison against the price of cover the year before.
 
Prior to renewal in 2019 Mr A was sent documents as normal. He noted the price for the 
coming year had increased again (as it had incrementally at each previous renewal). It was 
now nearly £600. Mr A had seen recent publicity about existing customers paying more for 
cover. He checked on-line and found cover via Barclays with UW1 at just over £100. 
Mr As policy was due to renew on 23 November 2019. On 19 November he complained to 
Barclays. He felt it should arrange his renewal based on the cover hed found on-line and 
that it had failed him by not being clear that he could get cover via it with UW1, especially as 
that was for a lower premium. He also felt Barclays website was unclear and misleading as 
it didnt obviously refer to cover being possible via UW1.
 
Barclays began to investigate the complaint, initially contacting UW1 and then UW2. Mr A 
was unhappy about this  he wanted Barclays to answer the issues as he felt it was Barclays 
that had let him down. He also felt that Barclays sharing pricing information between the 
underwriting insurers potentially prejudiced his position as UW1 might change its pricing. He 
felt Barclays must have chosen to keep his cover with UW2 because it would allow it to earn 
more commission. As time passed without Barclays having answered the complaint Mr A 
became frustrated as he also noted that his cover at renewal had remained with UW2. 
On 24 December 2019 Barclays issued its final response on Mr As complaint. In short it said 
it had no control over pricing, it had been a commercial decision to change underwriters in 
2013, and clear policy paperwork had been provided then and in the years since. It accepted 
that its website could be clearer and confirmed it is looking to change it. It felt it could have 
dealt with the complaint quicker, although it had provided its final response within the 
eight-week timeframe set by the regulator. It offered £50 compensation. 
When Mr A made a complaint to our service, our investigator didnt uphold it. He didnt think 
Barclays had failed Mr A. Mr A was unhappy and his complaint was passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Whilst I see that Mr A holds Barclays responsible for providing him a certain level of service, 
it's fair to say that type of service is something usually provided by a broker, whereas 
Barclays acts as an intermediary only. So it doesnt arrange cover for Mr A at each renewal 
by searching the whole market, or even part of the market, in order to find the best cover to 
suit Mr As needs. It doesnt hold out to providing him the cheapest cover available and 
doesnt recommend the policy to Mr A. It is always up to Mr A to check the policy suits his 
needs  and that includes price. 
I understand that Mr A says that, in many ways, the actual cost of cover isnt part of his 
complaint. But as our investigator explained, if it were, that would have to be something 
addressed by the underwriting insurers. Barclays doesnt control the price of cover  so it 
couldnt require UW2 to provide cover at the same price as UW1. And nor, without clear and 
direct instruction coming from Mr A, could the cover with UW2 be cancelled with a new 
policy being arranged to commence with UW1. Cover with UW1 could not be put in place as 
a renewal of the cover that existed with UW2. 
Mr As complaint to Barclays was, given its timing and content in respect of the renewal, an 
urgent one. But Mr A should be aware that there are timescales set out by the regulator 
which dictate the timeframe in which an insurer must deal with complaints. The regulator 
also requires insurers to investigate complaints  so given the underlying cause for the 
complaint was the price of cover, it doesnt surprise me that Barclays involved the respective 
underwriters.
Underwriting insurers are generally aware of the price of cover offered by competitors. They 
are also aware that new cover is generally offered at a lower price than that charged by 
insurers in later years. The prices set, and the risks behind those costs which drive the 
ultimate premium are set out in complex business data which applies to all customers. So 
whilst Barclays says it did not share the price of cover with UW2 with UW1, even if it had, Im 
not persuaded this would likely have caused UW1 to change the price of cover offered to 
Mr A.
I understand Mr A thinks Barclays website is unclear. But I note Barclays has accepted that 
it needs work and has said this is under review. In any event, Im not persuade that any lack 
of clarity that exists means Barclays is likely acting to conceal or obfuscate its trading 
partners. Im also not persuaded that if Mr A had seen details on Barclays website showing 
that, in some instances depending upon the details of cover required, it does offer cover via 
UW1, this would have prompted him to do anything different. Mr A had policy paperwork that 
always directed him to check the policy suited him and, from 2017, gave clear information 
that prices were increasing as well as a direction that shopping around might result in 
cheaper cover being found. Yet at no time until 2019 did Mr A indicate he was unhappy with 
the cover in place.  
Im not persuaded Barclays failed Mr A.
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint. I dont make any award against Barclays Bank UK PLC.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision before 11 February 2021. Fiona Robinson
Ombudsman