DRN-3470501
The complaint
Ms J is unhappy with the service provided by National Westminster Bank Plc after she was 
the victim of a scam.
What happened
On 14 January 2022, Ms J was called by someone pretending to be her bank. She was 
persuaded to make three payments to fraudsters under the belief she was acting to protect 
her account. The last payment was stopped by NatWests fraud detection systems.
Ms J says she attempted to contact NatWest on multiple occasions following the scam but 
had great difficulty being able to speak to anyone. 
After she was able to report what happened, NatWest said it wouldnt refund her money as 
she hadnt taken any steps to verify the caller, but it would try and recover the funds from the 
firm that received them. 
£3,014.98 (about two thirds of the money Ms J lost) was recovered and returned to NatWest 
three days later. However, it wasnt returned to Ms J. Instead it remained in one of the 
banks general accounts. 
In the first few days of February 2022, Ms J, anxious for the return of her funds, complained 
to the bank. On 8 February 2022, NatWest spoke to Ms J and apologised for not having 
returned her funds sooner. It also said it would repay the rest of the lost money  £1,484.91 
as a gesture of goodwill, as well as £100 in compensation to reflect the distress and 
inconvenience caused. NatWest wrote to Ms J with its response to her complaint on the 
same day. 
Ms J, although delighted by the return of her money, remained unhappy with the service 
shed been provided. She wanted to ensure that mistakes of this nature didnt happen again. 
She was also concerned that shed only received a refund because shed complained, and 
she worried about what might happen to other customers in her situation who might not do 
the same. She said that the banks error in returning the funds had delayed the purchase of 
her recently deceased husbands property and caused her to worry she wouldnt be able to 
purchase it at all. 
Ms J referred the matter to our service, and, in its submissions, NatWest offered a further 
£100 in compensation.
One of our investigators looked into the complaint and thought that the banks remedial 
actions, including the further offer of compensation, fairly reflected the impact of its errors.
 
Ms J didnt agree, so the case was passed to me for a final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Its clear that Ms J has been through a very distressing experience and Im sorry to hear 
about the impact this matter has had on her.
Ive thought carefully about whether NatWest has done enough to put things right and, while 
I know this will be disappointing for Ms J, I think it has. Ill explain why.
Ive seen nothing to suggest (and I think its very unlikely) that the banks failure to return Ms 
Js money to her in a timely manner was deliberate or an attempt to avoid reimbursing her. 
Instead the failure to return her money appears to have simply been a mistake. Its important 
to say that any organisation will make mistakes. And, as much as wed like to see all errors 
eliminated, this isnt a realistic prospect  occasional human error is unavoidable. 
Neither can I award compensation for what might have happened had Ms J not complained 
to the bank. I can only consider the impact of what did happen. 
This was undoubtedly a very stressful time at a difficult point in Ms Js life. And, while the 
fraudsters are the chief cause of the distress shes suffered, I agree that much of that could 
have been avoided had the bank returned the majority of her money more quickly. 
However, given the relatively short period Ms J was without the money, I think the £200 
NatWest has offered fairly reflects the distress caused  both for being without the money 
and the difficulties she had contacting the bank after the scam.
Ive also taken into account the fact that NatWest reimbursed the remainder of her loss and 
responded promptly to her complaint. It could have maintained its earlier position that it 
wasnt responsible for reimbursing her and, had that happened, Ms J would have likely had 
to pursue the matter through our service and would have been without the remainder of the 
money for many months (and may not have had it returned at all). Thats not to say the 
additional reimbursement can properly be considered compensation  its something Ms J 
may have been able to recover through the complaints process or our service. But, it is 
further evidence that NatWest took steps to try and put things right. 
Overall then, while NatWest should have returned Ms Js money earlier, it responded to her 
concerns promptly and by offering compensation, as well as providing a refund of the rest of 
her losses, I think it has acted fairly in the circumstances. 
My final decision
National Westminster Bank Plc has already made an offer to pay a further £100 in 
compensation to settle this complaint and I think this offer is fair in all of the circumstances.
So my decision is that National Westminster Bank Plc should pay Ms J £100.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms J to accept or 
reject my decision before 24 June 2022.
 
Rich Drury
Ombudsman