DRN-4205932
The complaint
Ms D complains that Barclays Bank UK PLC was irresponsible in its lending to her.
What happened
Ms D was provided with a loan for £17,200 in April 2017 on which she was required to make 
60 monthly repayments of around £447. Ms D says she was in financial difficulty at the time 
and took the loan to try to pay off some other debts. Then, in August 2017, Barclays offered 
Ms D the option to refinance her loan. This increased her borrowing to £21,400 and she was 
required to make 60 monthly repayments of around £575. Ms D says that the loans were 
unaffordable, and Barclays could have seen this as it had access to her income, expenditure 
and had awareness of her other financial commitments, including her overdraft and credit 
card. She says her credit score was poor and her credit report showed she was using 
payday loans and had been approved for several overdraft agreements.
Barclays issued a final response letter in September 2020. It said that the loans provided in 
2017 were completed online and that Ms D had pre-approved limits. It said its systems 
automatically generate limits for a range of products, including loans, based on a range of 
factors, such as a customers account history, income and financial commitments, existing 
borrowing with Barclays and credit rating. It said the documents provided to Ms D explained 
that she needed to be happy with the loan before signing the agreement and that she had 14 
days to cancel the loan had she not been happy.
Barclays provided a further final response letter in February 2023. It said that it had carried 
out an income and expenditure assessment on Ms Ds loan (August 2017) at the point of 
sale and this showed she had an average monthly disposable income of around £1,222. As 
the loan repayments were around £575 it said these were affordable.
Ms D didnt agree that adequate checks had been carried out before the lending was 
provided and referred her complaint to this service.
Our investigator upheld Ms Ds complaint. Although she thought Barclays had carried out 
proportionate checks before providing the loan, she thought these checks showed the loans 
to be unaffordable.
Barclays didnt agree with our investigators view. It said that it had reassessed Ms Ds 
income and expenditure based on our investigators comments about the inclusion of costs 
such as food, fuel and missed rental payments. It said based on this it only found two 
months prior to the first loan when the repayments might have been an issue and no issues 
in regard to the second loan. It said non-essential spending wouldnt usually be taken into 
account and that it thought this was what caused the issues for Ms D rather than her regular 
outgoings. It said Ms Ds borrowings from family and friends appeared to be due to her 
lifestyle rather than her regular outgoings.
My provisional conclusions
I issued a provisional decision on this complaint. My findings were as follows.
Ms D was provided with a loan for £17,200 in April 2017 (loan 1) and this was then 
refinanced in August 2017 and the loan amount increased to £21,400 (loan 2). I have 
considered each of these lending decisions separately.
Loan 1
Before loan 1 was provided, Ms D appeared reliant on her overdraft. I do not find that this 
would necessarily mean that other lending shouldnt be provided especially when the loan 
was intended for debt consolidation, as it was in this case. Its important that I take this into 
consideration, because ultimately the main purpose of this loan was repaying other existing 
borrowing. So, the amount that was intended to refinance existing borrowing wouldnt 
substantially have affected Ms Ds position here. The new money the loan provided was 
just over £2,800. However, I think that noting the circumstances a thorough assessment of 
Ms Ds financial situation was required.
Barclays has said loan 1 was used to repay a £9,580 debt with a credit union, £3,089 
payment off her Barclaycard and to repay her overdraft which was approximately £1,694 at 
the time the loan was agreed. The balance was retained in her current account. I have 
factored this into my assessment of the affordability of the loan.
Ms Ds bank account statements for the three months leading up to the loan showed her 
income which included maintenance and child benefit to average around £2,120 a month. 
Ms D was making regular monthly payments for rent (£449) as well as media services, 
power, insurance and other credit commitments. Based on my calculations these averaged 
around £1,400 a month. This left Ms D with monthly disposable income (before the loan) of 
around £720 and after deducting the loan repayments it would leave disposable income of 
around £273. Out of this amount, Ms D would need to pay for her living costs including items 
such as food, transport and other living costs.
However, in this case the loan was being used for debt consolidation. Barclays has said the 
loan repaid Ms D's debt to a credit union, her overdraft and her credit card (and this is 
supported by her bank statements). Ms D was previously paying £280 a month to the credit 
union, and she was incurring fees averaging around £50 on her overdraft. Taking this into 
account Ms Ds monthly disposable income (after the loan repayments) would increase to 
around £600. Based on this I do not find that I have enough to say that Barclays acted 
irresponsibly by providing the loan.
Loan 2
Loan 1 was repaid by loan 2 in August 2017, and the balance of the second loan was 
credited to Ms Ds account. Ms D had maintained her repayments on loan 1 without issue, 
but the loan repayments on loan 2 were higher, at around £575 a month. Given this I think it 
would have been reasonable to carry out a thorough check, based on the information 
available to Barclays to ensure the lending was affordable.
I have looked at the information contained in Ms Ds bank statements for the three months 
leading up to loan 2. These show her monthly income to be around £2,136. Her expenses 
reflected the debt repayments Ms D had made following loan 1 and her regular outgoings for 
costs such as rent, media packages, power, other credit commitments (including loan 1) and 
insurance were around £1,350. Replacing the repayments due under loan 1 with the 
repayments due under loan 2 would increase Ms Ds expenses to around £1,488. This would 
leave Ms D with over £600 to cover her other living costs such as food, fuel and general 
expenses. Based on this I do not find I have enough to say that Barclays should have 
considered this loan unaffordable.Ms D didnt agree with my provisional decision. She didnt think the consideration given to 
her bank statements was a fair assessment. She said at that time she knew she couldnt 
afford the loan and was in consultation with a debt charity. She said the fair assessment of 
her income and expense was undertaken in November 2017 by the debt charity and this 
supported her position in regard to her expenses and showed the loans werent affordable. 
She noted that the first loan was for debt consolidation which removed some of her debts but 
didnt resolve her situation. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Before lending, Barclays was required to carry out adequate checks to ensure the lending 
was affordable. It has said that its systems assess information from a customers accounts 
and credit rating. I havent seen any details of the credit checks carried out before the 
lending was provided but I have seen copies of Ms Ds account statements. As this 
information was available for analysis, I find it reasonable to rely on the transactions 
recorded to give an indication of Ms Ds income and expenses at the time.
I note the comments Ms D has made in response to my provisional decision about the 
reliance on the bank statements and the information provided in consultation with the debt 
charity. I have compared the information from the bank statements with that included in the 
debt charity income and assessment form. My assessment included Ms Ds regular costs for 
items such as rent, utilities, insurances, communications and media services. These were 
generally supported by the amounts included in Ms Ds debt charity form. 
In the income and assessment form undertaken by the debt charity amounts are included for 
items such as food, fuel, entertainment, meals, tobacco, laundry and so on. In my 
assessment I considered that the disposable income left after Ms D had paid her regular 
expenses and credit commitments would be sufficient to cover her general living costs. 
While I appreciate that the amounts included in the debt charity assessment form are higher, 
this was undertaken after the loans were provided. Had an assessment of Ms Ds bank 
statements been undertaken or questions asked at the time of the loans, I think it reasonable 
that the amounts that would have been identified for Ms Ds essential spending wouldnt 
have suggested the loans to be unaffordable. So, while the lending didnt leave Ms D with 
much disposable income after her essential everyday costs and her regular expenses, on 
balance, and particularly noting the first loan was provided for debt consolidation reasons, I 
do not find that I can say Barclays Bank was wrong to provide the loans to Ms D.  
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms D to accept or 
reject my decision before 27 July 2023.
 
Jane Archer
Ombudsman