DRN-2476844
Complaint
Mr B has complained about the difficulties he experienced when making payment to his 
Barclays Bank UK PLC (trading as Barclaycard) credit card. He says he phoned 
Barclaycard a number of times and a system error meant that it wasnt able to process his 
payment when he was able to eventually get through.
Background
As I understand it, Mr B normally made his card payment in branch but wasnt able to during 
the initial stages of the pandemic. And as he wasnt a user of online banking wasnt able to 
make payment using alternative methods. Barclaycard then wrote to him to say that his card 
would be suspended and missed payments would be recorded on his credit file. Mr B 
believed this to be unfair as he said he was able to make payment and his inability to speak 
to someone from Barclaycard. He subsequently complained to Barclaycard.
Barclaycard didnt think done anything wrong. It acknowledged that telephone waiting times 
had been longer because of the unprecedented situation and it paid Mr B £50 compensation 
for this. But it didnt think that it was responsible for Mr Bs missed payments also so it 
refused to amend his credit file. Mr B remained dissatisfied and referred his complaint to us.
Mr Bs complaint was then considered by one of our investigators. And she didnt think that 
Barclays had done anything wrong or treated Mr B unfairly. So she didnt recommend that 
the complaint be upheld. Mr B disagreed with our investigator and asked for an ombudsman 
to review his case. 
My findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having carefully considered everything, I dont think that Barclaycard did treat Mr B unfairly 
and so Im not upholding his complaint. Ill explain why I think this is the case.
Barclaycard sent Mr Bs his February 2020 statement on 26 February 2020. This statement 
set out that a minimum payment of £5 was due by 24 March 2020. It isnt in dispute that this 
payment wasnt made in time. I appreciate that under Mr B would have found it very difficult 
to have made payment in branch as he would usually, for at least some of the time and that 
he didnt have access to online banking to make a payment.
But having reviewed the records, Ive not seen any seen anything to support Mr B having 
attempted to contact Barclaycard prior to 24 March 2020. Notwithstanding this, Barclaycard 
did write to Mr B on 30 March 2020 telling him that if his account was brought up to date 
within 14 days, in other words by 13 April, no adverse data would be recorded on his credit 
file. So, even though Mr Bs payment was already late, I think it would have been unfair for 
Barclaycard to record adverse information on Mr Bs credit file if hed made the missed 
payment by 13 April 2020.
Mr B, presumably prompted by having received the 30 March 2020 letter, did make attempts 
to call Barclaycard on 6 April 2020 and 7 April 2020. The records suggest a two and half 
minute conversation took place during the first call although theres no record, or recording, 
of what was discussed and theres no record of any payment having been attempted at this 
stage. Its possible Mr B was told about a system error at this point. But this doesnt explain 
why Mr B terminated the call during the automated process without waiting to be put through 
to an agent for the three calls on 7 April 2020. And while Ive thought about what Mr B has 
said, despite being told by our investigator that wed consider further evidence, hes not 
provided anything that clearly demonstrates hed been waiting for an excessive period.
 
I appreciate that Barclaycards lines would have been busier than usual bearing in mind the 
situation in general at the time and Mr B would have been faced with a longer wait time. But 
as Mr Bs payment was already late and hed been provided with a final opportunity to avoid 
adverse information being recorded on his credit file, I dont think the longer waiting times 
justify him not having made payment until May 2020. This is especially as Mr B appears to 
have chosen to pay by cheque at this stage  after he also missed the minimum payment 
due on his March 2020 statement - issued on 25 March 2020 - and Ive not seen anything to 
indicate that he couldnt have made a payment by cheque earlier.
I understand why it wouldve been frustrating for Mr B not to be able to make payments in his 
usual way and I also accept its possible that he wouldnt have missed the payments had he 
been able to. But taking everything into account and the unprecedented nature of the global 
situation, Im satisfied Mr B was provided with reasonable alternative methods of making the 
minimum payments due in March and April 2020. As these payments werent made on time, 
I dont think Barclaycard acted unfairly by recording late payment markers on his credit file. 
Ive also thought about what Mr B said about the tone of the letters he received. But given 
two consecutive payments were missed  and the regulators guidance suggest that should 
be aware that this could be a sign of potential financial difficulties - I dont think it was 
unreasonable for Barclays to tell Mr B that he wouldnt be able to use his card until the 
arrears were cleared. 
Barclaycard refunded the extra interest it charged and paid £50 as a gesture of goodwill. As I 
dont think Barclaycard did anything wrong or treated Mr B unfairly, I dont think it needs to 
pay him anything more.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained Im not upholding Mr Bs complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
9reject my decision before 19 February 2021.
 
Jeshen Narayanan
Ombudsman