DRN-4301370
The complaint
Mr R complains about eBay Commerce UK Ltd (eBay) holding his funds after it limited his 
account and couldnt verify his identity. 
What happened
Mr Rs account was limited after eBay said it checked his details and there was a 
discrepancy with the personal details it held. eBay said that the identification document used 
to open the account didnt match the bank account details being used. So, it limited Mr Rs 
account and held funds from some recent sales. 
After eBay held Mr Rs funds for the limitation period, it decided that as Mr R hadnt satisfied 
its identification process, it would keep hold of the funds. So, Mr R logged a complaint. 
eBay looked into the complaint but didnt uphold it, so Mr R brought his complaint to our 
service. 
Our investigator looked into the complaint and thought it should be upheld. Our investigator 
found Mr R had given a plausible reason why he had used different personal details when he 
opened the account. Our investigator also found Mr R had done enough to evidence he held 
the bank account linked to the eBay account where the money would be paid. 
eBay didnt agree with the investigators view. So, the complaints been passed to me for a 
final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so I intend to uphold this complaint for the same reasons as the investigator. Ill 
explain why. 
Firstly, eBay have decided to close Mr Rs account. Mr R doesnt appear to be complaining 
about his, so its not something Ive looked into as part of this complaint. Mr R is unhappy 
eBay have held on to his funds after it closed his account, and that is something Ive looked 
into as part of my investigation and decision Ive reached. 
Its worth noting that the problems here appear to have started when Mr R set up an account 
in someone elses name. Although Mr R may have had his own reasons for doing this, it is 
against eBays policy and terms of use, so I can understand why eBay may have made the 
decision to close the account. I also understand why they now have concerns about now 
paying any further funds to Mr R. But as part of my investigation, Ive thought about whether 
Mr R has done enough to evidence he set up, owns and was managing the eBay account in 
question and whether the bank account thats linked is in fact his. 
Mr R has been able to supply bank statements, a bank card and screenshots of the account 
linked to the eBay profile. He has also sent information to show that he has access to the 
email account linked to the eBay account. So, on balance I think Mr R did set up the eBay 
account in question but used different personal details to his own. The primary delivery 
address used for purchases also matches that of Mr Rs.
In summary and in the circumstances of this complaint, Im satisfied that eBay should 
exercise some discretion and pay the remaining funds to the account linked to the previous 
profile. As Im satisfied Mr R has done enough to evidence it was most likely his account. 
Putting things right
eBay should pay the balance to the bank account linked to the eBay profile. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint and instruct eBay Commerce UK Ltd to pay 
Mr R in line with the above direction.  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision before 23 December 2023.
 
Tom Wagstaff
Ombudsman