DRN-4439140
The complaint
Mr W is unhappy that Unum Limited stopped paying the monthly benefit following a 
successful claim on a group income protection insurance policy.
What happened
Mr W has the benefit of an income protection insurance (the policy) through his employer, 
the policyholder. Subject to the remaining terms, the policy can pay out a monthly benefit if 
Mr W was unable to work due to illness after the deferred period.
A successful claim was made on the policy in respect of Mr Ws absence from work because 
of illness in 2019, and Unum paid the monthly benefit until the end of November 2022 (after 
giving the notice that the benefit would stop). Thats because Unum concluded that Mr W no 
longer met the policy definition of incapacity. Mr W appealed that decision. 
Unum issued its final response letter maintaining its decision to stop paying the monthly 
benefit. Unhappy, Mr W complained to the Financial Ombudsman Service. Our investigator 
looked into what happened and didnt uphold his complaint. Mr W didnt agree. So, his 
complaint has been passed to me to consider everything afresh to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The insurance industry regulator, the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA), sets out rules and 
guidance for insurers in the Insurance: Conduct of Business Sourcebook (ICOBS). ICOBS 
says insurers should act honestly, fairly and professionally in accordance with the best 
interests of its customers. It also says insurers should handle claims promptly and fairly - 
and shouldnt unreasonably reject a claim.
When making a claim, its for Mr W to establish that he met the definition of incapacity. Mr W 
was able to do that, and the monthly benefit was paid. As Unum terminated the claim - its 
for it to show that Mr W no longer met the definition of incapacity, based on medical 
evidence. Its not for him to show that he continued to do so.
The relevant terms and conditions of the policy
Ive included below some of the terms of the policy I think are relevant to this complaint.
A member is incapacitated if Unum is satisfied that they are:
unable to perform the material and substantial duties of the insured occupation 
because of illness or injury, and are
not performing any occupation.
Insured occupation means: the trade, profession or general role that the member was 
actively undertaking for you immediately prior to incapacity.
Material and substantial duties mean: the duties that are normally required for the 
performance of the members insured occupation and which cannot be reasonably omitted 
or modified. It is those duties required for the performance of the occupation at their, or other 
employer.
The policy says the insured occupation doesnt include the journey between the members 
normal residence and the members normal place of work.
Did Unum act fairly and reasonably when terminating Mr Ws claim?
Im not a medical expert. So, Ive relied on all the evidence available to me when considering 
whether Unum reasonably terminated Mr Ws claim, when it did. Having done so, for the 
reasons set out below, I think it has. 
As of September 2022, when the decision was taken by Unum to stop paying the 
monthly benefit under the policy, I dont think it has unreasonably concluded that Mr 
W no longer met the policy definition of incapacity. 
A clinical nurse provided a report dated August 2022 (the August report), 
summarising the review which took place in clinic towards the end of July 2022. The 
August report reflects that Mr W usually changed his stoma bag once a day, he 
wakes between 1-2 hourly overnight to check pouch and empties as needed. No 
leakage from the pouch was reported and intermittent blockage has resolved 
spontaneously without medical attention. There was some minor skin inflammation. 
Its also reflected that Mr W was in a better place and felt in a good routine with his 
stoma management. So, Im satisfied that Unum has fairly relied on the August report 
to conclude that Mr W didnt have any significant issues managing his stoma at this 
time. 
In terms of returning to the workplace, the August report concludes it would depend 
on Mr W managing his anxiety and depression and feeling confident that he can 
manage his stoma in an environment with good cloakroom facilities, access to 
refreshments. Theres also mention of Mr W explaining that he was currently being 
treated by his GP for anxiety and depression. And that Mr W continued to express his 
anxiety issues with travel and crowds of people.
So, relying on the August report, Im satisfied that Unum has fairly concluded that the 
main barrier to Mr W returning to work was Mr Ws concern about commuting and 
toilet facilities (somewhere to manage his stoma). When considering incapacity, the 
policy terms are clear that the insured occupation doesnt include the journey 
between the members normal residence and the members normal place of work. 
And Mr Ws employer have a duty to make reasonable adjustments under the 
Equality Act 2010 to ensure that he isnt placed at a substantial disadvantage. As an 
employer, it also has a duty of care towards Mr W as its employee. So, I dont think 
Unum has unfairly concluded that worries about having somewhere to manage his 
stoma  although completely understandable  means that Mr W continued to meet 
the definition of incapacity. 
From the medical history and considering the reasons why Unum first accepted the 
claim, Im satisfied that Unum has fairly concluded that Mr W was in a different place 
than he was in 2019, in terms of managing his stoma, skin irritations and the time 
awake each night because of his stoma. 
I accept that during 2021 and 2022, Mr Ws GP notes reflect that he was signed off 
work with mixed anxiety and depression disorder. But that doesnt automatically 
mean the policy definition of incapacity continued to be met. Thats because theres a specific policy term which needs to be continually met for the benefit to be paid. 
In April 2022, its reflected in the GP notes that Mr Ws mood was stable, he 
declined (anti-depressant) medication and talking therapy. The GP notes Mr W was 
happy with things at the moment. And although he has occasional dips in moods, 
he rests and goes for walk. Other than Mr Ws self-reported symptoms, from a 
medical perspective, I havent seen anything from the date of the GP records in April 
2022 to the date on which Unum stopped paying the benefit under the policy which 
persuades me that Mr Ws anxiety and depression meant that he was unable to 
perform the material and substantial duties of the insured occupation.
After the decision was taken to stop paying the benefit, the clinical nurse provided a 
follow up report dated October 2022 (the October report). The October report 
reflects that the nurse wanted to clarify that Mr Ws stoma issues are a constant 
source of concern to Mr Ws physical and mental wellbeing. And Mr W needs to get 
up every night to empty his stoma pouch which disturbs his sleep pattern causing a 
chronic tiredness.  And that Mr W experiences intermittent intestinal obstruction 
causing the stoma to stop working. This causes severe abdominal pain, usually 
followed by vomiting resulting in A&E attention. Mr W has been able to manage these 
episodes himself, by not eating and resting the gut. These episodes can take time to 
resolve completely and can leave Mr W feeling incapacitated for some days. Theres 
also mention of intermittent peristomal skin complications and flare-ups can cause 
extreme soreness and greater fear of leakage which affects his confidence going 
out or mixing with people. 
However, based on what Ive seen, I dont think there had been any recent flare ups 
in the manner described by the time the benefit was cancelled and although Mr W 
reported poor sleep due to checking his stoma, there appears to be no significant 
impact to daily activities, and could be managed as part of a phased return to work. 
Further, the October 2022 report seems to contradict the August 2022 report (written 
only a couple of months earlier) which reflected that Mr W was in a better place and 
felt in a good routine with his stoma management.
I also note the occupational health report dated March 2023. The occupational 
medicine specialist says on examination of Mr Ws stoma, nothing untoward was 
identified and there was no evidence of clinical depression. Also, that Mr W 
reported three to four stoma blockages per year that last up to a week. And although 
he has been advised by the stoma nurse that he must go to casualty if this arises; 
this has not been found necessary. So, whilst I can completely understand Mr Ws 
concern about the blockages described, I dont think they, by themselves, mean that 
he continued to meet the definition of incapacity. 
The occupational medicine specialist concluded that Mr W did meet the policy 
definition of incapacity due to untreated anxiety disorder/adjustment reaction. 
However, Im satisfied that this was based on Mr Ws self-reported symptoms and not 
based on any objective clinical tests. Further, the report is dated over six months 
after Unums decision to give notice to stop paying the benefit. So, whilst Ive taken it 
into account, Ive placed less weight on its contents compared with the medical 
evidence leading up to, and around, September 2022  when the decision was taken 
to stop paying the benefit.
I know Mr W will be very disappointed with my decision and I have a lot of empathy for his 
circumstances and what hes been through. I hope it helps him to know that his concerns 
have been considered by someone independent of the parties. My final decision
I dont uphold Mr Ws complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision before 2 January 2024.
 
David Curtis-Johnson
Ombudsman