DRN-2677160
The complaint
Mr S complains that Hastings Insurance Services Limited charged him too much for making 
a change to the details on his motor insurance policy.
What happened
In February 2020 Mr S changed the address held for him by Hastings using its online self-
service portal. He didnt think it was fair that Hastings charged him a £20 administration fee. 
Mr S said the charge didnt reflect the true cost to Hastings of making the change. Hastings 
said its fees were all clearly shown before a consumer bought a policy through it and at 
renewal. It said despite Mr S having submitted the transaction himself through the portal, its 
administration team still had to process the new details. 
As Mr S didnt accept Hastings explanation, one of our investigators reviewed his complaint. 
She noted that he accepted the charges were made clear by Hastings from the outset, but 
he didnt think they were fair, especially when compared to bank charges. She said we could 
only look at the particular insurance terms and conditions that applied to Mr S. She also said 
the fact that other brokers or insurers might waive their charges wasnt relevant to his case. 
In the investigators view, the charge Hastings had made was fair. 
Mr S remained unhappy and asked for a review of his complaint by an ombudsman. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In cases like this we check first of all that a broker or insurer has made its charges clear to a 
consumer before the consumer bought the policy. Theres no dispute about whether 
Hastings did that, so we then consider whether the charge made was reasonable. 
I think Hastings has explained why an administration charge is made when a consumer 
notifies a change of address to it. The new details have to be processed, systems and 
databases must be updated, and documents are re-issued. In this case, an increase in 
premium was generated by the change. All of that involves work for Hastings. 
Its routine for brokers and insurers to make charges for administering mid-term policy 
amendments. We dont think thats unreasonable, as changes generate work for the broker 
or insurer - unless the charge made is excessive. In my opinion, Hastings charge isnt 
excessive. I think its in line with the level of fees charged by other brokers and insurers in 
similar circumstances. And I agree with the investigator that its irrelevant to this complaint 
that other businesses may sometimes choose to waive their charges. 
As I dont think Hastings acted unreasonably, Im not upholding Mr Ss complaint.  
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 24 June 2021. 
Susan Ewins
Ombudsman