DRN-4471347
The complaint
Miss R complains Retail Money Market Ltd trading as RateSetter lent to her irresponsibly.
What happened
In July 2017, Miss R took out a loan with RateSetter. It was for £15,000 and due to be repaid 
over 60 months. A fee of £2,070 was added to the capital, and her monthly repayments were 
around £360 per month.
Miss R has complained this loan was unaffordable for her circumstances. But after reviewing 
her complaint RateSetter didnt agree. They felt they carried out sufficient checks before 
approving the loan, and these checks suggested the loan was affordable. As Miss R 
disagreed with this outcome, she brought her complaint to our service.
Our Investigator didnt think Miss Rs complaint should be upheld. While our Investigator 
didnt think RateSetter carried out reasonable and proportionate checks, the additional 
information provided by Miss R suggested she had enough of a disposable income to afford 
the loan.
Miss R disagreed with our Investigator, so her case was passed to me for a decision.
I issued my provisional decision on 20 November 2023. In this, I explained I was minded to 
uphold Miss Rs complaint because had RateSetter carried out sufficient checks they ought 
to have realised the loan wasnt sustainable for her circumstances.
Both parties had until 4 December 2023 to provide any additional comments and/or 
information for me to consider. Both parties responded confirming that they accepted my 
provisional decision, so the outcome has remained the same.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having considered everything, Im upholding Miss Rs complaint. Ill explain my reasoning 
below.
RateSetter needed to make sure they didnt lend to Miss R irresponsibly. This means they 
needed to carry out proportionate checks so that they could understand whether Miss R 
could afford to repay the loan. Our approach to complaints about unaffordable and 
irresponsible lending is on our website, and Ive used this approach to help me decide a fair 
and reasonable outcome for Miss Rs complaint.
Did RateSetter carry out reasonable and proportionate checks?
Before arranging Miss Rs loan, RateSetter considered the information provided in her 
application, alongside information reported on Miss Rs credit file. And having reviewed 
Miss Rs application, they wanted check they had the correct information about her salary, 
so they spoke with her over the phone. In this call, they asked Miss R to confirm her income 
and the reason for the loan.
Having reviewed the information (including a recording of the phone call), RateSetter 
understood that Miss R had an annual income of around £56,000 made up of her salary and 
income from rental properties she owned. Miss R also explained that she was consolidating 
her debts, so that shed only need to pay for the loan and her car payment. Miss R went on 
to mention shed recently taken out a loan for £15,000 to clear some other loans she had; 
and pay large portions of her credit card and catalogue account balances.
Having reviewed the information made available to RateSetter following their call with 
Miss R, Im not persuaded the checks they carried out were reasonable and proportionate 
for them to satisfy themselves additional borrowing was affordable or sustainable for 
Miss Rs circumstances. I say this because the Miss Rs own testimony and credit file 
showed she had:
Three loans (opened within the previous 18 months) with a total outstanding balance 
of just under £34,000. 
A credit card with an outstanding balance of just under £1,300.
Hire purchase agreement with an outstanding balance of just over £29,000.
Three mortgages where the monthly repayments totalled just over £1,100.
In addition to the above, the credit file indicated that Miss R had exceed the credit limit on 
her catalogue account 12 times.
While Miss R had indicated that she was trying to consolidate her debts, the information she 
provided suggested there may have been a reliance on borrowing. But also, the loans 
Miss R wanted to consolidate had outstanding balances that exceeded the amount she 
wanted to borrow.  Even though Miss R said she had settlement figures for these loans, she 
wasnt asked to clarify what these were. So, when everything is taken into consideration, 
I think RateSetter ought to have requested further information to get a better understanding 
of Miss Rs financial circumstances.
What would additional checks have shown?
Its not for our service to say what additional checks RateSetter ought to have carried out. 
But for me to make a finding on whether this loan was affordable or sustainable, Ive 
reviewed Miss Rs bank statements for the three months prior to taking out the loan 
complained of.
Having reviewed this information, Ive seen Miss Rs income (salary and rental income) 
totalled around £3,586 each month. However, her outgoings for her credit commitments 
(excluding the loans Miss R said she was consolidating), mortgage and RateSetter loan 
totalled around £2,647. This meant Mis R would have been left with around £939 each 
month for her council tax, utilities, food etc.My opinion differs to our Investigators because I saw payments of £1,550 each month for an 
estate/letting agent. So, when this is added to her credit commitments detailed above, 
Miss R was left in a deficit of around £611 each month. This suggests the RateSetter loan 
wasnt affordable for Miss R, and that she wouldnt have been able to sustain it without 
borrowing from elsewhere. Therefore, I dont think this loan should have been given to her.
As I dont consider Miss R should have been given this loan, I consider RateSetter needs to 
take steps to put things right. Miss R has had the benefit of the funds, so its fair that she 
repays the capital she borrowed. However, I dont consider she should be responsible for 
any interest, charges and fees applied to the loan.
For the reasons above, Im upholding Miss Rs complaint about RateSetter.
My final decision
My final decision is that Im upholding Miss Rs complaint about Retail Money Market Ltd 
trading as RateSetter.
To put things right, Retail Money Market Ltd trading as RateSetter should:
refund all interest, fees, and charges Miss R paid on this loan;
add interest at 8% per year simple on any interest, fees, and charges from the date 
they were paid by Miss R, until the date of settlement*; and
Remove any adverse information recorded on Miss Rs credit file regarding the 
agreement.
*If HM Revenue & Customs requires Retail Money Market Ltd trading as RateSetter to take 
off tax from this interest, Retail Money Market Ltd trading as RateSetter must give Miss R a 
certificate showing how much tax its taken off if she asks for one.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss R to accept 
or reject my decision before 20 December 2023.
 
Sarrah Turay
Ombudsman