DRN-2909753
The complaint
Mrs M complains that Amtrust Europe Limited wouldnt repair her boiler after she made a 
claim on her boiler service and breakdown policy. 
Mrs M has bee represented by her son throughout some of her complaint. However for ease 
of reading, all references to Mrs M include the actions of her son.
What happened
Mrs M had a home services policy with Amtrust to cover the breakdown and annual service 
of her boiler.
In March 2021 she made a claim on the breakdown cover as the boiler wasnt working. 
Amtrust sent an engineer to inspect the problem. They concluded that the heat exchanger 
had broken and needed replacing. He contacted the manufacturer for a quote and on 
obtaining this, concluded the boiler was beyond economic repair. 
Amtrust subsequently declined Mrs Ms claim. It said as the boiler was beyond economic 
repair, then the policy doesnt provide cover for a repair. It returned her remaining policy 
premiums and offered £250 towards the cost of a new boiler. 
Mrs B didnt think this was fair. She said she felt the problem had been caused by the most 
recent service, carried out in October 2020. So she thought Amtrust should pay to replace 
the boiler. She made a complaint.
Amtrust didnt uphold her complaint so she brought it to this service.
Our investigator didnt recommend the complaint be upheld. He said he thought Amtrust had 
applied the terms and conditions of the policy fairly and offered a reasonable settlement. So 
he didnt think it should do anything differently.
Mrs M didnt agree, so the complaint has come to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mrs M has said that she thinks Amtrust caused the problem she is claiming for when it 
carried out her annual service. And she doesnt think it has applied its terms and conditions 
fairly.
Amtrust has provided reports from the last service and the more recent visit relating to 
Mrs Ms claim. I can see that there were issues identified during the service. And that these 
issues werent resolved immediately. However the air vent and the pump were eventually 
replaced, so the issues found at the service were resolved.
Further, the problem causing the fault with the boiler Mrs M made a claim for was in relation 
to the heat exchanger. And this is a separate part to those replaced after the service. So Ive 
not seen any evidence that the problem was linked to the service in October 2020.
I have also considered whether Amtrust dealt with Mrs Ms breakdown claim fairly and 
reasonably. When the problem was identified, Amtrust sought a quote for the cost of a 
replacement part. The repair cost was going to be £649 and Amtrust said this would be more 
than the cost of replacing the boiler, which is why it wouldnt be covered under the policy.
The policy states as follows: 
if spare parts are available but, in our opinion, your System is considered to be Beyond 
Economic Repair then we will offer you a contribution, at our discretion, towards a new 
boiler.
And defines Beyond Economic Repair as:
Beyond Economical Repair is when we deem the cost of parts required to repair your boiler 
exceeds its current value based on its age and condition.
Amtrust has explained that Mrs Ms boiler is around seven years old and isnt in a good 
condition. Ive considered the photo it has provided and the report from its engineer, and 
based on this I think its made a fair decision that is in line with the policy cover.  As it seems 
most likely that the cost of the repair would be greater than the value of the boiler. 
Mrs M has also raised concerns about the settlement that has been offered. Shes said that 
£250 isnt a fair contribution towards a new boiler as this can cost thousands of pounds. 
While I appreciate boilers can be expensive, it isnt the purpose of the policy to provide a 
replacement boiler, but instead to maintain and repair the existing one. Therefore its fair that 
the settlement will be based on the value of Mrs Ms boiler, rather than the value of a new 
boiler. For this reason I think the contribution offered by Amtrust is fair and reasonable in the 
circumstances. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given, I dont uphold Mrs Ms complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs M to accept or 
reject my decision before 11 August 2021.
 
Sophie Goodyear
Ombudsman