DRN-3874093
The complaint
Mr M complains that Aviva Insurance Limited cancelled his motor insurance policy without 
notifying him. He wants compensation for being out at risk and for his trouble and upset.
What happened
Mr Ms policy with Aviva was due for automatic renewal. It tried to take the payment of the 
premium, but this was unsuccessful. So it sent Mr M a letter saying that it would cancel the 
policy unless full payment was made. Mr M said he didnt receive this letter. The policy was 
then cancelled but a new one was set up two days later after Aviva had sent Mr M a 
cancellation email. Aviva said it could have done more to contact Mr M and it offered him 
£75 compensation and matched his previous years premium.
Our Investigator didnt recommend that the complaint should be upheld. She thought Aviva 
could have emailed, phoned or texted Mr M and this could have avoided the cancellation. 
But she thought it had reinstated the policy and provided compensation in keeping with our 
guidance. She didnt think it needed to do anything further.
Mr M replied that the cancellation had exposed him to possible risk. He said he was 
uninsured for 17 days. Mr M asked for his complaint to be reviewed by an Ombudsman, so 
its come to me for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr M explained that hed been a customer of Aviva for five years and had no intention of 
cancelling his policy. He provided an email sent by Aviva stating that his policy had renewed. 
But he then learned that it had been unable to take payment and the policy had been 
cancelled. I can understand that this must have been a shock for him. I think if Mr M had 
been aware of the issue, then he would have acted to avoid the cancellation. 
Aviva said it hadnt been able to collect payment from Mr Ms card provider. It said this had 
also happened the previous year and Mr M had made a payment online without any prompt. 
It thought there may be issues with Mr Ms card. But Mr M hasnt commented on this. So I 
cant say why his payment failed, but I cant reasonably hold Aviva responsible for this. I 
think Aviva acted in keeping with the policys terms and conditions when it then cancelled the 
policy. But I dont think this was fair or reasonable as Ill explain below. 
Mr M said he only learned of the cancellation when he received an email from Aviva on the 
day the policy was cancelled. Aviva had sent the notice of cancellation for non-payment by 
post. I cant see why Mr M didnt receive this. But I cant hold Aviva responsible for the postal 
service. 
However, this service believes that insurers should take reasonable steps to ensure that 
policy holders are told that their policy will be or has been cancelled. This is because this will 
have serious consequences for them and expose them to possible court action. And we 
think its good practice if an insurer tries to contact a customer by more than one means to 
alert them to the possible cancellation of their policy. 
Aviva agreed that it should have sent the notice of cancellation by more than one means. 
And I can see that it now has changed its procedure to also text customers. I think thats a 
positive step. But it comes too late for Mr M.
When a business makes a mistake, as Aviva accepts it has done here, we expect it to 
restore the consumers position, as far as its able to do so. And we also consider the impact 
the error had on the consumer. 
Mr M thought hed been without cover and exposed to risk for 17 days. Aviva has confirmed 
to us that Mr Ms policy was cancelled and backdated to the renewal date. Aviva wasnt able 
to reinstate Mr Ms cancelled policy. And Aviva has shown us evidence from its underwriting 
guide that shows that it couldnt backdate Mr Ms new policy to the date of cancellation of his 
previous policy. 
However, the Motor Insurance Database (MID) shows cover was in place the day before 
Aviva notified Mr M that the policy had been cancelled. So Mr M was, in effect, without cover 
for one day until the new policy was set up. And in that time, fortunately nothing untoward 
happened. I can only consider actual rather than potential losses. And so, I cant require 
Aviva to compensate Mr M for this. 
The new policy Aviva offered Mr M was £3 more expensive than his renewal offer. And it 
later matched the premium hed paid the previous year, which was £35 less. So I think that 
reasonably restored Mr Ms position.
In terms of impact, Mr M was aware that he was without cover for one day. Aviva offered him 
£75 compensation for the trouble and upset this caused. I think thats in keeping with our 
published guidance, so I dont require Aviva to increase this. I cant see whether or not Mr M 
has received this payment. So I think its for him to let Aviva know if he wants to accept its 
offer.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 9 March 2023.
 
Phillip Berechree
Ombudsman