DRN-2943350
The complaint
Mr and Mrs W complain that U K Insurance Limited (UKI) has rejected their home insurance 
claim for fire damage after having carried out repairs and part settlement of the claim and 
voided their policy for misrepresentation.  
What happened
Mr and Mrs W arranged a policy with UKI in February 2016. It renewed in February 2017
and February 2018.
In October 2018 Mr and Mrs W suffered a serious fire at their property. UKI initially accepted
the claim and after carrying out investigations, arranged the repairs to the property and
made substantial payments in respect of contents items and alternative accommodation.
In October 2019, following an anonymous tip off, UKI investigated an allegation that Mr W
had been using the premises for business purposes. He had a fair amount of equipment in
his garage associated with woodworking but had insisted this was a hobby and that he only
made items for the home, and family and friends. But UKI questioned him about work he had
done for a local manufacturer, T, making wooden moulds which were collected on flatbed
lorries. He admitted in the course of an interview that he had done that work, but it was for a
friend and although he received payments made very little money from it. Mr W produced a
bank statement for the period from November 2016 which showed payments from T in
December 2016 and then a further eight such payments during 2018.
UKI said Mr W had misrepresented the position to it when buying the policy in February
2016 and in renewing it in 2018. On buying the policy the customer is asked to agree certain
assumptions, including that the property is ..not used for business purposes other than
paperwork, telephone calls, child minding and computer work. The purchase of the policy
couldnt proceed online without the consumer confirming that assumption. In light of Mr and
Mrs Ws initial insistence that the tools in the garage were used for a hobby only, and when
confronted, their admission concerning the work done for T, UKI said that Mr and Mrs W had
deliberately misrepresented the fact that Mr W was using the property for business 
purposes.
UKI said that had it known the use of the property from the start of the policy it wouldnt have
issued a policy. In December 2019 it decided to void the policy from its first start date and to
decline to deal with the balance of the claim. As it said the misrepresentation was deliberate
it said the premiums wouldnt be refunded. It issued a final response letter to this effect in
April 2020. Subsequently in August 2020 UKIs solicitor wrote to Mrs W (as the main
policyholder) advising that UKI would be pursuing her for the amount spent on the claim, of
over £294,000.
Mr and Mrs Ws solicitors advised that they didnt accept that Mr W had been using his
property for business purposes. They explained that the arrangement for making the wooden
moulds was one that followed from a personal relationship Mr W had with the managing
director. He regarded it as a favour to a friend, and said that although he received payments
for the work, this was to cover materials and a very low hourly rate. As it was part of his
hobby, he didnt think he had to disclose this. At the inception of the policy in 2016, he had
no intention of carrying out the work. He received one payment for one job in December
2016, and no further payments up to the renewal in 2018. He then did further work for T
receiving payments from May until September 2018. So, if he was required to disclose this
as a use for business purposes, he wouldnt have known this on renewal. In respect of the
fire Mr and Mrs W said that the likely cause of this was faulty work carried out by contractors
whod been redoing their driveway a few weeks before. Those contractors had admitted
damaging an electric cable. They wanted UKI to confirm it would indemnify them for their
legal costs in pursuing those contractors.
UKI didnt accept Mr Ws explanation and maintained that the misrepresentation was
deliberate, in light of his evasive replies when being interviewed and on being confronted
with the work hed been carrying out for T.
Mr and Mrs W complained to this service. Theyve explained that when UKI stopped work at
their property they had to incur costs of over £50,000 to put the property back into a
habitable state. They also said that their health had been badly affected by the voidance and
by UKIs subsequent demands for payment. They wanted their legal costs paid and to be
indemnified for taking legal action against the former driveway contractors.
On referral to this service our investigator established that UKI was relying on
misrepresentation rather than alleged fraud. She said Mr W wasnt using his property for
business purposes so he hadnt misrepresented the position either at inception or renewal of
the policy. She said that UKI should reinstate the policy, settle the claim in full and pay £750
compensation. She further said UKI should consider their point about legal costs and any
further legal action.
UKI disagreed, it said the issue was Mr W's failure to disclose this information when he was
asked by the loss adjusters during the interview. If they thought they were doing something
they shouldn't have been, why was it not disclosed? Further, the garage was filled with large,
specialist, machinery and also housed some chemicals that would have been used in the
production of these moulds. This completely changed the risk it was being asked to insure.
Not only this but the collection of the moulds was undertaken by flatbed trucks and this,
again, presented an additional risk to the property.
I issued a provisional decision. I agreed with the investigators proposed remedies. But I 
further said that, as the amounts in issue might be in excess of our limit, I could only make a 
recommendation in so far as any award exceeded that limit.
Mr And Mrs W are happy to accept my provisional decision. Their solicitors made the 
following points:
Although the figure of £294/296,000 has been put forward by UKI in respect of the 
amount spent on repairs and contents, they have seen no evidence of this and query 
whether UKI has shown us any compelling evidence of the same.
As part of my award includes costs, the rules say that awards of costs are excluded 
when calculating the maximum money award.
Whilst they accept my provisional findings, Mr and Mrs W still say that their position is 
correctly set out in their solicitors response to UKIs solicitors of 11 September 2020.
UKI hasnt provided any comments on my provisional decision.
What Ive decided  and whyIve considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The following were my provisional findings:
cause of the fire
Whilst not directly relevant to the issue of misrepresentation, I should address the alleged
cause of the fire, as UKI has suggested the woodworking presented an extra risk it was
unwilling to insure. There was a forensic investigation in October 2018. The investigator was
unable to clearly say what the cause of the fire was. He speculated that a plausible
explanation was smouldering sawdust, but the property was too unsafe to carry out a full
inspection. Whilst a neighbour suggested that the cause was large cans of adhesives/
chemicals catching fire no evidence has been shown to me that that was the case. There
was also a suggestion that Mr W had an industrial size furnace but again Ive seen no
evidence of that. The forensic investigator wasnt asked about these and wasnt asked to
report further after his initial visit. Mr and Mrs W have suggested the cause was an electric
cable damaged by previous contractors, but Ive not seen evidence that was the case either.
This wasnt mentioned to the forensic investigator and he appeared to rule out the fire
starting because of an electrical fault.
My view is that the cause of the fire hasnt been directly linked to the use of the premises for
making the wooden moulds.
misrepresentation
To be clear, UKI has told us that it has voided the policy because of misrepresentation at the
inception and/or renewal of the policy. Whilst it did suggest to Mr and Mrs W that they had
made fraudulent representations to its loss adjusters, it doesnt rely on that in respect of
voiding the policy. I must make it clear that I dont think UKI, on the evidence it has shown
us, can pursue any such allegation in the future.
The Consumer Insurance (Disclosure and Representation) Act 2012 (CIDRA) applies to the
inception or renewal of a policy. It doesnt apply to the question of what should be disclosed
in the event of a relevant change in circumstances midway through a policy term. I have to
decide whether on buying the policy in 2016 or at the renewal in 2017 and/or 2018, Mr and
Mrs W made a misrepresentation. And if they did, whether that was careless or deliberate.
I should say that the manufacturing of the moulds, which took several days work, and which
were large enough to have to be collected from a flatbed lorry dont really appear to me to be
part of Mr W and his sons hobby, of woodworking. They could scarcely be described to be
for domestic use. And, whether or not they were making very little profit, they were being
paid to make them by T. If Mr W was carrying out this sort of work on inception of the policy,
then I think he couldnt have accurately agreed the assumption that the property was ..not
used for business purposes other than paperwork, telephone calls, child minding and
computer work.
However the documentary evidence Ive seen (ignoring the neighbours unsubstantiated
allegations) seems to show that Mr W wasnt carrying out the work for T when he and Mrs W
bought the policy in February 2016. And at the time of the renewal in February 2018, he
hadnt carried out any such work since December 2016. So I think it fair to say that Mr W
didnt at the start of the policy nor at renewal need to advise UKI about a change in risk (as
UKI has put it).
This leaves the question of whether Mr and Mrs W should have disclosed to UKI that, atleast from April 2018 onwards, Mr W was using the premises in part for business purposes.
The questions asked by the loss adjuster during its investigation are only relevant insofar as
they might show Mr Ws state of mind about whether he knew or ought to have disclosed
the work he was doing for T. I cant really say its the sort of thing he should have disclosed
mid-term. The equipment in the garage was mainly used for Mr Ws and his sons
woodworking hobby, and there is a lack of evidence of any greater risk (e.g. chemicals,
flammable liquids, a furnace). I further dont think flatbed lorries visiting the property present
any greater risk. I dont think this was the sort of change in the use of the property it would
have been fair to expect to have been disclosed mid-term.
I conclude that it hasnt been shown that Mr W failed to take reasonable care in buying or
renewing his policy with UKI. It wasnt therefore entitled to void the policy. Im not clear to
what extent it stopped repairs but it shouldnt have done so.
remedies
For complaints, where the act or omission complained about occurred on or after 1 April
2019 and the complaint is referred to us on or after 1 April 2020, the maximum award I can
make is £355,000. I say this because the entire settlement is in issue, and according to
UKIs solicitors, over £294,000 has been paid out. And Mr and Mrs W contend that they have
had to spend over £50,000 on repairs. So its possible, with further expenses added in, that
the total may exceed the award limit. I should explain that I can only require UKI to pay up to
the limit, although I can, and will, recommend that it pay any sum which I think Mr and Mrs W
are entitled in excess of the limit. But UKI wont be bound to honour my recommendation,
even if Mr and Mrs W accept my final decision (should it remain the same).
Ive taken account of the effect the voiding of the policy has had on Mr and Mrs W. I note
that Mr and Mrs W havent shown us any medical evidence, but they have asserted that it
has had a detrimental effect on their health, especially in light of health issues they both
have. I do think its likely that the voiding of the policy and especially UKIs decision to
instruct its solicitors to pursue them for the monies paid out, before the six month limit for
referring the complaint to this service expired, would have caused them a lot of stress. I think
a payment of £750 compensation is reasonable.
In respect of legal costs, I wouldnt normally award these in respect of pursuing the
complaint either with UKI or with this service. But I do think Mr and Mrs W should be
awarded their reasonable legal costs for their solicitors dealing with the letter before action
from UKIs solicitors, sent in August 2020. I think UKI acted unreasonably by escalating this
matter when it did, given Mr and Mrs W were still within the time period allowed for disputing
UKIs decision. And I dont think they could reasonably have been expected to deal with
UKIs solicitors themselves. So in my view UKI reasonably needs to reimburse the cost they
incurred.
As regards pursuing the contractors Mr and Mrs W allege are responsible for the fire, UKI
would normally consider whether to pursue recovery of the monies it has paid out from any
third party it deems responsible. But it would be UKIs decision whether to pursue such a
course. If Mr and Mrs W want to make a claim under the Family Legal Protection cover in
their policy, in order to pursue a liability claim directly against the contractors, they will need
to make a separate claim for this.
With regard to Mr and Mrs Ws solicitors comments, I have seen no calculations evidencing 
the total amount spent by UKI in dealing with the claim. All I can say is that in an internal 
email of 11 December 2019, it was said that UKI had spent around £194k towards the claim 
with a remaining reserve of £155k. And then the letter from UKIs solicitors in August 2020 
asserts that over £294,000 has been paid out. The question of what is paid out, if Mr and Mrs W accept my decision, will fall to be resolved 
between the parties. I would expect UKI to be able to show precisely how much it has paid 
out if it asserts that the total cost of the work and payments Ive set out in my award, totals 
more than our award limit.
As regards costs, I confirm that an award of costs is not taken into account when calculating 
the maximum award limit.
If Mr and Mrs W accept my final decision, they accept all my findings and they and UKI will 
be bound by it.
As neither party has any further comments, I remain persuaded by my provisional findings. 
Those findings are now final and form part of this final decision.
Putting things right
My award
I require U K Insurance Limited, whilst taking into account what it has already paid, and up to 
a maximum value of £355,000 (not including applicable interest), to:
reinstate Mr and Mrs Ws policy, remove any record of voidance and settle the rest of the
claim, subject to the remaining terms and conditions of the policy, by carrying out any
further repairs and paying any further payments due under the terms of the policy.
pay a cash settlement to Mr and Mrs W in respect of any monies theyve paid out for
repairs, subject to their providing proof of the same, following UKI voiding the policy. In
making this settlement UKI will not be able to base its payment on what it would have
cost it to complete the work. It should add simple interest* on this settlement** at the rate
of 8% per year from the date(s) Mr and Mrs W incurred these payments until the date it
reimburses them.
pay to Mr and Mrs W £750 compensation.
pay Mr and Mrs Ws reasonable legal costs in dealing with UKIs solicitors letter before
action. If they have paid those costs, UKI should add simple interest* on them at the rate
of 8% per year from the date Mr and Mrs W paid the costs until the date it reimburses
them.
*U K Insurance Limited is required by HM Revenue and Customs to deduct tax from any
interest paid. Should Mr and Mrs W request it, it should provide them with a certificate
showing how much tax has been taken off so that, if appropriate, they can reclaim it.
** Payments of interest and costs are not subject to our award limit. If my final decision 
remains the same and Mr and Mrs W accept it within the deadline given, UKI must pay the 
interest and costs awarded whether or not the award limit is otherwise breached.
My recommendation
I recommend that, where the total cost of the work and payments Ive set out in my
award above, totals more than our award limit, UKI should still complete the work and/or pay
any sums due.
This recommendation is not part of my determination or award. Even if my final decisionremains the same and Mr and Mrs W accept it within the deadline set, UKI doesnt have to
do what I recommend. Its unlikely that Mr and Mrs W can accept my decision and go to
court to ask for the balance if the recommendation is not honoured. Mr and Mrs W may want
to get independent legal advice before deciding whether or not to accept this decision.
My final decision
I uphold the complaint and require U K Insurance Limited to act in accordance
with what Ive set out in Putting things right above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W and Mrs W 
to accept or reject my decision before 24 August 2021.
 
Ray Lawley
Ombudsman