DRN-3889329
The complaint
Mr A complains about a point of sale loan he took out with Carnegie Consumer Finance Limited
(Carnegie). 
What happened
Mr A is represented in his complaint. But for ease of reading Ive referred to everything that 
has been said and submitted on Mr As behalf as if Mr A did this.
Mr A wanted to take a course provided by a third-party company I will call T. Mr A agreed 
to pay for the course by taking out a loan for this purpose with Carnegie.
Under the terms of the loan Carnegie provided credit of £7,740 and Mr A paid a deposit of 
£60. The term of the loan is 43 months, the monthly repayments are £180 per month.
Mr A has brought several different successive complaint points. I list them below in the order 
they were raised.
Mr A indicates that at the time he signed up for the course and the loan he was told 
by T that he could cancel both at any time. However, subsequently Mr A decided he 
wanted to cancel the course and the loan for a personal reason, only to find he 
could not. 
The amount he was borrowing to pay for the course and the amount hed have to 
repay each month were not made clear to him before he agreed to enter into the 
loan. 
The loan was unaffordable, and Carnegie did not carry out appropriate checks to 
ensure hed be able to make his repayments to the loan in a sustainable manner 
without it adversely impacting on his financial situation. In particular, Mr A tells us 
Carnegie did not ask him about his income and expenditure and only asked hm for 
one pay slip.
Mr A and Carnegie spoke by phone prior to contracting. In that call Mr A told 
Carnegie he was about to change his job and Carnegie told him to keep quiet about 
this and not to mention it to T.
Mr A was not made aware of what course he was actually using the loan to fund in 
terms of what qualification the course would lead to and what training hed get.
English is not Mr As first language. His grasp of English is so limited that it makes 
him a vulnerable consumer. This should have been obvious to T and Carnegie, but 
they never offered him appropriate translation services.
Mr A was prevented from cancelling the course and the loan during the cooling off 
period as he was waiting for a call back from T, it never came so he missed the 
relevant deadline to cancel. In particular, the course material took 9 days to arrive. Mr 
A called T to tell it the material did not match up with what he was expecting. T 
responded it would call him back to discuss this. It never did and as a result Mr A lost 
his opportunity to cancel within the cooling off period.
T and Mr A had a video call during which T and Mr A discussed the course. T 
promised Mr A an assessment during that video call, but he never received one.
T promised Mr A during the video call that it would provide him with a mentor, but it 
never did.
T promised Mr A during the video call that it would give him a personal tutor at every 
stage, but it did not. Specifically, he was told that the tutors would reach out to him.
Mr A indicates that he needed to take an eye test to do the course. If he had known 
this, he would not have gone ahead with the course.
Carnegie told us that the sale of both the loan and the agreement with T was filmed via video 
and it sent us a copy of that video footage.
Carnegies stance is that Mr A was never told that the loan and the course 
agreements were cancellable at any time. Further, the terms and the purpose of the 
loan were made clear to Mr A both in the videoed meeting and in the contractual 
documents. Specifically, Mr A was told how much he was borrowing and what his 
repayments would be before he entered into the contract. 
Moreover, the nature of the qualification the loan was meant to pay for was also 
clearly explained during the video meeting.
Further, Carnegie tells us that the affordability assessment was shown in the video 
footage. In addition, it sent us written records of the checks it carried out to assess 
whether Mr A could afford the loan. It showed it had asked Mr A to provide 
information about his income and expenditure and hed done so. To back this 
information up it had asked Mr A to provide several pay slips which he did.
According to Carnegies records it had no phone calls with Mr A before it entered into 
the loan with him.
In addition, it did not agree that it ought to have been obvious to it that Mr A was 
vulnerable by reason of his grasp of English, and it indicated Mr A had never asked 
for help with translations into his native language.
It pointed out that Mr A had had the benefit of the cooling off period, and it did not 
agree that Mr A had been prevented from using it. Indeed, the cooling off period had 
been extended and Mr A had he wished to do so could have cancelled at any time 
during that extended cooling off period.
As to the assessment Mr A says he did not get. These are assessments for colour 
blindness, physical capability and aptitude. T told Carnegie that these are not a 
mandatory part of the selection for Mr As course. Rather, the colour blindness test is 
done if a candidate wants to do an electrical course. The physical capability 
assessment is done where an applicant tells T they have a physical disability. An 
aptitude test might be carried out only if T concludes that this might be necessary 
having initially assessed the applicant.
Carnegie did not agree that Mr A had been promised a mentor. However, he had 
been promised a tutor and a tutor was provided. 
Dissatisfied with Carnegies response Mr A complained to our service.
One of our investigators looked into Mr As complaint. Our investigator did not recommend 
that Mr As complaint should be upheld. It appeared that Carnegie accepted our 
investigators recommendation, Mr A did not. In summary, Mr A told us he wanted an 
ombudsman to look afresh at his complaint and the points he wanted us to particularly 
concentrate on are:
English is not his first language therefore he should have been offered an English 
test before he was accepted on the course.He should have been offered an eye test. If he had known one was needed, he 
would not have gone ahead with the purchase of the course. Mr A sent us in an eye 
test that he had two years after the sale of the loan. Mr A wants the result of this eye 
test considered as part of any decision made by this service
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
First, Im very aware that Ive summarised this complaint in far less detail than the parties 
and Ive done so using my own words. Im not going to respond to every single point made 
by all the parties involved. No discourtesy is intended by this. Instead, Ive focussed on what 
I think are the key issues here. 
Our rules allow me to do this. This simply reflects the informal nature of our service as a free 
alternative to the courts. If theres something Ive not mentioned, it isnt because Ive ignored 
it. Rather, Im satisfied I dont need to comment on every individual argument to be able to 
reach what I think is the right outcome.
Where the evidence is incomplete, inconclusive, or contradictory (as some of it is here), I 
reach my decision on the balance of probabilities  in other words, what I consider is most 
likely to have happened in the light of the available evidence and the wider circumstances.
Mr A has made a number of separate complaint points and Ill go through each below. 
Vulnerable consumer
Ive looked at this first because if Mr A was a vulnerable consumer for the reasons he says 
he was that would impact on nearly all of this other complaint points.
A vulnerable consumer is someone who, due to their personal circumstances, is especially 
susceptible to harm, particularly when a firm is not acting with appropriate levels of care. 
Struggling with English and therefore requiring assistance by way of translation services can 
be a potential vulnerability.
Financial businesses should ensure they follow the current published guidance from the 
regulator on dealing with vulnerable consumers. Mr A says Carnegie did not follow the 
relevant guidance, Carnegie says the guidance was not relevant because it does not accept 
Mr A was a vulnerable consumer.
Mr A indicates he was a vulnerable consumer because English is his second language. And 
because of the level of his English language skills at the time he entered into the loan 
contract, Carnegie ought reasonably to have known that he needed a translator and should 
have made him sit an English test. 
Further, Mr A tells us he did not tell Carnegie he was struggling with English at the time. 
Carnegie makes this point too.  However, it is not expected that a financial business should 
wait until a consumer discloses a vulnerability before they do something about it. Rather, 
financial businesses are meant to take action if they ought reasonably to be aware that a 
consumer is vulnerable. So I place no weight on the fact that Mr A did not tell Carnegie he 
was vulnerable due to his grasp of English.
However, Mr A was able to participate in a long and detailed video call meeting with T. His 
responses to it did not I find reasonably indicate that he was vulnerable by reason on his 
English language skills.
It appears both before and after contracting he had to read and understand a lot of 
information in English and there was no indication that he was struggling with this.Neither does the way he communicated with Carnegie and T in general suggest that Mr A 
could not understand English or could not express himself in English and needed a 
translator.
I would have expected Carnegie to have offered translation services should it have been 
reasonably obvious that Mr A needed this. But I dont think it was.
Moreover, I dont agree that in the circumstances Mr A ought to have been asked to take an 
English language test simply because English is not his first language.
For all of these reasons, I do not find that Carnegie acted inappropriately here.
Misrepresentation
Mr A complains about what he says was said before he entered into the point of sale loan. 
The point of sale loan is a regulated consumer credit agreement. As such this service is able 
to consider complaints relating to it.
Mr As stance is that T when it was acting as a supplier of the course and/or as a credit 
broker for Carnegie, made verbal and written misrepresentations to him about the course 
and the loan. Moreover those misrepresentations were made prior to him entering into the 
contract with Carnegie. In this context a misrepresentation is a false statement of fact that 
induced Mr A to enter into the contract with Carnegie. Carnegie does not agree any such 
misrepresentations were made.
Under the relevant law, which includes both section 75 (section 75) and section 56 
(section 56) of the Consumer Credit Act 1974, Carnegie can be held to account for 
misrepresentations made by T. This is because the general effect of section 75 is that if Mr A 
has a claim for misrepresentation or breach of contract against the supplier he can also bring 
a like claim against Carnegie provided certain conditions are met. Moreover, section 56 
stipulates that finance providers are liable for what they say and for what is said by a credit 
broker or a supplier (where theres a relevant type of agreement in place) before the 
consumer takes out the credit agreement. The relevant type of agreement is in place here 
because Mr A took out a point of sale loan.
It follows from what Ive said above that if I find that T or Carnegie did make the 
misrepresentations that Mr A talks about, I would find it fair and reasonable to say Carnegie 
had to take responsibility for this. Id also say that Carnegie would have to put Mr A in the 
position he would have been in had no misrepresentation been made. In this case that would 
mean it would have to treat the contract as if it had never been made.
Mr A tells us he was told by T that the contracts were cancellable at any time. But nothing 
Ive seen persuades me that any such claim was made verbally or in writing. Besides Mr As 
assertion Ive got nothing else to back up what he says. Ive not heard any such 
misrepresentation being made in the video footage.
In addition, the contractual documentation, which Mr A does not dispute he was provided 
with at the time the contracts were made, sets out the very limited circumstances in which 
either the contract for the loan or for the course could be cancelled. Moreover, if the fact that 
the contracts were cancellable at any time was a key consideration for Mr A I might have 
expected him to have raised this as soon as he had an opportunity to read the written 
documents. But it appears he did not. Also I might have expected Mr A to have mentioned 
that he was told he could cancel the contracts at any time when he wanted to stop the 
course and the loan for personal reasons. But it appears he did not do this either.
Mr A indicates he thought he was buying one course but ended up with another, and/or he 
was unaware of what course he actually bought. It appears he is saying this was because 
either T or Carnegie gave him inaccurate or not enough information. Either scenario could 
be a misrepresentation in theory. Mr A previously told us he initially approached T not the 
other way around. So given that Mr A instigated the contact between himself and the supplier I think it is likely that he knew what course he was looking for and that would have 
shaped the conversations between Mr A and Carnegie including the video call meeting. I 
dont think Mr A would have gone along with a process whereby T tried to sell him something 
other than the course hed come to it for. Ts records show that Mr A was provided with 
written course documentation one day after he enrolled. I have no reason to doubt its 
records on this point. Therefore if Mr A had unknowingly purchased a course he did not want 
due to misrepresentation on the part of T I might have expected him to have raised this issue 
at that time. Ive seen nothing to show that Mr A did complain at the time. 
It seems that both parties agree that the documentation provided for the course talks about 
assessments, and these seem to be the colour blindness assessment, the physical 
assessment and the aptitude assessment that I previously mentioned. T tells us these were 
not mandatory, and Carnegies adopts Ts position on this. 
I dont think merely by reading the relevant clauses it would be clear that T only offered 
these on a case by case basis. But I think this point is not the crux of this complaint point 
because I dont find it persuasive that Mr A only entered into the contracts on the basis that 
hed have these assessments. I say this because Mr A went ahead and contracted to 
purchase the course with the loan, even though he knew hed not had these assessments.  
Mr A did not raise these issues until well over a year after he had first brought his complaint 
to this service. Mr A places particular emphasis on the eye test he tells us he has a family 
history with eye issues.T tells us that a colour blindness test was not required anyway for the 
course Mr A chose and I have no reason to doubt this. So it is not clear why Mr A tells us 
that the fact that he did not have a test that is irrelevant to the course he chose would have 
caused him not to enter into the contracts.  Neither has Mr A explained why the physical 
assessment and the aptitude assessment were so important to him that they influenced his 
decision to go ahead and with the course and the loan.
T says no mentor was offered this is Carnegies position too. The video call footage does not 
show that T offered Mr A mentor. Weve asked Mr A about this again and he has not said 
that the offer of a mentor was made at another time that was not recorded. T agrees Mr A 
was told hed have access to a tutor and Carnegie says the same as T about this point. Mr 
As take on this is that T promised the tutor would actively get in contact with him. But Ive 
not seen anything that satisfies me that T gave this impression. On the contrary, the majority 
of the information that I have available to me shows that the onus was on Mr A to contact the 
tutor not vice versa.
For all of these reasons, I am not persuaded that the contracts were misrepresented to Mr A.
Lenders responsibilities
As a provider of regulated consumer credit Carnegie must follow the rules and regulations 
which apply to such providers, including the provisions outlined in the CONC rulebook which 
can be found in the Financial Conduct Authority handbook. 
These provisions include a requirement for Carnegie to provide, prior to sale, clear 
information about the product it is selling and the key characteristics of the product. Where a 
loan is being sold at the very minimum, and amongst other things, Carnegie is expected to 
give the consumer information about how much the consumer is borrowing and what the 
repayments will be. Mr A tells us Carnegie did not meet this basic requirement. If I found this 
was so it follows I would also find that Carnegie would have to take responsibility for this and 
put this right. And in this instance I think to put things right Carnegie would have to treat Mr A 
as if the loan had never been entered into and refund any repayments Mr A made with 
interest.
The loan was sold via T acting as credit broker as I have already mentioned. But just 
because the loan was sold via a credit broker does not mean Carnegie does not have to 
meet it regulatory responsibilities. That said, the sale of the loan was recorded in the video 
footage. As part of the sales process both the pre contractual credit information and the loan agreement itself were made visible to Mr A and it appears they were talked about. Mr A 
signed for the loan.  It seems this sequence of events is not in dispute. Rather what is 
disputed is how these events should be characterised. Based on the information I have 
available to me I am not satisfied that the loan was sold in such a way that the amount of the 
loan, and the repayments were not made clear. Moreover, I think it is reasonable to assume, 
as a starting point, that when a person reads and signs an agreement  they understand the 
terms of the agreement and they are agreeing to be bound by them. And nothing I have 
seen here persuades me that assumption is incorrect in the very particular circumstances of 
this complaint. 
Carnegie has an overarching duty to act in good faith. If it told Mr A to withhold important 
information from T Id find it had not acted in line with this duty. Which in turn would make 
me say that the loan should be treated as if it had never been entered into by the parties.
However, Carnegies records show that it did not have a conversation by phone with Mr A 
until 60 days after the contract was made. Mr A has not been able to provide information to 
show he did have a phone conversation with Carnegie at the time that he said he did such 
as for example, the date of the call, the time, the person who spoke to.
It follows that I dont agree that I have any proper basis for telling Carnegie that it must treat 
the loan as if it had never existed and cannot continue to enforce the loan due to this 
complaint point.
Affordability
Firms who are providing regulated consumer credit must make a reasonable assessment of 
the creditworthiness of the applicant, based on sufficient information. 
They must not lend unless they can demonstrate that they have had proper regard to 
affordability risk in the individual case.
The extent and scope of an assessment should depend upon, and be proportionate to, the 
individual circumstances. In particular, the firm should take into account the type and amount 
of credit, its duration, the cost of the credit, and the total amount payable, both in absolute 
terms and relative to the customers financial situation where known. 
The higher the affordability risk in the particular case, the more rigorous the assessment is 
likely to need to be. For example, the firm may need to obtain additional information, or 
subject it to additional scrutiny. Firms should consider whether information should be 
verified, and by what means, to ensure that it is reasonable to rely on it, and how it should be 
factored into the assessment.
If I were satisfied that Carnegie had not met these requirements I would then need to look at 
whether if Carnegie had carried out the checks it should have done it would have found out 
that Mr A could not afford the loan.
On the one hand, Mr As stance is that Carnegie did not carry out proportionate checks 
based on sufficient information. In particular, he indicates that he was not asked about his 
income or expenditure and Carnegie only asked for one pay slip. On the other Carnegies 
stance is that it did carry out checks and they were proportionate. Specifically, it took 
information from Mr A about his income and expenditure and asked for several payslips and 
used this information in assessing his application.
Based on the information available to me I can see that during the video meeting Carnegie 
gathered information about Mr As income and expenditure and did review several pay slips. 
That said, Mr A was borrowing a relatively large sum over quite an extended period of time. 
Therefore I might have expected Carnegie to have verified the information it received. Ive 
not seen anything to suggest that it did. On that basis, on balance, I dont think its checks 
were proportionate. However, Mr A has not said that the information Carnegie had about his 
income and expenditure or about his pay was inaccurate. On the face of it Mr A could afford the repayments in a sustainable manner. It follows I have no fair or reasonable grounds for 
saying the lending was unaffordable.
Cooling off period
Both parties agree that the 14 day cooling off period ended on 21 October 2021, but T also 
gave Mr A, a further 7 days cooling off period. This therefore extended the cooling off period 
until 28 October. Ts records show and Carnegie is relying on these records too, that Mr A 
contacted it on 21st October 2021 to ask for help with logging in. I have no reason to doubt 
Ts records on this point. 
Mr As version of events is slightly different. Mr A indicates he missed the cooling off period 
because he was waiting for call-back from T about the course content. This might have been 
the call of 21 October. But even if he was waiting for a call-back, I dont see how that 
prevented him from cancelling the agreements if he wanted to do this. 
Moreover Mr A also says he did not receive the course documents until 9 days after he 
contracted to sign up for the course. But the information Ive seen including proof of postage 
shows the course materials were delivered to Mr A the day after he contracted. So it is not 
clear why he wanted so long to call T if he was dissatisfied and was thinking of cancelling.
I also note, as far as I can see it was no until December 2021 that Mr A let either T or 
Carnegie know he wanted to cancel. That does not support what Mr A says about wanting to 
cancel within the cooling off period and missing his chance due to waiting for a call-back. 
For all of these reasons I am not persuaded that Mr A wanted to cancel the agreements 
within the cooling off period and was prevented from doing so by anything Carnegie did 
wrong.
It follows from everything that I have said above that I do not uphold Mr As complaint.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold Mr As complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision before 22 March 2023.
 
Joyce Gordon
Ombudsman