DRN-2961131
The complaint
Mr C had the benefit of private medical insurance underwritten by BUPA Insurance Limited
(the policy).
Mr C is unhappy that, although the services BUPA was able to provide as a result of the
Covid-19 pandemic were restricted, he was still required to pay his full monthly premiums.
Hes happy that he didnt receive a significant refund of the premiums during that period.
What happened
Due to the unusual and unprecedented circumstances of the Covid-19 global pandemic, and
the pressure this was putting on the NHS, medical facilities ordinarily used for privately
funded treatment were utilised by the NHS for treatment. This meant BUPA policy holders
werent able to access routine and non-urgent treatment.
Mr C says its unfair that he was required to pay his full monthly premiums for the policy
during this time, as the policy wasnt providing the full range of cover, he was paying for.
In May 2020, BUPA told Mr C about its pledge to pass back any exceptional financial benefit
it ultimately receives as a result of Covid-19 to its UK health insurance customers  either by
way of a rebate or other appropriate means (BUPAs pledge). And when the likely impact of
the Covid-19 pandemic became clearer BUPA said it would update Mr C on how it will do
this. BUPA also said that it would commission a third-party review to ensure that what it does
is fair and reasonable across its different customer groups.
Mr C thought the approach taken by BUPA was unfair. He complained to our Service.
Having considered everything, our investigator didnt uphold Mr Cs complaint. Mr C didnt
accept the outcome reached by our investigator. He asked for an ombudsman to consider
the complaint afresh.
Since our investigator issued her view on this case, BUPA wrote to Mr C in March 2021
confirming that it had undertaken a review as part of BUPAs pledge. As a result, he was told
it was likely hed receive a rebate equivalent to one months premium at some point between
April and July 2021, if eligible. BUPA said it was providing the rebate as early as possible.
Mr C doesnt think the payment is fair. He also says its unclear how the payment had been
calculated. This wasnt part of the original complaint Mr C brought to our Service (because at
that time BUPA hadnt taken any decisions about whether a payment would be made and if
so, how much). However, as it was closely connected to the concerns Mr C had initially
raised, BUPA agreed for our Service to consider this issue as part of this complaint.
I issued my provisional decision in July 2021 explaining in more detail why I wasnt intending 
to uphold Mr Cs complaint. An extract of which is set out below:
Not refunding monthly premiums when requested in May 2020:
In May 2020, BUPA didnt agree to Mr Cs request to refund 90% of two monthly premiums
hed paid for the policy. I know Mr C feels very strongly that BUPA acted unfairly but I dont
think the stance it has taken was unfair or unreasonable in the circumstances of this
complaint. Ill explain why.
I accept that during 2020 private medical facilities were taken over by the NHS to 
support the NHSs response to the pandemic. Understandably, this temporarily 
affected the ability for BUPA members to access the full range of services usually 
available  including Mr C. This was due to the unprecedented and unforeseen 
impact of Covid-19 pandemic and, Im satisfied, was outside of BUPAs of control.
BUPA accepts that routine and non-urgent treatments may have been deferred or 
delayed as a result of the pandemic. But BUPA has also said that it put in place other
benefits to support its customers at this time  including, where possible, arranging
remote consultations with appropriate medical professionals and support for mental
health. It also says that diagnostics tests were taking place at clinics. Mr C doesnt
think such services were available and has asked whether weve requested evidence
from BUPA. However, in the absence of anything to the contrary, Im prepared to
accept what BUPA says based on my knowledge of the type of services BUPA was
able to provide at the time. As such, Im persuaded that Mr Cs policy was capable of
benefitting him during this time even though he didnt need to make a claim.
Mr C wasnt denied any access to treatment by BUPA whilst the NHS was utilising 
private facilities. He has confirmed that he had no need to access BUPAs services. 
So, I dont think hes suffered any actual detriment by the lack of access to certain 
private treatment at the time.
From the information Ive seen, Im satisfied BUPA was willing to financially support
customers whod seen a reduction in income due to the Covid-19 pandemic. Ive
listened to a call recording dated around 22 May 2020 between BUPAs
representative and Mr C (and his wife, Mrs C). BUPAs representative offered to put
Mr C through another team to discuss available options if he was experiencing
financial hardship. I think that was fair and reasonable. But after being told that this
wouldnt include a rebate of premiums paid, Mr C opted to raise a complaint instead.
I can understand why he chose to do so and that was a choice for him. But had Mr C
been transferred to another team, depending on his financial situation, I think its
likely other financial options wouldve been discussed.
Mr C was told about BUPAs pledge in April 2020 and again in BUPAs final response
letter dated late May 2020. I think BUPAs intended course of action was reasonable
at the time  particularly because, as of the end of May 2020, the effects of the
pandemic were ongoing and the impact uncertain.
Premium increase:
Mr C has said the premium hed been quoted for by BUPA to renew the policy in 2020 was
an increase on the year before. But in response to our investigators view, hes said it wasnt
his intention to challenge the premium increase as part of this complaint. So, I dont intend to
consider whether the quote he received was fair and reasonable.
However, Mr C is unhappy that he wasnt reminded about the BUPA pledge in the renewal
notice. Nor did it confirm that BUPA was still investigating ways to avoid making a profit from
the pandemic. But I dont think BUPA needed to include reference to BUPAs pledge in the
renewal notice. There wasnt a regulatory requirement for BUPA to do so and Mr C had
already been made aware of BUPAs pledge earlier in the year. So, I dont think it would bereasonable to imply that by not making any reference to BUPAs pledge in the renewal
notice meant that it was no longer applicable. Besides, if Mr C had any queries about the
renewal quote, or how the quote he received related to BUPAs pledge, he was free to
contact BUPA at the time to discuss.
BUPAs review and the sum being reimbursed to Mr C:
Mr C isnt happy with BUPAs offer to reimburse him an amount equivalent to one months
premium, if hes eligible. He says virtual consultations, even if available, wouldve cost a lot
less compared to BUPAs liability which arises with inpatient and outpatient services at
private hospitals.
I understand the point Mr C makes. From what Ive seen, Im satisfied that there had been
an overall reduction in the claims made on BUPAs private medical insurance policies.
However, non-urgent treatments - deferred in the earlier stages of the pandemic - wouldve
still needed to have been delivered and funded by BUPA at some point/later date, once
private facilities were no longer needed by the NHS to treat patients. As such, Im satisfied
that its likely that the costs of such treatments were simply delayed to a later date.
Im also satisfied that BUPA has commissioned a third party to assure that the way in which
it shares out the rebate is fair and reasonable across eligible UK health insurance customers
and it was satisfied with its intended course of action. That third party is independent of
BUPA.
Mr C had the benefit of the policy throughout the qualifying period in order to qualify for the
offer made by BUPA to eligible consumers. Im satisfied that the offer to pay Mr C a sum
equivalent to one months premium (to represent any exceptional financial benefit made by
BUPA as a result of the Covid-19 pandemic) is fair and reasonable in the circumstances of
this complaint. Ive got no reason to doubt that the basis of the offer (which has been made
to all eligible UK health insurance customers) hasnt been independently verified by the third
party, as BUPA has said. Particularly given that the third party has said (as taken from
BUPAs website) that:
We have independently reviewed BUPAs proposed approach to allocating its rebate
fund between its eligible UK health insurance customers. We recognise that finding
the right balance between fairness, simplicity and BUPAs desire to act promptly in
distributing the rebate fund is challenging, and that no single approach will fully
satisfy all stakeholders. We are satisfied that BUPAs proposed approach to
allocating its rebate fund between its eligible UK health insurance customers is
reasonable and strikes an equitable balance between these objectives.
Im also conscious that BUPA has committed to carry out a final review in due course to
ensure it has met BUPAs pledge. I think thats fair and reasonable in the circumstances of
this complaint given that the pandemic is ongoing, and its full impact is still unknown.
I invited both parties to provide any further comments or information in response to my 
provisional decision.
Neither party provided a substantive reply.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As neither party has made any new arguments or presented any new evidence theres no 
reason for me to reach a different conclusion to that which I set out in my provisional 
decision. So, for the reasons set out above  and in my provisional decision  I dont uphold 
Mr Cs complaint.
My final decision
I dont uphold Mr Cs complaint. Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im 
required to ask Mr C to accept or reject my decision before 5 October 2021.
 
David Curtis-Johnson
Ombudsman