DRN-1488192
 
The complaint
Mr A complains that The Royal Bank of Scotland Plc (RBS) rejected the claim he made to it 
under Section 75 of the Consumer Credit Act 1974 (section 75) about problems hed 
experienced with a car.
What happened
In April 2018 Mr A bought a car for £2,646 (£2,496 plus £150). He used his RBS credit card 
to pay £1,396 of this sum. The car, at the time of purchase, was approximately 10 years old 
and had travelled approximately 115,000 miles. It had passed a MOT test the previous 
month with 2 advisories noted.
Shortly after April 2018 Mr A says he returned the car to the dealership for one or more 
electrical faults to be repaired.
Shortly after the above electrical faults had been repaired Mr A says the car developed an oil 
leak which was repaired in October 2018 at a cost of £77.36.
In October 2018 Mr A paid £24 for the supply and fit of 2 bulbs.
In October 2018 Mr A paid £120 for the supply and fit of one tyre.
In February 2019 Mr A paid £228.98 for a service and MOT. 
The car passed its MOT with 5 advisories noted and with a recorded mileage of 
approximately 123,000.
The service schedule recommended future work at an estimated cost of £1,235.73. This 
included £439.37 for a new DPF.
In May 2019 Mr A paid £85 for an unsuccessful DPF clean.
In June 2019 Mr A paid £1,091.93 for various works to the car including the specialist 
removal, testing and cleaning of the DPF at a cost of £492.
Shortly after the above works had been undertaken Mr A says the car developed a number 
of further faults.
In June 2019 Mr A raised a section 75 claim with RBS because the supplying dealership had 
ceased trading. He was looking, by way of compensation, some or all of the costs he had 
incurred in getting the car repaired.
RBS considered Mr As section 75 claim but declined it.Mr A then complained to RBS about its decision to decline his section 75 claim. RBS 
responded in July 2019 to say that it wasnt upholding Mr As complaint because it believed 
its decision to decline his section 75 claim was correct.
Dissatisfied with RBSs response to his complaint, Mr A referred it to our service.
Mr As complaint was considered by one of our investigators who concluded it shouldnt be 
upheld. In his view RBS had dealt with Mr As section 75 claim fairly.
Mr A didnt agree with the investigators view and so his complaint has been passed to me 
for review and decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. However, having done so, I can confirm 
that Ive come to the same conclusion as our investigator and for broadly the same reasons.
In certain circumstances (which Im satisfied apply here), section 75 gives a consumer a 
like claim against the provider of finance as they would have against the supplier of the 
goods and/or services, if theres been a breach of contract or misrepresentation by them. So 
Ive taken this into account when deciding what is fair and reasonable for RBS to do here. 
The Consumer Rights Act 2015 is relevant to this complaint. It says that under a contract to 
supply goods, there is an implied term that the quality of the goods is satisfactory. To be 
considered satisfactory, the goods would need to meet the standard that a reasonable 
person would consider satisfactory  taking into account any description of the goods, the 
price and all the other relevant circumstances. 
So it seems likely that in a case involving a car, the other relevant circumstances a court 
would take into account might include things like the age and mileage at the time of sale and 
the vehicles history. This car was around ten years old with over 115,000 miles on the clock 
and cost £2,646. As such, I think a reasonable person would appreciate theres likely to be 
some wear and tear present and parts will probably need to be replaced or repaired sooner 
or later - and thats reflected in the price paid. 
Mr A says he experienced a number of electrical faults soon after taking delivery of the car. 
But its my understanding that these were repaired at no cost to Mr A.
Mr A also says that the car developed an oil leak 6 months or so after he took delivery of it 
which cost him £77.76 to have repaired. But I havent seen enough evidence to conclude 
that this leak was as a result of anything being wrong with the car at the time Mr A took 
delivery of it. Its also my understanding that oil leaks arent uncommon on older cars that 
have travelled in excess of 100,000 miles and getting them fixed is something that I might 
expect a buyer to reasonably contemplate having to do.
Furthermore the car had passed a MOT test shortly before Mr A took delivery of it, which in 
my view goes someway to support the idea that there was nothing wrong with the car at the 
time of supply.
 
 
 I will now turn to the costs Mr A incurred in May 2019 (£85) and in June 2019 (£1,091.23) for 
further repairs. Although I can understand Mr As disappointment in having to pay for these 
repairs these repairs were undertaken more than a year after Mr A had taken delivery of the 
car and after it had travelled another 8,000 miles or so. They were also undertaken after the 
car had passed another MOT test. So I dont think that there is enough evidence to conclude 
that these two repairs were required because of there being anything wrong with the car at 
the time Mr A took delivery of it. 
In summary I dont think the car was of unsatisfactory quality at the point Mr A took delivery 
of it or that it would be fair for me to require RBS to cover the cost of repairs
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision before 9 March 2020.
Peter Cook
Ombudsman