DRN-1544627
 
The complaint
Miss B has complained about Ageas Insurance Limiteds handling of her motor legal 
expenses insurance (MLEI) policy.
Reference to Ageas includes their agents.
What happened
In April 2017, Miss B took out car and MLEI insurance policies through a broker. The MLEI 
policy was underwritten by Ageas. The car insurance policy was underwritten by a different 
insurer.
In May 2017, Miss B was involved in an accident and her car was a total loss. She made a 
claim on her car insurance policy for the damage to her car and later instructed a solicitor 
privately to make a claim for personal injury against the driver who caused the accident. The 
solicitor was to represent Miss B on a no win no fee basis.
After instructing her solicitor, Miss B found out that she had MLEI with Ageas. She wanted to 
avoid her solicitor charging her a proportion of any potential compensation she might be 
awarded, so she instructed the solicitor to help her apply under her MLEI policy for her legal 
fees to be covered. Her solicitor wrote to Ageas on 7 August 2017. The solicitor asked 
Ageas to forward to us the requisite forms that need to be completed with regard to our 
being instructed. Ageas responded the following day to the solicitor by email. Ageas told the 
solicitor they would have to submit a claim form with supporting documentation through 
Ageas online claims system. Ageas provided a link to their online claims system.
Miss Bs solicitor didnt follow Ageas instructions by submitting a claim form and never 
responded to them. As a result Ageas closed their file and Miss B wasnt covered under her 
MLEI and her private arrangement with her solicitor continued. She won her injury claim and 
received an award. But her solicitor charged her 25% of her award in fees. 
Miss B complained to Ageas. She said Ageas actions caused her to suffer a loss because 
her legal fees werent covered by her MLEI. She said Ageas should have done more, such 
as follow up on their email to the solicitor, send a letter and make a telephone call. Ageas 
didnt uphold Miss Bs complaint as they said they hadnt done anything wrong. Miss B 
brought her complaint to our service. One of our investigators looked into it. She felt that 
Ageas had dealt with Miss B fairly. As Miss B didnt agree with our investigator, the 
complaint has been passed to me to decide.
 
 
What Ive decided  and whyIve considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. I appreciate this will be disappointing for 
Miss B, but Im not going to uphold her complaint. Ill explain why.
As soon as Ageas became aware that Miss B wanted to claim on her MLEI policy, they sent 
her solicitor the necessary information by email. Ive seen that the email address used by 
Ageas is the one that was correctly displayed on the solicitors letter head. And as Ageas 
have correctly pointed out, where a solicitor provides a contact email address on their letter 
head its reasonable to assume that they welcome correspondence by email. 
Ageas have confirmed that they didnt receive a delivery failure notification for the email so 
as far as they were concerned it was properly sent. Its not clear to me why, if Miss Bs 
solicitor didnt receive that email, they didnt contact Ageas again. The solicitor said they 
have had dealings with Ageas in the past so they know how the claims process works. Its 
not within my remit to comment on what the solicitor did or didnt do as Im only looking at 
the actions of Ageas. And I satisfied that Ageas responded to the solicitors request almost 
instantly in an acceptable way providing the necessary guidance. But as the solicitor didn't 
reply Ageas didn't have a claim to deal with. As such I think Ageas actions in closing their 
file were therefore reasonable. 
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, Im not upholding this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss B to accept 
or reject my decision before 8 July 2020.
Mehmet Osman
Ombudsman