DRN-2684101
The complaint
Mr C has complained that Allianz Insurance Plc have unfairly increased the premiums and 
excesses of his lifetime pet insurance policy. He says in doing so Allianz Insurance Plc have 
breached the contract he originally agreed with them.
Background
Mr C took out a Pet Plan policy in 2012 to cover his two dogs. The policy is underwritten by
Allianz.
Mr C made a complaint to Allianz in 2019. He says that when he took the policy in 2012 he
was told that his policy would only increase in line with vet fee inflation  but when he looked
at his renewal premiums, he realised that they had been increasing by more than this over
the years and that his excess amounts have also increased. He says Allianz are in breach of
the agreed contract.
Allianz say the increase in premium and excesses have been calculated correctly for the risk
presented to them and in line with the terms of the insurance contract Mr C took with them.
Following our involvement, Allianz agreed to offer Mr C £250 as a gesture of goodwill to
resolve the complaint. Our investigator thought this was a fair way to recognise the upset
caused by Allianz not making the potential long-term costs of the policy clear when they sold
it to Mr C.
Mr C did not accept the offer and asked for an ombudsman to look at his complaint.
In my provisional decision of November 2020, I set out why I thought Allianzs offer of £250 
was a fair way to settle Mr Cs complaint.
 
Heres what I said in my provisional decision:
 
When considering what is fair and reasonable, Im required to take into account: relevant 
law and regulations; relevant regulators rules, guidance and standards; relevant codes of
practice; and, where appropriate, what I consider to have been good industry practice at the
time. Mr C wants me to reference the relevant legislation and rules when responding to each
of his points. But as an informal alternative to the courts, it is rare that our decisions will go
as far as to debate or discuss legislation  this is something more suited to court.
With this in mind, while Ive carefully considered everything Mr C has said, as well as the
relevant considerations, I wont be responding to each of his points individually, or
specifically referring to all the relevant law and rules in this provisional decision.
Why have the premium and excess increased and is this fair?
Businesses are entitled to decide how much to charge for the insurance cover they provide
and how much of an excess to apply to their policies, and I dont have the power to tell a
business what its insurance should cost or what excesses it should apply. I would be, in
effect, determining or telling a business how it should operate  and thats not my role. So I
cant say the cost of Mr Cs policy or the excess amount is too high. And I cant say he
should have been charged less for the policy in the past or that he should be charged less in
the future.
Insurance premiums are calculated so that they can reasonably be expected to cover the
likely claims arising from an insurance contract, with a safety margin to ensure the long-term
viability of the insurer. The calculation is generally based on the probability of the insured
event occurring, combined with the likely financial loss resulting from the claim. All insurers
take a number of different factors into account when doing this calculation (vet fee inflation
will be only part of the equation) and thats not something we will interfere with.
Insurers will typically, each year, revisit and reassess the risk, based on the volume and
cost of claims its customers have made. So if the cost of paying claims increases
significantly, an insurer will revisit the way it calculates its premiums to make sure it can
continue to cover claims in the future  theres nothing wrong with it doing this.
While Mr Cs premium and excesses have increased, I havent seen any evidence to
suggest Allianz have treated him differently to how they would have treated any other
policyholder in the same position. So I cant say Allianz have singled him out and treated him
unfairly compared to their other customers.
But Mr C says he had a contract with Allianz that the premium would only increase in line
with vet fee inflation.
What was the contract Mr C had with Allianz and have Allianz breached this contract?
We dont have a copy of the telephone call from Mr Cs telephone application, so I dont
know exactly what was said to him by Allianzs representative. Considering Mr Cs notes and
recollections I think its likely he was told the premiums would increase in line with vet fee
inflation  compared to other policies where claims would affect the premium. However, what
I dont have is the context in which this was said and what else was said during the call. Ive
thought very carefully about it, and on balance I think its unlikely that Mr C was told
categorically that the only reason the premium would increase would be because of vet fee
inflation. I say this as Allianz wouldnt have had control over increases in insurance premium
tax (IPT) and with this type of insurance, the premium typically increases with age. So I think
its unlikely Mr C would have been told vet fee inflation was going to be the only reason for
premium increases, as that was never going to be the case.
I know the policy booklet explains that the terms and conditions are part of the insurance
contract and the other parts include the telephone application - so I do understand why Mr C
considers Allianz should honour what was said on the call. But as Ive said, I think its
unlikely he was told that vet fee inflation would be the only reason for the premium to
increase. And as the terms and conditions set out, the telephone application was only part of
the insurance contract. So I dont think a contract was formed as Mr C suggests, solely on
what was said on the call, and neither do I think that what was likely said on the call
contradicts the policys terms and conditions sent to Mr C. Therefore, I dont think Allianz
have breached their contract with Mr C.
The policy terms and conditions set out:
When we offer further periods of insurance we may change the premium, excesses, and
policy Terms and Conditions.
I know that Mr C considers this term to be ambiguous. I dont agree. Although it is a broad
term, I think thats intentional and it allows Allianz to make changes to the policy premium
and excesses each year at renewal based on their calculation of the risk they are taking on which they are entitled to do.
Did Allianz do what they should have done when they sold Mr C the policy?
In 2012 when Mr C took out his lifetime pet insurance policy Allianz should have given him
sufficient, appropriate and timely information to enable him to make an informed choice
about whether to take out the policy, including drawing to his attention and highlighting  in a
clear, fair and not misleading way  the main provisions of the policy and significant
limitations and exclusions.
I recognise it wouldnt have been possible for Allianz to tell Mr C exactly what was going
to happen with the price of his policy and how much he would be expected to contribute
towards a claim in the future. But I think he needed clear information about the potential
long-term cost implications and that the excess amount could increase as his dogs got older
- so he could understand that he might end up in the position he is now in.
The policy was being marketed as lifetime insurance, so he understandably expected to
keep it for the rest of his dogs life. He needed clear information to properly understand what
it was he was buying  so he could make an informed choice. But, having thought about the
information Allianz gave Mr C about the policy at the sale, I dont think that happened.
Mr C has given a detailed recollection of his telephone call with Allianz, which he took notes
on at the time. Considering what hes said, I think its possible he wasnt given enough
information to make an informed choice about the policy he was buying.
Ive also considered the terms and conditions sent to Mr C after the call, and what they say
about changes to the premium and excesses  as set out earlier. But I dont think the long-
term risk that the cost of the policy could rise to an amount much more than the initial cost, 
or that his excess payments were likely to increase as his dogs got older was made clear 
enough. And I dont think that Mr C should have had to read through a long document to find 
this  it should have been brought to his attention.
Putting things right
Where something goes wrong I have to consider what would have happened if it didnt. This
is a difficult thing to do  particularly when there is conflicting information. So I have to make
my findings based on the balance of probabilities  what I think is more likely to have
happened, based on the information I have. Its important to be clear its not my role to
punish Allianz.
I know Mr C says had he been told that his premiums could rise by the amount they did, he
wouldnt have taken the policy but would have self-insured by putting aside money each
month. But its difficult to know what Mr C would have done at the time, without the benefit of
hindsight  particularly as we now know that the amount he has claimed for is less than how
much hes paid. He wouldnt have known that at the time  which is the nature of insurance.
Mr Cs told us self-insuring had been his wifes preference from the start, so from what hes
said it looks like its something he considered, but decided against at the time, presumably
because he valued the peace of mind of having his dogs comprehensively insured.
Considering this, I still think its more likely than not he would have gone ahead with the
policy, even if hed been given better information about the potential costs. I say this as I
think its unlikely that he would have chosen not to insure his dogs at all. And I think its
unlikely he would have found an alternative policy where there was any guarantee about the
future cost  as most lifetime pet insurance policies available in 2012 would have worked in
a similar way and take the same sort of factors into account when the premiums and
excesses are calculated at renewal.Mr Cs Pet Plan policy is unlike a lot of policies on the market in that its not claims loaded
and any claim he makes on the policy does not directly affect the premium calculation. So
hes less likely to experience the sort of significant premium increases we see with a number
of other lifetime pet insurance policies on the market. Considering I think he wanted
insurance for his dogs but was concerned about high premium increases, I think its likely he
would have still taken this policy even if he had been given better information about future
costs.
But I do think better information about the policy wouldve meant that Mr C wasnt so
upset when he realised the cost and excesses had increased as they did  instead this
would have been something he would have known could happen. Mr C is now in a position
he didnt expect to find himself in. I think this lack of clear information has caused Mr C
trouble and upset. So I think it would be fair for Allianz to pay him £250 as compensation for
this.
I invited both parties to provide any further information they wanted me to consider before I 
reached my final decision.
Allianz didnt have anything further for me to consider. Mr C responded setting out in detail 
why he disagreed. The main points are set out below: 
It is the responsibility of the Financial Ombudsman Service to ensure all of the 
consequences of Allianz failing to adhere to the FCA Principles are borne by Allianz, 
rather than him. 
Mr C says that as the terms and conditions were ambiguous and considers that as 
there were two contradictory terms  one in the Policy Booklet and one in the 
Certificates of Insurance  consumer protection legislation requires that the more 
favourable term should prevail.
Mr C considers the policy term When we offer further periods of insurance, we may 
change the premium, excess, and policy Terms and Conditions creates a power 
imbalance and is unfair when considered under contract law. He also says there is a 
conflict of interest. 
 
Mr C has asked whether Allianzs sales script from when he bought the policy 
contained a full qualitative declaration of the cost profile over the pets lifetime.  He 
thinks this information should have been provided when the policy was sold.
 
Mr C says that Allianz have breached the original contract where he says it was 
agreed his premium would increase in line with vet fee inflation. He says he was lied 
to on the sales call and suspects Allianz of deliberately destroying the call recording 
and in doing so causing a conflict of interest. Mr C says that his recollection and 
notes from the call should be definitive. 
Mr C thinks Allianz should not be allowed to factor age into premiums when the pet is 
young and then doubly factor them into premiums when the pet is old - and also 
says: whether Allianz singled me out or not is a red herring, if everyone is being 
treated in a similar way to how I have been treated then Allianz is treating everyone 
unfairly.
What Ive decided  and whyIve considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I want to reiterate something I said in my provisional decision. It is my role when determining 
what is fair and reasonable to take into account the considerations under DISP 3.6.4R. 
Under this provision Im required to take into account: relevant law and regulations; relevant 
regulators rules, guidance and standards (including the Principles); relevant codes of 
practice; and, where appropriate, what I consider to have been good industry practice at the 
time.
Ive carefully considered everything Mr C has said, as well as the relevant considerations 
under DISP 3.6.4R. However, I wont be specifically referring in detail to all the relevant 
considerations under DISP 3.6.4R which Ive taken into account when determining what is 
fair and reasonable in this complaint.
Having thought about what Mr C has said, including what hes said in response to my 
provisional decision, for the reasons set out in my provisional decision and below, my 
findings remain unchanged. Ill explain why.
Were the terms Mr C refers to in his response ambiguous and contradictory? 
I agree with what Mr C has said about The Policy Booklet and Certificates of Insurance 
being read together and I can see his policy set out that the Certificates of Insurance formed 
part of his insurance contract (each year, as the contract is annually renewable).
 
Mr C points to the fact that above the benefit tables on his Certificates of Insurance it says 
Remember, with a Covered for Life policy your veterinary fees benefit is renewed each year 
provided there is no break in cover. He says this represents a contractual promise to keep 
the maximum benefit and excess (contained in the benefit tables) exactly the same for the 
life of the pet as long as the policy continues to be renewed. The policy booklet for 2012 
contains the term When we offer further periods of insurance, we may change the premium, 
excesses and policy Terms and Conditions. Mr C says this contradicts what is said in his 
Certificates of Insurance, and under legislation, the interpretation which is most favourable to 
the consumer should prevail. 
I dont think the term contained in the Certificates of Insurance does represent a contractual 
promise to keep the maximum benefit and excess exactly the same if premiums continue to 
be paid. It says the veterinary fees benefit will be renewed, but it doesnt make any 
guarantee the excess or the maximum benefit itself will remain the same. And when read 
alongside the 2012 policy terms, it is clear that when further periods of insurance are offered 
excesses may be changed  so I dont think this is contradictory. 
Is the variation term When we offer further periods of insurance, we may change the 
premium, excesses and policy Terms and Conditions unfair? 
I have carefully considered Mr Cs comments and whether the term concerning renewal of 
the policy in his policy document was unfair. Based on the evidence and taking into account 
the relevant law and regulations, relevant regulators rules, relevant codes of practice and 
good industry practice at the relevant time I do not consider that it would be fair and 
reasonable to conclude that Allianz acted unfairly by including this term. 
I also note that the terms concerning renewal of the policy did not change much between the 
2012 and 2018 versions of the policy. Ive taken into account the relevant law and 
regulations, relevant regulators rules, relevant codes of practice and good industry practice at all the relevant times and I dont think these terms were unfair at any point. I provide my 
reasons below. 
Mr Cs policy is an annually renewable contract. The terms referred to above effectively set 
out that any future contract may not be on exactly the same terms as the current contract of 
insurance. Ultimately this is something which the business would be able to do when offering 
new insurance whether or not the term is included in the contract. 
I recognise the terms allow the business a large degree of flexibility. But the flexibility of the 
business is balanced by Mr C being able to decide to not enter into the new contract and 
decline without penalty. Its possible for him to look for equivalent cover elsewhere. I 
recognise Mr Cs says that his dogs are older so it will be difficult for him to find cover for 
them. And I am also aware that Mr Cs dogs may have existing conditions, considering 
claims have been made on the policy.  But it is possible to get policies that cover older dogs 
and those with existing conditions. Although this type of cover may be expensive, I think that 
goes someway to show why Mr Cs current policy premiums have increased as they have  
as the same things will be factored into similar insurance policies for dogs of a similar age 
with similar conditions. I therefore dont consider this amounts to a power imbalance or a 
conflict of interest as Mr C has suggested.
What information should Allianz have provided about the potential cost of the policy? 
As I set out in my provisional decision, I dont think the potential long-term costs of the 
policy, or that his excess payments were likely to increase as his dogs got older were made 
clear enough when Mr C was sold the policy. Having reviewed the sales script Allianz have 
provided there wasnt any information about future cost.
I dont think it would be fair and reasonable to expect them to have set out a cost profile for 
the whole of a pets life as Mr C suggests. They wouldnt be able to anticipate future 
increase in veterinary fees, insurance premium tax or other changes they might make to 
their risk calculations in future years.
 
But I do think they would have known that premiums and excess amounts were likely to rise 
as a pet got older and that this could be significant  and I think they should have told Mr C 
this. 
As I said, I dont think Mr C was given enough information to understand he could end up in 
the position he is now in and I think thats caused him trouble and upset (which is why I 
consider compensation is due). But on balance I do think Mr C would still have taken the 
policy out  my reasoning can be found in my provisional findings which forms part of this 
decision.
 
Was there breach of contract?
Ive considered what Mr C says, but my findings remain unchanged  I dont think Allianz 
have breached their contract with Mr C. I have carefully considered Mr Cs written notes and 
also what he has said about Allianz making contractually binding promises on the call - and 
that he thinks these should be kept. But as I explained in my provisional decision, I think its 
unlikely Mr C would have been told vet fee inflation was going to be the only reason for 
premium increases, as that was never going to be the case. And as there is doubt over what 
was agreed in the call it cannot be shown on the evidence what was agreed between Mr C 
and the business. 
I dont think it is fair to treat his call notes as definitive evidence because Allianz cannot 
provide a call recording. As I say in my provisional decision, I dont have any context on what else was said during the call. The notes are fairly brief, and I dont think it can be argued 
they give a full and comprehensive account of what was said. 
Mr C says that Allianzs representative lied to him during the sales call and that he suspects 
Allianz of deliberately destroying the call recording and in doing so causing a conflict of 
interest. These are serious allegations.
 
The call took place a long time ago and its not unusual for a call not to be retained for that 
long. Based on the information I have, I think its unlikely Allianz would deliberately have 
destroyed the call. I also havent seen any evidence to suggest Allianzs representative lied 
to Mr C. Therefore, I dont think a conflict of interest was formed as Mr C suggests. 
Is it fair the way Allianz factor age into their premium calculations? 
Businesses are entitled to decide how much to charge for the insurance cover they provide 
and how much of an excess to apply to their policies, and I dont have the power to tell a 
business what its insurance should cost or what excesses it should apply. 
I know Mr C says Allianz should not be allowed to factor age into premiums when the pet is 
young and then doubly factor them into premiums when the pet is old. But it is for Allianz to 
assess the risk they are insuring and price the premium and set the excess accordingly. This 
is not something we will interfere with. 
I appreciate Mr C considers my point about being treated in a similar way to others a red 
herring. But I wanted to make sure Mr C had not been singled out in anyway  which I found 
no evidence of. I look at each case on its individual merits and I dont think Mr C has been 
treated unfairly when Allianz calculated the premium and excess.
 
Overall
Having reviewed all the further the points Mr C has provided in response to my provisional 
decision and having reconsidered all the evidence in its entirety, I have come to the same 
outcome for the same reasons as set out in my provisional decision.
I think £250 is fair and reasonable compensation in the circumstances of Mr Cs complaint. I 
acknowledge Mr C might not agree this compensates him for what he believes Allianz have 
done wrong, but I think it is fair for what I think its done wrong. 
To be clear, the compensation is in recognition of the trouble and upset caused to Mr C 
because I dont think he was given enough information when he was sold the policy about 
the potential long-term costs of the policy, or that his excess payments were likely to 
increase as his dogs got older. Its not to compensate him for any of the premiums he has 
paid.
 
My final decision
I think a fair way to resolve this complaint is for Allianz Insurance Plc to pay Mr C £250
compensation. To put things right Allianz Insurance Plc should now pay Mr C £250. 
  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 12 April 2021.
 
Hannah Eykel
Ombudsman