DRN-2275549
The complaint
M, a limited company, complains that Lloyds Bank PLC unfairly closed its bank account and 
would not reinstate it.
What happened
The director of M explains that there was an altercation when he was in a branch of Lloyds in 
April 2019. He says that he did not instigate this but intervened when he heard racist abuse 
between others present. He was later told that the bank account for M would be closed and 
says that Lloyds would not discuss this further with him.
Lloyds says it gave M 60 days notice to close the account on 17 April 2019. It accepts that 
in error it did not close the account in June 2019 as it had said it would. But it did close it in 
October 2019 when it was notified that M had been dissolved. It says that when it later spoke 
to the director he did not seem to be aware of this and said he had moved address but not 
notified that change to Companies House.
The director says he was told that a letter of apology had been sent out to him in October 
2019 which he didnt receive. Hed been told this letter stated that Lloyds had investigated 
his case and realised that the incident had nothing to do with him. Because he could not 
access his account and felt distressed at what Lloyds had done he did not have statements. 
And his accountants could not file his accounts leading to M being dissolved. He has spent 
money on reinstating the company and is unhappy that Lloyds will not reinstate Ms account 
or even consider a new application at this time.
Our investigator did not recommend that the complaint be upheld. He said that Lloyds was 
entitled to decide to close Ms account. The director had told him that he had not asked 
Lloyds for statements because of his mental state. While he understood the directors 
comments he felt M could have made arrangements to obtain statements. And he didnt 
think that M was dissolved due to Lloyds actions. Although the director says he was told by 
a third party and by Lloyds that his account could be reinstated this was not correct. He 
would need to make a new application for M when Lloyds started accepting applications 
again.
The director did not agree and said he had been the victim of discrimination by Lloyds. He 
was not involved in the altercation in branch and we had not taken Lloyds final response into 
account. He insisted he was told that a letter of apology was sent. And he wanted us to 
check security cameras and obtain a recording of the call a member of branch staff had with 
head office staff in his presence about this and the reinstatement of his account. He said that 
we havent investigated the issues in this complaint fully. And he referred to taking this 
matter up with his solicitors.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im sorry to hear about the way the director feels about what happened. I need though to 
make clear that this is a complaint by M, a separate legal entity to him, and which cannot 
suffer distress. 
I wont be able to resolve exactly what happened in branch in April 2019. Or as I say to 
consider here the personal impact on the director and what he feels was discrimination in a 
complaint here by M. What I need to say though is that Lloyds is entitled under the terms 
and conditions to decide not to continue to offer M an account provided it gives 60 days 
notice. Thats a commercial decision. The account did continue to operate based on the 
statement entries Ive seen for at least that period. And so, it was a matter for M to arrange 
to make alternative banking arrangements to mitigate the impact.
Lloyds did not close the account in the timescale it indicated. The director says he visited a 
branch in August 2019 and did not get any different answer. He refers then to a personal 
loss and going abroad for a period and not getting clarity on any investigation. Ive seen no 
record of any further investigation Lloyds committed to then. The director indicates he did not 
return to this country until there were lockdown restrictions in place this year  and so which 
would have been after 23 March 2020. He refers to making a complaint in July 2020 and 
visiting a branch. He says he was then told that there had been a letter of apology in October 
2019 and that his account would be reinstated when the issue with the block linked to the 
dissolution of M was lifted.
The public records at Companies House show a first notice of strike off for M was made in 
July 2019. The director was, based on what he says, able to visit a branch in August 2019. 
So, Im struggling to accept that he was unable to arrange to request the statements he says 
were needed by his accountants. I have seen copies of regular statements that seemed to 
have been issued at that time. If the issue leading to the strike off of M was linked to the 
accountants not being able to prepare a financial return Im afraid I think that was the 
responsibility of M and not Lloyds.
Once M was dissolved it did not exist and could not have an account. And even if as the 
director says Lloyds had rethought its original decision about closing the account that was 
overtaken by the fact that M no longer existed and so could not have an account.
I dont doubt that there was room for confusion about reinstating M to the register of 
companies. Its a matter for this service to decide on the evidence to request in addition to 
that provided by parties. And we have a statement from the manager who says he dealt with 
the director of M in July and August 2020 as well as the final response to the complaint. That 
manager says that he did not say that the old account could be reinstated if and when M was 
restored. And even if thats what the director thought was the position, that was not correct 
as this cannot happen. It would be always be necessary for M to reapply for a new account 
as part of Lloyds processes. And that unfortunately is what it will need to do if it wants when 
Lloyds is accepting new applications.
Lloyds has apologised for not closing the account when it said it would. But in any event the 
account had to close when M was dissolved as it no longer existed. And the costs of 
restoring it were something fairly down to M. I know the director will be very disappointed 
when I say that I dont have a reasonable basis to require Lloyds to do anything further. If M 
does not accept my decision it is free to pursue this matter in court as its indicated it might 
subject to any relevant time limits 
My final decisionMy decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask M to accept or 
reject my decision before 11 January 2021.
 
Michael Crewe
Ombudsman