DRN-3183933
The complaint
Mr F and the estate of Mrs F complain that Great Lakes Insurance SE has turned down a 
cancellation claim Mr and Mrs F made on their travel insurance policy.
What happened
In September 2019, Mr and Mrs F booked a cruise holiday. They were due to travel between
5 and 14 May 2020. On 20 February 2020, Mr and Mrs F took out a single trip travel
insurance policy through a broker to cover their planned holiday. The policy was
underwritten by Great Lakes. During the policy sale, Mr and Mrs F declared several medical
conditions, which Great Lakes agreed to cover. Mrs F also told the broker that she was on a
waiting-list for left hip replacement surgery, which she was due to undergo shortly.
So Great Lakes added an endorsement to Mr and Mrs Fs policy. This broadly stated that
while Great Lakes would provide medical cover for claims related to her left hip if Mrs F
needed treatment abroad, it wouldnt cover cancellation or abandonment claims which were
directly related to that condition.
Mrs F underwent left hip replacement surgery on 24 February 2020. Unfortunately, her
recovery didnt go to plan and she developed an infection in the wound. It seems Mrs F was
advised against travelling by a nurse and so the holiday was cancelled on 3 March 2020.
While the cruise provider refunded some of the costs, Mr and Mrs F made a claim for the
remaining cancellation costs associated with their booking.
Great Lakes turned down Mr and Mrs Fs claim. It said that the endorsement which had been
applied to their policy had specifically excluded cancellation claims which were directly linked
to Mrs Fs planned surgery.
Mr and Mrs F werent happy with Great Lakes decision and so they asked us to look into
their complaint.
Our investigator didnt think Great Lakes had treated Mr and Mrs F unfairly. She felt the
policy endorsement had been clear and that Great Lakes had been entitled to rely on it to
turn down Mr and Mrs Fs claim.
Mr and Mrs F disagreed. Mr F told us that theyd been sold a comprehensive policy and
theyd been told it would cover everything.
I issued a provisional decision on 27 October 2021, which explained the reasons why I 
thought itd been fair for Great Lakes to turn down Mr and Mrs Fs claim. I said:
First, I understand that Mrs F has been very unwell and Im sorry to hear about her illness.
Ive noted that Mr F has stated that he and Mrs F were told the policy was comprehensive
and would cover everything. Its important that I point out though that Great Lakes didnt sell
Mr and Mrs Fs policy. It was taken out through a broker. So if Mr and Mrs F are unhappy
with the way the policy was sold to them, or feel that policy information wasnt properly
explained, theyd need to make a separate complaint to their broker about the sale.
The relevant regulators rules say that insurers must handle claims promptly and fairly. And
they mustnt turn down claims unreasonably. So Ive carefully considered, amongst other
things, the available medical evidence and the terms of Mr and Mrs Fs policy to decide
whether Great Lakes treated them fairly.
Ive first considered the policy terms and conditions, as these form the basis of Mr and Mrs
Fs contract with Great Lakes. The policy contains a Medical Declaration, which says:
At the time of buying or renewing your policy, booking a trip or paying the balance due for a
trip (whichever is later) each insured person must guarantee the following:
5. You have told us if you are on a waiting list for, or are aware of the need for, any in-patient
treatment for any diagnosed or undiagnosed medical condition.
Theres no dispute that Mr and Mrs F told Great Lakes about their medical conditions and
that some of these were accepted for cover. Its also common ground that Mrs F told Great
Lakes about her planned surgery when she took out the policy. Great Lakes assessed
whether or not to offer cover for this particular condition and decided (as it was entitled to do)
to add an endorsement to the policy. This endorsement was set out on Mr and Mrs Fs policy
schedule and stated:
You have declared a medical condition for which you are on a waiting list for inpatient
treatment. We confirm that we are able to offer cover for claims arising in respect of this
medical condition while abroad (providing you are not travelling against your UK doctors
advice) as shown in the Policy Summary, except where a claim is made under the
Cancellation or Abandonment section of the Policy as a direct result of the medical
condition for which you are on a waiting list. (Bold is my emphasis).
I think this endorsement makes it clear that Great Lakes wasnt prepared to cover
cancellation or abandonment claims if they were directly linked to Mrs Fs hip condition or
surgery.
In this case, theres little medical evidence available to show the exact reason why it had
been medically necessary for Mr and Mrs F to cancel their trip. Ive seen a phone note from
around two weeks after the trip was cancelled which stated that a nurse had told Mrs F to
cancel the trip. And Ive seen a consultants report, dated 22 April 2020, which said that
while Mrs Fs surgical wound appeared to be healing, the consultant felt it was likely she had
or had had a wound infection. Mrs F had also been prescribed antibiotics to treat the
infection prior to seeing the consultant. So I accept that Mrs Fs surgical wound likely had
become infected and that this was the reason she needed to cancel the trip. On that basis
then, on balance, Im persuaded that the cause of the holiday cancellation was the direct
result of her surgery. And so I think it was fair for Great Lakes to conclude that Mr and Mrs
Fs claim fell within the scope of the endorsement.
I appreciate that at the point Mr and Mrs F cancelled the holiday, Mrs F was no longer on a
waiting list. Shed undergone the surgery. Great Lakes final response to Mrs Fs complaint
said that Mrs F shouldve called up once shed undergone surgery so that it could assess
whether or not to offer full cover. I note there isnt a specific requirement in the policy or the
schedule for Mrs F to do this  but Great Lakes says she wouldve been given this
information by the broker.
I asked Great Lakes to tell me what it wouldve done had Mrs F called it or the broker
following her surgery and provided an update on her condition. As Mrs F was suffering from
severe enough complications around two weeks after the surgery to result in the need tocancel the trip, it seems very unlikely that shed have been able to tell Great Lakes that she
was fully recovered. Great Lakes has told me that given the complications Mrs F was
suffering from, she was still at high risk of cancellation. So it said it wouldnt have been in a
position to offer Mrs F full cover even if she had called. As such, Im satisfied the
endorsement for cancellation claims related to Mrs Fs surgery wouldve remained in place
even if she had called Great Lakes shortly after it had taken place.
Overall, based on the evidence I have, despite my natural sympathy with Mr and Mrs Fs
position, I currently think it was fair and reasonable for Great Lakes to rely on the
endorsement to turn down Mr and Mrs Fs claim.
I asked both parties to send me any further evidence they wanted me to consider.
Great Lakes had nothing further to add.
Mr F let us know that sadly, Mrs F had passed away. He told our investigator that he felt 
strongly that I should listen to the sales call with the broker, as he said the broker had told 
them that the cover was comprehensive and theyd be covered in any event of cancellation.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, while Im sorry to disappoint Mr F, I still think it was fair for Great Lakes to 
turn down this claim and Ill explain why.
Firstly, Im very sorry to hear about the sad death of Mrs F and I hope Mr F will accept my 
sincere condolences for his loss. 
I appreciate how strongly Mr F feels that he and Mrs F were led to believe that the policy 
theyd taken out was comprehensive. Mr F says they were told theyd be covered in any 
event of cancellation. As I explained in my provisional decision though, Great Lakes didnt 
sell the policy to Mr and Mrs F. The policy was sold by a broker. This means that Great 
Lakes isnt responsible for the way that the insurance was sold to Mr and Mrs F, or for any 
information they were given by the broker at the point of sale. Great Lakes was responsible 
for assessing and ultimately turning down the claim. And so I cant consider the sale of the 
policy by the broker as part of this complaint against Great Lakes. 
If Mr F does wish to complain about the way the policy was sold, hell need to firstly complain 
directly to the broker. If hes unhappy with the outcome of that particular complaint, we may 
potentially be able to look into a new complaint about the sale of the policy by the broker.
But as Ive set out above, Im simply not able to look at the actions of the broker within this 
decision. Im only considering whether it was fair for Great Lakes to turn down the claim. And 
for the reasons I gave in my provisional decision, I think the available evidence shows, on 
balance, that the cancellation of Mr and Mrs Fs trip was directly related to Mrs Fs surgery. 
There isnt any medical evidence which suggests Mrs F wouldve been fit to travel after her 
surgery or that Great Lakes wouldve been in a position to remove the endorsement after 
Mrs F had the operation. This means that despite my sympathy with Mr Fs position, Im still 
persuaded that it was reasonable for Great Lakes to rely on the endorsement excluding 
cancellation claims which were linked to Mrs Fs hip surgery to turn down the claim.
My final decisionFor the reasons Ive given above and in my provisional decision, my final decision is that I 
dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr F and the 
estate of Mrs F to accept or reject my decision before 24 December 2021.
 
Lisa Barham
Ombudsman