DRN-3465372
The complaint
Mr H complains that Bank of Scotland plc (trading as Birmingham Midshires) didnt apply a 
payment correctly to his mortgage account. Hed like the payment applied to his account and 
compensation of the same amount for any additional interest and his time and trouble.
What happened
Mr H made his usual monthly payment to his mortgage in May 2021. When he checked his 
statement, it showed the payment as received and then reversed. He says the payment 
wasnt returned to his bank account and Birmingham Midshires hasnt explained what 
happened to it. 
Our investigator said Birmingham Midshires had applied the payment to Mr Hs account. 
However, it hadnt explained the entries on the statement or provided evidence the payment 
was correctly applied to Mr H. Our investigator said this caused unnecessary upset for which 
Birmingham Midshires should pay compensation of £100.
Mr H didnt agree. He said the statement provided by Birmingham Midshires didnt show the 
balance reducing by the amount of the payment. Birmingham Midshires didnt agree either, 
saying Mr H hadnt lost out as a result of his statement not showing the entries in full. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr H makes monthly mortgage payments by direct debit. In early May 2021, a couple of 
days before the direct debit payment was due, he made an overpayment into the account. 
Mr H has an interest only mortgage, and so his monthly payments are of interest. The 
overpayment was a capital repayment. 
Birmingham Midshires says it made adjustments to Mr Hs account so that the payments 
were applied correctly. That is, the monthly payment was applied to pay accrued interest and 
the overpayment was applied to reduce the capital balance. It provided screen shots of 
entries on the account which show these adjustments. 
However, the statement Birmingham Midshires sent to Mr H later in September 2021 didnt 
show the same entries as the screen shot. It showed Mr Hs monthly payment being 
received and then reversed. Birmingham Midshires says this statement is wrong, and the 
payment was re-applied (despite this not appearing on the statement). The screen shots 
sent by Birmingham Midshires support this. But I think its perfectly reasonable for Mr H  
having received this statement  to question what happened and ask for evidence that the 
payment was in fact correctly applied to his account in May 2021. 
I asked Birmingham Midshires to provide annual statements for Mr Hs account. These show 
the two payments received in May 2021 (the overpayment and the monthly interest 
payment). The interest payment is shown as received, reversed and received on the same 
day. The overpayment is shown as received on the 5th, reversed on the 5th and received on 
the 10th of May 2021. I think the payments were applied to Mr Hs account. 
The screen shots provided by Birmingham Midshires show the account balance reducing 
when the overpayment was received (5 May 2021). 
Mr H said the screen shots arent right because they dont show the balance reducing when 
he makes monthly interest payments. I dont think thats an error. This is an interest only 
mortgage and so these payments are of accrued interest. The monthly payments dont  and 
arent intended to  reduce the capital balance. If Mr H didnt make monthly interest 
payments (or if they werent applied to his account) the accrued interest would be added to 
and increase the balance.
Putting things right
I think the payments made by Mr H in May 2021 were applied to his mortgage account. So I 
dont think he has financial loss. But I do think this matter caused upset and confusion. 
Birmingham Midshires sent a statement to Mr H which was incorrect and appeared to show 
a payment being reversed. While it assured Mr H his account was correct  and I think its 
provided sufficient evidence to support this  it didnt acknowledge this error when Mr H 
raised concerns. Its understandable that Mr H remained worried. I think its right that 
Birmingham Midshires pays compensation for the unnecessary upset caused first by the 
error in the statement and then by not explaining better what had happened. Having 
considered what both parties have said, I think £100 is fair and reasonable in the 
circumstances. 
My final decision
My decision is that I uphold this complaint. I order Bank of Scotland plc (trading as 
Birmingham Midshires) to pay £100 to Mr H.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 23 August 2022.
 
Ruth Stevenson
Ombudsman