DRN-3580558
The complaint
Mr and Mrs D complain that Computershare Investor Services Plc didnt act on their 
instructions to sell shares. 
What happened
Mr and Mrs D had a holding of shares in a company which Ill refer to as F. They wanted to 
sell the shares to provide money to supplement their income but couldnt find the share 
certificate. They completed the forms, and paid the fee, to obtain a new certificate and 
Computershare told them they would have to give postal instructions to sell the shares.
Computershare said it had received all the paperwork it needed by 12 January 2022. Mr D 
phoned Computershare on 13 January and was told the shares would be sold. When he 
didnt receive confirmation of the sale, he complained.
Computershare said Mr D had wrongly sent it the indemnity and sale instructions separately, 
so the share certificate was sent to him, rather than being passed to the dealing desk. This 
meant the sale instructions were declined. It said it shouldnt have told him during phone 
calls on 6 and 13 January that the sale would be taking place and it paid him £75 to 
apologise for the wrong information he was given. During a phone call at the end of March, 
in response to his complaint, Computershare said it would be selling the shares that day. But 
Mr D said he didnt want the shares sold unless Computershare paid him compensation for 
the price difference.
Our investigator recommended that the complaint should be upheld. He thought 
Computershare had everything it needed to sell the shares on 13 January. He concluded 
Computershare should sell Mr and Mrs Ds holding of F shares and compensate them for 
any difference in share price, plus interest. And he noted the distress caused to Mr and 
Mrs D and recommended Computershare should pay them an additional £75 compensation.
Computershare agreed to pay £75. And it said it would reimburse Mr and Mrs D for the 
difference in the value of the shares from 13 January to 29 March 2022. It said Mr D 
cancelled the sale on 29 March, so Computershare shouldnt be liable for any losses 
incurred since this date.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr D first contacted Computershare about the sale of F shares in December 2021. But, 
because he couldnt find the share certificate, he had to complete an indemnity form. This 
was sent in separately to the sale instructions and dealt with by different departments, so 
there was some delay in Computershare having all the paperwork they needed to place a 
sale order for Mr and Mrs D. I agree with the investigator that its reasonable to conclude 
Computershare should have placed a sale order on 13 January 2022. And, in response to 
the investigators conclusions, it seems Computershare agrees.
But it says it should only need to compensate Mr and Mrs D for the difference in share price 
from 13 January to 29 March  as this is the date it said it would sell the shares, but Mr D 
cancelled the instructions.
Ive listened to the call which took place on 29 March and during which Mr D withdrew his 
instruction to sell F shares. But this was in response to Computershare making it very clear 
that it wouldnt be compensating Mr and Mrs D for the difference in the share price. Whilst 
Mr D was made aware that he could refer the complaint to this service, he didnt know if it 
would be upheld. So I can understand why he didnt want to risk going ahead with the sale 
on 29 March, when the price of F shares was around £8 lower than it had been on 
13 January. I dont think Mr Ds instruction to cancel the sale instruction was unreasonable in 
the circumstances. And for that reason I agree with the investigator that Mr and Mrs D 
should be compensated for the difference in share price from 13 January to the date 
Computershare sell the shares, plus interest for the time that Mr and Mrs D have been 
without the money.
Mr and Mrs D have explained they wanted the money to supplement their income. And that, 
when they saw the share price falling, they became increasingly concerned that their shares 
hadnt been sold. I think its fair and reasonable that Computershare should pay them £75, in 
addition to the £75 already paid, for the distress and inconvenience caused.
Putting things right
Computershare Investor Services Plc should:
1. Sell Mr and Mrs Ds holding of F shares. It should compensate Mr and Mrs D for any 
difference in share price from the opening price of £34.62 on 13 January 2022.
2. Pay interest on this amount at the simple rate of 8% per year from 13 January 2022 to 
the date it makes the payment. *
3. Pay Mr and Mrs D £75, in addition to the £75 its already paid.
* HM Revenue & Customs requires Computershare Investor Services Plc to take off tax from 
this interest. Computershare Investor Services Plc must give Mr and Mrs D a certificate 
showing how much tax its taken off if they asks for one.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint. Computershare Investor Services Plc should 
pay compensation as set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs D and Mr D to 
accept or reject my decision before 28 March 2023.
 
Elizabeth Dawes
Ombudsman