DRN-3781164
The complaint
Mr C complains about the amount that hes been charged by ALD Automotive Limited, 
trading as Kia Contact Hire, after he returned a car at the end of his hire agreement.
What happened
A new car was supplied to Mr C under a hire agreement with Kia Contract Hire that he 
signed in March 2018. He returned the car when the hire agreement ended and it was 
inspected by a third party on behalf of Kia Contract Hire. The inspection report identified that 
the cars service history was incomplete and that there was a hole in the right front carpet. 
Kia Contract Hire charged Mr C £480 for three missed services and £60 for the damage to 
the carpet. 
Mr C complained to it about the charges but it said that the damage exceeded the guidelines 
on fair wear and tear issued by the British Vehicle Rental and Leasing Association and the 
car should have had a minimum of three services completed. Mr C wasnt satisfied with its 
response so complained to this service.
Our investigator didnt recommend that his complaint should be upheld. He said that Kia 
Contract Hire had acted fairly when charging for the damage and missing services and that 
he was satisfied that the charges were fair.
Mr C has asked for his complaint to be considered by an ombudsman. He says that the 
manufacturer offers seven years free servicing and he had been offered free servicing on his 
latest car so he believes that the charges are excessive. He says that the charge should 
reflect the amount that it would have cost him to service the car every year and that servicing 
the car was at the back of his mind due to the government imposed restrictions in response 
to the pandemic.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the outcome recommended by our investigator for these 
reasons:
the hire agreement says: The Customer at its own expense agrees to  maintain 
the  interior of the Vehicle in good condition, having regard to the age and mileage 
of the Vehicle. In assessing appropriate Vehicle condition with regard to age and 
mileage, Kia Contract Hire will use the criteria set out in the definition of Fair Wear 
and Tear;
it also says: The Customer at its own expense agrees to  ensure that the Vehicle 
is serviced promptly at the correct servicing intervals and in accordance with the 
Manufacturer's applicable service schedule and recommendations contained in the 
Manufacturers handbook;
the agreement says that fair wear and tear shall be interpreted in accordance with 
the guidelines of the British Vehicle Rental and Leasing Association;
the car was inspected when the hire agreement ended and the inspection report 
identified a hole in the right front carpet  and a photo of the damage was included;
the British Vehicle Rental and Leasing Associations fair wear and tear guidelines 
say: The interior upholstery and trim must be clean, odourless with no burns, 
scratches, tears, dents or staining. Carpets should not have holes;
I consider it to be clear from the inspection report that there was a hole in the carpet 
when the car was returned and that the hole is more than would reasonably be 
considered to be fair wear and tear - I consider that a charge of £60 for that damage 
is fair and reasonable;
it also seems to be clear that the car wasnt serviced during the period that it was 
being hired by Mr C and hes provided no evidence to show that the car was serviced 
 Kia Contract Hire says that the car should have been serviced three times during 
that period;
it also says that the car has been sold and I consider it to be more likely that the car 
will have been worth less because it hadnt been properly serviced than it would if the 
services had taken place;
Mr C had agreed to have the car serviced and the hire agreement says: If you do not 
service the Vehicle promptly as required with the Manufacturers service schedule 
you must pay any costs that results from this (such as devaluation of the Vehicle);
although Mr C says that the manufacturer offers free servicing, he didnt have the car 
serviced and Im not persuaded that a charge of £480 for the depreciation in the 
value of the car as a result of three services having being missed is excessive;
the first service would have been due in about March 2019  before the government 
imposed restrictions in response to the pandemic were introduced - and Ive seen no 
evidence to show that Mr C raised any difficulties about servicing the car with Kia 
Contract Hire until after the car had been returned;
Im not persuaded that theres enough evidence to show that those restrictions 
prevented him from having the car serviced;
Im not persuaded that theres enough evidence to show that Kia Contract Hire has 
acted incorrectly in charging Mr C because of the damage and the missing services; 
and
I find that it wouldnt be fair or reasonable in these circumstances for me to require 
Kia Contract Hire to reduce or waive the charges that its made to Mr C, to pay him 
any compensation or to take any other action in response to his complaint.
My final decision
My decision is that I dont uphold Mr Cs complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 23 February 2023.
 
Jarrod Hastings
Ombudsman