DRN-4212804
Complaint
Mr S has complained about high-cost short-term credit instalment loans he took out with 
Gain Credit LLC (trading as Lending Stream). He says Lending Stream lent to him at a time 
when he was already struggling and it ought to have realised that it was irresponsible to lend 
to him.
Background
Lending Stream provided Mr S with a total of three loans. The first of them was taken in  
June 2022 was for £1,000.00 and was due to be repaid in 12 instalments of around £176.25. 
The second of the loans was taken in October 2022 was for £410 and was due to be repaid 
in six monthly instalments of around £133. And the last of loans was taken at the end of 
October 2022 was for £420 and was due to be repaid in six monthly instalments of around 
£141. All of Mr S loans were settled early. 
One of our adjudicators reviewed what Mr S and Lending Stream had told us. And she 
thought that Lending Stream hadnt treated Mr S unfairly and so didnt uphold the complaint. 
Mr S disagreed and asked for an ombudsman to look at his complaint. 
My findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve explained how we handle complaints about short term lending on our website. And 
Ive used this approach to help me decide Mr S complaint.
Having carefully thought about everything Ive been provided with, Im not upholding Mr S
complaint. Id like to explain why in a little more detail.
Mr S was provided with high-interest loans, intended for short-term use. So Lending Stream
needed to make sure that it didnt provide them irresponsibly. In practice, what this means is
that Lending Stream needed to carry out proportionate checks to be able to understand
whether any lending was sustainable for Mr S before providing it.
Our website sets out what we typically think about when deciding whether a lenders checks
were proportionate. Generally, we think its reasonable for a lenders checks to be less
thorough  in terms of how much information it gathers and what it does to verify that
information  in the early stages of a lending relationship.
But we might think it needed to do more if, for example, a borrowers income was low or the
amount lent was high. And the longer the lending relationship goes on, the greater the risk of
it becoming unsustainable and the borrower experiencing financial difficulty. So wed expect
a lender to be able to show that it didnt continue to lend to a customer irresponsibly.
Lending Stream says it agreed to Mr S applications after hed provided details of his
monthly income and expenditure. It says the information Mr S provided on his income and
expenditure showed that hed be able to comfortably make the repayments he was
committing to. And in these circumstances it was reasonable to lend. On the other hand,        
Mr S says that the loans were unaffordable. 
Ive carefully thought about what Mr S and Lending Stream have said. The first thing for me
to say is that these loans were Mr S first loans with Lending Stream and they were all 
completely repaid within a period that was less than the original term of Mr S first loan. 
Indeed the total period of time Mr S was indebted to Lending Stream for was just over six 
months. So Mr S was only indebted to Lending Stream for a short period. And I dont think 
that there was any established pattern in Mr S borrowing needs at this stage.
The information provided does suggest that Mr S was asked to provide details of his income
and expenditure. Bearing in mind the amount of the monthly repayment, the questions
Lending Stream asked Mr S and these were Mr S first loans, I dont think it was
unreasonable for Lending Stream to rely on the information Mr S was providing.
I accept that Mr S actual circumstances may not have been reflected either in the
information he provided, or the other information Lending Stream obtained. And Im sorry to
hear that Mr S was struggling financially and that he found it difficult to repay his loans even 
though they were repaid early. But Lending Stream could only make its decisions based on 
the information it had available at the time. And, at this stage of the lending relationship, I 
dont think proportionate checks wouldve extended into Lending Stream asking Mr S to 
evidence what he was declaring.
Equally it's only really fair for me to uphold a complaint where I can safely say a lender did
something wrong. And, in this case, I dont think that Lending Stream did anything wrong in
deciding to lend to Mr S - it carried out reasonable checks even though its looks like the
information it mightve been provided with was inaccurate.
Lending Stream reasonably relied on the information provided with and given the amount of
the repayments involved and the overall circumstances of Mr S loan history, I dont think it
was unreasonable for Lending Stream to lend  especially as there wasnt anything obvious,
in the information it had, to suggest Mr S wouldnt be able to sustainably repay these loans.
I appreciate that Mr S feels that the answer hes received on this case is inconsistent on with 
the answer hes received on a different one. Ive looked at the answer Mr S received on the 
case hes referred to. But while I agree consistency is important each case we receive is 
considered on its individual facts and circumstances. And Im not bound by the outcomes 
reached by adjudicators, or even ombudsman, on different cases with different facts. 
Ultimately, Im required to consider the facts of a case and reach my own independent  
conclusion on the matter. That said and with a view to providing some clarity and 
reassurance to Mr S, it might help for me to explain that there are some key differences 
between this complaint and the one Mr S has referred to. 
This first key difference is that in Mr S other case he took out four loans, rather than three. 
These loans had much larger monthly payments (more than double the repayments here) 
and as a results the level of checks required for the lender to have acted fairly and 
reasonably was higher. 
Furthermore Mr S was also borrowing larger amounts (all of the amounts were larger than 
his first loan), whereas in this case the amount being borrowed wasnt really increasing  
loan 2 was for substantially less than the amount of loan 1 and loan 3 was only £10 more 
than the amount for loan 2. And as a result in this complaint, I think that proportionate checks would have shown the payments to be affordable  although I accept that Mr S is 
unlikely to agree with this.  
As this is the case, while Im not required to replicate the outcomes reached by adjudicators 
on other cases, nonetheless I dont consider that my answer here is incompatible or 
inconsistent with Mr S other case, notwithstanding the differing outcomes.    
  
So overall and having considered everything, I dont think that the checks Lending Stream 
carried out were unreasonable in this instance. And Im therefore not upholding Mr S 
complaint. I appreciate that this will be very disappointing for Mr S. But I hope hell 
understand the reasons for my decision and that hell at least feel his concerns have been 
listened to.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, Im not upholding Mr S complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 11 December 2023.
 
Jeshen Narayanan
Ombudsman