DRN-3055414
The complaint
E complains that U K Insurance Limited (UKI) unfairly avoided its motor trade policy and 
refused to deal with its claim. Reference to UKI includes its agents.
What happened
E held a motor trade policy with UKI. When one of its vehicles was involved in an incident it 
made a claim to UKI for the damage.
UKI declined Es claim. It said E had been using the vehicle for a purpose not listed in the 
schedule of insurance. UKI said the person involved in the accident said theyd hired the car 
from E, and this wasnt covered under its policy with UKI. UKI thought E was making a claim 
on the policy it knew it wasnt entitled to, and so UKI avoided Es policy and didnt deal with 
Es claim.
E didnt think this was fair. It said it wasnt hiring the car to the driver involved in an incident. 
It said it was providing the car to them as a courtesy car while it was carrying out repairs on 
the drivers car. E said it had spoken to the driver involved and theyd since changed their 
version of events to confirm they werent hiring the car from E.
UKI didnt change its stance. It said it was more persuaded by the drivers first version of 
event and didnt know if theyd changed their story after being persuaded by E. UKI 
maintained its decision to avoid the policy and not deal with the claim was fair.
E disagreed and brought its complaint to us. One of our investigators didnt recommend it be 
upheld. She thought UKI was acting reasonably when relying on the first version of events 
the driver involved in the incident provided.
E disagreed and asked for an ombudsmans decision. It maintained there was a 
misunderstanding between UKI and the driver and didnt think it was fair its policy was 
avoided and its claim not paid because of that misunderstanding.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im not upholding Es complaint. Ill explain why.
Es policy provided it cover for Any motor vehicle the property of the policyholder or in his 
custody or control in connection with his business. 
The certificate of insurance makes clear the limitations of use. It says E is only insured for 
Use by a customer of the Policyholders for his business or social, domestic and pleasure 
purposes provided that the vehicle has been lent or hired to such customer by the 
Policyholder while he is repairing, servicing or maintaining the customers vehicle
Es policy says that If any claim is in any respect fraudulent or if any fraudulent means or 
devices are used by the Policyholder or anyone acting on his behalf to obtain any benefit 
under this Policy or if any Damage be occasioned by the willful act or with the connivance of 
the Policyholder all benefits under this Policy shall be forfeited
UKI thinks E breached this limitation because the driver involved in the incident said theyd 
simply hired the car from E. They werent hiring the car in connection with any repair or 
servicing.
UKI said it also had evidence that Es former director (director at the time the complaint was 
made) had another business which hired out cars. So UKI thought This car had effectively 
been hired out by that other company, and so wasnt insured by Es policy.
Ive not placed too much weight on UKIs evidence of other cars listed on this policy and 
whether or not they were being hired by Es former directors other company. I think whats 
more relevant is what the car involved in the accident was being used for at the time of the 
accident.
Simply put, if the car involved in this accident was being used by the driver in connection 
with a repair, service or maintenance being carried out by E on his own car, then E would be 
covered for the damage caused in the incident. But if the driver was hiring the car from E, 
not in connection with any repair, service or maintenance, then E wouldnt be covered.
Based on the evidence provided I think the latter is more likely. Ive listened to the call and 
heard the statement provided by the driver involved. They give a very clear account of why 
they were in possession of Es car. And not only is there no indication it was used in 
connection with a repair or service, theres strong reasoning for why it wasnt being used for 
that purpose. The driver explains that theyd only use the manufacturer for service and 
repairs to their own car and explains the reasons for this. They make it clear that E didnt 
have his own car for repairs or servicing. The driver details the amount they paid for the hire 
of the car for the week and clearly explains they were hiring it for recreational purposes. The 
driver says they thought they were hiring the car from Es former directors other company. 
I appreciate that the driver has since changed their version of events. And in truth, its now 
not possible to tell which version is true. But I think its reasonable that UKI rely on the 
drivers first version of events. At the point the driver gives that version, theres no reason for 
them not to tell the truth. And their account is very clear and persuasive which adds to its 
credibility.
It follows that based on the drivers first version of events, E was likely making a claim for 
something it knowingly wasnt entitled to  because the vehicle was likely being used not in 
connection with any repair, service or maintenance. And so, it follows that Im satisfied that 
UKIs decision to avoid the policy and not deal with this claim was fair and reasonable in all 
the circumstances of this complaint.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask E to accept or 
reject my decision before 9 November 2021.
 
Joe Thornley
Ombudsman