DRN-3211379
The complaint
Mrs A complains that Next Retail Limited trading as Next Directory (Next) lent to her 
irresponsibly and provided credit that was unaffordable for her
What happened
In October 2016 Mrs A opened a shopping account with Next. She had an initial account 
limit of £600. In January 2017 her credit limit was reduced to £100 and in May 2017 the 
credit limit was increased to £3,750.
Mrs A says that her credit limit shouldnt have been increased to £3,750. She said she was 
extremely vulnerable and wasnt in the right frame of mind to take out any credit. Mrs A says 
she became unable to afford the repayments and it had a significant impact on her life. Mrs 
A wanted her whole outstanding balance to be cleared and for any negative impact on her 
credit file to be removed.
Next explained that it agreed it shouldnt have increased Mrs As credit limit to £3,750. It said 
that based on its current procedures this was too large an increase. Next bought back Mrs 
As account from third party debt collectors to whom it had sold Mrs As outstanding debt in 
July 2019. Next also refunded the interest on Mrs As account, leaving the remaining 
balance at £3,625.90 and invited Mrs A to contact it to discuss setting up an affordable 
repayment plan. 
Next said it wouldnt be able to remove the default from Mrs As credit file as it had a duty to 
report how the account was managed and because other lenders rely on this information 
when making their lending decisions. Next did offer Mrs A an apology for the service she 
received and £100 in compensation.
Mrs A didnt accept this offer and asked us to consider her complaint. She thought that Next 
had continued to allow her to spend after January 2017 when her credit limit was reduced 
and before May 2017 when her credit was increased to £3,750.
The adjudicator who considered Mrs As complaint agreed that Next shouldnt have 
increased Mrs As credit limit to £3,750.  The adjudicator didnt think Next had allowed Mrs A 
to continue spending on her account between January and May 2017. The adjudicator 
thought that what Next had done to resolve the complaint was enough.
Mrs A disagreed, so her complaint has been passed to me to make a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
. Weve set out our general approach to complaints about unaffordable and irresponsible 
lending - including the key relevant rules, guidance and good industry practice - on our 
website and Ive taken that into account when considered Mrs As complaint.
Next needed to take reasonable steps to ensure it didnt lend irresponsibly. In practice this 
means that it should have carried out proportionate checks to make sure Mrs A could afford 
to repay what she was being lent in a sustainable manner. These checks could take into 
account a number of different things, such as how much was being lent, the repayment 
amounts, Mrs As borrowing history and her income and expenditure. 
The credit check results provided by Next didnt show anything negative to suggest it would 
have been unreasonable to have opened Mrs As account in October 2016. I think Next 
ought to have taken steps to build a picture of Mrs As financial situation, for example by 
asking for Mrs As income.
Our adjudicator requested this information from Mrs A but she didnt provide the information. 
I also note that when Mrs A asked Next to cancel her outstanding balance completely Next 
asked her to complete a form and return some personal financial information to it but she 
didnt do this. 
I havent seen anything in the information available which would suggest Next would have 
known that Mrs A wouldnt have been able to sustainably meet the repayments towards the 
account. So I dont think it acted irresponsibly or inappropriately in providing the opening 
credit to Mrs A. 
In January 2017 Mrs As credit limit was reduced from £600 to £100. At this time her balance 
was £566. Next said that it did this to stop her spending for a while to contain her balance. 
Given that Mrs A was still within her limit I consider its likely that Next had information to 
suggest she was not able to manage her finances at that time. 
Although Mrs As credit limit was now £100, Next essentially set her limit to match her 
outstanding balance at the time so that it did not report to credit reference agencies that she 
was over her limit. As she made payments towards the account her limit was effectively 
reduced to whatever the level was of her outstanding balance. Further purchases Mrs A 
made between 14 January 2017 and 12 May 2017 were paid for in advance and not on 
credit. 
When Mrs A had made payments to her account over a number of months, Next increased 
her limit to £3,750 in May 2017. This was a big leap and Next accepts that this increase was 
too high. I agree. While the index Next used to assess affordability indicated that this may 
not have been a problem, there were other indications on her account  for example the fact 
her credit limit had been reduced very recently due to concerns about affordability. Next also 
appear to have done very little at the time to understand any specifics about Mrs As 
financial circumstances, such as what her income was. I dont think it was appropriate to 
increase her limit so significantly in the circumstances without a more thorough affordability 
assessment.. 
So, I dont think that Next did anything wrong when it gave Mrs A £600 of credit when it 
opened her account. And I dont think it did anything wrong when it reduced her credit to 
£100 in January 2017. But I do think it acted irresponsibly when it extended Mrs As credit to 
£3,750 in May 2017. So, I partially uphold Mrs As complaint.
 Putting things right
As I uphold this complaint in part I consider its fair and reasonable for Next Directory to 
refund any interest and charges incurred by Mrs A as a result of the credit unfairly granted to 
her. 
I dont think the limit should have been increased from 13 May 2017 onwards. Therefore, 
Next should remove any interest and charges incurred after 13 May 2017 as a result of any 
increases. That is, Next Directory can only add interest accrued on the balance up to the 
credit limit of £100 - being the credit limit before 13 May 2017. I understand that Next has 
already done this.
Next says that there is a current outstanding balance of £3,625.90 after these calculations. 
Next has invited Mrs A to contact them to discuss an affordable payment plan. Next does not 
have to refund or write off any sums for goods Mrs A purchased as she has received these 
and had benefit from them.
Once the outstanding balance has been repaid, Next should remove any adverse 
information from Mrs As credit file from 13 May 2017.
I think Nexts offer of an apology and £100 in compensation for the service they provided is 
fair and reasonable in the circumstances, so I wont be telling them to do anything else. 
My final decision
I partially uphold Mrs As complaint and direct Next Retail Limited to put things right as I 
have explained above. I understand that Next Retail Limited agreed to this outcome after 
Mrs A brought her complaint to this service and have since made the appropriate 
adjustments to Mrs As account. When the outstanding balance has been cleared I direct 
Next Retail Limited to made the adjustment to Mrs As credit file as explained above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs A to accept or 
reject my decision before 8 March 2022.
 
Sally Allbeury
Ombudsman