DRN-2477436
The complaint
Mr M, on behalf of N, complains about Covea Insurance plcs decision to decline Ns claim 
for losses under the business interruption section of its commercial insurance policy.  
What happened
N held a commercial insurance policy with Covea. References in this decision to Covea 
include the actions of its agents. The policy provided a number of areas of cover, including 
for losses incurred as a result of interruption to Ns business. When Ns business had to 
close in line with the Scottish Governments measures to control the spread of COVID-19 
Mr M, on behalf of N, made a claim under this section of the policy.
Covea declined the claim. It said COVID-19 was not one of the diseases listed as being 
covered by the Infectious Diseases extension in Ns policy. And that COVID-19 was a 
separate disease to SARS  which was covered by this extension.
Mr M complained. He raised a number of points, including that he considered COVID-19 had 
caused damage, that COVID-19 was a type of SARS, and that the terms of the policy were 
ambiguous and so should be read in favour of N as the policyholder. Covea did not alter its 
position and Mr M brought Ns complaint to this service.
Our investigator didnt agree that COVID-19 had caused damage to property, and even if it 
had this was not as a result of an Incident insured by Ns policy. He also felt that the 
Infectious Diseases extension only provided cover for losses resulting from the specific list of 
illnesses set out in the policy. And that whilst it may not have been necessary for the policy 
to be drafted with a reference to AIDS, or an AIDS related condition, he did not consider this 
meant the definition of Disease should not apply. Mr M remained unhappy and this case has 
been passed to me for a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, whilst I am sorry to hear about the considerable financial impact COVID-19 
restrictions have had on N, I wont be upholding its complaint. My reasons are substantially 
the same as the investigators.
I understand that N closed its business in March 2020 due to the government-imposed 
lockdown. The nature of its business was such that it wouldnt have been allowed to stay 
open after this time. So, the type of cover its looking to claim under is business interruption 
insurance.
There are a range of business interruption insurance policies on the market covering 
different risks. For example, some only provide cover for basic things such as fire or flood, 
whilst others provide cover in more circumstances either as part of the policy or as optional 
add-ons. The starting point is to consider the specific policy N took out.
As with many policies providing cover for business interruption, the general cover provided is 
for instances where damage to the policyholders property has caused an interruption to the 
business of the policyholder. This cover is then extended by a number of further terms. 
Some of these provide cover where the damage has occurred to property not owned by the 
policyholder. For instance, the Denial of Access extension provides cover where damage to 
property in the vicinity of the policyholders premises has prevented or hindered use or 
access to those premises. Whilst the exact requirements of the general cover and these 
extensions differ, I will consider all of those which are based on the occurrence of damage 
together. I will then consider the other extension to Ns policy which is particularly relevant to 
this complaint  the Infectious Diseases extension. 
Damage
The term Damage is defined within Ns policy, which says this:
means physical loss or destruction of or damage to Property.
Property itself has been defined as:
material property
Mr M has suggested that the definition of Damage only specifically attaches the need for 
something physical to loss. I am not sure this is how a court would interpret this term as 
being read. But I dont think an analysis of this is necessary. 
This is because I think that for there to be damage to material property, which is what is 
effectively required, something physical is necessary. I think a material property is a physical 
thing; it is property made out of matter rather than something more abstract. And in order for 
a physical thing to be damaged, I think the damage must be physical. 
I think that, for damage to have occurred, there would need to be a physical change or 
altered state to property, which made it less valuable. Alternatively, it is possible damage 
could be said to have occurred if specialist cleaning was required to remove the cause of 
potential damage. 
It is possible that SARS-CoV-2, the virus leading to COVID-19, was present in Ns premises, 
either in the air on or surfaces. But it is normal that viruses generally exist on surfaces and in 
the air. And the Governments guidance on cleaning during the Covid-19 pandemic didnt 
recommend any cleaning by a specialist. There is no evidence of an excessive amount of 
SARS-CoV-2 on any relevant property. And the mere presence of any particular virus is not 
automatically damage. In my view, it wouldnt constitute damage to property unless it 
impacted the property in the way Ive mentioned above, and there is no evidence that SARS-
CoV-2 has caused any physical change or altered the state of any property.
I do not consider the circumstances of Ns claim fall under the general business interruption 
cover, or any of the extensions that require there to have been Damage. As such, I think 
Covea acted fairly and reasonably in its decision under these terms and in responding to Ns 
complaint about this. 
Infectious Disease
Ns policy includes an extension that relates to disease. As the underlying reason for the 
interruption to Ns business was a disease, this term looks like it could be relevant.The term says:
The insurance by this Section extends to include interruption of or interference with 
Your Business in consequence of closure of the Premises or part thereof on the 
order advice or stipulation of any government or local authority as a result of
1) any human infectious or human contagious Disease (excluding Acquired Immune 
Deficiency Syndrome [AIDS] or an AIDS-related condition) manifested by any person 
whilst at the Premises or within a 25 mile radius of the Premises
The capitalised term Disease is defined within the business interruption section of Ns 
policy, which in part reads:
These definitions apply to this Section wherever these words or phrases appear with 
an upper case letter except where otherwise stated
Disease
means any of the following diseases sustained by any person acute encephalitis 
acute infectious hepatitis acute meningitis acute poliomyelitis anthrax botulism 
brucellosis cholera diphtheria enteric fever (typhoid or paratyphoid) food poisoning 
haemolytic uraemic syndrome(HUS) infectious bloody diarrhoea invasive group A 
streptococcal disease legionellosis leprosy malaria measles meningococcal 
septicaemia mumps plague rabies rubella SARS scarlet fever smallpox tetanus 
tuberculosis typhus viral haemorrhagic fever (VHF) whooping cough and yellow 
fever
Mr M has made two main points. Firstly, that the wording of the term is ambiguous and the 
use of Disease within this term should not be read as being limited to the list set out in the 
definition. And, secondly, that SARS should be read as a more generalised term that would 
include COVID-19 as this is also a type of Severe Acute Respiratory Syndrome.
Mr M has referred to the word disease being used elsewhere in the policy, both capitalised 
and not. He has suggested that this means the definition in the business interruption section 
of the policy does not apply. However, the wording of the definitions part of this section is 
clear that wherever the relevant words appear in upper case within that section the definition 
applies. So, I dont agree that any use of the term outside of this section, whether or not that 
use means something different, means the use of the term within the section is unclear. 
I do note that the term does refer to AIDS and AIDS related conditions. It is possible that this 
wording is superfluous, given AIDS is not a disease included in the specified list of covered 
diseases. Although, I also note that the policy might look to exclude claims where one of the 
covered diseases was sustained by someone by virtue of an immune system that had been 
weakened by AIDS. Regardless, whether or not these references are superfluous, I do not 
consider their inclusion means the term is unclear. 
I think it is clear that the term should be read as only providing cover in the event of one of 
the diseases listed in the definition above occurring within the relevant area  and this 
resulting in the government or local authority action required. 
And, Im not persuaded this section of the policy would have provided N with cover. This is 
because COVID-19 isnt one of the specified diseases listed in the definition.
When reaching this finding Im mindful of Mr Ms comments that SARS should be read as a 
generic term and should include COVID-19. But I do not agree with this. Whilst both SARS and COVID-19 are caused by viruses that are related, I dont think SARS 
and COVID-19 are the same disease. The Governments list of notifiable diseases lists them 
as two separate diseases. And the World Health Organisation (WHO) has also confirmed 
that while related, the two viruses are different and it said that COVID-19 was the name of 
this new disease on 11 February 2020. So, based on the evidence Ive seen, I dont think I 
can reasonably say that the two diseases are the same. And given SARS is a specific 
disease in its own right, I do not agree that this word should be read as a generic term within 
the definition above. 
COVID-19 is a new disease and it might not have been possible for Covea to include it in the 
policy at the time it was written. But I dont think that changes anything. Thats because I 
dont think Covea intended to, or suggested they would, provide cover for all diseases. 
Covea deliberately chose to define Disease by reference to a static list of specified 
diseases.
I dont think the list is indicative of the kind of diseases that are included, I think its an 
exhaustive list. There is nothing in the policy which implies that it provides cover for other 
diseases, including any new diseases which might emerge.
I think the purpose and effect of this extension is to provide cover in the event of the 
diseases listed in the definition of Disease in the section of Ns policy where it appears. I 
dont think the policy can or should fairly be read as covering any and all diseases that fall 
outside of the defined list set out above. And I dont think it can fairly and reasonably be read 
in a different way.
Ns claim resulted from a disease that was not included in the list of covered diseases. As 
cover was not provided under this area of the policy for losses resulting from business 
interruption caused by COVID-19, I am satisfied Coveas decision to decline the claim under 
this extension was in line with the policy, and in all the circumstances of this case fair and 
reasonable. 
Having considered the rest of the policy carefully, I do not consider there to be any area of 
cover that means Covea should have met Ns claim. I know this decision will be 
disappointing for Mr M, but I hope Ive provided him with a thorough explanation of why this 
policy doesnt offer cover in the circumstances of this claim.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint. Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M, on behalf of 
N, to accept or reject my decision before 16 August 2021.
 
Sam Thomas
Ombudsman