DRN-2957904
The complaint
Mis H complains that Santander UK Plc (Santander) didnt set up a direct debit for her as 
agreed which impacted her credit file and caused her distress.
What happened
Miss H had a credit card with another lender. In mid-December 2020, she contacted 
Santander to request a balance transfer to take advantage of an offer shed been given. 
During the call, Miss H set up a monthly direct debit to cover the minimum payment.
In January 2021, Miss H received an email from Santander saying that her credit card 
account had an overdue payment. So Miss H complained to Santander who apologised and 
agreed theyd made a mistake and confirmed Miss Hs credit file hadnt been affected. 
Miss H tried to set up the direct debit payment again, however she was told this wouldnt 
take effect until March. So she was told she would need to make both the February minimum 
payment, and the missed payment from January by the next payment due date on 16 
February. Santander paid Miss H £100 for the inconvenience shed been caused from the 
direct debit being set up incorrectly and she received an email saying her complaint had now 
been resolved.
Shortly after this call, Miss H received multiple emails and text messages from Santander 
and messages asking her to contact the bank. So Miss H called Santander again and they 
said her initial complaint shouldnt have been closed. They also said Miss Hs credit file had 
been affected by the missed payment. 
Over the next few days, Miss H continued to speak to Santander as she continued to receive 
messages saying she was in arrears. Eventually Miss H was told it would be best to make 
the payment straight away to prevent any further issues. Around the same time as Miss H 
made the payment, Santander wrote to Miss H to say her credit card had now been blocked 
until she made the outstanding payment. So she made a second complaint to Santander 
about the incorrect information shed been given. 
Santander upheld the complaint. They agreed Miss H hadnt been told she would need to 
make an immediate payment to clear the outstanding arrears from the missed January 
payment. They also agreed shed been given incorrect information about the negative impact 
on her credit file. So they offered Miss H a further £200 compensation for the distress and 
inconvenience caused. 
Miss H didnt feel this was enough because of the time it had taken to resolve the complaint 
and the impact on her credit file and the stress this had caused her. So she asked this 
service to look into her complaint.
Our investigator didnt recommend the complaint was upheld. He acknowledged Santander 
had made mistakes, but he felt theyd done enough to put things right as theyd corrected 
Miss Hs credit file and paid her £300 compensation for the distress and inconvenience, 
shed been caused. 
Miss H didnt agree. She felt the compensation wasnt enough for the time shed spent 
having to correct Santanders errors as shed repeatedly been given incorrect information. 
So she asked for an ombudsman to look into her complaint.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided not to uphold it. Ill explain why.
It may help if I explain to Miss H that its not the role of our service to fine or punish a 
business for making a mistake. But I do need to ensure that they have followed their 
procedures to put things right and have treated Miss H fairly and reasonably whilst doing 
this.
Both parties agree Santander made an administrative error when Miss H asked for a direct 
debit to be set up to make the minimum payments on her credit card account. As a result of 
this Miss H received automated email, messages and calls from Santander saying she was 
in arrears on her account. So I need to look at Santanders actions after they were aware of 
the error.
Ive seen that Miss H was also given incorrect information that her credit file hadnt been 
affected and when she needed to make her payment by  which resulted in her account 
being blocked. So what I would expect Santander to do here is to acknowledge their error 
when they were made aware of it, apologise to Miss H for this and recognise the likely 
impact this would have on her and try to resolve any outstanding issues as quickly as 
possible.  
When considering this complaint, Ive thought about what Santander have done, when they 
were made aware of their error and whether theyve treated Miss H fairly and reasonably. 
Santander were made aware of the error in the first complaint made by Miss H on 22 
January. Santander acknowledged the direct debit hadnt been set up correctly when Miss H 
had requested it. 
So Santander set up a new direct debit and advised Miss H she would need to make a 
manual payment for the outstanding January and expected February payments by 
16 February when the next payment was due. They apologised for the error, paid Miss H 
£100 compensation because the direct debit hadnt been set up as agreed, and for 
messages shed received chasing the outstanding payment. They also resolved the 
complaint at this point. 
I recognise this didnt resolve Miss Hs complaint in full. And that around 27 January, Miss H 
needed to make a further complaint as shed identified adverse information on her credit file 
and was told her account was blocked as she hadnt cleared the arrears. I also acknowledge 
Miss H told us she felt the letter she received from Santander was threatening. 
However, I dont agree the letter was threatening. Ive seen a copy of the letter, and whilst I 
acknowledge Miss H said she was distressed when she received it, I think the letter was 
factual. It explained that Miss H had missed a payment and needed to pay the outstanding 
balance, or they may take further action. 
Ive seen that Miss H had been told the incorrect information about when she needed to 
make the missing January payment. However, Ive also seen the messages she received prior to the letter acknowledging there may be an issue and offered to help if Miss H 
contacted them. So Im satisfied Santander took appropriate steps here  although I 
recognise Miss Hs frustration at the amount of times, she was contacted by them.
Looking at the complaint notes, Ive also seen that Santander apologised once they were 
aware that Miss H had been given incorrect information about clearing the outstanding 
payment on her account, and the adverse credit markers on her credit file. Ive seen 
evidence that just over a week after Miss H raised the second complaint, Santander took 
action to resolve the adverse information and offered a further £200 compensation for the 
distress this had caused her.
I acknowledge Miss H is unhappy as she was the one who identified the issue with her credit 
file, and she feels it was only resolved because she identified it. However, Ive seen 
Santander resolved the issue within a few days once Miss H made them aware. And the 
adverse information would only have been on Miss Hs account for around a month, and she 
hasnt provided any evidence to show this negatively impacted her during this time. 
So Im satisfied that Santander acted on the information very quickly when Miss H 
complained about the issues. And based on what Ive seen Im satisfied that Santander has 
treated Miss H fairly here in their overall response to her complaints.
I say this because they corrected the issues quickly after receiving her second complaint. 
They apologised and acknowledged their error. And they realised that by not setting up the 
direct debit theyd caused her distress and inconvenience by chasing her for the outstanding 
payment, blocking her account and adding adverse information to her credit file. 
I recognise this will be disappointing for Miss H as she feels the impact on her has been 
greater than the £300 compensation. But based on what Ive seen, I think Santander have 
done enough to put things right, so I wont be asking them to do anything more. And if 
Miss H decides she does wish to accept the additional £200 compensation she should 
contact Santander directly to let them know. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold the complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss H to accept 
or reject my decision before 10 September 2021.
 
Jenny Lomax
Ombudsman