DRN-3726126
The complaint
Mr Ws complaint is about his mortgage with Barclays Bank UK PLC. Mr W says Barclays 
has treated him unfairly by refusing his request to transfer the mortgage from a capital 
repayment basis onto an interest-only basis.
To settle the complaint Mr W wants Barclays to repair his credit history, pay compensation 
for the stress, anxiety and mental illness he, his wife and three children have suffered, and 
pay the costs he incurred in relocating his family to another country.
What happened
I will summarise the complaint in less detail than its been presented. There are several 
reasons for this. First of all, the history of the matter is set out in detail in correspondence 
between Mr W and Barclays, in the detailed chronology provided by Mr W and in the 
investigators letter dated 15 September 2022. All parties have copies of the 
correspondence, so there is no need for me to repeat the details here. I will instead 
concentrate on giving the reasons for my decision. In addition, our decisions are published, 
so its important I dont include any information that might lead to Mr W being identified. So 
for these reasons, I will keep my summary of what happened quite brief.
In September 2019 Mr W took out a mortgage with Barclays, borrowing £2,294.999 on a 
capital repayment basis over a term of 34 years. In October 2019 Mr W started his own 
business. Between May 2020 and October 2021 Mr W was granted both Covid support in 
the form of payment holidays, as well as interest-only concessions. The mortgage reverted 
to full capital and interest repayments after October 2021.
In early 2021 Mr W wanted to transfer the mortgage onto a permanent interest-only basis. 
He discussed this with his own independent mortgage broker. In February 2021 Mr W 
switched the outstanding mortgage balance (approx. £2,277,000) onto a new interest rate 
product, again on a capital repayment basis.
Unfortunately business plans Mr W had with various parties fell through leaving him, as he 
says, in a very precarious position. 
Barclays declined Mr Ws requests to switch the mortgage onto a permanent interest-only 
basis, because he doesnt meet its lending criteria. Mr W considers this to be unfair, and that 
the solutions Barclays offered did nothing to help him.
After trying to secure employment in the UK, Mr W relocated with his family to another 
country. The property is now for sale.
Mr W complained to Barclays that it had refused to allow him an additional loan to release 
equity from the property to pay the arrears. Mr W was also unhappy that Barclays refused to 
switch the mortgage from capital repayment to interest-only.
Barclays didnt uphold the complaint, so Mr W brought it to our service. An investigator 
looked at what had happened but didnt think the complaint should be upheld. She explained 
that, where a customer doesnt meet lending criteria, lenders are under no obligation to 
make changes to the mortgage. In this case, Mr W didnt meet income criteria and had no 
repayment vehicle. 
The investigator noted Mr Ws concerns about the impact on his credit file, but, because of 
the issues with affordability and missed payments, she didnt think anything could be done 
about this. The investigator thought the forbearance offered by Barclays was in line with 
what we would expect the bank to do in the circumstances.
Mr W disagreed with the investigators findings and asked for an ombudsman to review the 
complaint. He said that he doesnt think its fair that the bank refused to give him a loan of 
5% of the property value (when the loan-to-value ratio was 70%) so he could pay off the 
arrears and repair his credit rating. Mr W says that, because of this, Barclays has forced his 
family out of the country and severally mentally impacted him and his whole family, all 
because he didnt meet lending criteria.
Because the matter is unresolved, it falls to me to issue a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im afraid I have disappointing news for Mr W; Im not upholding the 
complaint.
In deciding this Ive taken careful note of everything Mr W has said about his financial and 
family circumstances in 2020 and 2021. I have no doubt that the health and business issues 
hes told us about were very stressful and upsetting, and I dont underestimate the effect all 
of this has had on Mr W and his family. 
However, its clear that Mr Ws financial circumstances changed significantly from the time 
he took out the mortgage in September 2019 to the point where Barclays declined either to 
lend him money to pay off the arrears, or to transfer the mortgage onto interest-only. Much of 
this was outside the control of Mr W (I wont go into the details here of what hes told us, to 
preserve his anonymity). But the cumulative effect of these circumstances created a 
situation where the mortgage simply wasnt affordable. 
The support Barclays provided by way of the Covid payment holidays and temporary 
interest-only concessions is what I would expect the bank to provide. These measures are in 
line with regulatory guidance and industry practice. But the bank isnt under any obligation to 
make temporary concessions permanent.
Barclays is entitled to set its own lending criteria. Decisions that Barclays makes in respect 
of what those criteria are, its attitude to risk involved in this particular lending assessment, 
and whether it should lend and if so, on what terms are clearly discretionary matters for 
Barclayss own commercial judgement that I would not interfere with.
Im not persuaded Barclays was under any obligation to capitalise arrears, or to switch the 
mortgage onto an interest-only basis where Mr W didnt meet the banks lending criteria. At 
the time Mr W requested the switch, he was effectively without income and had been for 
some time. As I said above, I appreciate that circumstances beyond his control were largely 
the cause of this, but Barclays was entitled to take into consideration Mr Ws changed 
circumstances when applying its lending criteria.Barclays has provided information about its lending criteria and about what was taken into 
account in this application. After considering this information, Im satisfied that Barclays 
reached its decision fairly, after taking into account all relevant factors, including (but not 
limited to) affordability, exposure to risk, and Mr Ws specific circumstances. Given this, Im 
satisfied that Barclays gave fair consideration to this application. This means that there is no 
basis upon which I can find that Barclays has treated Mr W unfairly or unreasonably.
I appreciate that moving to another country has been a big upheaval for Mr W and his family. 
But that was his decision to make and I cant hold Barclays responsible for the expenses he 
incurred in doing this. It was always open to Mr W to sell the property and buy another in the 
UK if hed wanted to, particularly if (as Mr W says) there is £1 million equity in it.
I understand the property is now for sale. I hope Mr W will soon find a buyer and be in a 
position to repay the mortgage to Barclays. I would suggest Mr W keeps Barclays fully 
up-to-date of the position in relation to the sale of the property so that the bank has a 
realistic timescale for repayment of the mortgage.
I know this isnt the decision Mr W was hoping for. But after careful consideration, Im unable 
to find Barclays has done anything wrong.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
This final decision concludes the Financial Ombudsman Services review of this complaint. 
This means that we are unable to consider the complaint any further, nor enter into any 
correspondence about the merits of it.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision before 16 November 2022.
 
Jan O'Leary
Ombudsman