DRN-3270719
The complaint
Mrs B complains about Fairstone Financial Management Limiteds advice in connection 
with Mrs Bs desire to transfer the benefits from her defined-benefit (DB) occupational 
pension scheme to a self-invested personal pension (SIPP). She says Fairstone's advice 
and service was deficient, causing her stress and a financial loss.
Mrs Bs husband has helped her to bring this complaint. But, for ease of reading I will refer to 
his comments and input as being Mrs Bs.
What happened
In 2020 Mrs B contacted Fairstone as she was interested in transferring the benefits from 
her former employers DB scheme to a SIPP, which she intended to leave as a legacy for 
her children and grandchildren. 
Fairstone gathered information about Mrs Bs and her husbands circumstances and also 
information about the benefits available from her DB scheme. Amongst other things 
Fairstone recorded that:
Mrs B was 55 years old, married and working, she had no financial liabilities.
She and her husband collectively had savings of £198,639 along with a pensions pot 
of £433,520.
She felt she would be in a comfortable position at retirement and had no need for 
an income from her DB scheme funds.
The DB scheme had a cash equivalent transfer value (CETV) of £71,460.
It would pay a guaranteed pension for life of £4,335 at age 60 or a reduced income of 
£3,144 together with tax-free cash (TFC) of £20,964.
Mrs Bs preference was to reinvest her CETV and leave this as a legacy for her adult 
children and grandchildren.
Fairstone produced a pension transfer recommendation report. The report is dated 
31 July 2020 but Fairstone sent it to Mrs B on 3 August 2020. Fairstone recommended that 
Mrs B should not transfer out of her DB scheme. Instead it said she should take the benefits 
from it at normal retirement age and reinvest her annual pension from it at that point. 
Fairstone noted that, in order to buy a product from an insurer that would provide equivalent 
benefits to her DB scheme could cost her £210,624.
After receiving the report Mrs B contacted the DB scheme administrators. They confirmed 
that Mrs Bs pension entitlement was enhanced with a special allowance between age 60 
and 67. That would be taken away once Mrs B reached age 67 and her yearly pension 
would reduce to around £2,500 a year. 
Mrs B contacted Fairstone pointing out its error with the annual pension entitlement. She 
also told it that under a heading of options available to you Fairstone had recorded that 
Mrs B had the option of taking TFC of £71,460, rather than the £20,964 which was the 
correct figure. She asked Fairstone to amend its report to use the correct figures. She noted 
that if shed relied on Fairstones analysis of the DB scheme benefits then she would have 
suffered a loss of around £122,000, because of the reduction of her pension at age 67. 
Fairstone said it would deal with Mrs Bs communication as a complaint. It later told her that 
it wouldnt sign the DB scheme administrators form asking Fairstone to declare it had given 
her financial advice to allow the DB transfer to go ahead. Fairstone said Mrs B should 
approach another advising firm. 
Fairstone sent a complaint response in September 2020. It said it wasnt upholding the 
complaint. Amongst other things Fairstone said:
The scheme administrators hadn't told it about the special allowance which is why 
Fairstone hadn't made an adjustment for it.
The reference to TFC of £71,460 was a typing error and that on four other occasions 
it quoted the correct figure in its report. 
Once Fairstone realised its report contained errors it should have amended it but it 
didnt do so. But it said a revised report wouldnt have caused it to change its 
recommendation.
Mrs B had not suffered a loss of £122,000. 
Fairstone had refused to sign the DB schemes Declaration of Regulated 
Independent Advice because it hadn't provided the information about the receiving 
scheme the declaration asked it to confirm. 
Mrs B continued to correspond with Fairstone until January 2021. Amongst other things she 
said:
Her timing for the DB transfer was carefully planned as gilt rates were very low 
making the CETV high and the market was depressed making it an ideal time to 
invest.
Fairstones adviser had initially recommended the transfer but Fairstone changed this 
during its compliance process.
The £122,000 referred to was a loss of expectation and not an actual financial loss.
Her objective was to use the DB fund to secure a legacy for her children and 
grandchildren. If she and her husband died without transferring the funds then those 
would be lost. 
Fairstone had made horrendous failures including: inaccurate reports; refusal to 
acknowledge or to correct the mistakes; failure to acknowledge or process the 
complaint.
It was stretching it to say that reference to £72,000 in TFC was a typo.
Fairstones factual errors made its report unfit for purpose.
Fairstones advice hadn't been in line with her strategy or best interests.
Fairstone said it stood by its complaint response of September 2020. But it added that as a 
gesture of goodwill it would suggest that it did not bill Mrs B its fee for providing advice. 
Mrs B referred her complaint to our service. One of our investigators partly upheld the 
complaint. He thought Fairstone should have taken into account the reduction in yearly 
pension entitlement from the scheme when the special allowance stopped. And he said that 
Fairstone should have withdrawn or amended its report to reflect that once it became aware 
of the mistake. But he felt that, even if Fairstone had done that, the pension transfer was 
unlikely to have gone ahead. 
That was because he felt Fairstone still would have recommended that Mrs B remain in the 
DB scheme. He said Fairstone wouldnt transact pension transfers on whats known as an 
insistent client basis. And that was a decision it was entitled to come to. He also noted that 
the declaration the DB scheme administrators had asked Fairstone to sign included not only that Fairstone had given regulated transfer advice but also that it had carried out due 
diligence on the receiving scheme. But as Fairstone had made a recommendation not to 
transfer it hadn't carried out an assessment of the receiving scheme. Our investigator 
thought that it wouldn't be fair to expect Fairstone to sign a declaration saying it had done 
something it hadn't. But, in order to address Mrs Bs distress and inconvenience as a result 
of Fairstones mistakes the investigator recommended it pay her £250 compensation. 
Mrs B didnt agree with our investigators assessment of her complaint. Amongst other things 
she said:
Fairstones negligence and incompetence had caused her months of stress as well 
as a financial loss of around £10,000 compared to what she would have received by 
investing in her preferred SIPP. 
Fairstone had told her it wouldnt change its recommendation before it had adjusted 
its calculations.
Its initial recommendation, before it sent her its report, had been to transfer out of the 
DB scheme. But the report it sent her contained errors. 
Fairstone refused to correct its mistakes.
Both Fairstones report and our investigators assessment compared the benefits of 
the DB scheme against an annuity. But Mrs B had no intention of buying an annuity. 
Instead she intended to transfer to a named SIPP which matched her attitude to risk. 
So the comparison to an annuity made the report unfit for purpose. 
Fairstone was aware of Mrs Bs preferred SIPP and risk profile. So its decision not to 
sign the DB schemes adviser declaration appeared a deliberate act to avoid the 
issue.
Mrs B had engaged Fairstone to enable the transfer to go ahead; so it should be up 
to it to make that happen. 
The investigator wasnt persuaded to change his opinion; so the complaint was referred to 
me to make a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Both Mrs B and Fairstone have made many points in bringing the complaint and replying to 
it. I've carefully considered everything on file. But in this decision I dont intend to address 
each and every issue or point raised. Instead I will focus on the issues I see as being at the 
heart of Mrs Bs complaint and the reasons for my decision.
When considering what is fair and reasonable, Im required to take into account relevant law 
and regulations; regulators rules, guidance and standards; codes of practice; and, where 
appropriate, what I consider to have been good industry practice at the time.
Having done so, Ive decided to partly uphold the complaint for broadly the same reasons 
given by our investigator. 
The regulators position
The regulator, the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA), says in its Conduct of Business 
Sourcebook (COBS) that the starting assumption for a transfer from a DB scheme is that 
its unsuitable. So, Fairstone should have only considered recommending a transfer if it 
could clearly demonstrate that the transfer was in Mrs Bs best interests (COBS 19.1.6). Fairstones recommendation report 
Theres no doubt that Fairstones recommendation report contained errors. It clearly didnt 
identify at an early stage, regardless that there was enough information from the DB scheme 
for it to do so, that the special allowance was only payable until Mrs B reached her state 
pension age of 67. So, once she reached that milestone, the DB scheme yearly pension 
would drop from around £4,335 to around £2,500. And clearly that significant reduction 
would affect the cashflow models and assumptions which informed Fairstones advice. So, 
what Fairstone should have done  as soon as it learned of its mistakes  was to issue an 
amended report which corrected its errors. I can understand how disappointed Mrs B might 
have felt that it didn't do so. But Fairstone has confirmed that if it had done so it wouldn't 
have made a difference to its recommendation.
That might seem puzzling to Mrs B, and she might have thought if the figures were wrong 
then so was Fairstones recommendation. And I note shes said that Fairstone had come to 
that conclusion before it had amended its figures. But I dont find it surprising that Fairstones 
overall conclusion was that it wasnt in Mrs Bs best interests to transfer out of the DB 
scheme, even after applying the reduced yearly pension from age 67.
Mrs B has been clear that she wanted to transfer out of the scheme and reinvest it in order 
to provide a legacy for her children and grandchildren. But, as I've said above, the 
regulators position is that the starting point for Fairstone would be to consider that a transfer 
was not in her best interests. So it could only reasonably make a recommendation to transfer 
if it could clearly demonstrate that such a transfer was in Mrs Bs best interests. And, in 
giving that advice, the priority for Fairstone was to make a recommendation concerning 
Mrs Bs retirement provisions. Thats because a pension is primarily designed to provide 
income in retirement. So I dont think it was unreasonable for Fairstone to prioritise Mrs Bs 
income in retirement over potentially higher death benefits for her loved ones.
Regardless, that Fairstone made a mistake as to the level of Mrs Bs yearly pension once 
she turned 67, the reduced sum was guaranteed and it escalated. It was not dependent on 
investment performance, whereas the sum remaining on death in a personal pension was. 
Mrs B said she didnt intend to take an income from the DB scheme funds and that she had 
a comfortable position because of her other savings and investments. That might have been 
the case but a more suitable solution for her might have been to ringfence some of the 
money she held in her other investments, and use that as a legacy for her family. That would 
not require her to give up the guaranteed index-linked and increasing benefits from the DB 
scheme.
As Mrs B is aware, relying on investment performance carries with it the risks that 
fluctuations in the market can deplete investments significantly. And while those same 
fluctuations can also make positive investment returns especially for an experienced investor 
like Mrs B - her DB scheme benefits were secure and virtually entirely risk free. So, after age 
67 and the removal of the special allowance, her benefit income from the DB scheme 
wouldnt ever reduce again regardless of the markets. And even at the post age 67 reduced 
rate, I think it was reasonable for Fairstone to have considered that DB scheme income to be 
more beneficial to Mrs B for her retirement provisions and therefore in her best interests, 
compared to the possibility of higher death benefits.
Mrs Bs said that Fairstones recommendation was not in line with her financial strategy. 
And, as an experienced investor, she believes that the DB fund, if invested in her preferred 
SIPP, could outperform the benefits from the DB scheme. That might be the case. But 
Fairstones role wasnt simply to transact what Mrs B wanted it to do. It had to look beyond 
what Mrs B wanted and make a determination of what it believed was in her best interests. And, regardless of its initial mistakes, its evident Fairstone believed that Mrs Bs chosen 
path, which was to give up a guaranteed income in retirement for the opportunity to leave a 
higher legacy to her family, wasnt in her best interests in terms of her income in retirement. 
I'm aware Mrs B timed her transfer request to match an occasion when the markets were 
favourable to such a transfer. But, while the markets might have produced a better return for 
a DB transfer than at other points, once transferred the benefits were lost forever. And if 
those same markets then crashed and severely depleted the benefits available from it Mrs B 
might never recover those funds. That wasnt something that could happen if Mrs B 
remained in her DB scheme. So I think it was reasonable for Fairstone not to recommend 
Mrs B transfer out of her DB scheme, even though this wasnt in line with her preferred 
strategy. 
Fairstones report also contained another error, when it referred to the TFC sum available as 
being the full CETV of £71,460. But I dont think this error influenced Fairstones advice or 
recommendation. Fairstone had correctly referred to the TFC level as being around £21,000 
on four other occasions within its report. So I'm satisfied that Fairstones error here was little 
more than a typing or cut and paste error - it copied the wrong figure. And I've seen nothing 
that convinces me this was the TFC figure it used when considering whether or not to 
recommend a transfer out of the DB scheme.
Overall, Im satisfied that it was fair and reasonable for Fairstone to recommend Mrs B 
remain in her DB scheme, and it was not obliged to transact the business on an insistent 
client basis. 
Should Fairstone have signed the Declaration of Regulated Independent Advice
Section 48 of the Pension Schemes Act 2015 sets out certain steps which must take place 
before a DB transfer can go ahead. In particular it says the trustees or managers of the DB 
scheme must (where the CETV is over £30,000) ensure that the DB scheme member  in 
this case Mrs B  has received appropriate independent advice. This is known as the 
statutory advice requirement. The regulator sets out in COBS how that requirement should 
be applied. Amongst other things it says the advising firm (in this case Fairstone) should 
provide confirmation that it has provided advice, regardless of whether that advise was to go 
ahead with the transfer or not. So the fact that Fairstone recommended that Mrs B did not 
transfer out of the DB scheme shouldnt have prevented it from providing confirmation of the 
statutory advice requirement.
But, in this case the declaration the DB scheme trustees required Fairstones adviser to sign 
said, amongst other things:
I have carried out appropriate due diligence on the receiving scheme
But, unless and until Fairstone had made a recommendation as to how Mrs Bs funds should 
be invested in a receiving scheme, Fairstone was not under any obligation to carry out the 
due diligence the DB scheme trustees' wanted. Neither the regulators rules nor the 
underlying legislation required Fairstone to carry out that due diligence at this point. And 
Fairstone clearly hadn't done that. So I can understand why Fairstone wasnt happy to sign 
to confirm it had done something it hadn't actually done. In fact, if Fairstone had signed the 
declaration that would have been untruthful. And, as the DB scheme trustees were asking 
for Fairstone to confirm it had done something that it was under no obligation to have done, I 
dont think it acted unfairly by declining to sign the declaration that the trustees presented it 
with.The impact on Mrs B
I've thought about whats likely to have happened if Fairstone had amended its 
recommendation report immediately on learning of its mistakes, or if it had not made those 
mistakes in the first place. Having done so, I dont think Mrs B would have been in a 
materially different position. 
Thats because its clear to me that Fairstone considered that transferring out of the DB 
scheme was not in Mrs Bs best interests. As such its recommendation would always have 
been for her not to transfer out of the scheme. And in those circumstances I dont think it 
would have carried out the due diligence on a receiving scheme that the DB scheme 
trustees insisted on. It follows that, even without its mistakes Fairstone wouldnt have been 
in a position where it could fairly and reasonably sign the DB trustees required declaration. 
So Mrs B would always have had to look elsewhere to another advising firm In order to 
complete the DB transfer. Therefore, I'm not persuaded that the main reason the transfer 
didnt go ahead was because of Fairstones mistakes. 
That said, I can understand that Fairstones errors were a source of distress and 
inconvenience to Mrs B. But, its notable that she identified those errors almost immediately 
after receiving Fairstones report. She acted quickly to point them out to Fairstone. So its not 
the case that she was ever likely to rely on that report in terms of what she believed her 
future DB pension income would be. And as such there was no real loss of expectation to 
her, as she knew Fairstones figures were wrong. 
Further, Fairstone advised Mrs B at the beginning of September 2020 that in order to go 
ahead with the transfer she would need to approach another advising firm. As I've said 
above I think that was always likely to happen even without Fairstones mistakes. 
I note that, at the time our investigator provided his assessment of the complaint Mrs B still 
hadn't approached another advising firm. I don't think anything Fairstone did or didnt do 
stopped her from doing that. And regardless of its mistakes it wasnt ever likely to be in a 
position to sign the trustees desired declaration. So I don't think Fairstone is responsible for 
any financial loss. However, given Fairstones undoubted errors were clearly a source of 
distress and inconvenience for Mrs B I think its fair that it pays her £250 compensation. 
My final decision
For the reasons given above I partly uphold this complaint. I require Fairstone Financial 
Management Limited to pay Mrs B £250 compensation to address her distress and 
inconvenience as set out above. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs B to accept or 
reject my decision before 12 October 2022.
 
Joe Scott
Ombudsman