DRN-3119169
The complaint
Mr A is unhappy that Domestic & General Insurance Plc (D&G) debited premium payments 
from his bank account for a vacuum cleaner warranty he says he didnt know he had. 
 
What happened
In June 2020, D&G contacted Mr A about direct debits it had been taking for a warranty on 
his vacuum cleaner. Mr A told D&G he couldnt recall ever taking out the cover and wasnt 
aware any cover was still in place. D&Gs call handler explained to Mr A that hed first taken 
out cover in 1997 and had also taken out extended cover starting in 2002. Mr A said hed not 
had the appliance for about 10 to 15 years and that if hed received renewal documentation 
in 2002 for extended cover, he wouldnt have renewed it. Mr A said he wanted the premiums 
hed paid since 2002 refunded. D&G cancelled the policy and logged a complaint.
D&Gs final response letter (FRL) said it had sent Mr A renewal notices in June each year. 
D&G said that because it hadnt received any communications from Mr A, it had renewed his 
policy automatically each year and continued to take direct debits. It said its address records 
for Mr A had alternated between his current and previous address during his time on cover 
and that, because of this, Mr A probably hadnt received any renewal notices. D&G said that 
a customer would usually notice and question the direct debits leaving their bank account 
sooner than Mr A had. D&G said it would refund the premiums Mr A paid over last six years, 
totalling £826.17 plus 8% interest of £66.09.
Mr A brought the complaint to us. He said he didnt remember taking out the cover and had 
never received any correspondence from D&G about it. And because he didnt know he had 
the policy he didnt look out for payments leaving his bank account.
D&G told us it felt its award was reasonable because itd received Mr As complaint more 
than six years after the plan had been set up and more than three years from when it would 
reasonably have expected Mr A to have been aware payments were being collected. It said 
initial payments were taken in 1997 totalling £37.50, after which cover ran from June 1998 
until June 2002 with no payments being debited. Then in June 2002, the plan began to 
renew annually and payments for between £5.29 and £15.21 were debited from Mr As bank 
account either monthly or quarterly. D&G also told us Mr As renewal documentation 
wouldve said his policy would automatically renew and that D&G would continue to collect 
payments until Mr A said otherwise. 
D&G said its address history for Mr A only went back as far as January 2008 but that Mr A 
wouldve received all renewal documents up until then because his correct address was 
noted against the plan in January 2008. D&G said that in April 2009, Mr As house number 
was removed from its address records but that between April 2013 and 2016, his address 
was noted correctly on its system. Then from 2016 onwards it said the address noted 
against the plan had alternated between Mr As current and previous addresses. It said the 
first time it received returned mail in respect of Mr As plan was in June 2020.
D&G said it thought it reasonable to expect a customer to check their bank statements 
regularly. And that Mr A wouldve had enough opportunity over the years to notice the direct 
debits leaving his bank account and contact D&G about them.
Our investigator didnt uphold Mr As complaint. She felt that a refund of six years premiums 
was fair and reasonable. Mr A disagreed. He said that if hed received correspondence 
earlier than June 2020, it was inconceivable hed have only contacted D&G about the plan in 
2020. He said it wouldnt have made sense to start the policy again in 2002 because the 
vacuum cleaner wouldve been around five years old, he no longer owned it, and it had cost 
him only £150 to buy. He said that although he checks his bank balance for glaring or 
obvious concerns, he does not examine them forensically. Our investigator didnt change 
her view. Mr A asked for an ombudsmans decision.
I asked D&G why it felt its award was fair. It said the make of Mr As vacuum cleaner was a 
reliable one, so it wouldnt be unreasonable for him to own the product for some time and 
that the older an appliance gets, the more likely it is to break down, making it more probable 
that a customer would want to continue with cover.  It said its up to the customer to tell D&G 
when cover is no longer required and Mr As policys terms on this are clear. D&G said that it 
cant recreate the policy documents issued at inception but they would have gone to the 
address on the application. But it said Mr A may not have received some of the renewal 
notices and that it cant evidence a renewal was sent in June 2002. 
Mr A said he thinks he had the vacuum cleaner for a maximum of four or five years and 
hadnt kept proof of the vacuum cleaners disposal or of the purchase of its replacement. He 
said hed never taken out insurance on any of the other vacuum cleaners hed purchased in 
the last 20 years but that he usually registers for any free warranties on such products.
After Id considered all the available evidence to decide whats fair and reasonable in the 
circumstances of this complaint, I reached a different outcome to our investigator. Because 
the outcome was different, I issued a provisional decision giving both parties a further 
chance to comment on my findings ahead of issuing my final decision. 
My provisional decision
My provisional decision was that I was minded to uphold Mr As complaint. 
I explained my provisional findings to both parties as follows: 
Mr A says he doesnt recall taking out the warranty. D&G said it no longer has a copy of the 
original direct debit mandate from 1997. But D&G knew the make and model of Mr As 
vacuum cleaner as well as Mr As sort code and account number. So because of this  and 
because Mr A says quite often he takes out cover on such products - I think, on balance, Mr 
A most likely took out the initial cover on his vacuum cleaner.
Mr A says hed never received any renewal documentation. D&G say it sent Mr A his 
renewal documentation and so Mr A wouldve been aware he had cover. D&G said it 
wouldnt have been able to take direct debits without generating renewal documents, but no 
longer has copies of them - including those sent for the more recent years of cover. D&G 
has provided a sample of the renewal documents it says wouldve been sent to Mr A, along 
with its address records for Mr A from January 2008 onwards.
Its not unreasonable for D&G not to have kept address records or copies of Mr As renewal 
documentation from when Mr A first took out cover until 2007. The first address record 
D&Gs has - which is for 2008 - shows Mr As correct address and appears to have been 
merged from another record most likely created earlier. Mr As testimony said he didnt receive the renewal documents. D&Gs testimony said it sent them. But theres no other 
evidence that causes me to think - on balance - that D&Gs address records before 2008 
were incorrect and so Mr A didnt receive his renewal documents in 2008 or before. So I 
dont think its fair to refund Mr A the premiums paid between 2002 and 2008, because I 
think hed have received the renewal documents for these policy years and so more likely 
than not wouldve been aware of the cover during this time.
But I dont think D&G should only refund Mr As last six years premiums. Ill explain why.
The sample terms and conditions D&G provided say:
We will always (subject to the terms and conditions of this policy) repair your product, 
unless we cannot repair it; we cannot obtain the spare parts to repair it; or we can replace it 
for less than the cost of the repair. In these circumstances, we will arrange to replace your 
product with a product of a same or similar make and technical specification, subject to 
these terms and conditions.
And:
If we replace your product and your product is over 5 years old you will have to pay a 
contribution towards the cost of the replacement. If your product is between 5 years old and 
6 years old you will have to pay 50% of the retail price, if it is between 6 years and 7 years 
old you will have to pay 60% of the retail price, and if it is over 7 years old you will have to 
pay 70% of the retail price.
So if the vacuum cleaner had stopped working, the above policy terms are clear that Mr A 
couldve made a claim and received some benefit under the policy right up until he cancelled 
it in 2020. But Mr A never made a claim.
Ive reviewed D&Gs address records Mr A from 2008 onward. I can see that D&G only held 
correct and complete address information around the time that Mr As June 2008, June 
2013, June 2014, June 2015, June 2019 and June 2020 renewal documents would most 
likely have been generated. So for the other years of cover, it seems D&G posted Mr As 
renewal documentation to an incomplete or incorrect address. And - despite D&Gs address 
records for Mr A being correct in June 2020 - D&G received returned mail. So his 2020 
renewal documents were sent to the wrong address.
I think its unlikely the same vacuum cleaner would have remained in working order from 
1997 until 2020. Mr A is unsure exactly when he disposed of the vacuum cleaner, but I think 
 based on the estimates given by Mr A - its reasonable to say that by 2009, Mr A most 
likely no longer owned it. When D&G spoke to Mr A by phone about his direct debits in 2020 
and when Mr A says he first became aware of the extended cover, he cancelled the cover 
straight away. So I think if Mr A had received his renewal documentation when D&Gs 
address records were correct, it wouldve been more reasonable than not for him to have 
either made a claim or cancelled the policy. But Mr A did neither. The evidence shows that 
the first time there were problems with D&Gs address records for Mr A was in 2009. And 
that for one year, when D&Gs address records were correct, Mr As renewal documents 
were still sent to the wrong address. So - given all of the above - I dont think I can say on 
balance that Mr A would necessarily have received his renewal notices and been aware of 
the cover from 2009 onwards. So Im minded to require D&G to refund Mr A the premiums 
debited from his bank account from 2009 until Mr A cancelled the cover.
But D&G say the direct debits shown on Mr As bank statements wouldve made him aware 
of his cover. But I dont think its unreasonable Mr A missed the debits leaving his bank 
account. The debits were small in size and were taken at different frequencies  sometimes only quarterly. So I dont think its reasonable or fair to say Mr A should have spotted them 
leaving his account, especially when I dont think D&G sent Mr As renewal documents to the 
correct address from 2009 onwards and so wouldnt have been aware of the cover.
D&G said it wouldnt normally offer a refund of premiums without evidence that the customer 
has disposed of the appliance on risk. D&G said it hadnt seen anything to back Mr As 
claims that he replaced the vacuum cleaner 10-15 years ago. But I dont think its reasonable 
- given the passage of time and because I dont think Mr A knew his vacuum cleaner was 
insured - that Mr A didnt keep proof of the vacuum cleaners disposal or evidence relating to 
the purchase of its replacement.
I dont think its reasonable  given that Mr A didnt receive his annual renewal documents 
between 2009 until he cancelled his policy in June 2020  for him to have remembered 
during this time that he had cover. I also think its unreasonable to expect Mr A to have 
recalled terms and conditions specific to claims, automatic renewals and cancellations after 
the end of his 2008-2009 policy year or to have acted on them.
So for the reasons stated above, I intend to require D&G to refund Mr A the premiums 
debited from him since the end of his 2008-2009 policy year until he cancelled his policy in 
June 2020.
Responses to my provisional decision
Neither Mr A nor D&G agreed with my provisional decision. 
Mr A said D&G should refund all direct debits paid since 2002. He said he hadnt received 
any post at all from D&G about the policy and that D&Gs FRL said hed probably not 
received any renewal notices. So it was incorrect to say that hed probably received 
renewals before 2009.
D&G said it wanted my final decision to be consistent with outcomes on several other 
complaints against D&G referred to this service where DISP 2.8.2 R had been applied. 
D&G also said that, even though the direct debits were not excessively large, it was Mr As 
responsibility to check his bank account to ensure payments are correct. And so Mr A 
shouldve noticed the direct debits leaving his bank account and brought the matter to D&Gs 
attention sooner than he did. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive also considered the responses of both parties to my provisional decision. 
DISP 2.8.2 R is one of the Financial Conduct Authoritys Dispute Resolution Rules that set 
out which complaints this service can and cant consider. DISP 2.8.2 R says we cant 
consider complaints brought to us more than:
six months after a business has sent its final response to the complaint, 
six years after the event complained of; or (if later)
three years from the date on which the complainant became aware (or ought 
reasonably to have become aware) of the cause for complaint.But DISP 2.8.2 R also says that these time limits dont apply where a business consents to 
us considering the complaint. And on 28 August 2020, D&G gave this consent. DISP 2.8.2A 
R says that if a business provides consent, it cannot withdraw it. So I am able to consider Mr 
As complaint. 
In considering Mr As complaint, Ive thought about the circumstances specific to Mr As 
complaint to decide whether D&G acted fairly and reasonably towards Mr A. And Im not 
satisfied that the particular circumstances of the complaints D&G referenced in its response 
are similar enough to the circumstances of Mr As complaint to persuade me to depart from 
my provisional findings.
Id already explained in my provisional decision why it was reasonable that Mr A missed the 
small direct debits leaving his bank account. So D&Gs response hasnt provided any new 
information or arguments in relation to this point that Id not already considered when making 
my provisional decision. So I see no reason to depart from my provisional finding that its not 
reasonable or fair to say that Mr A shouldve spotted the direct debits leaving his bank 
account. 
So because neither Mr As nor D&Gs responses have persuaded to depart from my 
provisional findings, I shall be upholding Mr As complaint in line with my provisional 
decision.
   
My final decision
I uphold Mr As complaint. 
I require Domestic & General Insurance Plc to refund Mr A all premiums debited from his 
bank account plus 8% interest from the beginning of Mr As 2009-2010 policy year until he 
cancelled his policy in 2020. D&G should deduct any funds it may have already paid to Mr A 
in respect of this complaint from Mr As award. 
If Domestic & General Insurance Plc considers that its required by HM Revenue & Customs 
to deduct income tax from that interest, it should tell Mr A how much its taken off. It should 
also give Mr A a certificate showing this if he asks for one, so he can reclaim the tax from 
HM Revenue & Customs if appropriate.
 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision before 21 December 2021.
 
Ruth Peek
Ombudsman