DRN-2632350
The complaint
Mr M complains that AXA Insurance UK Plc unfairly declined a claim he made on his motor 
insurance policy. Reference to AXA includes its agents.
What happened
Mr M holds a motor insurance policy with AXA. After he said he was involved in an accident 
with another car, he called AXA to make a claim for the damage to his car.
At first, AXA accepted his claim and told him his car wasnt economical to repair. AXA said 
Mr Ms car would be written off and that it would settle Mr Ms claim by paying him the 
market value of his car. AXA then changed this decision as it thought it could repair Mr Ms 
car.
Mr M wasnt happy with this and complained to AXA. He said after he was told hed be 
receiving a cash settlement to his claim, he purchased another car. He said because of this, 
he didnt want his car repaired. AXA agreed to write Mr Ms car off and it offered him a 
settlement figure which Mr M accepted.
But AXA didnt pay Mr Ms claim. It said it had carried out further investigations into the 
circumstances of the incident and didnt think it had happened as Mr M had described. It said 
a forensic engineer had looked at both cars involved in the incident and thought theyd been 
damaged in two separate incidents. AXA said because of this it thought Mr M had acted 
fraudulently, and so it didnt pay his claim.
Mr M didnt think this was fair and complained to us. He said he had two witnesses in his car 
and maintains the incident happened as he described it to AXA. He also thinks the forensic 
engineers findings are unreliable because they are based on a different description of the 
incident. Mr M also complained about the condition his vehicle was in when it was returned 
to him and discrepancies with the no claims discount (NCD) he got from his broker.
One of our investigators looked into Mr Ms complaint and didnt recommend it be upheld. He 
thought AXA was entitled to rely on the findings of the forensic engineer. And he thought 
AXA was acting in line with the policy terms and conditions when it declined Mr Ms claim. 
He thought the issues with Mr Ms NCD needed to be redirected to his broker. And he 
thought the issues around how Mr Ms car was returned to him needed to be a separate 
complaint, which he set up and is being looked at by us separately.
Mr M didnt agree with our investigators findings and asked for an ombudsmans decision. 
He maintains the incident did happen as he described it, so he thinks AXA should pay his 
claim.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im not upholding Mr ms complaint. I understand this wont be the answer 
he was hoping for. Ill explain my reasoning below.
For clarity, in this decision Ill look at AXAs decision to decline Mr Ms claim. Ill not be 
looking at the condition Mr Ms car was returned to him as that has been looked at in another 
complaint. Nor shall I be looking at any issues relating to Mr Ms NCD as our investigator 
correctly redirected Mr M to his broker.
Mr Ms policy with AXA says Mr M must not act in a fraudulent manner. It says if Mr M or 
anyone acting for him:
Make a claim under the policy knowing the claim to be false or fraudulently 
exaggerated in any way or
Make a statement in support of a claim knowing the statement to be false in any way 
or
Submit a document in support of a claim knowing the document to be forged or false 
in any way or
Make a claim for any loss or damage caused by your wilful act or with your 
connivance
Then
We will not pay the claim.
We will not pay any other claim which has been or will be made under the policy.
We may make the policy void from the date of the fraudulent act. We will be entitled 
to recover from you the amount of any claim already paid under the policy.
We will not refund any premium.
We may inform the police of the circumstances.
Its not my role to determine whether or not Mr Ms claim was fraudulent. But I do have to 
decide whether or not I think AXAs decision to decline his claim on the basis that it thinks it 
was, is fair and reasonable in all the circumstances. The above policy term clearly sets out 
what AXA will do if Mr M makes a claim thats in anyway fraudulent. What I have to decide 
now is whether or not AXAs decision to rely on this term to decline his claim in the 
circumstances of this complaint is a fair and reasonable outcome.
AXA is entitled to carry out an investigation into any claim it receives. And in this case, its 
relied on findings made by a forensic engineer. That engineer clearly states they dont think 
the incident happened as Mr M described it. I understand Mr M doesnt agree with the 
forensic engineers findings, and hes entitled not to. But I dont think AXA are acting 
unreasonably by relying on these findings as the engineer who carried out the report can be 
considered an expert in their field.
I appreciate Mr M said he had two witnesses in his car at the time of the alleged incident and 
that these witnesses accounts werent taken into consideration. I can understand his 
frustration here, but as these witnesses were travelling in his car, they wouldnt be 
considered independent. So even if AXA did take these witnesses versions of events into 
account, I dont think AXA would have found these statements more persuasive than the 
forensic engineers report.
The forensic engineer inspected the damage to both cars and doesnt think Mr Ms car 
caused the damage to the third partys car and doesnt think the third partys car caused the 
damage to Mr Ms car. The engineer doesnt think the damage was caused by the two cars colliding. The report notes inconsistencies with the height of the damage, the transfer of 
paint and the amount of lateral damage to both vehicles.
Mr M doesnt agree with the engineers findings. When our investigator let Mr M know of his 
assessment, Mr M hadnt seen the report. AXA arranged to send it to him, although Ive not 
received any further comment from Mr M on whether he has received it or has any further 
comment relating to it. Hes said he appreciates the engineer is a professional and an expert 
in their field. But he thought that based on what the investigator had explained about the 
report, its findings were based on incorrect information in relation to the position of his car at 
the time of the alleged accident. Mr M has said he thinks the forensic engineer has based his 
findings based on Mr Ms car being almost square on at impact, Whereas Mr M said his car 
was turned much more to the right at the point of impact.
I understand Mr Ms concern here. But AXA dont think this materially changes the findings 
of the engineers report and neither do I. The report explains that the engineer didnt think 
the incident happened as described. The engineer has said this is - amongst other things - 
because there little or no evidence of lateral damage. The engineer says theyd expect to 
see lateral damage as the car Mr M hit was likely to have continued travelling for a short 
distance after impact. I appreciate Mr M has said the position of his car wasnt correct in the 
report, but even if the report noted the position of his car as Mr M has explained it, it still 
doesnt explain why the impact to his car shows no lateral characteristics whatsoever. Nor 
does it explain the other findings of the report such as the paint transfer and height of 
damage.
Im satisfied that AXA can rely on the report carried out by the forensic engineer. And that 
report strongly suggests the accident didnt happen as Mr M described it. Therefore, it 
follows that I think AXA is acting in line with the policy when not paying Mr Ms claim on the 
basis that hes made a claim that is false or fraudulent in some way.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I dont uphold Mr Ms complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 4 June 2021.
 
Joe Thornley
Ombudsman