DRN-2828874
The complaint
Miss P feels that Hitachi Capital (UK) Plc has treated her unfairly in relation to a finance 
agreement regarding the installation of a door.
  
What happened
In April 2021 I issued a provisional decision, to which both parties have now responded. 
Hitachi accepted my position. Miss P made further arguments. I shall address those 
responses in my findings. The background of the matter in dispute is as follows.
In July 2019, Miss P entered into a contract with a supplier for the supply and installation of a 
door. This was paid for through finance provided by Hitachi.
Soon after the installation, Miss P complained about the installation and spoke to the 
supplier. Miss P feels that the installation wasnt done properly, that there remains some 
below standard work and that in the discussions at the time the supplier said it would 
insulate the nearby wall cavity with insulating foam- which hasnt been done.
The supplier maintains that this foam insulation was never part of the contract, but it was 
something it was prepared to look into at the time and potentially do as a gesture of goodwill. 
It maintains that for the work it did do it was happy to provide a guarantee, but the guarantee 
wouldnt cover the insulation work as that wasnt part of the agreement made or paid for. 
Having reached deadlock this complaint was brought to this service. Our investigator issued 
an assessment stating that there was a breach of contract and that Hitachi should pay the 
£1150 to fix matters. They also said that the amount paid so far in relation to the customer 
service provided was fair in the circumstances.
Miss P responded by saying that she didnt think this assessment went far enough. Hitachi 
responded noting that it had paid £120 in regard to its customer service to Miss P already. It 
also said it would pay the £1150 to bring the matter to a close but noted it isnt responsible 
for the cavity work. I then issued a provisional decision to which both parties have 
responded.
  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
This services aim is to provide fast, free and impartial resolutions to disputes between 
complainants and firms. With this in mind I note that Miss P and Hitachi have provided 
lengthy and detailed arguments throughout and Miss P has also done so in response to my 
provisional decision. I have considered all of these carefully. But in the interests of clarity, 
fairness and finality I shall only address the arguments of the parties that I consider to be the 
key arguments in order to reach a fair and reasonable conclusion for this dispute. I shall 
summarise/paraphrase the key points of my provisional decision now (the following in italics) 
before addressing Miss Ps further arguments.
I should state here that Miss P has made us aware of medical conditions and disabilities she 
has. These are clearly important matters and I have considered them throughout in my 
decision making.
There is no dispute that Miss P entered into an agreement with the supplier to install a door 
and paid a deposit and used a Fixed Sum Loan Agreement with Hitachi to pay for the rest of 
it. Miss P is complaining under Section 75 of the Consumer Credit Act 1974.The general 
effect of Section 75 is that if Miss P has a claim for misrepresentation or breach of contract 
against a supplier of goods or services, she can also bring that claim against the credit 
provider (Hitachi here) provided certain conditions are met. Im satisfied this dispute fits the 
criteria required under the Act.
Miss P has argued strongly that the supplier has caused her much distress and 
inconvenience in how it has dealt with her over an extended period of time. However Hitachi 
isnt responsible for customer service issues relating to the supplier such as this. Its liability 
is limited to whether or not the supplier breached or misrepresented the contract and the 
customer service Hitachi itself has provided directly to Miss P. And considering the customer 
service it has provided Miss P and considering Hitachis position in the round I think the 
payments made already fairly represent a fair resolution to the customer service Hitachi has 
provided Miss P.
Regarding the installation of the door and surrounding issues. I can see Miss P has pointed 
to several issues including; installing an additional gasket in the door, insulating under the 
skirting board to stop the cold air, fixing and painting the skirting board and filling out the wall 
cavities. Miss P has provided videos which show the door isnt airtight and pictures which 
show cracking in the door surround and skirting boards which are not finished properly. 
Services need to be provided with reasonable skill and care. And considering the evidence 
from Miss P Im not persuaded this installation, or the further works carried out, were all 
provided with reasonable skill and care. So I agree with Miss P that there was some work 
done which wasnt good enough. But I am mindful that Hitachi (for some time) has offered to 
sort out these issues (as it should).
Clearly both parties have strong views on the cavity insulation issue (specifically if it was 
agreed to be done or not), However Miss P has provided a quote from a third party which 
Hitachi have agreed to pay. And within this quote is the work she seeks to be done, including 
the cavity wall insulation. Hence I dont think I need to decide on this aspect of the complaint 
because Hitachi has agreed to pay for it to be resolved anyway.
Miss P has made significant comment with regard to the guarantee that the Supplier 
provides on the installation and particularly its value in future considering Hitachi has made 
clear that should a third-party work on the door installed then the guarantee would be 
invalidated. However it is clear to me that it would be unfair to hold Hitachi or the supplier 
responsible for work carried out by an unrelated third party. And bearing in mind the quote 
Miss P has provided which quotes for the work she wishes to be done (which clearly impacts 
the door installed in differing ways) I can see merit in Miss Ps argument that such a 
guarantee has potential to be invalidated. But it is also clear that Hitachi have offered 
repeatedly to help solve matters and for differing reasons at differing times it hasnt had the 
opportunity to do so. I also have to consider the comments Hitachi have made with regard to 
the quote Miss P has sourced and that it has offered to pay for the cavity insulation which it 
states it never agreed or contracted to do. Whilst noting Miss Ps arguments in this area, it is 
clear that the relationship here has broken down and I think it would be in all parties interest 
to try to bring finality to the matter so that the relationships here can end soon and cleanly. So I decided my provisional position was that the suggested settlement of Hitachi paying 
Miss P the sum of £1150 is a fair and reasonable settlement to this dispute. This would 
mean that the suppliers guarantee may have little use going forward. However I think this 
settlement is fair because Miss Ps third party who has quoted to fix the work should bear 
liability for its work (whether directly or through the protective legislation available to Miss P 
which she is clearly familiar with). And considering Hitachis position as a whole I currently 
think such a settlement better provides finality to the matter which would be in the interests 
of both parties.
Miss P has also argued that she has suffered consequential loss in terms of her utility bills. 
But she hasnt provided evidence to support the causal nature of what she is saying, 
specifically she hasnt shown the door installation has led to the increase in utility costs. 
These could have gone up for a host of other unrelated reasons as Hitachi has pointed out. 
And I should note that having studied the videos and pictures Miss P has put forward Im not 
persuaded they fully support her arguments here. I also note in her early arguments she 
equates the situation with the new door as being the same situation as with the situation 
prior to the installation. And Miss P does have a duty to mitigate any losses shes aware of. 
So in the absence of persuasive evidence of the causal link between installation and 
increased costs Im not minded to make any award here in relation to consequential losses 
in this case.
Miss P also was concerned at the outset of events here that there may have been too many 
credit searches performed. Hitachi has confirmed only one took place. Hitachi apologised for 
the misinformation given to Miss P at the time. I think thats a fair solution on that issue in the 
circumstances.
Miss P has said that she wanted to get out of the agreement during the cancellation period 
and made this clear to the parties. However considering the timeline of events and the 
evidence Ive not seen anything persuasive of this. Miss P has previously been asked to 
provide persuasive evidence to support her arguments here but hasnt done so. So I dont 
think Hitachi did anything wrong on that issue.
Miss P has also complained about the suppliers asking her to sign further documentation 
during these events. It also asked for clarification from her chartered surveyor which Miss P 
has said it didnt need. I consider it fair in the course of such works where either party has 
concerns about the work being done, to be done or regarding issues of potential ongoing 
liability for either party to wish to clarify understanding by putting forward further paperwork 
to show such clarification on such issues between the parties. Having considered this issue 
here I dont think Miss P has been treated unfairly.
So in summary my provisional decision was that the suggested settlement that Hitachi 
should deduct £1150 from Miss Ps outstanding balance was fair. And that I thought the 
amount it has already paid Miss P for its customer service issues was also fair. So I didnt 
think it had to do any more.
Issues following on from my provisional decision
Miss P has previously asked whether this sum could be deducted from her outstanding 
balance with Hitachi. I suggested in my provisional decision that this happen. Hitachi hasnt 
objected to this, so I think it a fair manner to apply this deduction.
Miss P said shes had much difficulty in managing her relationship with Hitachi particularly 
with reviewing the situation online. In my provisional decision asked Hitachi to contact Miss 
P in future by email and it hasnt objected to this. Accordingly Hitachi should issue all contact 
and statements to Miss P by email from when it is notified Miss P has accepted my decision.Miss P has made the following arguments since my provisional decision which I shall 
address in turn.
Payments and Interest
Miss P argued she was still liable to interest charges and payments on the agreement. But 
since then Hitachi has said it has agreed another payment holiday with her. So the payments 
issue falls away. Regarding the interest issue Miss P has entered this agreement knowing 
there was interest to pay and charges in certain circumstances. Bearing in mind I think 
Hitachis position is a fair resolution I see no persuasive reason to make it do anything 
different in relation to this issue as Miss P was provided goods and services for which she 
agreed to pay. So I see no reason for interest or charges not to be payable.
Correspondence between parties
Miss P raised this issue again. But as described above once she accepts this decision 
Hitachi will contact her by email from then on. And Im not persuaded there is any further 
issue I need to remedy on this point.
The guarantee
Again Miss P has raised this issue but hasnt addressed my comments above. But as I 
described above and in my provisional decision the remedy which I think is fair is a financial 
settlement to bring finality to the matter. This enables a supplier of her choice to do the work 
she has provided a quote for. So I think once that work is done that new supplier should be 
liable for its work. And bearing in mind the relationship has clearly broken down I see no 
persuasive reason to change my position on the matter.
Blackmail
Miss P has, throughout this matter, said that she felt the parties were unfairly leveraging the 
matter against her. And I reiterate Im not persuaded by her comments on this and have 
seen no persuasive evidence to support this. So I see no reason to change my position on 
this matter.
Interest on the suggested settlement
Miss P has argued that interest on the amount to be reduced from her outstanding balance 
should be awarded from the date of installation. I dont think this would be fair as Hitachi 
have tried to liaise with Miss P throughout and have agreed to pay for the cavity insulation 
despite never accepting it was part of the agreement. It is also clear that Miss P hasnt paid 
the monthly amounts due to Hitachi for an extended timeframe. Accordingly considering 
everything I see no persuasive reason to award interest here on this settlement.
Delay
Miss P has said Hitachi deliberately delayed matters in this dispute to further cause her 
negative issues. Clearly matters have taken longer than the parties would wish. But Im not 
persuaded this has been done deliberately or that they were unfair or unreasonable. And in 
the round I think the settlement described above is fair including with regard to the time 
taken here.
Miss Ps wellbeingMiss P has described how she has been throughout this dispute and her medical and 
wellbeing issues. Im sorry to hear about these issues and I wish Miss P well. And as Ive 
described Ive considered these important considerations throughout. But Im not persuaded 
Hitachi has tried to take advantage of this or is acting unfairly in the settlement it has agreed 
to.
Miss P has stated that once she is notified of the final outstanding amount she will pay it all 
so that finality can be reached in this matter. As the relationship between the parties has 
broken down I think the sooner finality can be reached the better for all concerned. 
Putting things right
It is my decision that Hitachi will deduct £1150 from Miss Ps outstanding balance is fair. And 
that the amount it has already paid Miss P for its customer service issues is also fair. Once 
the amount is deducted from her balance Hitachi will email Miss P with that amount and 
details of how to pay.
Miss P is at liberty not to accept this decision if she doesnt want to. And if she wishes, she 
can pursue the matter through other avenues. However this decision brings to an end this 
services involvement in this dispute.
  
My final decision
For the reasons set out above I think the suggested settlement of Hitachi Capital (UK) Plc 
reducing Miss Ps outstanding balance on her agreement with it by £1150 is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances. It doesnt have to do anything else to remedy what has 
happened.
 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss P to accept 
or reject my decision before 17 June 2021.
 
Rod Glyn-Thomas
Ombudsman