DRN-3385008
The complaint
Mr W complains that HSBC UK Bank Plc (HSBC) havent upheld a claim he made to them 
about unsatisfactory goods.
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again 
here. Instead Ill focus on giving my reasons for my decision.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I know it will disappoint Mr W, but I agree with the investigators view of this complaint. 
Please let me explain why.
Where the information Ive got is incomplete, unclear, or contradictory, as some of it is here I 
have to base my decision on the balance of probabilities.
Ive read and considered the whole file, but Ill concentrate my comments on what I think is 
relevant. If I dont comment on any specific point its not because Ive failed to take it on 
board and think about it but because I dont think I need to comment on it in order to reach 
what I think is the right outcome.
When something goes wrong and the payment was made in part or in whole with a credit 
card, as is the case here, it might be possible to make a claim through a chargeback 
request. Here, HSBC attempted to process a chargeback, but it was rejected as it was made 
outside of the strict time limits the chargeback scheme providers set. I dont think HSBC did 
anything wrong in that respect.
There are, however, no time limits within which a business needs to consider a claim under 
section 75 of the Consumer Credit Act 1974 (section 75). That legislation says that in 
certain circumstances, the borrower under a credit agreement has a like right to claim 
against the credit provider as against the supplier if there's either a breach of contract or 
misrepresentation by the supplier. Here the suggestion is that theres been a breach of the 
implied terms of the contract; that the dryer should have been of satisfactory quality.
Im not determining the outcome of a claim that a party might have under section 75. I take 
section 75 into account when I think about whats a fair way to resolve the complaint, but I 
dont have to reach the same view as, for example, a court might reach when considering 
breach of contract or misrepresentation.
From what I can see, all the necessary criteria for a claim to be made under section 75 have 
been met. That was therefore an avenue I think HSBC should have explored.
The Consumer Rights Act (2015) says that if a fault occurs with goods within the first six 
months it is to be assumed that the problem was present at the point they were supplied 
(when the business were responsible for the quality of goods), unless the business can 
demonstrate otherwise.
Mr W says that the supplier were wrong to refer him to the manufacturer to get an uplift 
number for them to remove the faulty dryer under warranty. He says his contract was with 
the supplier and that they should merely have complied with legislation and arranged a 
repair of the goods.
I agree with Mr W that, in those circumstances, if the goods were found to be faulty the 
supplier would be entitled to repair them. But I dont think the supplier refused to repair the 
goods and I dont think their request that Mr W contact the manufacturer was an 
unreasonable one in the circumstances. It may well have been possible to return the goods 
or have them repaired under warranty, and that would still have resolved matters for Mr W. 
Im required to decide whats fair having considered all the relevant guidelines and legislation 
and I think the suppliers request was fair.
So, I dont think there was sufficient merit in Mr Ws claim, but HSBC should have 
considered it under section 75, as they didnt do so they have delayed the process and 
caused Mr W some inconvenience. 
Putting things right
HSBC should pay Mr W £70 in respect of the inconvenience caused by their failure to 
consider his claim under section 75. But, Im not asking them to take any further action.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above I uphold this complaint in part and tell HSBC UK Bank Plc 
to pay Mr W £70 to compensate him for the inconvenience experienced.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision before 7 July 2022.
 
Phillip McMahon
Ombudsman