DRN-4024710
The complaint
Miss M complains that NewDay Ltd trading as Fluid Credit Card irresponsibly allowed her to 
open a credit card account which was unaffordable.
What happened
Miss M says she opened the Fluid account in December 2021 but says the application 
should not have been approved. She says she was in financial difficulties with significant 
other debts. Miss M says the account was unaffordable and would like interest refunded as 
well as the balance written off.
NewDay says it carried out appropriate checks on Miss Ms application. It says she declared 
an income of £37,300 a year and it calculated her debt at about £4,500. NewDay says there 
was no adverse information on Miss Ms credit file, and it had been over two years since the 
previous account had been closed which it accepts was unaffordable.
Miss M brought her complaint to us, and our investigator didnt uphold it. The investigator 
thought NewDay carried out appropriate checks on the application and there was no adverse 
information that it ought to have considered. The investigator didnt think there any missed 
payments on other accounts in the year before the application.
Miss M doesnt accept that view and says her existing debts were far more than £4,500. She 
says there were other loans and clear evidence of missed payments on other accounts. She 
also says on one account she hadnt made any payments.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so I have come to the overall view that I dont uphold this complaint.
Lenders and credit card account providers must carry out reasonable and proportionate 
checks on any lending or credit application. Those checks will of course vary depending on 
the type and amount of any lending. This was an application by Miss M for a credit facility 
and so I wouldnt have expected NewDays checks to have been as detailed as for example 
for a mortgage application. But of course, appropriate checks must still be carried out.
I have looked carefully at Miss Ms application and the checks NewDay carried out. I have 
also looked at how Miss M managed her account and at her credit file. I can see Miss M 
declared an income of over £37,000 a year and that NewDay calculated her existing debt at 
about £4,500. I can also see NewDay looked at Miss Ms credit file and concluded that there 
was no adverse information on her credit file such as defaults or accounts in arrears. So, Im 
satisfied that NewDay did carry out reasonable and proportionate checks on Miss Ms 
application and was reasonably entitled to conclude the account was affordable.
I have also looked at Miss Ms credit file and think her total debt at the time was recorded at 
about the same amount NewDay calculated of about £4,500. I have not seen any adverse 
information on the credit file that I would have expected NewDay to have considered such as 
any defaults or patterns of missed payments. I appreciate Miss M says her debt was much 
higher, but I cant fairly expect NewDay to have known that as at least two credit reports do 
not have that information recorded. I also dont think the account that Miss M says she made 
no repayments on was recorded as being in arrears. So, Im satisfied that NewDay didnt act 
irresponsibly by approving the account and that on the face of it the account was affordable.
I have looked at how Miss M managed her account and can see she made required 
payments and doesnt appear to have exceeded her credit limit. I think that provides 
additional evidence the account was affordable.
I appreciate Miss M says that NewDay accepts it should not have approved a previous 
account application and so that must apply to this account. But Im satisfied that account was 
closed some time before the decision was made to open this account and that Miss Ms 
circumstances appear to have changed.
Overall, Im satisfied that NewDay didnt lend irresponsibly and that the account was on the 
face of it affordable. I appreciate Miss M says she had gambling issues, but I cant see that 
NewDay would have been aware of that based on the checks it carried out. It follows that I 
cant fairly order it to refund interest. I make clear that we would not normally order that an 
account balance be written off in any event, as Miss M says she would have liked.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss M to accept 
or reject my decision before 29 April 2023.
 
David Singh
Ombudsman