DRN-2213916
The complaint
Mr and Mrs B are unhappy with the way that their home insurance claim for water damage 
was dealt with by Acromas Insurance Company Limited.
What happened
In July 2019 Mr and Mrs B suffered a leak from an underground pipe which caused 
considerable damage to their property. They made a claim to Acromas who appointed a loss 
adjuster to handle the claim. Repairs were anticipated to take a month but after initial strip-
outs the repairs needed were found to be far more extensive than had been anticipated. Mr 
and Mrs B were moved to alternative accommodation on a short term let. This was 50 miles 
away as nothing suitable nearer was available
After the property was dried the repair work started, consisting of taking up the floors, 
installing new flooring, cleaning and decoration. The repairs were due to be completed when 
Mr and Mrs B attended their property unannounced. They were upset with the standard of 
workmanship and the fact that some of the doors and furnishings were damaged by cement 
staining. The toilets were also damaged, having been used by the contractors before a 
portaloo was delivered. The washing machine was damaged by not being clamped properly 
when being transported. 
The loss adjuster reviewed the situation and agreed that Mr and Mrs B could use their own 
contractors to complete the repairs and deal with the snagging. A cash settlement was 
agreed for the damaged items, rescreeding and snagging. Mr and Mrs B sent in a quote for 
the redecoration for £1,400. Acromas said that it considered a reasonable payment for this 
to be £978, which was accepted by Mr and Mrs B. Although they later advised it wasnt 
sufficient.
Acromas agreed that the work fell below standard and apologised for the delay in completing 
the work, although it did point out that, the repairs had turned out to be more extensive than 
anticipated. It paid them £500 for the distress and inconvenience caused.
On referral to this service our investigator said that Acromas had acted reasonably.
Mr and Mrs B didnt agree and pointed out that they had had to use the £500 to top up the 
settlement Acromas had given them.
The matter has been referred to me for further consideration.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The repair of their home took much longer than Mr and Mrs B expected and I do understand 
it was distressing for them to be out of their home for so long at a place where it was difficult 
for them to visit their property. I appreciate they expected someone to be on site regularly 
supervising, but unfortunately thats not the way these sorts of repairs usually work. I think 
this matter was more about a failure to address their expectations rather than any particular 
delays, which were mainly because of the damage turning out to be much more than initially 
thought.
Having said that Mr and Mrs B did have legitimate concerns about the work. I have looked at 
ther photos provided and considered Acromas responses. Acromas did agree to pay for the 
following:    
sofa repairs
repairs to both toilets
house clean
additional screeding
3 replacement locks
the remainder of building works
This was snagging work , some repairs still to be done and some poor workmanship. When 
considering how a claim was handled we look at what went wrong and the steps the insurer 
took to put things right. Here Mr and Mrs B were justifiably concerned about the standard of 
work and particularly the damage to several of their items, including the carpets. Some of the 
work remained to be done at the time they inspected it. Acromas agreed that Mr and Mrs B 
could instruct their own contractor to complete the work and deal with the snagging issues. It 
paid Mr and Mrs B in full for the work they instructed their contractors to do, except for the 
redecoration. For that it paid £978 against their quote of £1,400, which payment at the time 
was accepted by Mr and Mrs B. This was on the basis that it considered that to be a 
reasonable payment and the amount its contractors would have charged. Other items like 
the carpet and washing machine have been agreed.
 We would normally expect the insurer to be given the opportunity to complete repairs and 
any snagging work. Here because Mr and Mrs B were so upset at the time they inspected 
the property Acromas agreed to allow them to use their own contractors to complete the 
work. As our investigator has pointed out, if offering a cash settlement the policy says:
We will not pay more than the cost to us (after any discount available from our approved 
suppliers) of repairing or rebuilding the buildings.
Whilst I appreciate that for the redecoration works only Mr and Mrs B havent received the 
full payment for their contractors, Acromas was entitled to offer payment in line with its 
contractors rates. And Mr and Mrs B accepted the payment at the time. I think this was a 
reasonable payment.
As for compensation, the claim was made in July 2019 and the works were not quite 
completed by December 2019, leaving the remaining work to be completed by Mr and Mrs 
Bs contractors. But I have noted that the repairs did take longer than initially anticipated. I 
also note that there were some issues of poor workmanship and Mr and Mrs B were upset 
with the way their home had been treated while they werent able to supervise the work. I 
understand the upset and inconvenience caused, but I do think that £500 was a reasonable 
payment for this and is in line with awards we have made in similar cases. 
My final decision
I do not uphold the complaint.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr and Mrs B to 
accept or reject my decision before 17 February 2021.
 
Ray Lawley
Ombudsman