DRN-1558030
 
The complaint
This complaint is about two regular premium payment protection insurance (PPI) 
policies. Mr S, who is represented by a third party, says Bank of Scotland plc (BoS), 
trading as Halifax, mis-sold him both policies.
He says the he was made to think he had to take out each policy and that that he didnt 
want or need them. 
Background
In around August 2001 Mr S took out a Total Mortgage Protection Plan (TMPP) to go 
with his mortgage. The TMPP was a standalone policy which protected his mortgage 
repayments in the event that he became unable to work or lost his job. As well as 
providing mortgage protection like the policy above, the TMPP also provided life 
insurance and critical illness cover. The cost of this policy was around £10 per month 
and could have paid £173 per month in the event of a successful claim, for up to 24 
months.
Mr S kept this cover until November 2004 when he took out a further TMPP policy to go 
with some extra borrowing hed arranged on his mortgage. This policy cost around £13 
per month  and could have paid £215 per month for a successful claim.
Our adjudicator in this case said the complaint shouldnt be upheld but Mr S disagreed 
and its been passed to me for an ombudsmans decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website 
and Ive taken this into account in deciding this case.
Having done this, Ive decided not to uphold Mr Ss complaint.
Ive looked at what Mr S has told us about the sale which is of course helpful. But as with 
any complaint Ive also borne in mind the possibility that recollections, however genuine, 
are likely to be affected by time. Similarly, some of the documentation from both sales 
that I would have liked to see is no longer available. Because of this, my decision is 
based on the balance of probabilities  i.e. whats more likely to have happened, based 
on what Ive seen and what the parties have told me. Ive also used what I know about 
BoSs procedures and how it sold these types of policy. 
Mr S told us that he bought both policies at meetings. And BoS has confirmed that it 
made a recommendation that he take out the cover in both instances. That means BoS 
needed to ensure the policies were suitable for his situation. BoS also needed to provide 
enough clear information so Mr S could make an informed choice as to whether he should 
buy the policies. 
For both sales, Ive seen evidence taken from BoSs computer system to show that 
the policy was discussed with Mr S and that he was asked questions to check he was 
eligible for the policy and wouldnt have been affected by any of the main policy 
exclusions.  
On balance, I think this information and evidence is enough for me to me think that Mr S 
made the decision to go ahead and take out each of these policies and that on each 
occasion there would have been some level of discussion with the BoS representative. In 
addition, its likely that Mr S would have had to authorise the monthly premiums to be drawn 
from a bank account by way of a direct debit or similar method. So I think it follows this that 
Mr S was most likely given a choice about whether to take out PPI in each sale.
Next, Ive looked at the question of whether the policies were suitable for Mr S. As Ive 
already said, Mr S had confirmed he was eligible for the cover on the PPI application form 
for the first sale. And I havent seen anything to suggest he would have been affected by 
any of the main policy exclusions. 
Ive also not seen anything to suggest that the monthly cost of the cover was unaffordable 
for him and I think the monthly premiums - given the type / number of protections each 
policy offered - were comparable with similar products marketed at around the time they 
were sold.
Mr S told us that he had benefits from his employer of around 3 months full pay 
followed by 3 months at half pay if he wasnt able to work. Each of these policies 
would have paid out for up to 24 months in the event of a successful claim. And if Mr 
S had had to make a claim, having the policy would have meant he wouldnt have to 
dig into any existing savings or other financial resources he may have had. I also think 
each mortgage would have been a significant financial commitment over an extended 
period. Policies like this are designed to offer protection in financially difficult times 
and they would have provided Mr S with cover over and above any other protection he 
may have had elsewhere. So, given his situation, I think the concept of protecting 
himself with cover like this could be viewed as a worthwhile and sensible precaution.
I also think its likely that for each sale he would have been given a policy document which 
explained details of the cover and how to claim. And even if I cant be sure that everything 
happened in the way it should have done, from what Ive seen Mr S agreed to take out 
these policies and that each one was suitable for his situation. 
Id also like to reassure Mr Ss that Ive taken into account his response to our 
adjudicators findings. Whilst I realise this isnt the outcome he was hoping for, I am 
sorry to have to disappoint him on this occasion. 
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I dont uphold Mr Ss complaint. And I dont direct Bank of 
Scotland plc to do anything to put matters right.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 7 August 2020.
 
Michael Goldberg
Ombudsman