DRN-3127843
The complaint
Miss D complains that BMW Financial Services (GB) Limited (BMWFS) recorded 
inaccurate information with credit reference agencies in relation to her hire purchase 
agreement.
What happened
In March 2014 Miss D acquired a car using a hire purchase agreement provided by BMWFS. 
The agreement set out that the cash price of the car was £11,200 and the total amount of 
credit being borrowed was £11,080. The total repayable, including interest charged, was
£14,639.84.
The agreement allowed Miss D to end it early, provided certain conditions had been met. 
She enquired about doing so in March 2017, and the agreement was terminated.
In April 2018 Miss D raised a complaint with BMWFS because shed become aware that 
BMWFS had reported that her agreement was five months in arrears, which wasnt the case. 
She said she had nothing further to pay and asked BMWFS to remove the arrears markers. 
Lastly, Miss D said that her agreement had been mis-sold because she hadnt been made 
aware of the interest rate applied to the borrowing.
BMWFS said that it had made Miss D aware that she was required to pay charges for 
excess mileage and the transportation of her car shortly after returning it. It said it had 
spoken to Miss D about charges in June 2017 at which point it agreed to waive the 
transportation charge, but said the excess mileage charge still needed to be paid. It said that 
it believed the information it had recorded with credit reference agencies in relation to that 
sum was accurate. BMWFS also said that Miss D had signed documents to say that she had 
the agreement explained to her.
Miss D referred her complaint to this service in June 2018. She said that the arrears 
information BMWFS had recorded on her credit file didnt relate to her credit agreement, but 
a separate invoice for excess mileage, so it should be removed. Miss D said that shed been 
experiencing some very challenging personal circumstances and the information BMWFS 
recorded had affected her ability to obtain credit, causing her a financial loss and significant 
trouble and upset.
One of our investigators considered the case, but they didnt uphold it. In summary, they 
were persuaded that Miss D was aware that shed been required to pay BMWFS an 
additional sum in respect of excess mileage. They were also satisfied that it was fair for 
BMWFS to have recorded an outstanding payment on Miss Ds credit file because this sum 
hadnt been paid.
Miss D didnt agree. She accepted that she needed to pay the charge for excess mileage, 
but she specified her complaint was solely about the information BMWFS recorded on her 
credit file. She said that shed simply received an invoice from BMWFS in respect of the 
charge, but information regarding it should not have been recorded on her credit file. She 
also said shed received subsequent letters from BMWFS saying that she didnt need to take 
further action.
Miss D asked for the case to be passed to an ombudsman to make a final decision on it, so 
it was passed to me. I issued a provisional decision on the case explaining why I didnt 
intend to uphold it. In summary, I said;
The mis-sale of the agreement
Miss D hasnt gone into detail about the mis-sale of her agreement, other than to say that 
she wasnt made aware of the interest rate which would be applied to her borrowing.
BMWFS has provided a copy of the hire purchase agreement, signed by Miss D. I think that 
the details of the borrowing, including the interest rate, are sufficiently clear and prominent 
on the first page of the agreement. Ive also been provided with an additional document 
which Miss D signed to say that the agreement had been explained to her.
I wasnt present when Miss D signed those documents, so I dont know exactly what was 
discussed. But, on balance, given the prominence of the details and features of the 
borrowing  particularly in relation to the interest rate  on documents which she signed, Im 
persuaded that Miss D was made sufficiently aware of it. As a result, I dont agree that Miss 
Ds agreement was mis-sold or misrepresented.
The information BMWFS recorded on Miss Ds credit file
Ive seen that following the return of the car BMWFS wrote to Miss D on 30 May 2017 
explaining that shed need to pay sums in respect of an excess mileage as well as a 
transportation charge. That letter also explains how Miss D could pay BMWFS. From what 
shes said, Miss D accepts the excess mileage charge was applied correctly.
Ive also been given a copy of an invoice dated 6 June 2017, addressed to Miss D, which 
details an excess mileage charge of £229.18. I think Miss D accepts she received this 
invoice. The invoice says that payment was required to be made within seven days.
BMWFSs contact records show that Miss D subsequently called to dispute the 
transportation charge, which it agreed to waive. The notes dont, however, refer to the 
excess mileage charge. Ive seen that Miss D appears to have then been sent a credit note 
for the value of the transportation charge.
Given the above, Im satisfied that BMWFS took reasonable steps to make Miss D aware 
that she was required to pay a further sum in respect of her agreement and that she ought 
reasonably to have been aware of the requirement.
Ive seen that BMWFS issued a statement to Miss D in September 2017 which detailed a 
balance of £229.18. The statement also said that itd been sent under a regulatory 
requirement, was for information only, and Miss D didnt need to take any action.
I dont think that being told that she didnt need to take action in response to a statement 
ought to have caused Miss D to think that she was no longer required to pay the excess 
mileage charge. Particularly because she had previously been given a clear explanation of 
the excess mileage charge she was required to pay, and that same sum was subsequently 
showing as a balance on the statement. I also think she couldve clarified matters with 
BMWFS if shed been unsure.A large part of Miss Ds complaint is about whether BMWFS recorded accurate information 
in relation to the excess mileage charge. Shes said non-payment of the excess mileage 
charge shouldnt have been recorded as a late payment under her agreement, but I 
disagree. Ill explain why.
The relevant legislation to this case  the Consumer Credit Act 1974 (CCA) says, (s99) that 
any liabilities the consumer accrued prior to termination, arent to be affected by the 
termination.
On the first page of Miss Ds agreement, under the section Excess mileage charges for 
Depreciation, it says that if the agreement is terminated early the mileage allowance will be 
pro-rated to the reduced period of hire and that your obligation to pay any excess mileage 
charges will accrue immediately prior to termination. Im satisfied Miss Ds agreement is 
worded clearly in setting out when excess mileage charges accrue.
In practice, this means that the excess mileage charge therefore accrued prior to the 
termination and counted towards the total price of the agreement. As a result, Im satisfied 
that the excess mileage charge was not a sum charged in addition to or outside of Miss Ds 
obligations under the agreement, rather, it was part of the overall price required to terminate 
the agreement, and it constituted a payment Miss D was required to make under the 
agreement.
The agreement also set out what BMWFS would do in the event of missing payments  its 
clear that it would report missed payments to credit reference agencies. Given that I think 
Miss D ought to have been reasonably aware of her requirement to make the payment, and 
it formed part of the total price of the agreement, I think it was fair for BMWFS to record 
information with credit reference agencies which reflect that the payment hadnt been made.
Miss D hasnt given us a copy of her credit file, so I cant see exactly whats been recorded. 
However, she said that she believes that an outstanding sum of £229.18 was reported as 
being five months late from around October 2017. Given that Miss D was asked to make the 
payment in question in early June 2017, by October 2017 it wouldve been around five 
months late. From what Miss D has said, it sounds as if BMWFS had not recorded that any 
monthly instalments had been missed, just that a sum of £229.19 was outstanding, which 
was the case. So, all things considered, from what Ive been presented I dont think that the 
information BMWFS recorded was inaccurate.
 
Miss D says that shes aware this information wasnt recorded on her credit file in April 2017 
but it was there later in the year. But as BMWFS seems to have taken ownership of the car 
in April 2017, assessed it and asked Miss D to pay a sum for excess mileage in late May 
2017, I dont think its unreasonable to expect a lag in subsequently reporting non-payment 
of that sum.
Lastly, Ive given careful thought to what Miss D has said about her personal circumstances 
around the time of the events which led to this complaint. I was very sorry to hear about what 
happened and I imagine it must have been a very challenging time for Miss D. I accept that 
dealing with financial matters such as this might not have been the forefront of Miss Ds 
mind, but overall, I cant reasonably conclude that the information BMWFS recorded with 
credit reference agencies is inaccurate or unfair.
BMWFS responded to my provisional decision to say it had nothing further to add. Miss D 
did not respond.
What Ive decided  and whyIve considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Neither party responded to my provisional decision with any materially new evidence or 
information. As a result I find no reason to depart from my provisional conclusions, and I 
therefore now make them final.
My final decision
For the reasons explained above, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss D to accept 
or reject my decision before 23 November 2021.
 
Stephen Trapp
Ombudsman