DRN-1472347
 
The complaint
Mr M says that National Westminster Bank Plc (NatWest) mis-sold him a regular premium 
Payment Protection Insurance (PPI) policy when he took out a credit card.
What happened
This complaint is about a credit card PPI policy taken out in 2000. The policy was added to 
Mr Ms credit card account when he took out a credit card with NatWest.
The cost of the PPI policy was £0.75 per £100 of the outstanding monthly balance. If Mr M 
couldnt work due to accident or sickness or if he lost his job a successful claim wouldve 
paid10% of the outstanding monthly balance on Mr Ms credit card for up to 12 months per 
claim.
Our adjudicator didnt think the complaint should be upheld. She thought the policy was 
presented as optional and wouldve provided a useful benefit.
Mr M disagreed. He says he wasnt given all the information on the cost of the policy and 
didnt need it.  
So the complaint has come to me for a decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Weve set out our general approach to 
complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding 
Mr Ms complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided not to uphold Mr Ms complaint.
NatWest had to make it clear the PPI was optional and make sure Mr M agreed to take it. Mr 
M says this wasnt done. Mr M hasnt given us much detail about what made him think this. 
But I think thats understandable as the PPI was sold a while ago. So Ive relied more on 
what the documents from the time show and what we know about how NatWest sold PPI at 
the time.
NatWest has given us a copy of the credit card application form. I can see on it there is a 
separate section that deals with PPI headed Credit Card Repayment Protector. Within this 
section it gives a brief description of what PPI is and asks the customer to sign in the box if 
they want the cover. 
I can see that Mr M has signed in the box to take PPI. If Mr M didnt want to take out PPI 
then he couldve left the box clear. So I think its likely Mr M knew he had a choice about 
taking out PPI and Im satisfied Mr M signed for PPI because he wanted the cover. Because of the type of application form Mr M completed I dont think the sale was advised. 
What this means is that NatWest didnt recommend PPI to Mr M, it just gave him information 
about PPI. This information needed to be given in a way that was clear, fair and not 
misleading so he could make an informed choice about buying PPI. 
Mr M says NatWest failed to give him sufficient information for him to make an informed 
choice in taking the policy. Its possible NatWest didnt do things properly when making sure 
the information provided on the policy was good enough.
But that being said even if NatWest did give all the information Mr M needed to make an 
informed choice on taking out the policy, I think he wouldve still taken the policy because at 
the time of the sale:
Mr M was eligible for the PPI.
 
It doesnt look like he wouldve been caught by any of the main exclusions in the 
terms and conditions of the policy which couldve made it difficult to make a 
successful claim.
 
At the time of the sale Mr M says had no other means of making his repayments if he 
couldnt work. The policy wouldve covered his credit card payments if he couldnt 
work due to accident or sickness and unemployment for up to 12 months per claim. 
So I think the policy wouldve provided a useful benefit for him and I cant see how 
knowing this information wouldve put him off buying the policy.
 
There is nothing to suggest the policy wasnt affordable to Mr M and if he no longer 
wanted the policy he was able to cancel it. 
 
So I dont think it wouldve made a difference in how the information was given to Mr M on 
the PPI. I think he wouldve still taken out the PPI policy as it suited his needs and was of 
value to him.
Which means NatWest doesnt have to pay back the cost of the PPI to Mr M.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
My final decisionThe PPI policy wasnt mis-sold  so National Westminster Bank Plc does not have to pay 
back the cost of the PPI to Mr M. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 28 May 2020.
Caroline Davies
Ombudsman