DRN-4314917
The complaint
Miss T complains that Barclays Bank UK PLC lost her property title deeds.
What happened
Miss T says she stored her home property deeds with Barclays paying £3 a month for the 
service. She says Barclays wrote to her in December 2021 telling her it was no longer 
offering the service and she arranged to pick up her deeds in October 2022. Miss T says 
Barclays lost her original deeds and has only been able to provide her with a copy, which 
she says is unacceptable. She would like the original documents returned.
Barclays has apologised for what took place and paid £150 compensation. It says it has 
searched for the documents without success but has provided a copy of them. Barclays says 
original deeds are no longer needed and dont have a value.
Miss T brought her complaint to us, and our investigator upheld the complaint. The 
investigator thought Miss T had paid for a service from Barclays for many years which 
should be refunded and 8% interest added to that amount.
Miss T accepts that view, but Barclays doesnt. It says Miss T didnt pay for the service for 
about 10 years and says it likely the deeds were in its possession until about 2021 when it 
completed its scanning process.
My provisional decision
I issued a provisional decision and said as follows.
I came to the provisional view that Barclays should pay Miss T a total of £350 compensation 
which I thought was fair and reasonable. I didnt think it possible to be sure when Barclays 
lost the deeds and that it likely it would have been around the time it started its scanning 
process. I said it follows that Miss T must have had use of the service for some years. And 
that it would be unfair to order that Barclays refund the full payments in circumstances where 
Miss T may not have paid for the service in any event, due to what appears to be an 
oversight by Barclays.
I had no doubt Miss T was caused a significant level of distress and inconvenience in finding 
out Barclays had lost her title deeds. I could also see that Miss T had other items, such as 
original certificates, deposited with Barclays. I appreciated Barclays says original deeds are 
no longer needed but that doesnt take into account that many homeowners wish to retain 
the original documents for a variety of reasons. And that many customers such as Miss T 
clearly value the sentimental element of paper deeds for a property that may have been 
owned for many years.
I had no doubt Miss T was concerned to find out her original documents had been lost and I 
appreciated she would like Barclays to find those original documents. But that is not 
something I can fairly order as there is no guarantee the documents can be found, and it 
seems unlikely they ever will.
I could see Barclays had fairly apologised for what took place, but I thought its too simplistic 
for it to simply say it has provided a copy of them for the reasons I have explained. And I 
didnt think it was just the deeds that were lost but other items.
Overall, my provisional view was that the fairest and easiest approach to this complaint is to 
order Barclays to pay what I thought was a fair and reasonable compensation award in total 
of £350 less the £150 previously paid. I didnt think it possible to fairly calculate a refund of 
fees in these circumstances for the reasons I have explained. I also hoped Barclays would 
tell me when it started its scanning process and if it thinks there is any likelihood of finding 
Miss Ts documents.
Barclays has replied to my provisional decision and says it agrees with it.
Miss T doesnt accept my decision and in summary says Barclays has got away with losing 
her items. She says there were other items deposited such as information about local street 
names which she says Barclays ought to replace.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so I have come to the same overall view that I reached in my provisional 
decision and for the same reasons. 
I appreciate Miss T says that Barclays has got away with it, but I hope it helps Miss T if I 
explain our role. We are not Barclays regulator and so its not our role to punish it for any 
mistake, as here, it makes. I also appreciate that these documents lost by Barclays clearly 
have a significant level of importance to Miss T and I have recognised that in this decision. I 
cant fairly order Barclays to find the original documents in circumstances where I think it 
unlikely those documents will be found.
I also cant fairly order Barclays replace documents about Miss Ts home locality and history 
as again there is no guarantee such documents can be replaced. I hope Miss T is able to 
obtain historical records from other sources.
Putting things right
Barclays should pay Miss T a further £200 compensation.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint and order Barclays Bank UK PLC to pay Miss 
T a further £200 compensation making a total of £350 compensation.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss T to accept or 
reject my decision before 23 September 2023.
 
David Singh
Ombudsman