DRN-3552549
The complaint
Ms B is unhappy that AXA PPP Healthcare Limited trading as AXA Health declined claims 
she made on her private medical insurance policy.
What happened
On 27 August 2021 Ms B took out a private medical insurance policy because she was 
experiencing delays in accessing NHS treatment. It had a moratorium which said 
pre-existing medical conditions shed experienced in the five years before she took out the 
policy wouldnt be covered for at least the first two years she had cover. 
Ms B made a number of claims on her policy which were declined. In summary she claimed 
for: 
A hip injury  this was declined because the injury had occurred in 2019 so was 
within the five years before the policy was taken out and because shed sought 
treatment before the policy was taken out
A shoulder injury  this was declined because Ms B had sought treatment before the 
policy was taken out 
A mental health issue  this was declined because Ms B had sought treatment before 
the policy was taken out
Costs for optical treatment  this was partially settled but some costs were declined 
because they were incurred before the policy was taken out
A gym membership  this was declined because it wasnt covered by the policy.
Ms B complained to AXA, but they maintained their decision to decline the claims. Unhappy, 
she complained to our service. 
Our investigator looked into what had happened and didnt uphold the complaint. He thought 
the claims had been fairly declined the claim in line with the policy terms and conditions. So, 
he didnt think AXA needed to do anything to put things right. 
Ms B asked an ombudsman to review her complaint. In summary, she said she had to take 
out private medical insurance as she was struggling to access treatment on the NHS. She 
said the settlement for her optician bills wasnt fair and said that shed had a quotation 
demonstrating that AXA covered pre-existing conditions. She also said she was entitled to a 
discount on gym memberships. 
The investigator explained why the hip and shoulder injuries could fairly be considered to be 
pre-existing conditions, based on Ms Bs policy terms. And he explained how AXA had 
calculated the settlement for the opticians fees. Ms B asked an ombudsman to make a 
decision about her complaint. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The relevant rules and industry guidelines say that AXA has a responsibility to handle claims 
promptly and fairly. And they shouldnt reject a claim unreasonably. 
Im not upholding Ms Bs complaint because: 
The policy terms and conditions exclude claims for medical issues which Ms B had 
experienced in the five years before she took out the policy, for at least two years. 
Then she may have been covered if shed not experienced any problems with the 
conditions for a period of two years. 
Ms B claimed for her hip and shoulder pain shortly after taking out the policy. But the 
medical evidence said that shed experienced hip pain since 2019. And, shed sought 
help for the shoulder pain and mental health difficulties less than a week before 
taking the policy out. So, I dont think it was unreasonable for AXA to conclude these 
conditions were pre-existing and caught by the moratorium set out in the policy 
terms. 
A gym membership isnt covered by the policy terms and conditions. Even if it was 
recommended to help Ms B that doesnt mean its covered by the policy terms and 
conditions. If Ms B believes shes entitled to a discounted membership she should 
get in touch with AXA to discuss this. 
Im satisfied that AXA has settled the opticians claim in line with the policy terms. 
Some of the treatment took place before the policy was taken out. And, theyve paid 
80% of the eligible treatment Ms B claimed for which is consistent with the policy 
terms. 
I appreciate that Ms B experienced delays in accessing treatment on the NHS and 
this was why she took out a private medical insurance policy. But that doesnt mean 
that all treatment is covered  its still subject to the policy terms, conditions and 
limits. 
Ms B has provided a summary of cover which seems most likely to be for a different 
policy which AXA underwrites. AXA offer various policies with different benefits. And, 
in any event, I still think theyve fairly applied the relevant policy terms and conditions 
in this case when making a decision about the claims. My final decision
Im not upholding this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms B to accept or 
reject my decision before 1 November 2022.
 
Anna Wilshaw
Ombudsman