DRN-3679156
The complaint
Mr P complains about the advice given by Prudential Financial Planning Limited (Prudential) 
to transfer the benefits from his defined-benefit (DB) occupational pension with the British 
Steel (BSPS) scheme to a personal pension. He says the advice was unsuitable for him and 
believes this has caused a financial loss. He says the industry regulator says that a transfer 
wasnt likely to be in his best interests and he feels that this transfer isnt. 
What happened
In March 2016, Tata Steel UK Ltd announced that it would be examining options to 
restructure its business including decoupling the BSPS from the company. The consultation 
with members referred to possible outcomes regarding their preserved pension benefits, one 
of which was a transfer to the Pension Protection Fund (PPF)  the PPF is a statutory fund 
designed to provide compensation to members of defined benefit pension schemes when 
their employer becomes insolvent. The BSPS was closed to further benefit accrual from 
31 March 2017.
In May 2017, the PPF made the announcement that the terms of a Regulated Apportionment 
Arrangement (RAA) had been agreed. That announcement said that, if risk-related qualifying 
conditions relating to funding and size could be satisfied, a new pension scheme sponsored 
by Mr Ps employer would be set up  the BSPS2.
In October 2017, members of BSPS were sent a Time to Choose letter which gave them 
the option to either stay in BSPS and move with it to the PPF, move to the BSPS2 or transfer 
their BSPS benefits elsewhere. The deadline to make their choices was 11 December (and 
was later extended to 22 December 2017).
Mr P contacted Prudential to on 4 December 2017 and they met on 8 December 2017 to 
discuss his pension and retirement needs. He was also concerned about the situation with 
British Steel pension scheme. Prudential completed a fact-find to gather information about 
Mr Ps circumstances and objectives. According to this document he was:
Aged 56, married with three grown up non-dependent children. 
Employed as a factory worker at British Steel earning £37,000 a year.
Owned his property outright (with his wife).
He had £13,000 held on deposit.
He was a member of his new employers defined contribution scheme. Both him and 
his employer paid a combined total of 16% of his salary into this.
 
Mrs P wasnt working and was in receipt of benefits. She had a deferred Civil Service 
pension, it was estimated that this would provide £1,200 a year.
Prudential carried out an assessment of Mr Ps attitude to risk, which it said was 
low/medium. He was also recorded as being an inexperienced investor.  
On 24 January 2018, Prudential advised Mr P to transfer his pension benefits, which were 
£289,454.84 into a personal pension and invest the proceeds in the Prudential PruFund 10-
40. 
The suitability report said the reasons for this recommendation were: 
Maximising his pension benefits at retirement. This was described as also being able 
to draw an income at the level that he required and perhaps reduce it at state 
pension age. He did not need a lump sum immediately. 
He wanted to pass on his pension fund and provide a legacy to his family. 
Mr P wanted to retire at age 60 to spend time with his wife.
He wanted to be in control of his pension and to break ties with his employer and the 
BSPS.
Mr P complained in 2021 to Prudential about the transfer advice. He said that the advice was 
unsuitable as he would get lower benefits than the BSPS2 pension that it replaced.  
Prudential didnt uphold Mr Ps complaint. It said that the advice was suitable for him and it 
met his recorded aims. It said Mr P was provided with full information about the transfer and 
he proceeded, as a fully informed individual, on the basis the advice met his needs. It added 
Mr P could have decided to stay in the BSPS if he wanted to.
Mr P referred his complaint to our service. An investigator upheld the complaint and said that  
Prudential should pay compensation. He said that whilst Mr P may have had some concerns 
about the future of the scheme and he was interested in leaving his pension to his family, 
these werent good enough reasons to transfer his DB scheme benefits. Added to this, the 
BSPS2 would have met Mr Ps aims. The transfer would have left Mr P worse off financially 
so it wasnt in his best interests. 
Prudential disagreed, saying:
Mr P wasnt reliant on his DB scheme benefits as he would have other sources of 
retirement income. So, he could afford to put this part of his pension planning at risk.  
It met his requirement to provide a legacy for his family. 
Mr P was a heavy smoker, so he did have some health concerns. Even though he 
was recorded as being in good health on the fact find. 
Other options, such as the BSPS2, were discussed but discounted as they did not 
meet his aims. 
Mr P needed flexible benefits to meet his retirement aims. 
His risk profile and capacity for loss were reasonably assessed.
The investigator wasnt persuaded to change their opinion. He noted that whilst Mr P may 
have been a heavy smoker there was no indication that he believed he would die early. 
Furthermore, the BSPS2 met his needs and leaving a lump sum to his family wasnt a good 
enough reason to transfer away. 
As no agreement has been reached the complaint has been passed to me to consider. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive taken into account relevant law and regulations, regulators rules, guidance and 
standards and codes of practice, and what I consider to have been good industry practice at the time. This includes the Principles for Prudential (PRIN) and the Conduct of Prudential 
Sourcebook (COBS). And where the evidence is incomplete, inconclusive or contradictory, 
I reach my conclusions on the balance of probabilities  that is, what I think is more likely 
than not to have happened based on the available evidence and the wider surrounding 
circumstances.
The applicable rules, regulations and requirements
The below is not a comprehensive list of the rules and regulations which applied at the time 
of the advice, but provides useful context for my assessment of Prudential's actions here.
PRIN 6: A firm must pay due regard to the interests of its customers and treat them fairly.
PRIN 7: A firm must pay due regard to the information needs of its clients, and communicate 
information to them in a way which is clear, fair and not misleading.
COBS 2.1.1R: A firm must act honestly, fairly and professionally in accordance with the best 
interests of its client (the client's best interests rule).
The provisions in COBS 9 which deal with the obligations when giving a personal 
recommendation and assessing suitability. And the provisions in COBS 19 which specifically 
relate to a DB pension transfer.
Having considered all of this and the evidence in this case, Ive decided to uphold the 
complaint for largely the same reasons given by the investigator.
The regulator, the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA), states in COBS 19.1.6 that the 
starting assumption for a transfer from a DB scheme is that it is unsuitable. So, Prudential 
should have only considered a transfer if it could clearly demonstrate that the transfer was in 
Mr Ps best interests. And having looked at all the evidence available, Im not satisfied it was 
in his best interests.
Financial viability 
The advice was given after the regulator gave instructions in Final Guidance FG17/9 as to 
how businesses could calculate future 'discount rates' in loss assessments where a 
complaint about a past pension transfer was being upheld. Prior to October 2017 similar 
rates were published by the Financial Ombudsman Service on our website. Whilst 
businesses weren't required to refer to these rates when giving advice on pension transfers, 
they provide a useful indication of what growth rates would have been considered 
reasonably achievable for a typical investor.
Mr P was 56 at the time of the advice and wanted to retire at 60. As far as I can see 
Prudential didnt provide critical yields at this age, which it should have done. But the critical 
yield required to match Mr Ps benefits at age 65 was 8.3% if he took a full pension. So, it 
was likely to be higher at age 60 given the pension would be invested for a shorter time and 
the benefits would be paid for longer. The critical yield to match the benefits available 
through the PPF at age 65 was quoted as 4.5% per year if Mr P took a full pension. Again, at 
age 60 I think the critical yield was likely to be higher than this.The closest discount rate to the time of this transfer which I'm able to refer to was published 
for the period before 1 October 2017, and is 3.4% per year to his age 65. The discount rate 
to his age 60 was 2.7%. Ive kept in mind that the regulator's projection rates had also 
remained unchanged since 2014: the regulator's upper projection rate at the time was 8%, 
the middle projection rate 5%, and the lower projection rate 2%.
I've taken this into account, along with the composition of assets in the discount rate, Mr P's 
attitude to risk and also the term to retirement. And given Mr Ps low attitude to risk, I think 
Mr P was likely to receive benefits of a materially lower overall value than the occupational 
scheme at retirement at age 60, as a result of investing in line with this attitude to risk. This 
would be the case even if the scheme moved to the PPF.
Prudential has provided cashflow models which it says shows Mr P wouldve been able to 
meet his needs despite the high critical yields. Ive considered these, but Prudentials models 
show that if Mr P matched his DB scheme income initially, and this increasing at 2.5%, his 
fund would be exhausted at his age 98. And the suitability report doesnt say that this 
account for charges, if these are not included the growth rate would need be higher and the 
fund would be depleted sooner. If took the same benefits as the BSPS2 but reduced the 
amount to account for the state pension, then this increases to 104. But if there was a large 
fall (15%) and using similar assumptions, the fund is exhausted at 94. So, I think there was a 
real risk of his funds running out before he died, particularly if returns were poor and Mr P 
took the same level of income his DB scheme provided.
In any event, as Prudential will know, past performance is no guarantee for future 
performance and so I consider the discount rates and the regulators standard projections to 
be more realistic in this regard in the long term rather than projecting historic returns forward, 
particularly over such a long period of time. And if applying these rates, I think Mr Ps fund 
wouldve depleted sooner.
For this reason alone, a transfer out of the DB scheme wasnt in Mr Ps best interests. Of 
course, financial viability isnt the only consideration when giving transfer advice, as 
Prudential has argued in this case. There might be other considerations which mean a 
transfer is suitable, despite providing overall lower benefits. Ive considered these below.
Flexibility and income needs
The information about Mr and Mrs Ps retirement that Prudential recorded is fairly detailed 
and is not disputed. This showed that Mr and Mrs P wanted £1,458 each month in retirement 
from age 60. This was after accounting for inflation.
It was documented that Mrs P would receive an income of £772 per month when she retired. 
This left £686 for Mr P to provide. The DB scheme would have provided £11,226 at his age 
60, which is much more than the £686 a month.  
Mr and Mrs P also had state pension provision and Mr P was in his employers new defined 
contribution scheme which was building up a fund which could be used flexibly. 
Mr Ps first objective was recorded as being maximising his pension benefits. As above, its 
likely that he would receive a lower income due to the transfer. So, he wouldnt be 
maximising his retirement income by effecting the transfer. The only way he would be able 
to have an increased income by transferring was if he took a higher sum from the personal 
pension before his state pension became payable. But I dont think he needed to do that.I also dont think its reasonable to say that Mr Ps pension was surplus to requirements. 
This was Mr Ps primary source of pension income and whilst he may have discussed taking 
benefits from it in a different form, I dont think its reasonable to say he didnt want or need 
the income from it. Its clear Mr P was wholly reliant on this pension for at least seven years 
until his state pension became payable  and it was noted that he wouldnt be entitled to the 
full amount. Just because Mr P would have other sources of income doesnt mean he wasnt 
reliant on this pension.
I can see that part of the maximising his pension benefits aim was qualified by saying that 
Mr P could draw down from the transferred fund as and when this was needed. Which was a 
benefit the DB scheme didnt have. But this seemed like a want rather than a need.  And he 
was building up a fund with his employer that he could use flexibly in this way going forward 
if he wanted to.
It was recorded that Mr P didnt want to take any tax-free cash so he had no need to take 
any lump sums and leave his remaining funds invested. I also cant see that Mr P had a 
strong need for variable income throughout his retirement. To my mind, this need for 
flexibility was borne out of Mr Ps apparent desire to reduce his pension income when his 
state pension became payable, which would have the effect of preserving more of his funds 
to pass on upon his death. I dont think this was a good reason to transfer and Ill address 
this further below.  
Overall, Im satisfied Mr P could have met his income needs in retirement through the DB 
scheme at age 60, or at age 65. And I dont think he needed the flexibility that transferring 
out of the scheme provided.
Death benefits
Death benefits are an emotive subject and of course when asked, most people would like 
their loved ones to be taken care of when they die. The lump sum death benefits on offer 
through a personal pension was likely an attractive feature to Mr P. But whilst I appreciate 
death benefits are important to consumers, and Mr P might have thought it was a good idea 
to transfer his DB scheme to a personal pension because of this, the priority here was to 
advise Mr P about what was best for his retirement provisions. A pension is primarily 
designed to provide income in retirement. And I dont think Prudential explored to what 
extent Mr P was prepared to accept a lower retirement income in exchange for higher death 
benefits.
I also think the existing death benefits attached to the DB scheme were underplayed. Mr P 
was married and so the spouses pension provided by the DB scheme wouldve been useful 
to his spouse if Mr P predeceased her. I dont think Prudential made the value of this benefit 
clear enough to Mr P. This was guaranteed and it escalated  it was not dependent on 
investment performance, whereas the sum remaining on death in a personal pension was. 
And as the cashflow analysis shows, there may not have been a large sum left and the fund 
may have been depleted particularly if Mr P lived a long life.  In any event, Prudential should 
not have encouraged Mr P to prioritise the potential for higher death benefits through a 
personal pension over his security in retirement.
I acknowledge that Mr P was noted as being as a heavy smoker. But he was apparently in 
good health at the point of sale, and I havent seen any recorded concerns about his life 
expectancy. So, Mr P not reaching his life expectancy was only a possibility, it was also 
possible that he would exceed this, in which case Mr P would need his pension to last 
longer. Furthermore, given what Mrs P had disclosed about her health, it seemed more likely 
at the time that Mr P would outlive her. So, I dont think Mr P shouldve been encouraged to transfer his DB scheme to provide different benefits when he was reliant on this to provide 
for his own retirement.
While taking life insurance out may have been expensive for Mr P given his age and 
smoking status, I think that Prudential couldve explored alternative ways of providing a 
legacy for his family if that was indeed important to him. Its evident from the fact-find that 
Mr and Mrs P had significant disposable income and they were managing to save, so this 
couldve built up additional funds to pass on to their children. This wouldve continued in 
retirement, particularly once Mr and Mrs Ps state pensions became payable. Any excess 
income couldve been directed towards their savings, or they couldve made use of their 
annual gift allowances to pass funds on to their children. This wouldve met Mr Ps desire to 
ensure his children benefitted from his pension without risking any guarantees or taking on 
investment risk.
Overall, I dont think different death benefits available through a transfer to a personal 
pension justified the likely decrease of retirement benefits for Mr P. And I dont think that the 
alternatives were properly explored.
Control over his pension 
I think Mr Ps desire for control over his pension benefits was overstated. Mr P was not an 
experienced investor and I cannot see that he had an interest in or the knowledge to be able 
to manage his pension funds on his own. So, I dont think that this was a genuine objective 
for Mr P  it was simply a consequence of transferring away from his DB scheme.
Time to choose and concerns about financial stability of BSPS
Mr P approached Prudential at a time when BSPS members were concerned about their 
pensions. Lots of his colleagues at the time would have been transferring out of the scheme 
and he was likely worried his pension would end up in the PPF. So I think its quite possible 
that Mr P came to Prudential leaning towards the decision to transfer. However, it was 
Prudentials obligation to give Mr P an objective picture and recommend what was in his best 
interests. 
As Ive explained, by the time the advice was given details of the BSPS2 were known and it 
seemed likely it was going ahead. And I think this shouldve alleviated some of Mr Ps 
concerns about the scheme moving to the PPF. But even if there was a chance the BSPS2 
wouldnt go ahead, I think that Prudential shouldve reassured Mr P that the scheme moving 
to the PPF wasnt as concerning as he thought. The income available to Mr P through the 
PPF wouldve still been guaranteed and escalated. It combined with his other provisions 
would still have met his goals. And he was unlikely to be able to exceed this by transferring 
out. And while the increases in payment in the PPF were lower, again the income was 
guaranteed and was not subject to any investment risk. So, I dont think that these concerns 
shouldve meant Prudential recommending Mr P transfer out of the DB scheme altogether.
I recognise that Prudential noted in the suitability report that Mr P wanted to break ties with 
his employer. So, it may argue that Mr P wouldnt have agreed to join the BSPS2 because of 
his feelings towards his employer. But its evident that he still worked for the same employer. 
And he hadnt suggested he intended to find alternative employment. He was also a member 
of the new defined contribution pension scheme via his employer. So, he wasnt going to be 
able to break ties with it by transferring, as he would remain tied to the employer in other 
respects. I think it also shouldve been mentioned that his employer and the BSPS2 trustees 
were not entirely one and the same.As Ive outlined above, Mr P met with Prudential before the time he had to choose to either 
join BSPS2 or remain in the BSPS scheme and his eventually his pension would pass the 
PPF. As far as I am aware Mr P didnt choose to join the BSPS2 and hes said he cant 
remember completing a Time to Choose form. The suitability report says about this:
We discussed the option of transferring this pension to the British Steel Pension 2 or the 
PPF. British Steel have not provided you with literature regarding these options and I have 
not provided advice in relation to them. However, both of these options were discounted as 
you want to benefit from the flexible nature of control and the improved death benefits that 
you feel will benefit you and your beneficiaries more.
Whilst the full suitability report was not produced until 24 January 2018 this indicates to me 
that Mr Ps options were discussed prior to 22 December 2017 when Mr P had to choose the 
future of his BSPS pension. 
Mr P now says that he should have been advised to join the BSPS2. All of advice from 
Prudential was based on a comparison of the BSPS2 scheme and a personal pension, there 
is no consideration, or mention, of Mr P ending up in the PPF. This doesnt seem to be what 
he wanted at all. 
The literature from Tata Steel says that Mr P could have opted to join the BSPS2 whilst the 
advice process was ongoing and, provided he transferred out before March 2018, this choice 
would be cancelled if he decided transferring was in his best interests. So, even though 
there was a short time between first contact and the Time to Choose deadline, I think 
Prudential could and should have advised Mr P to opt into the BSPS2 to ensure he didnt 
lose that opportunity, even though it hadnt been through the full advice process. Given that 
I think the suitable advice here wouldve been for Mr P to opt into the BSPS2, if the transfer 
had not been advised, Im satisfied he would have joined the BSPS2. 
It is worth noting that by the time the suitability letter was issued in January 2018 its content 
may have been redundant. If Mr P had not chosen to join BSPS2 already he wouldnt be 
able to. His pension would default to the PPF. None of that was made clear to him and so I 
dont think he was ever in an informed position as a result of Prudentials advice.
Overall, Mr P should have been advised, in my view, to choose to move to BSPS2. 
Prudential also should have explained that even if BSPS2 failed and Mr P was moved to the 
PPF, the benefits provided would still be very valuable. And if Prudential had explained 
properly why this was in his best interests, I have no reason to believe he wouldnt have 
listened to the adviser.
Suitability of investments
Prudential recommended that Mr P invest in one of its managed funds. As Im upholding the 
complaint on the grounds that a transfer out of the DB scheme wasnt suitable for Mr P, it 
follows that I dont need to consider the suitability of the investment recommendation. This is 
because Mr P should have been advised to remain in the DB scheme and so the 
investments in this fund wouldnt have been made if suitable advice had been given.Summary
I dont doubt that the flexibility, control and potential for higher death benefits on offer 
through a personal pension would have sounded like attractive features to Mr P. But 
Prudential wasnt there to just transact what Mr P might have thought he wanted. The 
advisers role was to really understand what Mr P needed and recommend what was in his 
best interests.
Ultimately, I dont think the advice given to Mr P was suitable. He was giving up a 
guaranteed, risk-free and increasing income that wouldve met his stated retirement needs. 
By transferring, Mr P was very likely to obtain lower retirement benefits and in my view there 
were no other particular reasons which would justify a transfer and outweigh this.  
So, I think Prudential shouldve advised Mr P to join the BSPS2.
Of course, I have to consider whether Mr P would've gone ahead anyway, against 
Prudential's advice. 
Ive considered this carefully, but Im not persuaded that Mr P wouldve insisted on 
transferring out of the DB scheme, against Prudentials advice. I say this because Mr P was 
an inexperienced investor with a low attitude to risk and this pension accounted for the 
majority of his retirement provision. So, if Prudential had provided him with clear advice 
against transferring out of the DB scheme, explaining why it wasnt in his best interests, I 
think he wouldve accepted that advice.
Im not persuaded that Mr Ps concerns about his employer, or his health, were so great that 
he wouldve insisted on the transfer knowing that a professional adviser, whose expertise he 
had sought out and was paying for, didnt think it was suitable for him or in his best interests. 
If Prudential had explained that Mr P could meet all of his objectives without risking his 
guaranteed pension, I think that wouldve carried significant weight. So, I dont think Mr P 
would have insisted on transferring out of the DB scheme.
In light of the above, I think Prudential should compensate Mr P for the unsuitable advice, 
using the regulator's defined benefits pension transfer redress methodology. 
Our Investigator recommended that Prudential also pay Mr P £300 for the distress caused 
by the unsuitable advice. I dont doubt that Mr P has been caused distress and concern in 
relation to his retirement planning. And Im conscious this wouldnt have happened but for 
the unsuitable advice. And so, in the circumstances, I think the award the Investigator 
recommended is fair.
Putting things right
Prudential should pay Mr P £300 for the distress caused by the unsuitable advice. 
On 2 August 2022, the FCA launched a consultation on new DB transfer redress guidance 
and has set out its proposals in a consultation document - CP22/15-calculating redress for 
non-compliant pension transfer advice. The consultation closed on 27 September 2022 with 
any changes expected to be implemented in early 2023.
In this consultation, the FCA has said that it considers that the current redress methodology 
in Finalised Guidance (FG) 17/9 (Guidance for firms on how to calculate redress for 
unsuitable defined benefit pension transfers) remains appropriate and fundamental changes are not necessary. However, its review has identified some areas where the FCA considers 
it could improve or clarify the methodology to ensure it continues to provide appropriate 
redress. 
The FCA has said that it expects firms to continue to calculate and offer compensation to 
their customers using the existing guidance in FG 17/9 whilst the consultation takes place. 
But until changes take effect firms should give customers the option of waiting for their 
compensation to be calculated in line with any new rules and guidance that may come into 
force after the consultation has concluded.
Weve previously asked Mr P whether he preferred any redress to be calculated now in line 
with current guidance or wait for any new guidance/rules to be published. He has chosen not 
to wait for any new guidance to come into effect to settle his complaint. I am satisfied that a 
calculation in line with FG17/9 remains appropriate and, if a loss is identified, will provide fair 
redress for Mr P. 
A fair and reasonable outcome would be for the business to put Mr P, as far as 
possible, into the position he would now be in but for Prudentials unsuitable advice. I 
consider he would have selected to move to BSPS2. So calculations should be made 
on this assumption.
Prudential must therefore undertake a redress calculation in line with the regulators pension 
review guidance as updated by the Financial Conduct Authority in its Finalised Guidance 
17/9: Guidance for firms on how to calculate redress for unsuitable DB pension transfers.
For clarity, Mr P has not yet retired, and he has no plans to do so at present. So, 
compensation should be based on his normal retirement age of 65, as per the usual 
assumptions in the FCA's guidance.
This calculation should be carried out as at the date of my final decision and using the most
recent financial assumptions at the date of that decision. In accordance with the regulators 
expectations, this should be undertaken or submitted to an appropriate provider promptly 
following receipt of notification of Mr Ps acceptance of the decision.
Prudential may wish to contact the Department for Work and Pensions (DWP) to obtain 
Mr Ps contribution history to the State Earnings Related Pension Scheme (SERPS or S2P). 
These details should then be used to include a SERPS adjustment in the calculation, which 
will take into account the impact of leaving the occupational scheme on Mr Ps SERPS/S2P 
entitlement.
If the redress calculation demonstrates a loss, the compensation should if possible be paid 
into Mr Ps pension plan. The payment should allow for the effect of charges and any 
available tax relief. The compensation shouldnt be paid into the pension plan if it would 
conflict with any existing protection or allowance.
If a payment into the pension isnt possible or has protection or allowance implications, it 
should be paid directly to Mr P as a lump sum after making a notional deduction to allow for 
income tax that would otherwise have been paid. Typically, 25% of the loss could have been 
taken as tax-free cash and 75% would have been taxed according to his likely income tax 
rate in retirement - presumed to be 20%. So making a notional deduction of 15% overall 
from the loss adequately reflects this.
The payment resulting from all the steps above is the compensation amount. This amount 
must where possible be paid to Mr P within 90 days of the date Prudential receives notification of his acceptance of my final decision. Further interest must be added to the 
compensation amount at the rate of 8% per year simple from the date of my final decision to 
the date of settlement for any time, in excess of 90 days, that it takes Prudential to pay Mr P.
Its possible that data gathering for a SERPS adjustment may mean that the actual time 
taken to settle goes beyond the 90 day period allowed for settlement above - and so any 
period of time where the only outstanding item required to undertake the calculation is data 
from DWP may be added to the 90 day period in which interest wont apply.
If the complaint hasnt been settled in full and final settlement by the time any new guidance 
or rules come into effect, Id expect Prudential to carry out a calculation in line with the 
updated rules and/or guidance in any event.
Where I uphold a complaint, I can award fair compensation of up to £160,000, plus any
interest and/or costs that I consider are appropriate. Where I consider that fair compensation
requires payment of an amount that might exceed £160,000, I may recommend that the
business pays the balance.
My final decision
Determination and money award: I uphold this complaint and require Prudential Financial 
Planning Limited to pay Mr P the compensation amount as set out in the steps above, up to 
a maximum of £160,000.
Where the compensation amount does not exceed £160,000, I would additionally require
Prudential Financial Planning Limited to pay Mr P any interest on that amount in full, as set 
out above.
Where the compensation amount already exceeds £160,000, I would only require Prudential 
Financial Planning Limited to pay Mr P any interest as set out above on the sum of 
£160,000.
Recommendation: If the compensation amount exceeds £160,000, I also recommend that
Prudential Financial Planning Limited pays Mr P the balance. I would additionally 
recommend any interest calculated as set out above on this balance to be paid to Mr P.
If Mr P accepts this decision, the money award becomes binding on Prudential.
My recommendation would not be binding. Further, its unlikely that Mr P can accept my 
decision and go to court to ask for the balance. Mr P may want to consider getting 
independent legal advice before deciding whether to accept any final decision.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision before 16 December 2022.
 
Andy Burlinson
Ombudsman