DRN-4036010
The complaint
Mr F complains The Co-operative Bank Plc (Co-op) allowed a declined payment to leave his 
account.
What happened
Mr F made a payment to a retailer, B, that was stopped for fraud checks. Mr Fs credit card 
was also blocked. Mr F made the payment again, on another banks card, but says the 
original payment was taken off his Co-op card.
Mr F sent Co-op several letters, but the issue wasnt resolved. Instead, Co-op applied 
charges to Mr Fs credit card then wrote to him to say the card would be defaulted.
Unhappy with not getting a refund of the payment, Mr F brought his complaint to this service.
An investigator looked into things and didnt think Mr Fs complaint should be upheld. The 
investigator said Mr F had made two payments to a different retailer, Z, and was satisfied 
Mr F had made, and authorised, one of these payments on his Co-op card.
The payment blocked was attempted with retailer B, so the investigator thought it was fair for 
Co-op to hold Mr F liable for the payment to Z. The investigator also said Mr F could have 
contacted Co-op to raise a fraud claim and might have resolved things on a call.
The investigator also thought Co-op was allowed to default Mr Fs credit card. The 
transaction was a legitimate payment and Mr F hadnt paid it off, leaving a debt on the card. 
The investigator thought Co-op was allowed to pursue Mr F for this debt.
Mr F disagreed and said it was unfair he was being held liable for a fraudulent payment. And 
regardless of the payment being for a small amount, he shouldnt have to pay it. Mr F said it 
was unfair he was being asked to pay a transaction that was never honoured.
Mr F also didnt think it was reasonable for Co-op to ask him to call, there was nothing in the 
terms of the credit card that said he should. And Mr F didnt see how a single call to a fraud 
investigator would fix this, hed written in, and it still wasnt fixed.
Mr F asked for an ombudsman to decide things.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive looked at the transaction Mr F made on his Co-op card, the blocked payment and the 
one made on his other bank card. The successful payment on Mr Fs Co-op card was to 
retailer Z, for £24.
It seems another £24 payment was then attempted to retailer B. This payment was cancelled 
by Co-op and it blocked Mr Fs card. Mr F then paid retailer B £24 from his other bank card.
Im not sure whether Z and B are different retailers or possibly the same retailer using two 
different card machines. But Im satisfied Mr Fs made one payment to Z, through Co-op, 
and one to B, through his other bank.
Co-op didnt allow the payment to B to debit his credit card. Co-op only allowed the payment 
to Z to leave his card, and this was made prior to the attempt with B.
Co-ops explained it blocked the payment to B, and Mr Fs credit card, because it had 
concerns about the payment to B. Co-ops allowed to block payments, and Mr Fs credit 
card, if it thinks there could be fraudulent activity on the card.
Co-ops also said it tried to call Mr F about the payment to B, but couldnt get an answer.
I dont think Co-ops done anything wrong by blocking the payment or Mr Fs card.
Mr F called into Co-op, to try and resolve things, but it seems the call was disconnected for 
some reason. Mr F then sent a secure message online, and Co-op asked him to contact its 
fraud department.
I dont think this is an unreasonable thing for Co-op to ask Mr F to do. I understand Mr F 
doesnt feel he could have fixed things with a call, but I think he might have done. 
Most banks ask consumers to call in to report fraudulent transactions. These calls tend to be 
quite dynamic, with follow up questions based on the consumers response to prior 
questions. I dont think this type of dynamic conversation could be done in writing, it would 
involve a lot of writing in and responses. I think its fair for Co-op to ask Mr F to call in.
But I dont think the call would have meant Mr F was no longer liable for the payment he 
made to Z. This payment appears to be authorised and is different to the one Co-op blocked.
I cant say for certain whats happened here, it could be the retailer made a mistake and 
thought an authorised payment hadnt gone through. It could also be Mr F made two 
payments of the same amount to two different retailers. But, either way, I dont think I can 
fairly hold Co-op liable for this.
So, I dont agree Mr F is being held liable for a payment he didnt make. And I dont think 
Mr F is being held liable for a payment Co-op blocked.
Mr F didnt pay the outstanding £24 on his Co-op credit card. Co-op applied charges, in line 
with the terms for this type of card, so the balance on the credit card increased. Mr F didnt 
make any further payments to the credit card, so it fell into arrears.
Co-op contacted Mr F and asked him to pay and told him it would default the credit card if he 
didnt. And Co-op explained the impact this would have on Mr Fs credit file.
Mr F didnt pay the outstanding balance on the credit card. I dont think Co-ops treated Mr F 
unfairly by defaulting the card. Co-op gave Mr F plenty of notice of its intent to record a 
default and how Mr F could avoid this happening.I think Mr F could have taken steps to stop the default happening, by paying what he owed. 
I realise Mr F didnt think he was liable for the payment, but I think he is. And because of 
this, its reasonable for Co-op to take steps to recover a legitimate debt owed by Mr F.
I can see theres been a fair amount of confusion with whats gone on, and I can understand 
why Mr F might think the same payment, to the same retailer, had gone out twice. But this 
doesnt appear to be the case.
And any confusion could possibly have been resolved by Mr F calling Co-op, as it asked him 
to do, early on in the process. Mr F also had the opportunity to speak to Co-op in the run up 
to his credit card being defaulted, but also didnt speak to it then.
And whilst I understand the significant impact this has had on Mr F, I cant fairly hold Co-op 
liable for a payment I think Mr F authorised. And that means I also dont think Co-op acted 
unfairly in applying a default, by holding Mr F liable for that payment.
My final decision
My final decision is I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr F to accept or 
reject my decision before 9 May 2023.
 
Chris Russ
Ombudsman