DRN-2957528
The complaint
Mr C complains that a motorcycle acquired with finance from FirstRand Bank Limited trading 
as Motonovo Finance wasnt of satisfactory quality.  
What happened
In April 2017 Mr C was supplied with a motorcycle and entered into a hire purchase 
agreement with Motonovo. The total sum payable under the agreement was around £22,000 
over a 4-year term.
Mr C experienced issues with the motorcycle consuming large amounts of oil. He returned 
the motorcycle to the dealership several times between May and December 2019 because 
of the oil consumption. The dealer topped up the oil but couldnt find a fault. 
The issues didnt resolve, and the bike was returned to the dealer again in December 2017, 
following which the engine was rebuilt. In January 2018 Mr C left the bike at the dealership 
and said he wanted to reject it. The dealership offered Mr C £15,300 credit for the bike which 
it said he would have to use with the dealership. Mr C agreed and bought another bike.
Since then, Mr C sought advice and complained to Motonovo. He wants to be compensated 
for the full value of the bike including the extras he paid for because his request to reject 
wasnt accepted when it should have been. 
In response, Motonovo said that Mr C had refused to collect the bike after repirs had been 
carried out and that he had subsequently agreed with the dealer that he could part exchange 
it. It said there had been no agreement to reject the bike.
Mr C was unhappy with the response and complained to this service.
Our investigator upheld the complaint. He said it was likely that there was a fault with the 
bike because the invoices showed that a lot of work had been carried out to it. The 
investigator said that although the dealer hadnt found any faults, the engineers report 
concluded that the bike was consuming excessive oil. The investigator said that because the 
bike was brand new at the point of supply and had covered less than 7000 miles when the 
repairs were carried out, a reasonable person wouldve expected it to be free from defects 
for longer, so it followed that the bike wasnt durable and therefore not of satisfactory quality. 
The investigator went on to say that there was no evidence that Mr C had asked to reject the 
bike and that leaving the bike with the dealership didnt amount to rejection. The investigator 
said he wasnt persuaded that Mr C had exercised his right to reject before the repairs were 
carried out, and didnt think the decision to part exchange the bike had been forced on him 
by the dealer. The investigator said that because Mr C had suffered impaired usage of the 
bike due to the issues hed experienced, he should be refunded two monthly instalments and 
be paid £200 compensation for trouble and upset.
Mr C didnt agree. He said hed asked to reject the bike before it was repaired, and that in 
any event, the repairs hadnt been successful because when he collected the bike following 
the repirs, the engine didnt sound good.
Initially Motonovo didnt agree either. But following a review it accepted the adjudication.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Because Motonovo supplied the car under a hire purchase agreement, theres am implied 
term that it is of satisfactory quality. Bikes are of satisfactory quality if they are of a standard 
that a reaosbsale person would regard as acceptable, taking into account factors such as 
the age and mileage of the bike and the price paid. 
Under the Consumer Rights Act 2015, where a fault occurs in the first 6 months, its 
presumed that the fault was present or developing at the point of supply unless the business 
can show otherwise, and its generally up to the business to put tings right. A business is 
allowed one opportunity to repair the fault. If the repair isnt successful, the consumer can 
reject the vehicle. After 6 months, the burden of proof is reversed and its up to the consumer 
to show that the vehicle wasnt of satisfactory quality.
Based on the evidence Ive seen, it seems likely that there was a fault with the bike. Mr C 
has explained that from around May 2017, he had to return the bike to the dealer for oil top 
ups. Although the dealer couldnt find a fault, the engineers report obtained by Mr C 
concludes that the oil consumption was excessive and was likely caused by an issue with 
the engine. Further, I can see that the dealer carried out extensive work to the engine in 
December 2017/January 2018. Although the dealer said this was done as a gesture of 
goodwill, I think its more likely, looking at the extent of the work, that this was an acceptance 
that there was a fault and an attempt at repair.
On balance, Im satisfied that there was a fault with the bike.
Because the oil consumption issues arose in the first 6 months, its presumed that the issue 
was present at the point of supply. The bike was brand new at the point of supply, so Id 
expect it to be free from minor defects. I dont think a reasonable person would expect this 
type of fault with a brand-new bike. On balance, I dont think the bike was of satisfactory 
quality.
Under the relevant legislation, the business is allowed one opportunity to repair the fault. In 
this case I can see that the dealer carried out repirs in December 2017.
Mr C has said that he asked to reject the bike before the repairs were carried out. The dealer 
has said it has no knowledge of such a request. Even if Mr C did ask to reject the bike before 
the repairs were carried out  and Ive seen no persuasive evidence that he did  the dealer 
would still be entitled to one opportunity to repair the fault. So, any request to reject at that 
point would not be required to be accepted. In any event, Im not persuaded that a request to 
reject was made in December 2017.
Mr C has said that following the repairs, the bike was making a noise, so he returned it to the 
dealer and left it there. He says this amounted to a request to reject. 
Ive taken account of everything Mr C has said. Having done so, Im not persuaded that 
there is enough evidence for me to say that he shouldve been allowed to reject the bike 
following the repairs. Theres no evidence to show that the repairs carried out by the dealer 
were unsuccessful, or that there was some other inherent fault which became apparent 
following the repair. The engineers report doesnt help with this because it doesnt say 
whether the oil consumption issue was resolved following the repairs, and it doesnt identify any other faults. I appreciate that Mr C said that the engine was making a noise, but this isnt 
enough for me to say that the repairs werent successful, or that there was a new fault
Putting things right
Ive explained why I dont think theres enough evidence to support a case for rejection here. 
That said, I recognise that Mr C experienced several months of oil consumption issues and 
had to return the bike to the dealer several times. In considering impaired use, Ive had 
regard to the mileage covered by Mr C during this time. I would say that hes covered 
average mileage. So I dont think his use of the bike was severely impaired. Im in 
agreement with the investigator that a refund of two months payments is fair.
Looking at what happened, I also think its fair to ask Motonovo to recognise the distress and 
inconvenience Mr C was caused as a result of the bike being of unsatisfactory quality. A sum 
of £200 compensation is fair to reflect this. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold the complaint. FirstRand Bank Limited trading as Motonovo 
Finance must refund two monthly instalments and pay compensation of £200.  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 23 September 2021.
 
Emma Davy
Ombudsman