DRN-3783488
The complaint
Mr J complains that Shard Capital Partners LLP gave unsuitable advice to switch his 
personal pensions into another personal pension and to invest in unsuitable investments.
Mr J has been supported in bringing his complaint by a representative but for ease I will refer 
to Mr J throughout.
What happened
Mr J says that in 2015 he was contacted by someone who was dealing with another matter 
for him about reviewing his pension arrangements. He had a meeting where he was advised 
that his pension wasnt performing well and he would be better off if he moved it.
At the time Mr J was 49 years old and had an annual income of about £40,0000. He was 
married. He had three personal pensions with a combined value of about £20,000. 
Mr J has said Shard advised him to switch his personal pensions into a Self-invested 
Personal Pension (SIPP) administered by Lifetime SIPP and to invest his pension fund by 
trading in financial products using Shards trading account.
The applications to switch were completed in September 2015 and the three personal 
pensions were switched in October 2015. The funds were then transferred to a Shard trading 
account in November 2015. Trades were made from then until May 2017. Unfortunately, the 
trades made losses and his fund was reduced to zero.
Mr J complained that this loss was caused by poor advice from Shard.
When the complaint was referred to our service Shard objected to us considering it. Shard 
said it didnt give Mr J any advice about switching his pensions or about where to invest the 
funds  it merely provide a trading platform and acted on an execution-only basis, with the 
advice being given by a different firm (which I will refer to as K) so it wasnt responsible for 
what happened.
Our investigator said Shard wasnt responsible as there was no evidence it gave any advice. 
So he said we couldnt consider Mr Js complaint about the suitability of its advice. 
Mr J disagrees and has requested an ombudsmans decision. 
K has gone into liquidation and the Financial Services Compensation Scheme (FSCS) is 
accepting claims from customers. In bringing this complaint Mr J has pointed out that he 
tried to claim from the FSCS but was unsuccessful and he was told to pursue his claim 
against Shard. He says Shard is responsible for the loss he has suffered.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr J says Shard is responsible for the advice to switch his pensions and the advice on 
where to invest the funds. Where a firm gives advice such as this, there are various 
principles and duties it would be required to follow. But the key issue in this case is whether 
Shard actually provided the advice to Mr J in the first place.
Shard says Mr J was introduced to the Lifetime SIPP by K and it only became involved when 
told by K that the SIPP had been opened. It says its role was limited to providing a trading 
platform and it set up an execution only account once instructions were received from K.
The documents we have include a signed power of attorney in which Mr J named K as the 
money manager for his SIPP. That document says 
the money manager normally provides services to the client including giving advice 
and managing portfolios under a separate agreement between the money manager 
and the client; 
Shard is solely his broker, enabling trading with his account via the trading platform 
and holding his assets;
Mr J understands and agrees that Shard will accept from K, without any enquiry or 
investigation, any order for the purchases and/or sale of all instruments available on 
Shards trading systems; 
Shard has no responsibility or liability to Mr J in following Ks instructions; and
Mr J accepts that K has sole access to trade on his account as long as the power of 
attorney is effective.
Other documents also confirm that K had a power of attorney for Mr J, was solely 
responsible for any advice given, and Shard was completing orders on an execution basis 
only, with no responsibility for any loss.
There is a document from Mr Js SIPP that refers to Shard as the adviser. But that doesnt 
seem accurate. Correspondence from the time regarding the switch was between Lifetime 
and K  not Shard. The correspondence also shows that Mr J was introduced to Shard by K, 
and it was K that requested the transfer of cash from Mr Js SIPP to his Shard account. 
Shard says it didnt have direct contact with Ks clients. 
Shard was involved, so we can consider its actions. However, its role was to provide the 
platform used by K to carry out its investment strategy on behalf of Ks clients. The evidence 
Ive seen all points to Shards role being to facilitate the investments, following Ks 
instructions. Mr J hasnt provided evidence that persuades me Shard advised him to switch 
or gave him advice on his investments. 
I appreciate Mr J tried to claim from the FSCS. Looking at its decision regarding K, what it 
said was that he hadnt provided enough evidence and it had not been able to gather 
enough evidence from third parties to consider his claim. It also said if Mr J had evidence of 
K advising him to set up the SIPP, he could provide that and it might be able to reconsider 
the claim. So that option was available to him (and may still be). It wasnt a definitive 
statement that K wasnt responsible, rather that it didnt have enough evidence to decide.
I know Mr J must have been very upset about what happened. But, taking all the above 
factors into account, Im satisfied Shard was not responsible for the advice given to Mr J. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold the complaint.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr J to accept or 
reject my decision before 7 December 2022.
 
Peter Whiteley
Ombudsman