DRN-4362655
The complaint
Mrs B complains about Advantage Insurance Company Limited (Advantage) declining a 
claim under her home insurance policy for damage to her property. 
Advantage use agents to administer the policy and to assess claims. Reference to 
Advantage includes these agents.
What happened
The events in this case are well known to Mrs B and Advantage, so the following is a 
summary of what happened. In reaching my decision, Ive considered the full sequence of 
events.
In November 2022 Mrs B had a problem with a blocked toilet at her property. She contacted 
Advantage to tell them about the blockage and lodge a claim. Advantage appointed a firm 
(M) to assess the claim and a drainage company (L) visited the property in December 2022 
to identify the cause of the blockage and assess the damage. But Advantage didnt approve 
the repair work (which involved excavation of a kitchen floor) to start until January 2023. 
Advantage subsequently contacted Mrs B in February 2023 to say they wouldnt be liable for 
the initial repair costs of £523.99 as they deemed the cause of the blockage to be wear and 
tear (which wouldnt be covered under the policy). Mrs B would have to pay the cost (as well 
as the policy excess of £200) before any further repair work would be carried out, which 
included excavation of the affected area.
 
Mrs B moved into alternative accommodation in March 2023, pending the start of repair 
work. At the same time, furniture and the kitchen were removed to enable the work to begin. 
However, when the contractors arrived to begin the excavation, they couldnt start as they 
realised the water and mains gas supply were where the work was needed, so the supply 
needed to be turned off. This led to a further delay as Advantage couldnt source a plumber, 
with Mrs B having to source one. Mrs B had to pay the plumber as Advantage cited the 
same wear and tear exclusion to say the cost wouldnt be covered under the policy.
In April 2023 Advantage told Mrs B the work wouldnt progress as damage had been caused 
to the mains water pipe and waste pipe, so shed need to contact the local water company. 
However the water company said it wasnt their responsibility (as the pipes were within the 
property boundary) which caused further delay in the work starting (May 2023).
However, contractors sent to carry out the work caused subsequent damage and two holes 
werent filled, causing further damage. A plumber returned to the property at the end of May 
and discovered a further leak caused by the original repairs being faulty (putty had been 
used, which subsequently failed).
Mrs Bs alternative accommodation was up at the end of May 2023 and offered an 
unsuitable alternative by Advantage. She found alternative accommodation, but Advantage 
wouldnt approve it, so she moved back into her property despite the repair work being 
ongoing. The property was damp and without kitchen facilities. The repair works were 
completed in June 2023 (reinstallation of the kitchen and flooring, furniture returned) and 
redecoration finished in July 2023.
Unhappy at the delays from the time she told Advantage about the leak, Mrs B complained 
in March 2023. Advantage acknowledged the complaint but didnt provide a final response 
within the eight week period a business has to consider consumer complaints. But they did 
(after Mrs B complained to this Service) say the claim was complex but accepted there were 
small delays in carrying out the repair work and a lack of proactivity from their contractors. 
They offered Mrs B £750 compensation for the delays in assessing her claim and the repair 
work being carried out. Mrs B rejected the offer.
In her complaint to this Service, Mrs B said shed had to pay for the initial repairs but didnt 
see how it would be deemed to be wear and tear without excavation work. She was also 
unhappy at the various delays to the repair work being carried out, with no clear resolution in 
sight. Shed had to chase Advantage and make many phone calls and emails to establish 
what was happening with her claim and the repair work. Shed been affected by the delays in 
the repair work being carried out and the lack of communication from Hastings. Her property 
had been empty since the start of March 2023 and become infested with flies and was damp 
(as no heating had been on). Uncertainty about whether alternative accommodation would 
be extended had also been very stressful for her. She didnt think she should have paid over 
£1,000 in total for repair work and she wanted her kitchen and lounge decorated and flooring 
replaced. She also wanted compensation for the stress and inconvenience shed suffered. 
Our investigator upheld the complaint, concluding Advantage hadnt acted fairly. She thought 
the repair work should have been approved to start sooner. The work was further delayed 
because of issues with the water supply. When work started, further damage was caused by 
the contractors and by faulty original repairs to fix the leak. Mrs B also had to source her own 
alternative accommodation, which Advantage wouldnt approve, so she had to move back 
into her property repair work was still ongoing, until the work was completed in July 2023. 
The investigator also thought there was a lack of communication with Mrs B. And Advantage 
hadnt showed the damage was due to wear and tear, so had unfairly declined the claim.
To put things right, the investigator thought Advantage should review the claim in line with 
the remaining terms and conditions of the policy, and if accepted pay interest on the amount 
settled. They should also pay Mrs B £1,000 compensation for the distress and 
inconvenience shed suffered.
As Advantage didnt respond to our investigators view by the date requested, the complaint 
has been passed to me to review.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
My role here is to decide whether Advantage has acted fairly towards Mrs B. In doing so, Ive 
considered the information and evidence available, principally that provided by Mrs B. As 
Advantage havent provided their case file or other evidence or information, despite being 
asked to do so several times, Ive considered the complaint under the relevant guidance. 
This is set out in DISP 3.5.14, which states that should a respondent (Advantage in this 
case) fail to comply (respond) to a request for information in relation to a complaint, this 
Service (the Ombudsman) can proceed to consider the complaint based on the available 
evidence and make an award for any distress or inconvenience caused.  In considering Mrs Bs complaint, Ive looked at all the evidence and information provided, 
but I think there are three main issues. First, the various issues and delays in assessing the 
claim and the damage and then in carrying out the necessary repair work. Second, Mrs B 
being asked to pay for elements of work that Advantage say wouldnt be covered under the 
policy because they were due to wear and tear. And thirdly, the lack of communication from 
Advantage (and their agents and contractors) about her claim and the repair work.
On the first issue, looking at the timeline of events, from the initial notification by Mrs B of the 
leak (November 2022) to the final completion of the repair and redecoration work (July 2023) 
took some eight months. Advantage say there were small delays, but Im not persuaded the 
delays were either small or unavoidable. While M were appointed when the claim was 
lodged and L attended in mid-December 2022, Advantage didnt confirm the works were 
approved until late January 2023. 
The work wasnt then scheduled to start until late March. When the contractors arrived, they 
werent able to begin excavation because of the presence of water and mains gas in the 
area to be excavated. Its not clear why this wasnt known before the contractors arrived, but 
it meant further delay to the work, not starting until mid-April. There were further delays to do 
with the main water pipe and determining that it wasnt the responsibility of the local water 
company (as the pipe was within the property boundary). The local water company 
confirmed they werent responsible at the start of May, which meant a further delay to the 
start of the work to late May.
There were also issues with the quality of the original repairs, where putty was used that 
subsequently failed. Ive seen a video provided by Mrs B where the plumber demonstrates 
the issue and the failure. And the issues over alternative accommodation meant Mrs B 
moving back into her property while the work was ongoing, until finally being completed in 
July 2023.
Takin all these points together, Ive concluded there were avoidable delays in assessing the 
claim and carrying out the necessary repair work, meaning the reinstatement of her property 
took longer than it should have done. Together with what Mrs B has told us about the impact 
of this on her, it would have caused her considerable distress and inconvenience. Ill 
consider this further when thinking about how Advantage should put things right.
On the second issue, without Advantage having provided any evidence or information to 
support their decline of that element of claim relating to the repair costs (£523.99) Ive 
considered the evidence and information available on the circumstances of the leak and its 
probable cause. Advantage say it was due to wear and tear. Mrs B doesnt agree, saying it 
isnt possible to come to that conclusion without carrying out the subsequent excavation 
work. And from what Ive seen, the indications are the waste pipe was damaged because of 
the way a main water pipe had been installed  not wear and tear.
Ive also had regard to the general principle that, where an insurer relies on a policy 
exclusion (in this case for wear and tear) then the onus is on them to show the exclusion 
applies. As Advantage havent provided any evidence or information to support the 
application of the exclusion, than Ive concluded they havent acted fairly and reasonably to 
apply the exclusion.
From what Ive seen, Advantage also declined to cover the cost of Mrs B engaging a 
plumber to turn off the mains water and gas supply do repair work could begin. And further 
investigation indicated a problem with a pipe bend. Again, it appears Advantage havent 
accepted liability for this cost, on the same grounds of wear and tear. But, in the absence of 
any evidence or information to support their exclusion of the exclusion, Ive concluded they 
havent acted fairly or reasonably to decline this further cost which Mrs B has incurred.On the third issue, communication with Mrs B, shes told us about the extent of chasing she 
has had to do to establish the position with her claim and the repair work. In the absence of 
any claim or case notes from Advantage, I cant fully establish a complete timeline and 
record of contacts between Mrs B and Advantage (including their agents). But Advantage 
acknowledge in their response that they (their agents and contractors) havent been 
proactive in keeping Mrs B updated about the assessment of the claim and progress with the 
repair work. Based on this, Ive concluded Advantage havent acted fairly and reasonably in 
how theyve communicated and engaged with Mrs B.
Having reached these conclusions, Ive thought about what Advantage should do to put 
things right. As Ive concluded they havent acted fairly to decline the elements of cost (which 
Mrs B has had to pay for) on the grounds of wear and tear, then they should reassess the 
relevant costs in accordance with the remaining terms and conditions of the policy. If they 
accept and settle these costs, they should also pay interest, at a rate of 8% simple, on the 
amounts settled from the date Mrs B paid the costs to the date they reimburse the costs.
Ive also thought about the question of compensation for the distress and inconvenience 
caused to Mrs B from, in particular, the avoidable delays in assessing the claim and carrying 
out the repair work and the lack of communication  and engagement with her during the 
process. Ive also taken account of what Mrs B has said about the stress caused to her by 
uncertainties over alternative accommodation arrangements, including her having to move 
back into her property before the repair and redecoration work was completed. 
From what Ive seen, Mrs B has suffered substantial distress, upset and worry with serious 
disruption over a sustained period of many months. Considering all the circumstances of the 
case, Ive concluded £1,000 for distress and inconvenience would be fair and reasonable.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, its my final decision that I uphold Mrs Bs complaint. I require 
Advantage Insurance Company Limited to:
Reassess the relevant costs Mrs B has incurred in accordance with the remaining 
terms and conditions of the policy. If they accept and settle these costs, they should 
also pay interest, at a rate of 8% simple, on the amounts settled from the date Mrs B 
paid the costs to the date they reimburse the costs.
Pay Mrs B £1,000 in compensation for distress and inconvenience. 
Advantage Insurance Company Limited must pay the compensation within 28 days of the 
date on which we tell them Mrs B accepts my final decision. If they pay later than this they 
must also pay interest on the compensation from the date of my final decision to the date of 
payment at 8% a year simple.
If Advantage Insurance Company Limited considers that theyre required by HM Revenue & 
Customs to deduct income tax from that interest, it should tell Mrs B how much theyve taken 
off. They should also give Mrs B a certificate showing this if she asks for one, so she can 
reclaim the tax from HM Revenue & Customs if appropriate.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs B to accept or 
reject my decision before 15 November 2023.
 
Paul King
Ombudsman