DRN-3771375
The complaint
Mr A is unhappy Transunion International UK Limited recorded incorrect information about a 
loan on his credit file.
What happened
Mr A says in September 2019, he took out a loan with a bank Ill refer to as B. Mr A says he 
checked his credit report through a website where credit information is provided by 
Transunion. When doing so, Mr A noticed information about his loan with B was incorrect  
the original borrowed amount was exactly the same as the current outstanding amount 
despite him having made his repayments to the loan for close to two years.
Mr A says he complained about this to Transunion in July 2021 and in his complaint, Mr A 
was able to demonstrate the data for his loan with B was incorrect. Mr A says this issue is 
impacting his credit score as its showing he has 100% of his loan with B left to repay which 
is impacting his creditworthiness. Mr A wants Transunion to update the original borrowed 
amount for the loan with B on his credit file to the correct amount which was £3,647.
Transunion issued Mr A with a final response letter and explained it is the data provider, B in 
this case, that is responsible for the status of an account and not Transunion. So Transunion 
said they were unable to remove data from Mr As credit report without Bs permission. 
Unhappy with Transunions response, Mr A brought his complaint to our service. Our 
Investigator looked into Mr As concerns. In summary, he said the original loan amount was 
sent to Transunion by B when they raised a dispute on Mr As behalf. Our Investigator 
concluded there were missed opportunities by Transunion to update the original balance of 
the loan and so, he asked them to update Mr As loan amount to show he originally 
borrowed £3,647. Given the time it took to resolve things for Mr A, our Investigator 
recommended Transunion pay Mr A £200 for the inconvenience caused.
Mr A agreed. However, Transunion didnt. They said B didnt respond to one of the disputes 
Transunion raised with them about the incorrect information. Our Investigator responded and 
provided a copy of Bs response to the two disputes Transunion had raised with them 
confirming the original borrowed amount. Our Investigator explained even though 
Transunion didnt receive a response to one of the disputes they raised with B, there was 
evidence to show they had received a response from B on other occasions but Transunion 
still didnt update the original loan amount on Mr As credit file. So, our Investigators opinion 
remained the same.
Transunion still disagreed and reiterated that they rely on information provided to them by 
data suppliers and must rely on them to answer disputes. But that they didnt receive such 
answers from B in Mr As complaint. So, the complaint has been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I understand in the usual course of things, Transunion isnt typically able to amend or 
remove information from a customers credit file without the authorisation of the original data 
supplier. Once Transunion receive a query disputing information on a credit file from their 
customer, Transunion would usually then raise the disputed matter with the data supplier. 
However, Transunion explained if the data supplier doesnt respond to the queries theyve 
raised, the disputed information is suppressed so that it no longer appears on the customers 
credit file.
Mr A has explained the original borrowed amount of the loan is showing incorrectly on his 
credit file as its showing the current outstanding amount he has left to repay. Mr A has 
provided us, as well as Transunion, a screenshot of how its appearing on his credit file. I 
can see that both the original borrowed amount and the outstanding amount are the same 
which means incorrect information is being displayed  the exact opposite of what credit 
reference agencies (CRAs) like Transunion are supposed to do.
B have provided us with information to show Transunion raised disputes with them about the 
credit limit of the loan in September 2020 and May 2021. Replies were sent in response to 
these disputes in September 2020 and again in June 2021  both confirming Mr A borrowed 
a total of £3,647. 
Transunion say they didnt receive a response from B to the query they raised in May 2021. 
But Ive got no reason to believe the replies B have evidenced werent sent to Transunion in 
response to the two disputes they raised. Additionally, the evidence Transunion have 
provided shows that on 14 June 2021, a note was made on Mr As file to say B hadnt 
responded as it was 28 days since they raised a dispute with B. While I appreciate this may 
have been the case, the information B have provided us with shows they replied to 
Transunions May 2021 dispute query on 15 June 2021  and again, in this reply it was 
confirmed Mr A borrowed £3,647. Its unclear to me why Transunion have said they didnt 
receive the replies from B. But, based on what I can see they were sent so, on balance, I 
think its likely Transunion received them. 
While I understand its not typically Transunions role to update information on a customers 
credit file without the data suppliers authorisation, I think Transunion could have done 
something different on this occasion. I say this because Mr A told Transunion what the 
starting balance of the loan was and the evidence from B shows they replied to Transunions 
disputes confirming the original borrowed amount (albeit I acknowledge they dont tell 
Transunion to update this information for their loan with Mr A).
Taking a step back and looking at whats fair and reasonable here, Transunion have the 
ability to amend the starting balance of the loan with B to something they know to be correct 
and that isnt in dispute by neither Mr A nor B. The fact that Transunion havent done that on 
this occasion doesnt seem fair to me  they were given the right original borrowed amount 
and had this been updated, it would have resolved the dispute in addition to having accurate 
information being reported. So, with all this in mind, I think Transunion should update the 
starting balance of the loan with B to reflect what Mr A and B have confirmed  which is 
£3,647. And I also ask that Transunion ensure this amount remains visible on Mr As file for 
his loan with B.
Mr A has set out how this wrong information has impacted his credit file as its showing he 
has more of Bs loan to repay than he actually does on his credit file summary page. This 
issue is also impacting other displays on his credit file such as the overall total borrowing Mr 
A has. I can see Mr A set out these concerns to Transunion in June and again in October 
2021 - Transunion provided a response to these concerns explaining they were unable to remove data from Mr As credit report without the permission of the data supplier. But I think 
its fair to suggest Mr A wasnt asking for information to be removed. Overall, its clear Mr A 
has been inconvenienced by this issue and its caused Mr A concern and worry over a long 
period of time. As a result, I agree with our Investigator that Transunion should pay Mr A 
£200 compensation. 
Putting things right
To summarise, Transunion should:
Update Mr As loan with B to show the original borrowed amount / starting balance of 
the loan to be £3,647.
Pay Mr A £200 compensation.
My final decision
For reasons explained above, I uphold this complaint and I require Transunion International 
UK Limited to carry out the actions as set out under the Putting things right section of this 
decision.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision before 30 December 2022.
 
Leanne McEvoy
Ombudsman