DRN-2858506
Complaint
Mr G has complained that Lloyds Bank PLC (Lloyds) unfairly continued applying charges to 
his overdraft when he was in difficulty and shouldnt have even been provided with the 
facility in the first place.
  
Background
One of our adjudicators looked at this complaint and thought that Lloyds should have 
realised that Mr Gs overdraft had become unsustainable for him in December 2018 and so it 
needed to refund all the interest, fees and charges it added to Mr Gs overdraft from this 
point. Lloyds didnt agree so the case was passed to an ombudsman for review.   
  
My findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Lloyds will be familiar with all the rules, regulations and good industry practice we consider 
when looking at whether a bank treated a customer fairly and reasonably when applying 
overdraft charges. So I dont consider it necessary to set all of this out in this decision.
Having carefully considered everything provided, I also think Lloyds acted unfairly when it 
continued charging overdraft interest and associated fees when it not only renewed but 
increased Mr Gs overdraft in December 2018. 
By this point, Mr G had been approved for a number of overdraft limit increases within the 
space of six months. And in December 2018 his limit was nine times what it stood at six 
months previously. Lloyds will be aware that making repeated requests for additional 
borrowing has long been considered an indication that a consumer may be in financial 
difficulty. 
Im also concerned that a cursory look at Mr Gs account statements show a significant 
amount of gambling. Bearing in mind the sheer number of transactions, I think it could be 
reasonably concluded that this is what the additional funds from the requested limit 
increases were for and I think this means that Lloyds ought to have realised Mr G was in no 
position to sustainably repay what he already owed within a reasonable period of time, let 
alone increased amounts. 
So having carefully thought about everything, Im satisfied that think that Lloyds should not 
only have refused to increase Mr Gs overdraft limit, but also stopped providing the overdraft 
and instead treated Mr G with forbearance. All of this means that Lloyds should have 
realised Mr G was experiencing difficulty, wasnt using his overdraft as intended and 
shouldnt have continued offering it on the same terms. Lloyds failure to react to Mr Gs 
overdraft usage and take corrective action means that I think it failed to act fairly and 
reasonably in this case. 
Mr G ended up paying, or is being expected to pay, additional interest, fees and charges on 
his overdraft and this ended up exacerbating his difficulties. So I think that Mr G lost out 
because of what Lloyds did wrong and that it should put things right.  
Fair compensation what Lloyds needs to do to put things right for Mr D
Having thought about everything, I think that it would be fair and reasonable in all the 
circumstances of Mr Gs complaint for Lloyds to put things right by:
Reworking Mr Gs current overdraft balance so that all interest, fees and charges 
applied to it after the renewal in December 2018 are removed.
AND
If an outstanding balance remains on the overdraft once these adjustments have 
been made Lloyds should contact Mr G to arrange a suitable repayment plan for 
this. If it considers it appropriate to record negative information on Mr Gs credit 
file, it should backdate this to December 2018.
OR
If the effect of removing all interest, fees and charges results in there no longer 
being an outstanding balance, then any extra should be treated as overpayments 
and returned to Mr G along with 8% simple interest on the overpayments from 
the date they were made (if they were) until the date of settlement. If no 
outstanding balance remains after all adjustments have been made, then Lloyds 
should remove any adverse information from Mr Gs credit file. 
 HM Revenue & Customs requires Lloyds to take off tax from this interest. Lloyds must give 
Mr G a certificate showing how much tax it has taken off if he asks for one.  
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, upholding Mr Gs complaint. Lloyds Bank PLC should put 
things right in the way Ive set out above.
  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision before 23 July 2021.
 
Jeshen Narayanan
Ombudsman