DRN-2378327
The complaint
Mr M complains that Aviva Insurance Limited has turned down a cash benefit claim he made 
on his personal private medical insurance policy.
What happened
Mr M has held a Healthier Solutions personal private medical insurance policy since 2002. 
The policy was arranged by a broker which has since gone into administration.
In May 2020, Mr M was unfortunately admitted to an NHS hospital as an emergency, as hed 
suffered a brain haemorrhage. He underwent surgery and was discharged after six days. In 
early June 2020, he was readmitted to hospital for a further four days having suffered further 
symptoms. Mr M got in touch with Aviva to make a claim for an NHS cash benefit payment.
Aviva turned down the claim. It said that since Mr Ms 2004 renewal, a six-week option 
applied to Mr Ms policy. This meant that a cash benefit wasnt payable if a policyholders 
treatment was available on the NHS within six weeks of the date a specialist recommends it. 
As Mr M had been admitted to hospital as an emergency and had received treatment 
immediately, it said he wasnt eligible for a cash payment.
Mr M was unhappy with Avivas decision and he asked us to look into his complaint. He said 
Aviva had previously paid out for NHS cash benefit on a different claim.
Our investigator didnt think Mr Ms complaint should be upheld. She thought that given Mr M 
hadnt had to wait to be treated for more than six weeks, his claim wasnt covered by the 
policy terms. So she thought Aviva had treated him fairly.
Mr M disagreed. He said hed cancelled his policy in June 2020, so he had no way of 
removing the six-week option. And he asked for his complaint to be considered by an 
ombudsman.
The complaints been passed to me to decide. I need to make it clear that this decision will 
only consider whether it was reasonable for Aviva to turn down Mr Ms claim. The policy 
wasnt sold by Aviva, it was sold by a broker, which also added the six-week option at Mr Ms 
2004 renewal. The broker has since gone into administration. Aviva explained to Mr M the 
steps he may be able to take with the Financial Services Compensation Scheme if hed like 
the sale of the policy considered further. This option remains open to Mr M if hed like to 
complain about the actions of his broker.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, while I sympathise with Mr Ms position, I think it was fair for Aviva to turn 
down his claim. Ill explain why.
The relevant regulators rules say that insurers must handle claims promptly and fairly. So 
Ive considered, amongst other things, the terms of Mr Ms policy and the circumstances of 
his claim to decide whether Aviva treated him fairly.
Ive first considered the terms of Mr Ms policy, as this forms the basis of his contract with 
Aviva. I can see from Mr Ms renewal documentation that his policy includes a six-week 
option. This six-week option is also set out in the Your Cover section of the renewal 
paperwork. So Ive turned to look at what Aviva means by the six-week option.
The six-week option section of the policy says: You cannot claim for private treatment as an 
in-patient or day-patient, NHS cash benefit, NHS cancer cash benefit or for the cost of an 
NHS amenity bed if your treatment is available on the NHS within six weeks from the date 
your specialist recommends it.
So I think its clear that Mr Ms personalised policy will only pay a cash benefit if NHS 
treatment isnt available for more than six weeks after its been recommended by a 
specialist. Ive also noted that Mr Ms renewal paperwork reminded him that hed had the 
policy for some time and to check it still met his needs. If he felt the six-week option wasnt 
right for him at the last renewal, it was open to him to get in touch with Aviva.
In this case, Mr Ms told us that he was admitted to hospital in May 2020, suffering from a 
brain haemorrhage and he underwent surgery two days later. He was discharged after six 
days. His second admission in June 2020 seems to have been for a biopsy and monitoring, 
following a relapse of his symptoms and lasted for four days. In both cases, it appears that 
Mr M was admitted by the NHS as an emergency and that his consultants decided very 
promptly on a course of treatment. He didnt need to wait for NHS treatment for more than 
six weeks during either admission. So while Im sorry to hear about Mr Ms illness and I 
appreciate how worrying this situation mustve been for him and his family, I dont think it 
was unfair for Aviva to conclude that he wasnt covered for a cash benefit payment.
Mr Ms said he was previously paid cash benefit under this policy and so he thinks its 
unreasonable for Aviva not to pay this claim. But I dont think I can fairly say that while Mr M 
may have been eligible for cash benefit for a previous claim, that this means he should be 
paid out for this particular claim when the policy terms havent been met. So overall, I dont 
think Aviva has done anything wrong which it needs to put right.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 4 June 2021.
 
Lisa Barham
Ombudsman