DRN-2631500
The complaint
Mr T complains that he didnt receive the papers for its AGM from Darlington Building 
Society (Darlington), and they dealt with his complaint poorly.
What happened
Mr T was a member of Darlington. The AGM was on 27 April 2020. Votes were needed by 
22 April 2020. He didnt receive the AGM papers until 11 May 2020.
Mr T complained. He wanted to vote on proposals to be tabled at the AGM and needed the 
papers to do this  and in good time to for him to consider before the voting deadline of 22 
April 2020. Hed complained to Darlington about what had happened and wasnt happy with 
their responses.
 
Darlington apologised. They said theyd sent out the papers  using a third-party mailing 
house - on either 30 March 2020 or 31 March 2020. But once the papers had been sent, 
they couldnt be responsible for their delivery. Theyd not had any other reports of similar 
problems from other members. They offered to send the documents electronically in future.
Mr T brought his complaint to this service. Our investigator said hed confirmed with 
Darlington that the papers were sent out to Mr Ts address on 30 March 2020 or 31 March 
2020. And he agreed that once theyd been despatched, Darlington couldnt be responsible 
for delivery. On Mr Ts view about the way Darlington handled his complaint  he said this 
wasnt an activity that the service could consider  as its not within our rules.
Mr T asked that his complaint be reviewed by an ombudsman.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I can see why Mr T is frustrated. He was a long-standing member of Darlington and wanted 
to engage and vote on proposals at the AGM  timed for 27 April 2020. He needed to vote 
by 22 April 2020. He didnt get the papers by the time of the AGM, so wasnt able to exercise 
his members votes. He told us he got the papers on 11 May 2020  after the AGM. 
At this service we do hear from customers that they havent received post  for all sorts of 
reasons. Our general approach is that once an item has been posted  then the business 
cant be held responsible for its delivery. And thats what I would say here. Darlington 
confirmed to us  that the papers were sent to members on 30 March 2020 or 31 March 
2020. That shouldve given plenty of time for Mr T to receive and consider them before the 
AGM. Ive seen the evidence from Darlington that Mr Ts pack was sent out. And theyve 
said that they didnt hear of similar problems from other members. I hear what Mr T has said 
to us  that hes not experienced any problems with the national mail services  but it 
doesnt change what Ive said.
Mr T has also said that Darlington didnt handle his complaint to them effectively. Im afraid 
we cant consider this aspect of his complaint to us. This service is governed by strict rules 
about what complaints we can, and cannot, look at. These are covered in The Financial 
Conduct Authoritys Handbook. This defines a complaint as being about a financial product 
or service. So, complaints specifically about a businesss complaint handling or processes 
arent included. Mr Ts concerns about Darlingtons response here are specifically about how 
they handled his complaint and replied to it, so  this aspect of his complaint isnt one we 
can look at.
So  and I can see that Mr T will be disappointed by this  my decision is that I wont be 
asking Darlington to so anymore here.
My final decision
I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr T to accept or 
reject my decision before 22 April 2021.
 
Martin Lord
Ombudsman