DRN-3437492
The complaint
Mr I complained because Nationwide Building Society refused to refund him for a £500 cash 
machine withdrawal, after he said the machine didnt dispense the money.
What happened
At around 10.20 pm on 10 June 2021, Mr I went to a cash machine owned not by Nationwide 
but by a bank. He wanted to withdraw £500, leaving a small balance. Mr I said the money 
wasnt dispensed from the machine, so he checked his balance to see whether the money 
had been debited from his account, which it had. Nationwides phone lines were closed at 
that time of day, so Mr I rang the next morning to report the problem.
Nationwide made a temporary £500 credit to Mr Is account while it investigated. Mr I 
withdrew that £500.
Nationwide obtained the machine records from the bank which owned the cash machine. 
These showed that the machine had correctly dispensed twenty five £20 notes, totalling 
£500. Nationwide wrote to tell Mr I that there had been no errors, and it would be re-debiting 
the temporary credit. It did this on 30 June. But as Mr I had withdrawn the £500 temporary 
credit, this put his account £499.39 in debit.
Mr I complained to this service. But we can only consider complaints after a financial 
business has had an opportunity to resolve a complaint, so the complaint was passed to 
Nationwide.
In Nationwides final response letter on 16 August, it said that the machine owner had 
confirmed that it had dispensed the £500, as twenty-five £20 notes. It said that if Mr I could 
provide counter evidence, he should send it to Nationwide. But without that, it wouldnt be 
able to change the decision, as the machine owner had evidenced that there was no issue 
with the machine or transaction. 
Mr I asked this service to look at his complaint. 
The investigator asked Mr I for more details about what happened. Mr I said there hadnt 
been any error messages, but the screen had gone blank and the card was returned with no 
money. Hed then put the card back and had checked the balance. No-one else had been 
nearby at the time, with no queue in front of him or behind him. Mr I said hed wanted the 
money to send abroad, which hed done after Nationwide issued the temporary credit. Mr I 
also told the investigator that he had a default on his credit file, which he said was because 
of Nationwide re-debiting the disputed £500, and he didnt have the money to pay it back. Mr 
I sent us a copy of a letter from Nationwide in February 2022 saying that his account was 
about to default.
Our investigator didnt uphold Mr Is complaint. He said that the evidence showed successful 
transactions before and after Mr Is withdrawal, which suggested the machine was working 
properly. And the cash machine owners had confirmed that the machine had been 
reconciled on 18 June, without any cash differences.
Mr I didnt agree with the investigators view, and asked for an ombudsmans decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
There are regulations which govern disputed transactions, and the relevant ones here are 
the Payment Services Regulations 2017. Section 75 says:
75.(1) Where a payment service user:
(b) claims that a payment transaction has not been correctly executed,
it is for the payment service provider to prove that the payment transaction was 
authenticated, accurately recorded, entered in the payment service providers accounts and 
not affected by a technical breakdown or some other deficiency in the service provided by 
the payment service provider.
The payment service provider  here is Nationwide, So Ive looked at whether Nationwide 
has provided evidence which meets this requirement for Mr Is disputed withdrawal.
Ive seen the machine evidence which lists the withdrawals, including Mr Is. That records 
that twenty five £20 notes were dispensed. There were transactions some time before and 
some time after Mr Is, also recorded as successfully completed. Ive also seen the machine 
owners record that the machine balanced correctly the next time it was checked. So I 
consider the evidence doesnt indicate anything wrong with the authentication, recording, 
accounting, or technical issues. 
The circumstances described by Mr I also dont suggest that anyone might have distracted 
Mr I and taken him money from the machine when he wasnt watching. Hes said there was 
no-one else about, and no queue before or after him. Thats borne out by the fact that the 
transactions before and after Mr Is were some time away from his.
The evidence indicates that Mr Is £500 cash withdrawal was properly dispensed, and the 
circumstances dont show that theres likely to have been any third party distraction. So I 
conclude that its more likely than not that Mr I did correctly receive the £500, and I dont 
uphold his complaint for a refund from Nationwide.
Finally, Mr I has said that the reason that his account defaulted was because Nationwide re-
debited the disputed £500. But the temporary credit which Nationwide provided when Mr I 
first reported his dispute was just that  temporary. When the machine evidence arrived and 
showed that there had been no faults with the machine, Nationwide was entitled to re-debit 
the disputed amount. Im sorry to hear that Mr I has difficulties paying this, but he can get in 
touch with Nationwide about his options, as the default letter hes sent us suggests.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr I to accept or reject my decision before 17 June 2022.
 
Belinda Knight
Ombudsman