DRN-3638660
The complaint
Ms G and Mr T have complained that Casualty & General Insurance Company (Europe) 
Limited (C&G) has declined their claim for the cost of treatment for their dog.
What happened
Ms G and Mr Ts dog, who Ill refer to as M, was insured by C&G from 14 December 2021. 
M had a recent history of a high Body Condition Score (BCS) which is a quantitative, but 
subjective, method of evaluating a dogs body fat. A score can range from 1 to 9. A BCS of 9 
means a dog is severely overweight, covered in fat, and at risk or suffering from 
complications of obesity such as arthritis and diabetes.
Between September 2010 and February 2022, Ms BCS was in the region of 8 to 9.
On 24 February 2022, M required surgery to replace a dislocated femur, the cost of which 
Ms G and Mr T claimed from C&G. C&G rejected their claim, referring to a term of their 
policy which states:
What is not insured?
Any claims resulting from Your pet being medically overweight or underweight and this 
results in Your pet needing Treatment as a result of not being the recommended 
medical weight for its age, breed type and sex as recommended by a Vet.
Ms G and Mr T argue that a BCS is not determined simply by a dogs weight and that other 
features are taken into account. They say that no concerns about Ms condition were raised 
by her vet and there was no concern about the operation taking place to replace her femur. 
They brought their complaint to this service.
Our investigators view was that the exclusion referred to above required any claim to result 
from M being overweight, and this results in the need for treatment as a result of not being 
the recommended medical weight. There was no medical or expert opinion provided by C&G 
that supported that Ms injury resulted from her being overweight. He didnt think that C&G 
had been fair in rejecting Ms G and Mr Ts claim.
C&G doesnt agree with our investigators view and has asked that the complaint be referred 
to an ombudsman for a final decision from this service.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im upholding Ms G and Mr Ts complaint and Ill explain why.
Ive looked at the terms of Ms G and Mr Ts policy and also at Ms veterinary history. Ive 
also looked into how BCS scores are arrived at, and into the causes of hip dislocation.
As C&G is relying on an exclusion within the policy terms to deny Ms G and Mr Ts claim, it 
is for C&G to provide evidence that this exclusion applies in Ms case. I consider its failed to 
do so on three grounds: 
Firstly, whilst it is clear from the BCS results in Ms notes that she was obese, theres no 
evidence that Ms G and Mr T were advised what her medical weight should be, possibly with 
some recommendation as to how she could achieve a more suitable BCS. The exclusion 
specifically refers to a pet requiring treatment as a result of not being the recommended 
medical weight for its age, breed type and sex as recommended by a Vet. So theres no 
evidence that Ms G and Mr T were given or ignored a recommendation.
Secondly, according to the exclusion, the need for treatment has to be a result of the pet 
being medically overweight. Ive seen no independent evidence that M required treatment for 
hip dislocation as a result of being medically overweight. There couldve been one or more 
other factors that couldve caused or contributed to the hip displacement. Whilst being 
overweight can be a contributory factor, Ive seen no evidence to say to what extent, if at all, 
it was in Ms case. 
Thirdly, the fact that Ms operation went ahead would suggest that the vet had no concerns 
that she was medically overweight such as to present a significant risk.
So as I dont consider that C&G has sufficiently evidenced that the exclusion it relies upon 
applies in Ms case, Im upholding Ms G and Mr Ts complaint.
I dont consider that there are any factors in this case that make compensation appropriate.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above Im upholding Ms G and Mr Ts complaint. 
I require Casualty & General Insurance Company (Europe) Limited to settle their claim 
subject to the other terms and conditions of their policy.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms G and Mr T to 
accept or reject my decision before 12 December 2022.
 
Nigel Bremner
Ombudsman