DRN-4491705
The complaint
Mr M is complaining about the way AXA Insurance UK Plc has handled a claim he made on 
his buildings insurance policy. 
What happened
In February 2023 Mr M contacted AXA to say his property had suffered damage in a storm. 
AXA initially declined to cover the damage as it thought the damage was in relation to a 
claim hed made the year before that it had declined. But a few weeks later it realised Mr M 
was making a new claim. And it said the claim was covered under the policy.
Mr M later complained that the delay in handling the claim had caused his property to suffer 
further damage. He also said the property had been damaged by the scaffolding the builder 
had put up when completing the repairs, which he wanted AXA to repair. Finally he said 
theyd left his balcony in a messy state. AXA didnt agree it had caused further damage so 
Mr M referred his complaint to this Service.
AXA set out the following:
It said it didnt formally decline the claim at the start, but there was a confusion as it 
thought Mr Ms claim was an extension of a previous claim. But it said there was only a 
three week delay.
It said the primary cause of the delays was the availability of contractors at the time. It 
said the contractor it appointed to manage the claim had had difficulties finding a builder 
to complete the repairs and it explained this is why the claim took so long.
It maintained that it wasnt liable for any further damage. It said it had asked Mr M a 
number of times to evidence that the property had suffered water ingress damage, but 
he hadnt done so. 
I issued a provisional decision partially upholding this complaint and I said the following:
I think there were delays in the handling of this claim which were as follows:
AXA initially and incorrectly thought this was an extension of an old claim that it had 
declined;
There were delays in Mr M returning the scope of works, but AXA hasnt demonstrated 
that its appointed contractor fairly sent this out first. And I think it could/should have been 
more pro-active in chasing a response to this;
It seems the appointed contractor had difficulties finding a builder to complete the 
repairs. I cant hold AXA responsible for this delay as it seems to be an unfortunate 
circumstance of the timing of the claim and the availability of builders at the time. But I 
havent seen anything to show that Mr M was advised of these challenges.
So I do think AXA, and its agents, could and should have handled the claim better up to the 
point of the repairs starting. I think this has caused Mr M some avoidable distress and 
inconvenience. The investigator recommended £400 in compensation and I think thats fair. 
However, Im not persuaded the repairs were carried out unreasonably. I note Mr M has 
provided a photograph of a crack in the wall. And he says this was caused by the scaffolding 
AXAs contractor put up. But I dont think Ive seen enough evidence to support this and it 
seems to be a superficial crack. Without any further supporting evidence, I cant reasonably 
say that this was down to the actions of AXAs contractor.
This Service and AXA have asked Mr M a number of times to provide evidence of water 
ingress caused by either the claim in question, or the actions of AXAs contractors. But Mr M 
hasnt provided this. I can see he recently said he had a leak from his conservatory ceiling. 
But he hasnt provided anything to support this and, given the location of the storm related 
damage Im not persuaded this leak is down to the storm or anything AXA did wrong. Im 
also not persuaded the contractors left the balcony in an unreasonable state, so I dont think 
it needs to do anything further in this regard.
Mr M responded to say that his conservatory is leaking when raining since he said AXAs 
contractors broke his balcony. And he asked that I made a fair decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr M has reiterated that his conservatory is leaking since the repairs were carried out. But 
he hasnt given me anything to new to consider. And, as I said in my provisional decision, I 
havent seen anything to show that leak is down to the storm or anything AXA did wrong. I 
also havent seen anything to support that AXA or its contractors caused further damage to 
Mr Ms property.
Ultimately, as neither party has given me anything new to think about, I see no reason to 
reach a different conclusion to the one I reached in my provisional decision. So I still think 
AXA should pay £400 in compensation, but I dont think it needs to pay anything further.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive set out above, its my final decision that I uphold this complaint and I 
require AXA Insurance UK Plc to pay Mr M £400 in compensation. I dont award anything 
further.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 6 January 2024. 
Guy Mitchell
Ombudsman