DRN-1230067
The complaint
Mr G had two accounts with American Express Services Europe Limited (AESEL). He 
complains that AESEL have registered a fraud marker against him on a fraud database and 
closed his second account  a credit card account. 
What happened
Mr G had a charge card account with AESEL. A charge card differs to a credit card in that 
there is no pre-set spending limit, and no interest charges as you must pay the full balance 
at the end of each month. The spending limit depends on your card usage, spending 
patterns, payment history and financial resources. He also had a credit card account with 
AESEL.
In April 2019, Mr G requested that AESEL provide him with the facility to spend up to 
£50,000 on the charge card each month. AESEL asked Mr G to provide financial information 
to support the application. Mr G said that he was abroad, so he contacted his accountant, 
who he says was also abroad. Mr G said that his accountant sent him an email containing 
one of Mr Gs old bank statements from a third-party bank (Bank A), which Mr G sent on to 
AESEL, accompanied by the words; Please find attached all I can get right now hope its 
sufficient.  Mr G only sent the attachment  the statement - to AESEL, he didnt forward on 
the accountants email. 
AESEL opened the attachment. It was Mr Gs bank statement from Bank A, dated March 
2019 displaying an account balance of around two million pounds. AESEL discovered that 
the statement was not genuine and had some of the properties of a 2015 statement. The 
account had been closed in 2016. They contacted Mr G for comment, he said that he hadnt 
opened the attachment before sending it onto them. He also conceded that the money was 
no longer in Bank A. He told AESEL that the money was now in another bank (Bank B). 
AESEL closed Mr Gs charge card account and registered a fraud marker against him on a 
fraud database. The database records information to protect financial businesses and their 
customers against fraud. Mr G wasnt aware that AESL had registered a fraud marker 
against him at that time. 
Around September 2019, Mr G discovered that the fraud marker was in place. He 
complained to AESEL. He said that the fraud marker prevented him from acquiring a bank 
account or mortgage. He said that he had inherited some money and wanted to buy his first 
property. And that he was a disabled person who was now stuck in his house as the fraud 
marker was preventing him from obtaining motor insurance. He said he wasnt able to leave 
the house to go shopping, get medication or see his doctor. And that the council had to bring 
him food. 
Mr G repeated that it was his accountants mistake. Mr G wasnt able to provide a copy of the 
email that his accountant had sent him back in April 2019 containing the statement from 
Bank A. The accountants company had stopped trading in June 2019. 
However, Mr G did provide a new email that he said was from his accountant. In this email 
the accountant explains that he had used an automated software system, which due to a 
glitch had used the incorrect old closed account details and generated the false statement. The accountant also commented on the fraud marker, he said: It is strange that if no charges 
were brought against you by the CPS and no criminal investigation has occurred why 
AESEL were able to put such a detrimental marker against your file. AESEL questioned the 
veracity of the email in that the email address was the accountants old company name 
followed by @ generic email domain name. AESEL noted that the opinion expressed by the 
accountant about the fraud marker was inaccurate. 
AESEL didnt uphold Mr Gs complaint, they said they would not remove the fraud marker 
and believed that they had acted appropriately in closing his account and registering the 
fraud marker. So, Mr G brought a complaint to our service. 
Whilst the matter was with our service, AESEL found that Mr G had a second account with 
them  a credit card account. It hadnt been immediately apparent to AESEL that Mr G had 
this second account, as some of the information on the application differed to the information 
on the charge card account. AESEL also closed this account. Mr G wasnt happy about this 
and asked us to look into this matter too. 
One of our investigators looked into Mr Gs complaint. Our investigator asked Mr G if he ever 
had two million in that account with Bank A. Mr G said that he had a few million in it. The 
investigator found that Mr Gs account with Bank A had never had a two-million-pound 
balance. In fact, the balance rarely went above £10,000 and the balance was generally a few 
thousand pounds. When she asked Mr G if the money was now with Bank B as he had told 
AESEL, Mr G said that he had used it to buy properties over the last couple of years. This 
was contrary to Mr G statement to AESEL around September 2019 stating that he had 
inherited some money and was looking to buy his first property, but had been prevented 
from getting a mortgage due to the fraud marker. 
The investigator reviewed the subsequent email that Mr Gs accountant had reportedly send 
to Mr G to explain his error. The investigator felt that this email was unusual as it was sent 
from a generic email address and not a professional domain name. She couldnt be certain 
that the email had been sent by the accountant and not someone pretending to be him. The 
investigator also felt that it would be unlikely that an accountant would make inaccurate 
comments about the fraud marker database. 
The investigator didnt think that the false statement had been created accidentally due to a 
software glitch as the software was designed to transfer the information on bank statements 
onto financial reports and not to create false bank statements that look like originals. The 
investigator felt that it was more likely than not that someone had purposefully created the 
false bank statement She didnt think that an accountant would do this. 
As mentioned earlier, Mr G had said that he didnt have an electronic copy of the email that 
his accountant had sent him containing the false statement. However, around November 
2019, Mr G told our investigator that he had found a paper copy of this email in storage. He 
provided our investigator with a photo of this email. 
When the investigator looked at Mr Gs spending on his AESEL credit card she found that 
there were regular payments to petrol stations, bars, restaurants, supermarkets and coffee 
shops. This was at odds to Mr G account that he was house bound and didnt have family or 
friends nearby to help and had to get the council safeguarding officer to bring him food. 
The investigator found Mr Gs account implausible and that it was more likely than not that 
Mr G had knowingly passed the false statement to AESEL so that they would give him 
access to up to £50,000. The investigator agreed that AESEL had acted appropriately. She thought that AESEL had 
enough reason to add the fraud marker and that they were entitled to close the account 
under the terms and conditions. 
Mr G didnt accept the investigators view, so the matter was passed to me to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I know Mr G will be disappointed, but for much the same reasons as our investigator, I dont 
uphold his complaint. Ill explain why. 
In my decision Ive considered the following points, as I consider these are the key 
issues raised by Mr G. 
Was it fair and reasonable for AESEL to register a fraud marker against Mr G on a 
fraud database?
Was is fair and reasonable for AESEL to close Mr Gs credit card account. 
 
I know Mr G is keen that I consider how the fraud marker has affected his day to day life. I 
can assure Mr G, Ive considered these factors. However, my duty is to reach a decision that 
is fair and reasonable in all the circumstances. 
Was it fair and reasonable for AESEL to register a fraud marker against Mr G on a 
fraud database?
When a business is a member of the fraud database scheme, that business must operate 
within the terms of the National Fraud Database Handbook. Members can only record 
information on the database if its supported by evidence and meets the burden of proof. 
There must be reasonable grounds to believe that a fraud or financial crime has been 
committed or attempted.
The evidence must be clear, relevant and rigorous such that the members could 
confidently report the conduct of the subject to the police.
The conduct of the subject must meet the criteria of one of the case types. This case 
relates to misuse of facility  Misuse of facility happens when an account, policy or 
some other financial service is used fraudulently by the account holder. 
In order to file, the member - AESEL  must have rejected, withdrawn or terminated a 
product on the basis of fraud unless the member has an obligation to provide the 
product or the subject has already received the full benefit of the product. 
 
Essentially AESEL felt that Mr G had provided a false statement evidencing that he had two-
million-pounds in Bank A, so that AESEL would consider that he had the financial resources 
to repay and provide him with up to £50,000 each month on his charge card. 
Its not in dispute that Mr G provided a false bank statement to AESEL. Ive considered 
whether Mr G was aware that the statement was false when he sent it to AESEL. Mr G 
states that he wasnt aware and that it was the fault of his accountant. 
I think that Mr Gs account is not plausible and that its more likely than not that Mr G was 
aware of the false statement when he provided it to AESEL. I also think that on the balance of probabilities Mr G provided the false statement to AESEL so that they would give him 
access to up to £50,000 per month on his charge card. 
When Mr G forwarded the false statement to AESEL, he wrote: Please find attached all I can 
get right now hope its sufficient. The comments suggest that Mr G was aware of what was 
being sent. 
When AESEL asked Mr G where the money was now, he said that it was in Bank B. 
However, he told our investigator that he had used it to buy properties over the past two 
years. Our investigator asked Mr G if he ever had two-million-pounds in his account with 
Bank A, and Mr G said that he had a few million in that account before it was moved to Bank 
B. However, Bank A have provided evidence that Mr G never had two-million-pounds in that 
account, and the balance was generally around a few thousand. Bank A said that Mr Gs 
account with them was closed in 2016. 
Mr G provided an email that he said was from his accountant, explaining that it was all a 
mistake caused by a software system. I think its unlikely that a glitch in the software system 
mentioned by Mr G created the false statement in error and by chance created a date and 
balance to reflect information that was extremely favourable to Mr Gs credit application to 
AESEL.
I also have reservations around the email itself. The accountants business stopped trading 
around June 2019. However, around October 2019 Mr G says that his accountant sent him 
the email explaining everything. The email address is the old business name followed by @ 
generic email address. There is no legal disclaimer displayed at the end of the email and no 
professional domain name. I think its unlikely that a professional would send an email from a 
generic email address without a legal disclaimer. 
There are factual inaccuracies in the email. Its says: It is strange that if no charges were 
brought against you by the CPS and no criminal investigation has occurred why AESEL 
were able to put such a detrimental marker against your file. As I explained already, there is 
no need for a person to be charged before a marker can be placed on the fraud database. I 
think its unlikely that an accountant would make such an error. 
Mr G originally stated that he didnt have a copy of the email that was sent to him by the 
accountant in April 2019, with the false statement attached. Recently Mr G stated that 
although he still cant find an electronic copy of this email, he has been able to find a paper 
copy of the email as he used to print all his emails and put them in a storage facility away 
from his home address. I have considered what weight to place on this photograph of the 
email. I think its unlikely that in April 2019 anyone would consider printing and storing all 
their emails onto paper and then placing them in storage. 
I have made efforts to speak to the accountant to establish the veracity of the emails he is 
said to have sent. I spoke to a male who said that he was the accountant, when I asked for 
his address, he hung up and since this time all calls go straight to voicemail. Im not satisfied 
that the person who wrote the email was the accountant named.   
Mr G has made statements to this service suggesting that his situation was such that he was 
housebound. At one point he stated that he had been taken into care as he had no food, 
heating, access to funds or transport. Ive seen Mr Gs AESEL credit card statements, which 
suggest that this wasnt the case as there is ongoing spending on fuel, shopping and 
entertainment.  I know Mr G will be disappointed. However, for the reasons Ive given, Im satisfied that 
AESEL actions were fair and reasonable when they registered a fraud marker against him 
on a fraud database. And I dont require them to do anything further. 
Was it fair and reasonable for AESEL to close Mr Gs credit card account?
Mr G is unhappy that AESEL closed his second credit card account. Ive considered whether 
AESELS actions were fair and reasonable. Ive reviewed the terms and conditions of the 
account. 
ASESLs terms and conditions state: You and we can end it without giving any reason. We 
can do this by giving you at least two months' written notice. AESEL gave Mr G 60 days 
notice before closing his account. So, Im satisfied that AESELs actions here were fair and 
reasonable. And I dont require them to do anything further. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask X to accept or 
reject my decision before 19 March 2020.
Tony Coyne
Ombudsman