DRN-2880859
The complaint
Mrs B complains that Clydesdale Bank Plc trading as Virgin Money (Virgin) turned off 
internet banking for her credit card account.
What happened
Mrs B had a Virgin credit card. In December 2020, Virgin emailed her to say it was going to 
turn off access to online banking services. Instead, customers must use their App. They 
wrote again in January 2021 to say the service would be turned off on 31 January 2021.
Mrs B complained. She doesnt have a smart phone  and even if she did, her disability 
would mean she couldnt use it. She relies on her computer to monitor her credit card 
account. And without online services, shes concerned that she is vulnerable to fraud  she 
had duplicate credit card transactions recently which she spotted and had one refunded. She 
says that Virgin are being discriminatory.
Virgin said that turning off online banking series was a business decision. And said their App 
is the easiest way to control a credit card. Theyd looked at the relevant legislation. As an 
alternative, they organised to send paper statements to Mrs B. And, she can also use their 
call centres.
Mrs B brought her complaint to us. Our investigator said Virgin were within their rights to 
make their own business decisions  this service cant interfere with that. He considered that 
Virgin had notified Mrs B in advance of the changes. So  he thought that theyd acted fairly.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mrs B is concerned that she cant monitor her credit card anymore  as Virgin have turned 
off internet banking for their credit card customers. Shes concerned about this  as she 
obviously keeps a close eye on things  recently she discovered a duplicate transaction for a 
restaurant bill and was therefore able to get it refunded quickly. She doesnt have a smart 
phone and doesnt want one. And  due to her disability, she couldnt use a smart phone 
anyway and it also means she has trouble making calls for any length of time.
Let me say that this service exists to resolve individual disputes between businesses and 
their customers. We are not the regulators of Virgin, or any other financial business. So  we 
cant interfere with their commercial decisions. And thats the case here, Im afraid. Virgin 
have made a business decision to turn off internet banking. 
And  I can see that they gave their customers, including Mrs B, notice of what they were 
going to do. On 10 December 2020 an email was sent saying:
We wanted to let you know you that well be switching off Online Service in January 2021.
Youll need to download the Virgin Money Credit Card app to make sure you can manage 
your card whenever and wherever you want to.
Another reminder was sent in January 2021 titled were turning off online service.  It said: 
We recently contacted you to let you know well be switching off Online Service on 31
January 2021. The quickest and easiest way to manage your card is now the Virgin Money
Credit Card app.
I can also see that theyve organised to send to Mrs B regular paper statements  so she 
can see whats happening on her account. Also, theyve suggested she used telephone 
banking  where she can also get information on her accounts  although I note that Mrs B 
has said she wont be able to easily use this.
Mrs B says that Virgin are being discriminatory because of her disability. But equally, I see 
that Virgin have said that theyve reviewed all legislation and are comfortable that theyve 
complied with it. I cant really comment any further on that aspect  as again, thats part of 
Virgins decision-making process. But I would observe that Virgin have made this change for 
all their credit card customers, not just for some of them.
I quite understand that Mrs B will be disappointed by my decision. But I would add that there 
are many other credit card providers  who dont have the same restriction on online 
services. If Mrs B wishes to have online access to her account - she might want to look at 
some of those as an alternative to her Virgin credit card.
My final decision
I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs B to accept or 
reject my decision before 6 August 2021.
 
Martin Lord
Ombudsman