DRN-2643945
The complaint
Mr B complains about a life and serious illness policy sold to him by The Royal London 
Mutual Insurance Society Limited in 2011.
What happened
Mr B was sold a life and serious illness policy by a representative of Royal London in 2011.
Whilst reviewing his financial affairs in early 2020 Mr B discovered an exclusion on the 
serious illness part of the policy, and a premium loading on the life part of the policy; both of 
which he says he was previously unaware of. Because of this Mr B complained to Royal 
London about the sale of the policy.
Royal London said the policy wasnt mis-sold and that Mr B had been made aware of both 
the exclusion and premium loading. Remaining unhappy Mr B brought his complaint to our 
service where one of our investigators looked into what happened.
Our investigator thought Royal London acted fairly and that the policy wasnt mis-sold. They 
also thought the policy exclusion and premium loading were made clear on the suitability 
letter as well as on the policy schedule sent to Mr B from the product provider at a later date. 
They explained that Mr B would have a valid claim at times when the exclusion didnt apply. 
Mr B disagreed saying he never received the suitability letter and that the policy was unfit for 
purpose. So the complaint has come to me for a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
To come to a decision Ive considered the suitability of the policy as a whole, as well as the 
issues raised by Mr B about the policy exclusion and premium loading.
At the time of the sale the advisor gathered information about Mr Bs financial circumstances 
and affordability. Mr B was in his mid-20s, employed full-time in the armed forces and had a 
mortgage with his partner. The advisor recorded that Mr B didnt have any existing life or 
health insurance and there were no savings. Mr Bs requirements for the policy were 
recorded as cover purely for his mortgage.
Using the information gathered the advisor recommended a decreasing term serious illness 
and life policy. 
A decreasing term policy is most suitable when being used to provide cover for a repayment 
mortgage. So I think it meets the need Mr B was looking for.
The policy provides cover for both serious illness and death. Mr B didnt have any other 
cover in place so this policy provides for both of those scenarios. Looking at Mr Bs situation 
at the time Im happy the policy was suitable for his needs and his circumstances.
There is an exclusion on the serious illness part of the policy which says No serious illness 
cover will be payable under this plan for any illness or incapacity arising directly or indirectly 
from: Any accident or injury arising from your deployment to or participation in a tour of duty 
to an active theatre of operations or conflict.
Mr B says this exclusion makes the policy unfit for purpose because at the time he was part 
of a rapid action team which could be deployed anywhere in the world at short notice.
Theres also an occupational premium loading on the life part of the policy. This means the 
monthly premiums are higher because Mr B is employed in the armed forces.
Mr B says neither the exclusion nor the premium loading was ever explained to him.
Insurers are free to set policy terms how they wish. This includes applying exclusions to 
policies for things they that dont want to cover and adding premium loadings for areas they 
feel pose more risk. Here the complaint isnt about the provider of the policy rather its about 
Royal London who sold the policy. So I need to look at the information from the time to see if 
the exclusion and premium loading were brought fairly and clearly to Mr Bs attention. 
The advisor recorded information at the time of the sale on a confidential client information 
form. This form was signed on the day by both the advisor and Mr B as a record of what was 
discussed. The notes on this form say the advisor made Mr B aware of both the exclusion 
and the premium loading. I cant of course say for certain what was discussed, as I wasnt at 
the meeting, but the evidence from the time shows both the exclusion and premium loading 
were discussed.  
About 2 weeks after the meeting Mr B was sent a suitability letter. This letter confirms the 
details of what was discussed with the advisor and the recommendations which were made. 
Page 3 of the letter has an underlined heading Policy Loadings and Exclusions  HM 
Forces. Under this heading are details of the premium loading and exclusion. It directs Mr B 
to the policy documents for further information. 
Looking at the suitability letter Im satisfied it draws sufficient attention to the premium 
loading and exclusion. 
Mr B says he never received the suitability letter. Royal London have provided a copy of the 
letter which is correctly addressed. Whilst I havent seen proof it was posted, which is 
unsurprising as it was sent almost ten years ago, Im persuaded it wouldve been sent as 
part of the advice process. I cant say why it was never received by Mr B.
At the same time as being sent the suitability letter from Royal London Mr B was sent a 
welcome letter and policy schedule from the product provider. The welcome letter said to 
carefully read all of the information as it reflects the information sent to the product provider 
by the advisor. 
Page 2 of the policy schedule confirms the serious illness cover policy exclusion and that a 
loading has been applied to the life part of the cover. 
Looking at the policy schedule Im satisfied it draws sufficient attention to the premium 
loading and exclusion. If Mr B thought something wasnt right with the policy schedule, or it 
wasnt what was discussed with the advisor, he couldve questioned this. But Ive seen no 
evidence this happened. Mr B says that the exclusions and premium loading werent discussed and that he never 
received the suitability letter. If I accept this as being what happened, and Mr Bs testimony 
has been consistent and reliable throughout the complaint process, it still remains that he 
doesnt deny receiving the policy schedule. And the exclusion and premium loading are 
shown on there, so Im satisfied he was made aware of these at the time.
Ive also considered what Mr B has said about the exclusion making the policy not fit for 
purpose because of the nature of his work. He says this as he was serving at the time in a 
brigade held at readiness for deployment anywhere in the world at quick notice. 
The confidential client information form completed at the time of the sale has a section to 
record information about Mr Bs employment in the armed forces. In particular there is a 
section titled Under Orders/On Standby/Postings. Theres a place to record if these issues 
affect Mr B and for both Self and Unit the answer is recorded as No. So the evidence 
recorded by the advisor seems contradictory to what Mr B now says was the case.
To come to an opinion on this Ive reviewed the actual exclusion which says that the policy 
doesnt cover Any accident or injury arising from your deployment to or participation in a tour 
of duty to an active theatre of operations or conflict. 
Mr B says that he has been deployed operationally during the time of the policy so at those 
times he wouldnt have been covered for serious illness; which is correct. However he has 
been covered for times when he hasnt been deployed, and the life cover has been in place 
at all times. So whilst I can understand Mr Bs concerns Im not persuaded the exclusion 
makes the policy unsuitable.  
Mr B says that the policy is over-priced and that he can obtain cheaper cover elsewhere. If 
Mr B feels this is the case he is free to seek a different policy with another product provider. 
This complaint is about the time when the policy was sold, and not the level of premiums 
charged by the product provider today. 
Having considered everything carefully Im satisfied the policy was suitable for Mr B and that 
the policy exclusion and premium loading were fairly brought to his attention.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained above, my decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 16 June 2021. 
Warren Wilson
Ombudsman