DRN-2517859
The complaint
Mr S complains that Barclays Bank UK PLC (Barclays) wont refund him a payment made 
from his current account as the result of a scam.
What happened
In January 2020, Mr S was the unfortunate victim of a scam. He had been looking for 
a rental property online when he came across an advert on a property website that he 
liked the look of. After speaking with the owner of the advert, Mr S agreed to pay the 
upfront fees associated with the rental of the property, transferring £2,000 on 13 
January 2020 and a further £400 the next day. Both transfers were made to an 
international bank account. 
Soon after, Mr S was told that the property rental website had rejected his payments 
and that he would soon receive a refund. But Mr S didnt receive the refund and after 
some further research, Mr S realised all of the information he had been sent about the 
property was fake and he had actually been dealing with a scammer. 
On 21 January 2020, Mr S contacted Barclays to let them know what had happened and 
Barclays told Mr S it would get in touch with the receiving bank to see if it was possible to 
retrieve any of his funds. 
Mr S has told us he contacted Barclays on numerous occasions during the following weeks 
seeking an update but he didnt receive a substantive response. Mr S has told us that he 
was informed by Barclays in two separate calls made on 27 January 2020 that he would 
receive a refund of both payments but it was only the £400 payment that was eventually 
refunded by the receiving bank. Furthermore, whilst the investigation was ongoing, Mr S was 
asked to provide a signed police report, which he provided to Barclays on 3 February 2020. 
However, an error was made by Barclays and the report wasnt forwarded on to the 
beneficiary bank until around a week after Mr S had initially provided it. Mr S has said he 
believes the delay in sending this report to the receiving bank resulted in the loss of the 
£2,000 payment. 
Barclays didnt agree that its delays had resulted in Mr S losing the £2,000 payment but it 
acknowledged the delays should not have happened and that Mr S had been asked to go 
into branch and had made numerous telephone calls. So, it offered Mr S £200 to 
compensate him for the delays and inconvenience caused alongside an additional £25 for 
his call costs. 
Mr S was unhappy with Barclays response. He wanted Barclays to refund him the total 
amount he had lost and so he brought his complaint to our service. 
An investigator looked into Mr Ss complaint and didnt uphold it. She felt there wasnt 
anything about the payments themselves that meant Barclays shouldve questioned Mr S 
about them before it allowed them to leave his account. And she didnt think there was 
anything more Barclays couldve done once notified that Mr S had been the victim of a 
scam either. She thought it most likely that the £2,000 payment had already been removed 
from the beneficiary account by the time Barclays were notified of the scam  and so even 
if the police report had been sent to the beneficiary bank as soon as it had been provided 
by Mr S, this still wouldnt have resulted in the return of his funds. She also felt the 
compensation amount offered by Barclays was reasonable. 
As part of her investigation, our investigator also contacted the receiving bank to find out 
specifically when Mr Ss funds were removed from the receiving account. But, unfortunately, 
this information was not provided.  
Mr S disagreed with the investigators opinion, and as an agreement could not be reached, 
the case has been passed to me for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the opinion reached by the investigator for the following 
reasons:
I first thought about whether the payments Mr S made were out of character and 
unusual for his account but I dont think I can say they were. Mr S had made 
numerous similar payments in the months prior to the scam. And I also need to keep 
in mind that this is not an untypical amount for consumers to transfer when making 
one-off payments.  
Ive also thought about the fact the payments were sent to a new payee and an 
international bank account. However, I dont find that a payment to a new payee, or 
to an international bank account, is in itself suspicious enough to mean that Barclays 
shouldve considered that Mr S was at risk of financial harm and contacted him 
before it made the payments at his request. 
Banks have to strike a balance between processing payments as per their 
customers instructions and monitoring accounts for unusual and potentially harmful 
activity. And I dont think it would be fair to say that Barclays shouldve identified the 
payments Mr S made as suspicious enough to warrant further checks  especially 
given that they were for a relatively small amount. 
Ive also thought about whether Barclays couldve done more to help Mr S once it 
was notified of the scam but I dont think it could. Unfortunately, I havent been able 
to find out exactly when Mr Ss funds were removed from the receiving account and 
so I have had to base my findings on what I think is most likely to have happened. 
And I agree with the Investigator that its most likely that the funds were removed 
before Barclays were made aware of the scam. 
Mr S has told us that having conducted his own research, he was able to find 
numerous false adverts placed by the scammer online. And so, it seems likely to me 
that Mr S was dealing with a professional fraudster. Fraudsters of this nature usually 
monitor accounts carefully and remove any funds as quickly as possible to avoid the 
victim becoming aware and notifying their bank and the funds being returned. And it 
seems likely to me that the scammer told Mr S to wait for a refund whilst he removed 
the majority of the funds from the receiving account.
While I appreciate Mr S notified Barclays as soon as he became aware of the scam, 
this was still some 7 days after the payments had been made and Im satisfied that its more likely than not that Mr Ss funds were more than likely removed during this 
time. 
I acknowledge what Mr S has said about there being a delay between him sending 
the police report to Barclays and Barclays forwarding the report on to the receiving 
bank. However, I dont think this delay resulted in Mr S losing the initial £2,000 
payment. As Ive said above, I think this was already gone. Furthermore, the 
receiving bank had returned the £400 payment to Mr S before the police report was 
requested and so I think its unlikely the police report was required to release funds. 
If this had been the case, the £400 payment would only have been released after 
the report was received, and not before. 
The receiving bank also told Barclays on two separate occasions between 24 
January 2020 and 17 February 2020 that upon receipt of the indemnity request all 
the funds had been withdrawn from the account but that a police report should still 
be provided. And so, Im satisfied that its more likely than not that the police report 
was being requested as part of the receiving banks internal processes rather than 
because further funds remained and the report was required for their release. Im 
satisfied that had the funds remained, the receiving bank wouldve returned them at 
the same time as the £400 payment. But instead they confirmed they had been 
withdrawn from the account. And so, for the reasons set out above, Im satisfied that 
the £2,000 payment was already gone when Barclays made the indemnity request. 
And I dont think it would now be fair and reasonable for me to hold Barclays liable 
for Mr Ss loss.
I acknowledge that Mr S had to chase Barclays for an update on more than one 
occasion and that he was incorrectly told he would receive a full refund of both 
payments. I also acknowledge that Barclays didnt necessarily make it clear to him 
that sending the police report may not lead to the refunding of any further funds and 
that Mr S was asked to travel to a local branch. I agree that he has been caused 
some trouble and upset as well as a degree of inconvenience. But I can see that 
Barclays has already offered £225 to recognise what went wrong and Im satisfied 
this amount is reasonable given the inconvenience and the upset caused to Mr S. 
And so I wont be recommending further compensation.
I am very sorry to hear about the situation Mr S has found himself in but I dont think his 
loss was caused by any specific failing on behalf of Barclays and so I cant fairly ask 
Barclays to refund him. The fault here lies with the fraudsters themselves.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint against Barclays Bank UK PLC.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 14 October 2021.
 
Emly Hanley
Ombudsman