DRN-3392671
The complaint
Mr K is unhappy that PayPal (Europe) Sarl et Cie SCA wont refund him after he lost money
to an investment scam.
Background
I issued my provisional decision on this complaint on 8 March 2022. The background and
circumstances of the case and the reasons why I was minded to not uphold it were set out in
that decision. I have reproduced the provisional decision in italics below:
Mr K has explained that in 2016, he was paying for a Foreign Exchange (Forex) newsletter
subscription and believes that through this, he was approached by an individual claiming to
work for a Forex signal provider. The individual claimed there was an opportunity to invest in
a percentage allocation management module (PAMM) but that a deposit of at least $500
would be required, with a minimum investment of $5,000. He was told that those investing in
the PAMM would share 30% of profits made.
Mr K researched the Forex company online  he said the website looked professional and
found nothing further untoward. He was also advised the investment was guaranteed as
payments would be made through PayPal. Mr K was told this meant he could recall the
funds at any time. He says he also called PayPal who advised the same. Satisfied with what
hed been told, Mr K sent an initial payment of £500 through PayPal in April 2016, followed
by a further £9,500 around a week later.
Over the next month, Mr K received emails providing reasons why the PAMM account setup
was delayed, but with reassurances issues were being worked through. He was also
provided with a trading platform to track the PAMM account. However, when Mr K later
chased an update from the individual, his email address was no longer active and the
website had been closed.
Mr K says he contacted PayPal but was told that as he initiated the payment, there was
nothing further that could be done. PayPal has confirmed that Mr K initiated a claim in
November 2016, stating he had been assured a refund could be offered should he be
unhappy with his investment.
As the claim had been made outside of PayPals 180 day timeframe, it closed the request
without investigation. However, it says Mr Ks claim wouldve been unsuccessful regardless
of timeframes as its PayPal buyer protection does not cover financial products or
investments of any kind.
Mr K has explained he didnt take the matter further until he saw decisions on the Financial
Ombudsman Services website covering similar scenarios, at which point he brought the
complaint to our service.
The complaint was considered by an investigator who upheld it. She didnt consider the
timeframes set out by PayPal to raise a claim were fair. She also thought the payments Mr K
made to the PAMM were out of character and shouldve been stopped by PayPals fraud
detection systems.
PayPal disagreed with the investigators view. It didnt consider some of the regulations
relied on (such as PRIN and SYSC 3) were applicable to PayPal at the time the scam took
place. It also said it had a c lear legal obligation to execute payment orders where the 
conditions in the framework contract (being the PayPal User Agreement) were met 
unless prohibited by law.
As PayPal didnt agree with the investigators opinion, the complaint has been referred to me
for a decision.
What Ive provisionally decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so I dont intend to uphold this complaint. Ill explain why.
Where a consumer complains theyve been the victim of a scam, the first thing to consider is
whether there is sufficient evidence that this was in fact a scam  as not every complaint
referred to us as an investment scam is. Some cases simply involve high-risk investments
that resulted in very disappointing returns or losses. Some investment companies may have
promoted products which were not regulated by the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA)
using sales methods that were arguably unethical and/or misleading. However, whilst
customers who lost out may understandably regard such acts or omissions as fraudulent,
they do not necessarily meet the high legal threshold or burden of proof for fraud, i.e.
dishonestly making a false representation and/or failing to disclose information with the
intention of making a gain for himself or of causing loss to another or exposing another to the
risk of loss (Fraud Act 2006).
In this case I think its more likely than not that Mr K was a victim of a scam  however I do
acknowledge the evidence is finely balanced. Mr K says the scammer gained contact with
him through a newsletter Mr K paid for, which appears to be an unusual way for a scammer
to obtain contact with individuals. There is also very limited information online about this
company or scam  whereas usually years later youd expect to see a number of threads
relating to other victims of the scam, or possibly a FCA warning. However, overall Im
persuaded by the apparently falsified trading platform and lack of contact shortly after
investment, as well as the closure of the related email address and website that its more
likely than not that this was a scam.
Ive therefore considered PayPals obligations when Mr K made the payments to the
scammer and whether it shouldve done more to identify that he may be at risk of financial
harm.
Investment scams were less prevalent in 2016 than weve seen in recent times  and there
were less industry regulations than are now in place. In addition, the majority of regulations
that were in place applied only to banks, and not electronic money (e-money) institutes like
PayPal. In addition to this, its generally accepted that most e-money accounts arent used in
the same way as someone might use their bank account. For example, they may only be
used for a proportion of their online purchases, rather than day-to-day living expenses. Its
therefore not always as simple to identify out of character transactions, unless a customer
was to call the e-money institute first to discuss the payment and the conversation was to
raise red flags.
While I appreciate the second payment Mr K made to the scammer was larger than othertransactions on his account, based on the obligations in place at the time for e-money
institutes, I dont think I can fairly say that PayPal ought to have intervened when Mr K made
these payments, and asked further questions before processing them.
While I dont think PayPal was obligated to intervene in these payments, even if it had, I
dont think this wouldve made a difference. As Ive explained, even years after the scam
took place, theres still fairly minimal evidence available that this was a scam  and Im
largely persuaded it was a scam based on the events that happened after Mr K made the
payments (Iack of contact, closure of website etc.). Had PayPal asked further questions of
Mr K before processing the payments, I think its unlikely it wouldve been able to identify
that this was a scam, based on the seemingly legitimate method of contact and the lack of
awareness on how these scams operated at the time. Mr K has said that hed looked online
at the time and found nothing untoward about the investment  so even if PayPal had
suggested researching the firm further, I dont think Mr K wouldve uncovered anything that
would have changed his mind about investing.
I appreciate Mr K has said he spoke to PayPal and was reassured that he could recall this
payment at any time. PayPal havent been able to identify any calls that were made by Mr K,
between the period of him being approached by the scammer, and sending the funds
across. Id expect PayPal to have retained a copy of the call if one did take place (and
PayPal have evidenced records that Mr K did make unrelated calls to it in 2015 and later in
2016 on a different matter). Theres therefore insufficient evidence to persuade me that
PayPal did tell Mr K he could recall the payment at any time. Even if a call did take place, I
think its more likely than not that the PayPal agent wouldve been able to provide at least
some caveats on how their payment recall requests, as this is a fairly fundamental part of
their User Agreement.
Once it was made aware of the scam, I would expect PayPal to act quickly to try to recover
the funds for Mr K and return what it successfully recovered. In this case, as PayPal
considered this as an investment, that didnt happen as PayPal relied on the exception of its
User Agreement regarding investments. However, PayPal has confirmed that Mr Ks funds
were removed from the beneficiary account before he contacted PayPal to make a claim.
Therefore, even if PayPal had acted immediately to try to recover Mr Ks funds, I dont think
it would have been successful in doing so.
Overall, in the particular circumstances of this case, I dont think PayPal ought to have
identified that Mr K may be making payments towards a scam, and so it follows that I dont
think PayPal shouldve done more than it did before processing the payments.
Based on the limited rules and regulations in place at the time Mr K made these payments,
Im satisfied that PayPal shouldnt be held liable for Mr Ks losses. And so I dont intend to
make an award to Mr K.
I do sympathise with Mr K as I appreciate Mr K has lost a considerable sum of money here 
but the circumstances of the case and the evidence available lead me to find Im unable to
uphold this complaint.In my provisional decision I asked both parties to send me any further evidence or 
arguments that they wanted me to consider by 22 March 2022. Neither party provided any 
further submissions.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As neither party has provided any additional evidence or arguments, I see no reason to
depart from my provisional findings, and I remain of the view that this complaint should not
be upheld for the reasons set out in my provisional decision.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained above, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr K to accept or 
reject my decision before 20 April 2022.
 
Kirsty Upton
Ombudsman