DRN-2767426
The complaint
Mr D complains about the actions of HiFX Europe Limited when he fell victim to an 
investment scam. 
What happened
The detailed background to this complaint is well known to both parties. So, Ill only provide 
a brief overview of some of the key events here.
 
In May 2019 Mr D was tricked into believing he was making a legitimate long-term 
investment with a firm Ill refer to as W. He was taken through a convincing process which 
(common with many investments) involved him sharing his personal details. He made two 
payments totalling £64,500, believing he was buying investment bonds. The payments were 
made from his own bank, which Ill refer to as H and to the account details hed been 
provided.
One of these payments is relevant to this complaint. It was made in May 2019 for £15,000 to 
an account held with HiFX.
In November 2019 Mr D received a call from an unknown third-party who informed him that 
W had ceased trading. It offered to help him recover the funds (subject to a fee). Mr D 
carried out his own research and learned hed likely fallen victim to an investment scam and 
that the account with HiFX (to which the payment of £15,000 was ultimately paid) had been 
opened in his name.  
Mr D reported the matter to H, HiFX, Action Fraud and the Financial Conduct Authority 
(FCA). There were no funds remaining that could be returned by HiFX. Mr D made a request 
for  and was eventually provided with  the information HiFX held about him. 
Mr D received a refund from H for half his total loss  £32,250. He pursued both the recipient 
firms for his remaining loss as theyd allowed a scammer to open and operate an account in 
his name. 
HiFX issued its final response after Mr D had referred his complaint to our service. In short it 
said it had carried out successful electronic identification verification checks and at that 
stage no further documents were required to approve the account. It apologised for not 
returning calls that Mr D says hed been promised and for the delay in responding to his 
Data Subject Access Request (DSAR). It explained, the reason for the delay was that, given 
the situation, it felt it was necessary to seek guidance from the Information Commissioners 
Office (ICO) before sharing any data.  
Mr D remained unhappy as he says the account should never have been opened and HiFX 
has failed to protect his identity. He feels strongly that its failure in its obligations as a 
regulated firm has caused his loss. One of our Investigators considered the complaint but 
didnt recommend it should be upheld. Mr D remained unhappy and asked for an 
Ombudsman to make a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im sorry to disappoint Mr D, but Im not upholding this complaint. I dont 
doubt the significant impact being a victim in this way has had on him. I appreciate he feels 
strongly that HiFX should refund his remaining loss as the account should never have been 
opened in the first place. But it would only be fair for me to direct HiFX to reimburse Mr D his 
remaining loss if Im satisfied it reasonably failed to prevent this loss or did something wrong 
where it would be fair to ask it to provide a refund.
Here an account was opened in Mr Ds name by the scammers, using the information Mr D 
provided in the course of dealing with them. As Mr D had not opened the account which he 
was tricked into sending his funds to, its understandable that he argues HiFX failed in its 
due diligence. But simply because it is later discovered that an account was opened in 
Mr Ds name without his knowledge doesnt automatically mean the firm failed in its due 
diligence at account opening. 
Mr D challenges the robustness of the checks completed by HiFX at account opening and is 
of the opinion that it has acted negligently in opening an account in his name. He says it isnt 
his fault that HiFX only opens accounts electronically. He gives examples of a reputable law 
firm who had verified his identity through video conferencing and says another bank with 
whom he was intending to open an account asked him for an unbelievable amount of 
paperwork. Mr D questions why HiFX couldnt do the same. He also questions why the 
account was allowed to be opened in the first place as hed not received  and therefore had 
not responded to a letter requesting additional documentation which HiFX have said was 
sent to his home address in June 2019. He argues the account should not have been 
opened and had HiFX acted responsibly and diligently the funds wouldve either remained 
with it and been available for recovery or wouldve been returned to H. 
Ive thought about what Mr D has said, but at the time there was no mandatory requirement 
for HiFX to take the steps Mr D believes it ought to have as part of its identification 
verification checks. And as our Investigator has explained the letter sent in June 2019 did 
not form part of the account opening checks. The electronic verification checks were 
successful, the account was opened, Mr Ds payment was received and paid away all in 
May 2019. The request for further documentation arose because HiFXs obligations to 
conduct ongoing due diligence and monitoring of all its customer relationships. I know Mr D 
wants to know the reason why HiFX wrote to him in June 2019, but it isnt obliged to share 
this with him. And it wouldnt be appropriate for me to require it to do so either as much as 
hed like to know. But I want to reassure Mr D that Ive looked at all the information provided 
by him and HiFX, and there is nothing that would lead me to conclude Mr D has been treated 
unfairly. 
Ultimately, Im satisfied that HiFX correctly followed its account opening procedures; carried 
out electronic checks to verify Mr Ds identity; and opened the account in line with its legal 
and regulatory obligations. I appreciate Mr D says some of the information that HiFX held 
about him was incorrect, but this information did not form part of the account opening 
identification or due diligence checks. So, taking all the above into consideration I cant see 
that HiFX reasonably could have known at the time that it wasnt dealing with Mr D or that 
there was anything untoward in the opening of the account that resulted in his loss. Ive thought about whether HiFX ought to have done more on receipt of Mr Ds payment or 
when these funds were paid away. But Im not persuaded that in these specific 
circumstances it needed to. I say this because HiFX is a foreign exchange broker and 
payments provider. So an account held for that purpose will likely look very different to a 
regular bank account used for daily expenditure. It isnt uncommon for HiFXs services to be 
used for one off payments and for those payments to be for significant sums. This is 
something HiFX encounters with some regularity as part of its ordinary business. It wouldnt 
be a cause for concern in and of itself. So, in this context, and taking into account the funds 
received to fulfil the payment order were sent from an account held in Mr Ds name. I dont 
think I can fairly say that there was anything about this transaction that ought to have 
prompted HiFX to have intervened and/or refused the payment instruction it had been given 
by its account holder. 
But even if I were wrong and HiFX ought to have intervened, Im not persuaded this would 
have made a difference in any case. HiFX would have used the contact details provided by 
the scammer who was pretending to be Mr D. And the scammer would no doubt have 
provided a plausible and legitimate reason for the payment, which would have ultimately 
resulted in it being made. So overall, I dont think HiFX reasonably could have done anything 
to prevent Mr Ds loss.
Ive also considered HiFXs actions once it received notification of fraud from Mr D and H. 
Unfortunately, none of Mr Ds funds were available for recovery at that time. They had all 
been transferred from the account in May 2019. As such, I dont think I can fairly say that 
HiFX could have reasonably done more to recover Mr Ds money. 
HiFX also shared with Mr D (upon request) the information it held about him. I accept there 
was a delay in it providing this information but HiFX have apologised and provided an 
explanation for this. In the circumstances of this complaint I think thats fair and I dont 
require them to do more. 
Whilst I know my decision will be disappointing and isnt the answer Mr D was hoping for, I 
hope it brings some closure to this matter for him. He is not obliged to accept what Ive said, 
in which case Mr D remains free to pursue this matter by alternative means, such as the 
courts (subject to any relevant time limits) should he wish to do so.
My final decision
For the reasons outlined above, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision before 22 April 2022.
 
Sonal Matharu
Ombudsman