DRN-1990745
The complaint
Miss C says Gain Credit LLC (trading as Lending Stream) lent to her irresponsibly.
What happened
This complaint is about 8 payday loans Lending Stream provided to Miss C between 
June 2012 and April 2019. Details of the 8 instalment loans are given below:
Loan Date taken Date repaid Amount Instalments 
1 10/06/2012 22/06/2012 £100 5
2 21/12/2018 16/01/2019 £200 6
3 19/01/2019 28/03/2019 £500 6
4 23/01/2019 25/01/2019 £200 6
5 12/02/2019 05/04/2019 £300 6
6 05/04/2019 12/03/2020 £400 6
7 08/04/2019 outstanding £200 6
8 10/04/2019 25/04/2019 £200 6
Our adjudicator partially upheld Miss Cs complaint. She thought that Lending Stream 
shouldnt have approved loans 6 to 8. Lending Stream agreed with the recommendations 
made by the adjudicator and made an offer to Miss C. This offer was turned down by Miss C 
and she has asked for her complaint to be looked at again. So, the complaint has been 
passed to me, an ombudsman, to make a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
. Weve set out our general approach to complaints about short-term lending - including all of 
the relevant rules, guidance and good industry practice - on our website. 
Lending Stream needed to take reasonable steps to ensure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. 
In practice this means that it should have carried out proportionate checks to make sure 
Miss C could repay the loans in a sustainable manner. 
These checks could take into account a number of different things, such as how much was 
being lent, the repayment amounts and the consumers income and expenditure. With this in 
mind, in the early stages of a lending relationship, I think less thorough checks might be 
reasonable and proportionate.  
But certain factors might point to the fact that Lending Stream should fairly and reasonably 
have done more to establish that any lending was sustainable for the consumer. These 
factors include:
the lower a customers income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make 
any loan repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income);
the higher the amount due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income); 
the greater the number and frequency of loans, and the longer the period of time 
during which a customer has been given loans (reflecting the risk that repeated 
refinancing may signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, 
unsustainable).
There may even come a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly 
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable.
And the loan payments being affordable on a strict pounds and pence calculation might be 
an indication a consumer could sustainably make their repayments. But it doesnt 
automatically follow this is the case. The industry regulator defines sustainable as being 
without undue difficulties and in particular the customer should be able to make repayments 
on time, while meeting other reasonable commitments; as well as without having to borrow 
to meet the repayments. And it follows that a lender should realise, or it ought fairly and 
reasonably to realise, that a borrower wont be able to make their repayments sustainably if 
theyre unlikely to be able to make their repayments without borrowing further.
Ive carefully considered all of the arguments, evidence and information provided in this 
context and what this all means for Miss Cs complaint. Ive decided to uphold Miss Cs 
complaint in part and have explained why below.
Lending Stream asked Miss C for information about her income and expenditure and it 
carried out credit checks. It says it used this information to work out Miss Cs disposable 
income and assessed whether the loans were affordable for her.
Miss C took out loan 1 in June 2012. As this was her first loan with Lending Stream and the 
loan was of a low amount, I cant see that it would have needed to do any further checks 
when it agreed to lend to her. So, I dont think it was wrong to agree to loan 1.
Miss C took out loan 1 several years before she asked for her second loan in December 
2018. So as there was a significant period of time between these two loans, I have treated 
loan 2 as a new lending relationship between the parties. 
For loans 2-5, given the amounts lent, what was apparent about Miss Cs circumstances at 
the time and her relatively short borrowing history with Lending Stream, I dont think it 
wouldve been proportionate to ask her for the amount of information needed to show the 
lending was unsustainable. There wasnt anything in the information Miss C provided or the 
information Lending Stream shouldve been aware of (including the credit search results), 
which meant it wouldve been proportionate to start verifying what Miss C was saying.
But by loan 6, I think Lending Stream should have done more. Ive looked at the overall 
pattern of Lending Streams history in this loan chain with Miss C, with a view to seeing if 
there was a point at which Lending Stream should reasonably have seen that further lending 
was unsustainable, or otherwise harmful. And so Lending Stream should have realised that it 
shouldnt have provided any further loans. 
Given the particular circumstances of Miss Cs case, I think that this point was reached by 
loan 6. I say this because:
By loan 6, the amounts Miss C was borrowing had not decreased. The amount she 
had asked to borrow was double the amount she had originally asked for when she 
started lending from Lending Stream.A pattern had emerged where Miss C was borrowing shortly after she had repaid a 
previous loan. Miss C had repaid 4 loans by the time she had asked for loan 6. She 
had repaid loan 2 and then asked for loan 3 only 3 days later. She then asked for 
loan 5 shortly after repaying loan 4. She then repaid loan 3 and a few days later also 
repaid loan 4. So, by the time she had requested loan 6, Lending Stream would have 
seen a pattern emerge that she was asking to borrow shortly after she was repaying 
her previous loans.   
Lending Stream ought to have realised it was more likely than not Miss C was having 
to borrow further to cover the hole repaying her previous loans were leaving in her 
finances and that at this stage Miss Cs indebtedness had become unsustainable.
I think that Miss C lost out because Lending Stream continued to provide borrowing from 
loan 6 onwards because:
These loans had the effect of unfairly prolonging Miss Cs indebtedness by allowing 
him to take expensive credit over an extended period of time.
The sheer number of loans was likely to have had negative implications on Miss Cs 
ability to access mainstream credit and so kept her in the market for these high-cost 
loans.
So, Im upholding the complaint and Lending Stream should now put things right.
Putting things right
Lending Stream has already made an offer to Miss C, but she turned it down. I make no 
comment on that offer. To be clear to put things right, Lending Stream should now do the 
following:
refund all interest and charges Miss C paid on loans 6 to 8;
pay interest of 8% simple a year on any refunded interest and charges from the date 
they were paid (if they were) to the date of settlement*;
the number of loans taken from 6 onwards means any information recorded about 
them is adverse. So, all entries about loans 6 to 8 should be removed from Miss Cs 
credit file.
Miss C still owes Lending Stream some of the principal balance she borrowed on loan 7. 
Lending Stream may deduct this from the compensation that is due to her. But that 
outstanding balance should be recalculated to remove any interest and charges, taking 
account of any repayments Miss C has made on that loan as though they were applied 
against the principal sum borrowed.
*HM Revenue & Customs requires Lending Stream to take off tax from this interest. Lending 
Stream must give Miss C a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if she asks for 
one.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, I partly uphold Miss Cs complaint. Gain Credit LLC should 
put things right by doing what Ive said above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss C to accept 
or reject my decision before 14 October 2020.
 
Mark RichardsonOmbudsman