DRN-4128645
The complaint
Mr G complains that Lloyds Bank PLC unfairly declined to make changes to his mortgage 
account. Mr G says Lloyds told him once hed brought the account up to date it would look at 
removing his ex-partner from the account and extending the term. Mr G asks that Lloyds 
does this and pays compensation.
What happened
Mr G took out a joint mortgage with his wife. Theyve since divorced. Almost all of the 
mortgage was on an interest only payments basis and the term recently expired with an 
unpaid balance. 
In 2022 Mr G asked Lloyds to agree to the property and mortgage being transferred into his 
sole name and to extend the term. He says Lloyds told him he had to clear his arrears first. 
Mr G cleared the arrears and contacted Lloyds. He says he was referred back and forth 
between different teams within Lloyds, who he had difficulty contacting. Mr G says he was 
then told there was little point in making an application as this would be declined due to past 
arrears on the account.
Lloyds said it hadnt managed Mr Gs request properly and paid £100 compensation. Lloyds 
said when the arrears were cleared in late 2022 it should have allowed an application to 
progress so that a decision could be reached. It said it would arrange an appointment for 
Mr G to start an application and ensure this is passed to the underwriters. 
Mr G said £100 isnt enough compensation. Mr Gs account is again in arrears. He says he 
allowed arrears to accrue from late 2022 to get Lloyds attention, and because he considers 
it reneged on its agreement to extend the term. He says Lloyds wouldnt deal with him while 
his complaint is with the ombudsman service.
Our investigator said Mr Gs mortgage was in arrears and he hadnt provided evidence to 
Lloyds that the mortgage was affordable. She said in the circumstances it wasnt fair to 
require Lloyds to vary the mortgage. Our investigator said Mr G had difficulty getting through 
to the end of term team and had been passed between departments. She said, for the upset 
this caused, Lloyds should pay another £150.
Mr G didnt agree and asked that an ombudsman re-consider the complaint.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr G explained circumstances related to his divorce led to the mortgage account being in 
arrears. He says if the term is extended hed be able to maintain payments and pay off the 
balance within a few years. 
Rules on mortgage regulation require lenders to carry out strict affordability checks before 
agreeing to lend or vary a mortgage. Mr G wants to vary the terms of his mortgage: he wants 
to transfer it into his sole name and extend the term. So Lloyds is required by rules on 
mortgage regulation to check this is affordable. It needs information and evidence of a 
customers income and expenditure to carry out an affordability assessment. And for an 
interest only mortgage it needs evidence of a credible repayment vehicle.
There are limited exceptions when a lender can agree to vary a mortgage regardless of 
issues about affordability if this is in a customers best interests. This doesnt mean a lender 
cant or shouldnt carry out an affordability assessment. Its unlikely to be in a customers 
best interests to vary a mortgage if its unaffordable after the changes. 
Id note here that Lloyds is entitled, like all lenders, to make commercial decisions about its 
lending criteria and processes. 
At the moment, Mr Gs mortgage is still in joint names. Mr G says he has a court order to 
transfer the account into his sole name. If so, Lloyds might not need the consent of the other 
account holder to do this. However, it might need the consent of the other account holder to 
extend the term. If so, and consent isnt given, Mr Gs request for the mortgage to be 
transferred into his sole name would need to be dealt with first.
I should also say here that where the evidence is incomplete, inconclusive or contradictory, I 
reach my decision on the balance of probabilities  in other words, what I consider is most 
likely to have happened in light of the available evidence and the wider circumstances. 
Mr Gs request to transfer the mortgage into his sole name
Lloyds has criteria for applications to transfer a joint mortgage account into a sole name. 
These criteria include that the account isnt in arrears and the sole applicant has sustained 
monthly payments. Mr G didnt meet these criteria. The account was in arrears from mid-
2019. Although the arrears were cleared in August 2022, the payment due in September 
2022 was missed. The arrears were cleared in October 2022, but the account has been in 
arrears since then. 
Mr G told Lloyds he isnt in financial difficulty and is able to maintain payments. I think its 
reasonable for Lloyds to expect Mr G to maintain monthly payments, as he agreed to do 
when he took out the mortgage. 
I think it was fair for Lloyds to apply its criteria here  that Mr G clears his arrears and 
demonstrates his ability to sustain monthly payments  before agreeing to transfer the 
mortgage into his sole name. I also think its fair for Lloyds to assess whether the mortgage 
would be affordable before agreeing to transfer it into Mr Gs sole name.
Lloyds told Mr G during a call in May 2022 that it cant transfer the account into his sole 
name without him going through an application process. Mr G didnt agree that should be 
required. However, Lloyds made him aware that hed need to go through an application 
process. I dont think Lloyds misled Mr G that all he needed to do was clear his arrears.
Part of the application process is likely to involve an affordability assessment  this is 
something Lloyds is usually required to do before agreeing to vary a mortgage contract. 
Mr G says his finances are complicated. It seems he doesnt have, or cant provide evidence 
of, a regular income that would allow him to maintain mortgage payments. Although Mr G 
has given other explanations for his arrears, persistent arrears could suggest affordability is 
a problem. I think its fair for Lloyds to ask for information and evidence to support an 
affordability assessment. Taking all this into account, I dont think its fair and reasonable to require Lloyds to transfer 
the account into Mr Gs sole name, or to require it to waive its usual process or criteria for 
requests of this kind. 
Mr Gs request to extend the term of the mortgage
Mr G says he cleared his arrears in August 2022 on the basis Lloyds would agree to extend 
the term and fix his interest rate for five years. He says it was unfair for Lloyds to renege on 
this.
Mr G says he wants to extend the term as, due to the cost of his divorce, he needs to work 
for another three years. Mr G told Lloyds he wants to keep the property. He says he has 
significant assets that could be sold to clear the mortgage balance, although he also told 
Lloyds in April 2022 he intends to repay the mortgage by selling the property. More recently 
he said a relative might move into part of the property. 
As I said, Lloyds has to carry out an affordability assessment before agreeing to vary a 
mortgage contract. If the mortgage is extended on interest only terms this would include 
evidence of a credible repayment vehicle. I think its fair for Lloyds to ask for information and 
evidence to support an affordability assessment before agreeing to extend the term. 
Mr G said if the mortgage is extended, monthly payments would be reduced making them 
more affordable. As the mortgage is almost all on interest only payment terms, extending the 
term wouldnt reduce the monthly payments. While monthly payments could be reduced if 
Mr G took out a new fixed interest rate product, I wouldnt expect Lloyds to offer this for a 
mortgage that has or is about to expire. This could put Mr G into the position of having to pay 
an early repayment charge if the term isnt extended.
Based on the mortgage balance and what Mr G says about the current value of the property 
theres significant equity in the property. Mr G hasnt said theres a particular reason why he 
needs to remain living in the property or cant move home, other than this is his preference. 
Mr G says hed like to keep the property and possibly develop it before he sells it. Mr G says 
hes looked into equity release products but considers them expensive.
Based on what Mr G has said, he does have options to repay the mortgage  through re-
mortgaging, the sale of other assets or selling the security property. Mr G could consider 
taking independent financial advice to explore his options. 
When Mr G took out the mortgage he agreed to repay the balance at the end of the term. 
Hes now asking Lloyds to extend the term, and Id expect Lloyds to consider Mr Gs request 
fairly. Id expect Lloyds to take all of the circumstances into account  the affordability of 
monthly payments, Mr Gs proposed repayment vehicle, potential options to repay the debt 
and his reasons for wanting to keep the property  when considering Mr Gs request. 
Did Lloyds mis-lead Mr G into repaying his arrears? 
Mr G says he cleared his arrears because he believed Lloyds would agree to extend the 
mortgage term. He also repaid the second charge on the property, remedied a structural 
defect in the property, and repaid a mortgage (with Lloyds) on another property. He says 
Lloyds reneged on the agreement. 
Theres a difference between Lloyds telling Mr G he needed to clear his arrears before it 
would consider changes to the mortgage, and it telling Mr G this was all that was required. 
As I said, Lloyds has to carry out an affordability assessment before agreeing to vary a 
mortgage contract. Even if an exception applied it would have to collect information and evidence to consider what was in Mr Gs best interests. Lloyds told Mr G in May 2022  
before he cleared his arrears  that it cant transfer the account into his sole name without 
him going through an application process. So I think he was aware of this.
It's Mr Gs responsibility to maintain monthly mortgage payments and to repay the balance at 
the end of the term. This is the case regardless of whether Lloyds agrees to his proposals. 
At some point the arrears had to be repaid. By mid-2022, arrears on the account were about 
£50,000, meaning Mr G was paying interest on a higher balance. During a call in May 2022 
Lloyds said in order to avoid possession action Mr G needed to make a payment to reduce 
his arrears. And the arrears had to be cleared before Lloyds would consider Mr Gs requests 
to vary the mortgage contract. I dont think I could fairly find that repaying his arrears caused 
Mr G detriment, even if hed hoped that doing so would result in changes to his mortgage 
contract.
Putting things right
Lloyds said when the arrears were cleared in late 2022 it should have allowed an application 
to progress so that a decision could be reached. I can understand why Lloyds told Mr G in 
late 2022 that an application was unlikely to succeed  hed only just cleared his arrears of 
some years standing and hadnt demonstrated he could maintain payments over a sustained 
period. But given the expiry of the mortgage term Mr G needs a decision from Lloyds about 
whether it will agree to extend the term. 
Lloyds paid £100 and said it would arrange an appointment for Mr G to start an application 
and ensure this is passed to the underwriters. 
I think it was fair for Lloyds to offer an appointment on this basis. However, Mr G didnt 
accept Lloyds resolution and asked this service to look into the complaint. As this final 
decision is the end of our process, Lloyds can now arrange an appointment for Mr G, so that 
it can collect the information and evidence it needs to consider his requests.
Mr G has two requests here, that Lloyds agrees to transfer the mortgage account into his 
sole name and extends the term. If these have to be considered by different teams and in a 
particular order Lloyds should explain this and arrange the first appointment accordingly. 
Mr G has found this a frustrating process, especially as hes had to speak to different teams 
within Lloyds and had difficulty getting through. Lloyds didnt progress an application to 
consider Mr Gs request. I think its fair that Lloyds offered compensation. Given what Mr G 
has said about the difficulty he had contacting one team within Lloyds only to be told to 
contact another team, I think further compensation of £150 is fair and reasonable. 
My final decision
My decision is that I uphold this complaint. I order Lloyds Bank Plc to arrange an 
appointment for Mr G, as it offered to do, and pay an additional £150 compensation to him. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision before 11 September 2023.
 
Ruth Stevenson
Ombudsman