DRN-3735327
The complaint
Mr M complains that Tesco Personal Finance PLC (Tesco) declined his application for a 
loan.
What happened
Mr M applied to Tesco for a personal loan in May 2022. But Tesco declined the loan 
application and Mr M had received no details as to why. He said he has an excellent credit 
rating from both of the credit reference agencies Tesco uses and he earns enough to pay 
the loan back. Mr M wants to know why he was refused as Tesco wouldnt tell him.
In its final response letter, Tesco said it was aware that Mr M was looking to find out an 
exact reason for the decline but unfortunately, it wasnt able to divulge its internal lending 
criteria as this was business sensitive information and would leave its systems open to 
manipulation. Tesco also noted that when Mr M spoke to it, he felt he would rather seek 
borrowing elsewhere rather than appeal his application.
The investigator didnt recommend that the complaint should be upheld. He said that Tesco 
had explained the application didnt meet its criteria and that its lending criteria were 
commercially sensitive. So, he wouldnt expect the lender to provide a detailed explanation. 
But he could see the criteria had been fairly applied. 
Mr M responded to say that he still wished to know why he was refused credit.
The investigator responded to say that there were limitations as to what information he could 
divulge as businesses such as Tesco provide some information in confidence to this Service 
so that we can say whether it has fairly assessed the application. In this particular instance, 
the investigator didnt believe he could fairly provide any further insight into why the 
application was specifically declined as this would require divulging information about 
Tesco's criteria which was commercially sensitive. But the investigator said he would contact 
Tesco to see if there was any further specific information that could be provided to Mr M. 
Tesco then declined to supply any further details as to what aspect(s) of their lending criteria 
Mr M didn't meet when it considered his loan application. 
As this complaint hasnt been resolved informally, it has been passed to me, as an 
ombudsman, to review and resolve. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I can see that Mr M is frustrated by not receiving greater details for the decline of his loan 
application from Tesco. I acknowledge his strength of feeling about what happened. 
However, Im not upholding his complaint and I will explain why below. 
It is for Tesco to set its lending criteria and if it decides not to lend, the Standards of Lending 
Practice explain that it will provide the main reason for this. I think Tesco has done that here. 
It explained that the reason Mr Ms application was declined was because he didn't meet its 
internal lending criteria. Tesco also said that although Mr M stated that he had an excellent 
credit rating, it took into consideration a variety of information when it assessed loan 
applications which included information Mr M provided to it, information provided to it by the 
credit reference agencies and information provided by fraud prevention databases.
I understand that Tesco provided Mr M with the opportunity to appeal its decline of the 
application. Its possible that a review of his application might have clarified Tescos 
reasoning. But Mr M didnt pursue this. 
I wouldnt expect Tesco to share details of its internal lending criteria as thats commercially 
sensitive information. I cannot make a lender change its systems or processes such as how 
it reaches its decision to lend and to who.
Whilst Mr M said that he has an excellent credit rating, I dont think that means Tesco 
necessarily had to accept the application. That was a decision for Tesco to make. 
I can only look at whether Tesco has made any errors in the application process, and 
whether it has treated Mr M fairly. Like the investigator, I think Tesco has fairly applied its 
lending criteria. So, Im afraid I dont think Tesco has been unreasonable here and Im not 
asking it to take any further action.
My final decision
Im not upholding Mr Ms complaint about Tesco Personal Finance PLC and so I wont be 
asking it to do anything further.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 18 January 2023. 
Roslyn Rawson
Ombudsman