DRN-3877871
The complaint
Mr G and Mrs G complain about the way more 2 life Ltd dealt with their application for an 
equity release mortgage and declined their application shortly before completion was due to 
take place.
What happened
In October 2021 Mr G and Mrs G applied for an equity release mortgage with more 2 life Ltd 
(M2l) which would provide them with a lump sum of £43,000 and a cash facility of £86,000. 
They planned to pay off an existing equity release mortgage with another lender to take 
advantage of a lower interest rate.
On around 2 November 2021 M2l issued an initial offer. It was conditional upon Mr G and 
Mrs G providing proof of Mr Gs residency in the United Kingdom (UK) and evidence of 
buildings insurance for the property over which M2ls charge would be secured. In February 
2022 Mr G and Mrs G applied to borrow a bit more to cover the cost of works required to 
their property. A revised offer was issued in late February 2022 to include the additional 
sum. It was subject to the buildings insurance evidence being provided. Completion was 
due to take place in early March.
On the day of completion M2l cancelled the application. They were concerned about the 
amount of time Mr G spent away from the property. And they said if the mortgage had 
completed, Mr G and Mrs G would immediately have been in breach of its terms and 
conditions.
Mr G and Mrs G were very upset their application had failed at the last minute and 
complained. They said M2l had known all along Mr G was abroad and the reasons why. And 
they were unhappy too with the way in which M2L had dealt with the application and the time 
it had taken.
M2L rejected their complaint. They said Mr G and Mrs G had signed a declaration as part of 
their application that they were both permanently resident in the UK when Mr G wasnt. The 
declaration allowed M2l to decline the application without giving a reason; it said any non-
disclosure or misrepresentation may result in legal action and/or repayment of the lifetime 
mortgage; M2l could request additional information they thought theyd reasonably need to 
decide whether to lend; and Mr G and Mrs G were required to provide any information that 
could affect the decision to lend if it wasnt already set out in the application.
M2l said they werent aware until March 2022 that Mr Gs return to the UK was uncertain. 
They both needed to be permanently resident in the UK for the application to go ahead. And 
if the mortgage had completed, they would have immediately been in breach of its terms and 
conditions. M2L offered to consider another application once Mr G had returned to the UK. 
Mr G and Mrs G were unhappy with M2Ls response and brought it to the Financial 
Ombudsman Service. Our investigator didnt uphold the complaint. Broadly, he thought M2l 
had dealt with the application fairly. And he didnt think M2l were at fault in declining the 
application close to completion when information about Mr Gs stay overseas came to light. 
Since Mr G and Mrs G didnt agree, their complaint was passed to me to review afresh. I 
recently issued a provisional decision an extract of which follows:
What Ive provisionally decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mrs G has brought this complaint on her and Mr Gs behalf. I acknowledge her strength of 
feeling about what happened and I can understand it was upsetting for them both when the 
mortgage application fell through. The timeline is well known to the parties, so I wont set it 
all out here. Ill focus on what I think is key in coming to my decision. Since Ive come to a 
different outcome than our investigator, Im issuing a provisional decision to give the parties 
the chance to make further comments before I come to my final decision.
For context, Ill set out first the relevant parts of the documents involved in Mr G and Mrs Gs 
application, including those M2l relied on in rejecting their complaint:
The application
Mr G and Mrs G began their application in October 2021. The application form contained a 
declaration to which they agreed and confirmed ..We are permanently resident in the United 
Kingdom.
The declaration set out clearly:
Payment of any fee does not guarantee approval for an equity release plan.
more 2 life may decline the application and need not give a reason for doing so.
more 2 life may request additional information it thinks is reasonably needed to 
decide whether to lend to you. If there is any further information that could affect 
more 2 lifes decision to approve the loan that has not already been made known 
within the course of completing the application, please provide further details.
The mortgage offer
The mortgage offer dated 2 November 2021 set out:
This lifetime mortgage can only be arranged for either one or two people between 
the ages of 55-95, based on the age of the youngest applicant, who own and live 
permanently in the property which is subject to the lifetime mortgage.
The mortgage offer was subject to special conditions that included:
Providing proof of Mr Gs right to reside in the UK; and
Confirmation the property was insured in line with M2ls requirements
The mortgage terms and conditions
The terms and conditions of the mortgage Mr G and Mrs G were hoping to take out said 
under paragraph 9 entitled Events of default that the loan agreement would immediately 
terminate and the sums due under it would be payable in the event of, amongst other things,9.1.4 You ceasing to occupy the Property as Your main residence for a period of: (i)
three months: or (ii) more than three months; without in either case Our prior written 
consent
M2ls lending criteria
M2ls lending criteria included that applicants must be UK Nationals or individuals with 
settled status (permanent right to reside or indefinite leave to remain). And they had to be 
resident in the UK and provide an address history covering the last 36 months.
Ill now turn to Mr G and Mrs Gs concerns using headings to make things easier:
1. What did M2l know about Mr Gs situation and when?
M2l say it was reasonable for them to rely on Mr G and Mrs Gs declaration that they were 
permanently resident in the United Kingdom. Theyve pointed to the requirement on Mr G 
and Mrs G to let them know of any information that might affect their decision to approve the 
loan. M2l say they only became fully aware in March 2022 that Mr G had been overseas for 
an extended period and his return date was uncertain. Its unclear what prompted them to 
review his whereabouts then. I currently think M2l had enough information about Mr Gs 
situation to decide not to lend sooner than that.
Mrs Gs explained Mr G went abroad in around August 2019 to visit family and carry out 
work to his property there. He was stuck there due to the travel restrictions imposed because 
of the coronavirus pandemic. He felt unable to return once the restrictions were lifted due to 
his age and vulnerabilities. Mr G was still abroad when they made the application in October 
2021. But he planned to return later in 2022. And hes since come back.
Mrs G says M2l knew Mr Gs situation from the time the initial application was made. And if 
that had meant their application wouldnt succeed, M2l should have let them know at the 
outset.
Mr G and Mrs Gs broker has told us, amongst other things,
They discussed the October 2021 application with all parties and explained Mr G was 
overseas and would be unable to travel back because of the pandemic restrictions in 
the country he was in 
In November 2021 Mr G and Mrs Gs solicitors discussed with M2ls solicitors using a 
non-face to face process for dealing with the application for Mr G
In December 2021 they confirmed to M2l the property was Mr Gs only main 
residence in the UK and Mr G had spent less than 90 days in the UK because of the 
travel restrictions
M2l clearly had concerns about Mr Gs residency from the outset. After theyd received the 
application form, they raised queries and asked for confirmation Mr G had permanent right to 
reside in the UK. Mrs G confirmed Mr Gs British citizenship and that he lived in the property 
when at home  which suggested he was not there some of the time. It was a special 
condition of the offer that was then issued in November 2021 that proof of residency be 
provided. Based on what I know so far, I think M2l were aware of Mr Gs situation when the 
application was made.
I appreciate M2l were focussed on establishing Mr Gs residency and right to reside in the 
UK. But, in the end, they declined the application on grounds Mr Gs main residence was not the property they were mortgaging at the time of completion and that, if the mortgage had 
completed, Mr G and Mrs G would immediately have been in breach of clause 9.1.4 of the 
terms and conditions of the mortgage. Given it was unclear when Mr G might return, I think 
that ought to have been a concern for M2l when the broker confirmed Mr Gs situation in 
October 2021. If theyd considered it then, I dont think the application would have gone 
ahead.
M2l have said that once theyd issued the offer, the application process was in the hands of 
the parties respective solicitors. But the documents Ive seen suggest they continued to 
have a close involvement in establishing Mr Gs residency after that. Even if theres 
information Im yet to see which changes my mind about what M2l knew initially, they knew, 
or ought to have known, at other points in the application process that Mr G was abroad. For 
example:
In responding to the complaint M2l mentioned that on 1 December 2021 theyd asked 
how long Mr G spends away from home. And although Mrs G disputes it, they 
suggested Mrs G had indicated earlier in the process he lived somewhere else when 
he was in the UK.
M2l were in regular communication with their solicitors about Mr Gs residency from 
around 15 December 2021. They rejected a copy of Mr Gs passport as it wasnt 
sufficiently clear. Shortly afterwards, their solicitors sent a copy of the passport which 
had been certified. M2l asked for clarification about who had certified it. The solicitors 
confirmed on around 10 January Mr Gs passport had been certified by an overseas 
lawyer.
As Ive noted, the broker says they confirmed to M2l in December 2021 that the 
property was Mr Gs only main residence in the UK and hed spent less than 90 days 
in the UK because of the travel restrictions.
Emails exchanged between M2l and a third party on around 13 January 2022 noted 
Mr G was currently stuck overseas due to pandemic restrictions.
By 26 January, M2l were aware the passport was being posted so it could be verified 
by Mr Gs broker.
M2l had several missed opportunities to ask Mrs G more questions if Mr Gs situation wasnt 
already clear to them. If they had, shes likely to have said Mr Gs return date was unknown. 
M2l could then have managed her expectations about the application succeeding, rather 
than leaving it until the very last moment to withdraw the offer.
2. Was it fair for M2l to decline Mr G and Mrs Gs application?
The application made clear M2l were entitled to reject the application without giving a 
reason. But they provided explanations, so its reasonable to consider them.
M2l said on 14 March 2022 that they couldnt complete on the mortgage when the 
applicants main residence was not the property they currently resided in at the time of 
completion. On 16 March 2022 they said they couldnt complete given Mr Gs circumstances 
which meant theyd immediately be in breach of the terms and conditions of the mortgage 
and referred to clause 9.1.4. They said theyd consider a further application once Mr G had 
returned.
Ive thought about Mrs Gs point that the purpose of paragraph 9.1.4 in the mortgage terms 
and conditions is to require borrowers to let M2l know if they plan to leave their property 
vacant for more than three months, which might cause issues for M2ls security. She said 
since she was there, that wouldnt cause M2l a problem. And if they planned to leave it 
empty for more than three months, they would get consent.M2l havent responded to that directly. Ultimately their decision to lend was a commercial 
decision about the risk they were prepared to take. I cant interfere in the decision-making 
process. But I can consider if they came to their decision fairly. On balance, I think they did.
M2ls lending criteria and the mortgage offer required Mr G and Mrs G to be living in their 
property permanently. Their decision was in line with that. I think it was reasonable for them 
to have concerns about Mr Gs intentions to return given Mr G and Mrs G werent sure about 
when hed be coming back themselves. M2l said theyd consider a further application once 
Mr G had returned. I think that was fair and reasonable in the circumstances.
3. M2ls handling of the application
I dont think M2l treated Mr G and Mrs G fairly in handling the application. For the reasons 
Ive explained, I think M2l should have made their decision to decline the application at the 
outset. Bearing in mind it went ahead, Ive thought about M2ls actions. I think M2l were 
responsible for prolonging the application process in some regards.
They required a certified copy of Mr Gs passport. I think they should have made their 
specific requirements clear after theyd received the unacceptable photocopy in October 
2021. That would have avoided the time wasted and inconvenience to Mr G of obtaining 
certification from the overseas lawyer.
M2l said a few times they were satisfied their requirements as to proof of residency had 
been satisfied. But each time they raised further queries, contradicting that. It was on around 
14 February that M2l finally confirmed to the broker they were satisfied with the passport 
evidence. They acknowledged theyd made a mistake and said the confirmation theyd 
provided earlier had been correct. Their solicitors notes suggest theyd had confirmation in 
the format they required about buildings insurance at the beginning of February too. The 
solicitors provided a further copy on around 23 February.
M2l failed to provide any clear reasons why theyd declined the application until around two 
weeks afterwards. They didnt call Mrs G when they said they would at a time when she was 
clearly upset about what had gone wrong.
4. How were Mr G and Mrs G affected by what happened?
Ive thought about the impact on Mr G and Mrs G of what went wrong. They were put 
through a lengthy application process over a period of around six months which ultimately 
ended in their application being declined at the last minute. Although I think it was 
reasonable, on balance, for M2l to decline to lend, I dont currently think the application 
process should have got off the ground at all.
M2l made mistakes during the process that caused inconvenience for Mr G and Mrs G. The 
last minute refusal to lend was clearly very disappointing for them - the broker reported how 
upset Mrs G was to M2l at the time. And it took around two weeks for M2l to provide an 
explanation as to why the application didnt go through.
Bearing everything in mind, I think its fair and reasonable for M2l to compensate Mr G and 
Mrs G for the distress and inconvenience they suffered. I currently think compensation of 
£650 would be fair.
If the application hadnt gone ahead, Mr G would have avoided the cost of posting Mr Gs 
passport from and back to the country he was staying in. I understand that was around £50. 
Subject to evidence of payment, I think M2l should pay that sum with interest.I understand Mr G and Mrs G planned to pay their advisers fees from the M2l loan. I 
understand the advisers waived their fees. Since this is Mr G and Mrs Gs complaint, I can 
only look at costs theyve paid, not the fees their advisers have missed out on. Since Mr G 
and Mrs G havent paid these fees, I cant ask M2l to pay them.
Im not aware Mr G and Mrs G paid any other costs. If they did, Ill consider them if they are 
able to provide proof of payment.
Mrs G feels M2l should contribute £2,000 towards the property repair costs they incurred of 
around £3,000, which theyd planned to fund with the additional borrowing. I wont ask M2l to 
pay that. I appreciate it may have been inconvenient to have to find money for the work 
elsewhere. But I dont think M2ls decision to lend was unreasonable. So even if Mr G and 
Mrs G could show theyd suffered a loss here, it doesnt flow from M2ls mistakes.
My provisional decision
I intend to uphold this complaint and direct more 2 life Ltd to pay Mr G and Mrs G
1. their expenses of posting Mr Gs passport from and back to the country he was 
staying in, subject to them providing evidence of payment, plus interest at the rate of 
8 per cent a year from the date Mr G and Mrs G paid until they are reimbursed by 
M2l; and
2. £650 compensation for distress and inconvenience.
Developments
Mr G and Mrs G have made several comments on my provisional decision. Ill summarise 
them here:
They remain concerned M2l declined their application based on clause 9.1.4 of the 
mortgage terms and conditions. They say M2l could not use the term to decline the 
application - it could only have applied if the mortgage had completed as there was 
no contract in place between the parties until then; clause 9.1.4 was unlikely to apply 
in any event so would not have been a valid reason for turning down their application; 
M2l used it as an excuse after turning the application down; and they failed to 
respond to Mr G and Mrs G when they raised this issue.
M2l were aware of Mr Gs situation so its not true to say it only became apparent to 
them in March 2022. Its also wrong to suggest Mrs G discussed with them how long 
Mr G spent away from home or that she said he lived elsewhere when in the UK.
Mr G and Mrs G think M2l has a responsibility towards their solicitors and brokers 
and should pay their fees.
They no longer have the receipt for the postage costs which theyve clarified were 
around £10 each way for posting Mr Gs passport from and to overseas. Theyve 
provided an invoice dated 21 November 2021 relating to the overseas solicitors fee 
of £168 for certifying the passport.
M2l raised no substantive comments on my provisional decision and were prepared to pay 
the compensation I proposed.What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I appreciate Mr G and Mrs Gs strength of feeling about what happened in relation to their 
application. They havent raised any substantively new points. But Im grateful to them for 
explaining their concerns further and for the additional information theyve sent. 
I appreciate the terms and conditions of the mortgage would only have applied once the 
mortgage contract had been entered into. I acknowledge Mr G and Mrs G dont think M2ls 
explanation that clause 9.1.4 would have been breached had the mortgage gone ahead 
stands up to scrutiny given the purpose of the clause. But I dont need to decide who is right 
about that. 
As I explained in my provisional decision, M2l said their decision to reject the application was 
not only because of clause 9.1.4 but also because Mr G wasnt permanently resident at the 
property at the time of completion. I still think it was reasonable, on balance, for them to 
have had concerns about Mr Gs intentions to return given Mr G and Mrs G werent sure 
about when hed be coming back. And I still think, on balance, M2l reasonably declined the 
application in line with their lending criteria and the mortgage offer, which required Mr G and 
Mrs G to be living in their property permanently. 
I appreciate Mr G and Mrs G dont want to deal with M2l anymore. But given M2l said theyd 
consider a further application once Mr G had returned, I still think they treated Mr G and   
Mrs G fairly in the circumstances. I think it would have been helpful for M2l to have explained 
their reasons for declining the application more fully. But the compensation Ive proposed 
M2l pay Mr G and Mrs G takes that into consideration.
Ive already explained why I cant direct M2l to make any payment to Mr G and Mrs Gs 
broker or solicitors. Nothing Mr G and Mrs G have now said changes that.
I think its fair for M2l to reimburse the postage costs for sending Mr Gs passport from and to 
the country he was staying in even though Mr G and Mrs G cant provide proof of payment. 
They are nominal and its reasonable to accept they were incurred given the events that 
happened. I think M2l should also reimburse the overseas solicitors fees. Mr G and Mrs G 
incurred them because M2l didnt make clear their requirements for the passport to be 
certified. 
Putting things right
For the reasons Ive explained, more 2 life Ltd should pay Mr G and Mrs G their expenses of 
£188, plus interest, and compensation of £650 for distress and inconvenience.
My final decision
I direct more 2 life Ltd to pay Mr G and Mrs G
1. their expenses of posting Mr Gs passport from and back to the country he was 
staying in of £20; 
2. the overseas solicitors fees of £168;
3. simple interest on 1 and 2 at the rate of 8 per cent a year from 21 November 
2021 to the date they are reimbursed by more 2 life Ltd; and4. £650 compensation for distress and inconvenience.
If M2l deduct tax from the interest they pay to Mr G and Mrs G, they should provide them 
with a tax deduction certificate, if they ask for one, to enable them to reclaim the tax from 
HMRC, if appropriate.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr G and Mrs G to 
accept or reject my decision before 6 February 2023.
 
Julia Wilkinson
Ombudsman