The Complaint
Mr Ks complaint to AXA Insurance UK PLC (AXA) is about the service provided when he 
was trying to pursue uninsured losses. Mr K says he was told to put forward a claim by the 
loss adjusters contracted by AXA and that they would claim compensation for him. 
The Background
Mr K is not happy because he thought he could claim £10,000 for distress and 
inconvenience.  This sum, however, would generally be considered as damage s which only 
a court would award.  Mr K was told th at £500 would be reasonable and was then only 
awarded £250 in addition to his excess. 
Mr K feels the compensation of £100 offered by AXA, fo r the poor advice given by its loss 
adjuste rs about the claim process and expectations, should be increased a s he contributed 
to AXA getting their money ba ck from the third party insurers.
AXA told Mr K th at he could use the legal expenses cover on his policy to pursue hi s claim if 
he wished.
Mr K made a claim (on behalf of his late mother, Mrs B) for uninsured lo sses for outlay and 
policy excess, following a claim fo r compensation after a ceiling collapsed becau se of wat er 
escaping from a neighbours property which was above Mrs Bs home.  Mr K claimed the 
loss adjuster said he would get his excess back and would look into compensation for him.  
Mr K believe s he helped AXA recover thei r costs for repai rs from the third p arty insurers.  
Mr K worked out the compensation figure as £10,000 but was advised by the loss adjusters 
that third party insure rs would not agree to that. Subsequently, the figure asked for was 
£500.  Mr K was not happ y with the settlement fo r his uninsured losses and the services 
provided.
My Findings
I have considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr K made a claim against the third party insurers, as advised by AXAs contracted loss 
adjusters.  The loss adjusters did not provide sufficient guidance to a ssist with structuring Mr 
Ks claim against the third party insurers. I accept that this meant Mr K spend some time 
putting together his claim.  Once submitted he was then advised by the loss adjusters that 
the claim wa s in excess of what any Court would allow and the y adjusted the claim 
accordingly.   Mr K was eventually awarded £250 and the excesses on his policy.  
DRN-1592390A claim for uninsured losses is not always guaranteed and is dependent on the third-party 
insurers acceptance of liability and what they feel is a reasonable amount.
As indicated, Mr Ks claim was in the region of £10,000 but he only received £250. The loss 
adjusters accepted this settlement as they did not feel that any further action would be 
successful. 
AXA acknowledged that Mr K should have been given more guidance by the loss adjusters 
in regard to his claim and subsequently offered him compensation of £100 for loss of 
expectation.  AXA have outlined the reasons why they cannot pay Mr K for the work he did in 
preparing the claim to recover losses. I note that the full cost of repairs to Mr Ks property 
have been paid and that Mr Ks excesses were covered. I feel the payment of £100 offered 
by AXA is fair and reasonable compensation in all the circumstances.
Although it has been established that loss or damage occurred because of a third party, AXA 
assessed whether they could recover their outlay. Their right to recover their outlay is taken 
from the subrogation clause which forms part of their policys terms and conditions, meaning 
they reserve the right to decide whether to pursue a recovery. Where a third party does not 
respond to their request, a decision will be made as to whether it is financially viable to issue 
proceedings. AXA have explained that they cannot financially compensate Mr K for his part 
in encouraging the third party to respond but acknowledges that he did. 
The only way, therefore, of compensating Mr K is through a loss of expectation payment.  
Given that AXA have acknowledged the lack of guidance provided to Mr K and the work he 
carried out to assist with the case, their loss of expectation payment reflects this.
My Final Decision
It is my final decision that the complaint is not upheld.
I find that the compensation offered by AXA Insurance UK PLC is fair and reasonable. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, I am required to ask Mr K to accept or 
reject my decision before 14 July 2020.
Ron Handley
Ombudsman