DRN-3278138
The complaint
Mr and Mrs S are unhappy with U K Insurance Limited (UKI) because it hasnt included their 
wall in a subsidence claim made under their home insurance policy.
Mr S has dealt with the claim and complaint, so for ease Ill refer to him only.
What happened
The background to this complaint isnt in dispute, so Ill summarise whats happened:
After noticing crack damage at his property, Mr S got in touch with UKI. It appointed a 
loss adjuster, G, who inspected the property and arranged for investigations.
G accepted the damage to Mr S home was caused by subsidence and covered by 
the policy. It identified a number of drainage problems it thought had caused 
subsidence and agreed to put them right.
G acknowledged a nearby retaining wall was also damaged. But it didnt think it had 
been caused by, or was contributing to, the subsidence problem. Mr S complained 
about this and G arranged further investigations. Gs position didnt change.
UKI answered Mr S complaint in August 2020. It agreed to carry out the drainage 
work to stop the subsidence movement and to then repair the damage to the property 
 but not the retaining wall.
Mr S referred his complaint to this service. UKI initially thought it had been referred to 
us too late and that meant we couldnt consider it. It later accepted it had sent its 
complaint response to the wrong e-mail address and hadnt sent a copy by post. So it 
agreed we could consider the complaint.
Our investigator thought UKI had acted fairly when it declined to cover the damage to 
the wall. Mr S disagreed and the complaint has been passed to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The scope of this complaint is from the beginning of the claim up to and including UKIs 
complaint response in August 2020. A separate complaint will consider events and evidence 
after that time.
The policy covers damage caused by subsidence to the buildings, including garden walls, 
subject to various exclusions.
UKI has accepted the house and garage have been damaged by subsidence and the cost of 
those repairs are covered by the policy. When dealing with a subsidence claim, I would 
expect UKI to carry out a lasting and effective repair of the subsidence damage. That means 
stopping the subsidence movement before carrying out repairs.
Its agreed the leaking drains are the cause of subsidence and they should be repaired. And 
if other work was found to be necessary to stop the subsidence movement, it may also form 
part of the claim to ensure an effective and lasting repair of the house can be achieved.
In summary, UKIs position when it responded to Mr S complaint in August 2020 was that 
the wall had not subsided. This was based on Gs view that the wall had suffered from long 
term failure, pre-dating the subsidence problem at the property. It thought the wall had 
gradually failed to retain and resist the pressure placed upon it by the ground.
Mr S thought the wall was damaged by the same underlying cause as the house  the 
leaking drains. He said the leak was causing increased ground pressure, which in turn was 
pushing the wall and causing it to become damaged.
I think Mr S made this point because UKI had noted that subsidence to a garden wall is only 
covered if damaged at the same time and by the same cause as the main house. Ive 
checked the policy and thats the case. Its a common policy term amongst building 
insurance policies. It means that if the wall is also subsiding for the same reason as the 
house, it will be covered.
Whilst there was disagreement about the main cause of the damage to the wall, I dont think 
there was any evidence to show it was subsiding. It may have been impacted by the leak as 
Mr S suggested, but that kind of sideways or lateral movement is different to downward or 
subsidence movement. So Im not satisfied the wall damage was covered by the policy.
Mr S thought it would be difficult to stop the movement to the building without resolving the 
problem with the wall. G didnt think the wall had been designed to support the foundation of 
the house and the stability of the house was independent of the wall. But it offered to monitor 
the house for movement following drainage repairs, to check whether the wall alone might 
cause a problem with the stability of the house.
During the period of time relevant to this complaint, there were two contrasting opinions on 
this point  Gs and Mr S. G thought it unlikely the wall would cause a problem to the house 
whilst Mr S thought it likely would. So I think the suggestion to monitor and test for 
movement was a reasonable one. That would show whether there was any movement, and 
in which areas, and provide factual information to better inform the discussion.
Mr S raised concerns about the accuracy of Gs first inspection of the wall. G accepted it 
made several mistakes when writing to Mr S but maintained its view was formed based on 
the true construction details of the wall. Mr S also pointed out that Gs drawing of the wall 
showed it perfectly upright when it was leaning significantly. Again, G accepted this wasnt 
accurate but didnt think that had an impact on its decision making as it was aware of the 
true condition of the wall.
The mistakes made by G have understandably given Mr S cause for concern and 
undermined his trust in the way his claim was handled. But G acknowledged and corrected 
these mistakes, and UKI ultimately based its decision on an accurate reflection of the key 
information.
Overall, Im not persuaded the evidence available up to August 2020 showed the wall had 
been damaged by subsidence. Or that the repair of the wall was necessary to ensure the 
house could be stabilised. As a result, Im satisfied the decision UKI reached at that time 
was fair.My final decision
My final decision is not to uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs S and Mr S to 
accept or reject my decision before 17 March 2022.
 
James Neville
Ombudsman