DRN-3813362
The complaint
Mr K complains U K Insurance Limited unfairly declined a claim and cancelled his motor 
insurance policy. 
What happened
The background to the complaint is known to all parties so I wont repeat it here. In my 
decision Ill mainly focus on giving the reasons for reaching the outcome I have. 
In summary, UKI refused to pay Mr Ks motor claim and cancelled his policy. They say they 
had concerns with the circumstances Mr K reported regarding the incident, and whether the 
damage displayed was consistent with this. They raised, broadly, the following concerns: 
Mr K provided different accounts surrounding the circumstances of the claim, and 
they werent satisfied with the reasons provided as to why he did this; 
A forensic expert says the damage displayed to Mr Ks and the third-party vehicle 
wasnt consistent with one another, or the circumstances Mr K reported; and 
They received a call from Mr Ks mobile number from someone purporting to be a 
member of UKIs staff, attempting to obtain information about the claim. 
Mr K wasnt happy. He says UKI treated him unfairly which impacted his finances and 
wellbeing. So, he approached our service for an independent review. 
Our investigator didnt recommend the complaint be upheld. As Mr K didnt agree, the case 
was passed to me to have our services final say on the matter. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Both parties will note I havent commented in this decision on all the extensive evidence 
provided  but Ive carefully considered it. Its also important I explain my role here isnt to 
decide what happened, or if the claim is legitimate  its to decide whether Im satisfied UKI 
have fairly investigated and considered the claim in line with the policy terms. 
The starting point with any claim is for a policyholder to provide the insurer with accurate 
information about the claim circumstances. The policy says a failure to do so could result in 
a claim being refused, and the policy cancelled, which is what happened here. 
UKI say Mr K initially reported he and his passengers were walking back to his vehicle  
parked near a junction  when they heard a loud noise. Mr K then said the third-party gave 
an admission of liability when saying they were driving too fast which caused the incident. 
The claim form Mr K completed suggests the third-party was travelling around 35MPH when 
the incident occurred. 
UKI say Mr K later reported he and his passengers were inside the vehicle when the incident 
occurred. They submitted personal injury claims to the third-party insurer, which I understand 
from the claim notes were later refused  as was the third-party drivers claim. 
Mr K says he gave a different account because he was being distracted by a friend when he 
reported the claim. And hed mixed his account up with another incident involving a family 
member that happened prior to this. UKI werent satisfied with this response. 
Due to UKIs concerns, they appointed a forensic expert to assess the claim and vehicle 
damage. They concluded, broadly, that they didnt think the damage displayed supported Mr 
Ks account of the incident. 
UKI shared their concerns about the claim  which Mr K knows about and responded to, but 
this didnt satisfy UKI to agree to pay the claim. As above, the policy requires a policyholder 
to provide accurate information when reporting a claim and throughout the validation 
process. And a failure to do so could result in a claim being refused and the policy cancelled. 
Based on what Ive seen and heard, I dont find the concerns of UKI to be unreasonable or 
without basis. Therefore, having considered all the available evidence, Im not satisfied UKI 
applied the policy terms unreasonably, or treated Mr K unfairly here. So, I wont be requiring 
UKI to do anything. 
I accept my decision will come as a disappointment to Mr K. But it ends what we  in 
attempting to resolve his dispute with UKI  can do for him. 
My final decision
My final decision is I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr K to accept or 
reject my decision before 3 January 2023.
 
Liam Hickey
Ombudsman