DRN-1775872
The complaint
Mrs W is unhappy Santander UK Plc have been unable to locate her savings account and 
pay her the money she says was outstanding in the account.
What happened
Mrs W says she recently re-discovered a passbook which showed a balance of just over 
£390 in 1986. Mrs W says she didnt close the account or transfer the money out of it and 
has asked for access to this money along with a payment of the interest due to date.
Santander say theyve checked their records and cant find this account for Mrs W. They say 
there also isnt any trace of the account being made dormant and that if the account was still 
open, Mrs W would have been sent correspondence throughout the accounts existence.
Our investigator looked into Mrs Ws concerns. She said she was satisfied that Santander 
carried out the necessary checks to locate Mrs Ws account and she didnt think Santander 
had treated Mrs W unfairly. 
Mrs W disagreed. She asked for the date of which the account closed and evidence that the 
outstanding amount on the account was paid out. So the complaint has been passed to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Having done so, I dont think Santander 
need to do anything more in trying to find Mrs Ws account  which I know will come as a 
disappointment to Mrs W, so Ill explain why. 
Mrs W has provided evidence showing that the account existed. She has sent us a copy of 
the passbook which shows that in 1986, there was a balance of just over £390 in the 
account.
Santander have sent us a screenshot of the searches carried out on their systems in order to 
locate the account Mrs W is referring to. I can see from the searches that Santander have 
tried to locate the account using a combination of several different details such as Mrs Ws 
name and date of birth, the account number and Mrs Ws maiden name along with the 
postcode the account was last registered to. Despite using this information, Santander were 
still unable to locate Mrs Ws account on their system.
Santander have also provided screenshots to show tax deductions and interest paid on the 
account Mrs W holds a passbook for. I can see that the earliest tax and interest related 
information is from 1992 and the latest is from 1996 - there are no records beyond this date 
for this account.
Santander say they generally keep records for six years and after that, information is 
securely destroyed or archived. Thats not unusual or unreasonable as financial businesses 
arent expected to keep a record indefinitely. The fact that Mrs W still holds a passbook 
doesnt necessarily mean the account is still open. Instead, it is a snapshot of Mrs Ws account at that point in time and not necessarily an ongoing record of the account. 
Especially as computerisation of accounts happened, not all banks insisted on recovering 
old passbooks, which could also explain why there is a passbook showing a balance.
Having thought about everything, I think its unlikely Mrs Ws account has an outstanding 
balance and is dormant. If Mrs Ws account was still open or had been made dormant then I 
would have expected to have seen a record of that on Santanders records. As Santander 
have been unable to identify any details regarding the account or an outstanding balance, I 
think its more likely the account had been closed some time ago and the outstanding 
balance paid out. 
I appreciate Mrs W says thats not the case, but given the passage of time, its possible that 
Mrs W may not recall this. Ive no doubt this claim has been made in the genuine belief that 
she still has an account with Santander, but I dont have enough evidence to make that 
finding.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, my final decision is I dont uphold Mrs Ws complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs W to accept or 
reject my decision before 6 July 2020.
Leanne McEvoy
Ombudsman