DRN-3608542
The complaint
Mr N, Miss N and Mrs V complain about the service theyve received from Citibank UK 
Limited. Theyre unhappy that tax forms were rejected which resulted in them having to pay 
tax unnecessarily.
What happened
The background to this complaint is well known to both parties so I wont go over it in great 
detail, but the key facts are as follows:
Mr N, Miss N and Mrs V had tax withheld in 2016, 2017, 2018 and 2019. This was 
because of address mismatches on Citis systems which caused their W-8BEN forms 
to be rejected.
They complained to Citi in 2020 and the withheld tax for 2019 was refunded. Citi 
didnt think the withheld tax for the other periods should be refunded as theyd sent 
tax reminders, but the address details hadnt been updated until 2019 which meant 
that only the 2019 W-8BEN could be accepted.
Mr N, Miss N and Mrs V didnt agree and asked us to look into the matter.
One of our investigators considered the complaint and thought it should be upheld 
and the withheld tax refunded. He didnt agree that Mr N, Miss N and Mrs V hadnt 
done enough to update their address. They were in regular contact with their 
relationship manager during this time and provided information in a timely manner 
when asked to. 
He thought that if there was a specific issue around their address, hed have 
expected to have seen something from the relationship manager asking them to 
change it. From what hed seen when the relationship manager did write to them 
about their address change in July 2017, they returned the required forms via email 
and post. There was nothing from the relationship manager to say the forms had 
been rejected or that they needed more information in order to accept the W8-BEN 
forms.
Citi didnt respond so the complaint has been passed to me for a formal decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I think this complaint should be upheld and I will now explain why. 
The issue at the heart of the complaint is that there was an address mismatch which caused 
the W-8BEN forms to be rejected. Citi have said that the mismatch occurred in 2015 when 
Mr N, Miss N and Mrs Vs mailing address was changed to country B, but their residential 
address remained in country A. Theyve said that prior to 2018 the relationship manager 
would have been notified whenever a form was rejected by their tax team. And they would 
have told Mr N, Miss N and Mrs V to send a W-8BEN form in via the post. 
I can see that Citi wrote to them in March 2017 and asked them to complete and return an 
Automatic Exchange of Information Form for Individuals. The evidence Ive seen shows that 
this was done and sent to Citi but there were issues with emails bouncing back from the 
address theyd been told to send it to. They resent the documents in July 2017 but in 
February 2018 they were again told to send the documents to Citi. They also mention in an 
email they sent Citi in April 2017 that theyd sent the forms by post. 
They had a further issue with accessing their accounts and tried to get in touch with their 
relationship manager over the phone and by email but received no response. They then 
arranged a meeting with a different relationship manager at the start of 2019. They had a 
further meeting in March 2019, and it was at this point that the forms were checked and the 
address issues resolved. 
Having reviewed the forms that were submitted in 2017, I can see that they noted that their 
residential address was in country B. The form clearly detailed their address, country of tax 
residence and their taxpayer identification number. There was a specific section to complete 
if their mailing address differed from their residential address. They didnt fill in this section 
so it therefore follows that their residential address and mailing address were the same and 
Citi should have updated their records accordingly. Had this been done, then on balance, I 
think the issues with the W-8BEN form and subsequently with the withheld tax would have 
been avoided. 
So, Im satisfied that Mr N, Miss N and Mrs V havent been treated fairly. I think they took 
steps to ensure that their details were correct on Citis systems, but the records werent 
updated. I also havent seen any steps were taken to correct the issue until a meeting was 
arranged with a different relationship manager in 2019. Therefore, it doesnt seem fair that 
Mr N, Miss N and Mrs V should have had tax withheld and so Citi should refund the withheld 
tax in order to put things right. 
Putting things right
Citi should refund the tax withheld for Mr N, Miss N and Mrs V for 2016, 2017 and 2018 (I 
note this has already been done for the 2019 withheld tax). They should also pay 8% simple 
interest on the amount refunded from the date the withheld tax was taken up until the date of 
settlement.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above, I uphold this complaint. Citibank UK Limited should pay 
redress as set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr N, Miss N and 
Mrs V to accept or reject my decision before 17 March 2023.
 
Marc Purnell
Ombudsman