DRN-3975354
The complaint
Mr M has complained about the way Mitsubishi HC Capital UK Plc trading as Novuna 
Personal Finance (Mitsubishi) has dealt with a claim he made under section 75 Consumer 
Credit Act 1974 (s.75). 
Mr M is represented by a claims management company (the CMC).
What happened
In October 2014, Mr M entered into a contract to purchase a solar panel system from a 
supplier. Mr M paid for the system using a fixed sum loan agreement from Mitsubishi, which 
was repayable over ten years. 
The CMC wrote to Mitsubishi in June 2022 to make a claim on Mr Ms behalf under s.75. 
The purpose of s.75 is to provide protection for consumers who pay for goods or services 
using credit. The creditor (Mitsubishi) is jointly and severally liable with the supplier for any 
breach of contract or misrepresentation by the supplier  subject to certain considerations 
being met. 
Mr Ms claim explained that the systems benefits were misrepresented to him, since he was 
told the system would more than pay for itself and he would make a profit. The CMC has told 
him that was greatly misleading. 
Mitsubishi replied to the claim to say it had no liability since the claim was made outside the 
time limits set out in the Limitation Act 1980. 
The CMC complained to the Financial Ombudsman Service about Mitsubishis response. 
The CMC said that s.14 of the Limitation Act provided more time to make the claim 
depending on when Mr M knew that he could claim. And that he did not know that until he 
contacted the CMC, which was shortly before the claim was made. 
One of our adjudicators looked into this and concluded that Mitsubishi had acted fairly by 
rejecting Mr Ms s.75 claim. In summary, our adjudicator said that Mr Ms claim against the 
supplier of the system was made outside of the timescales set out in the Limitation Act 1980. 
As Mitsubishi (as the credit provider) is liable to the same extent as the supplier, our 
adjudicator agreed it had acted reasonably when saying the like claim against it was also 
made too late. 
The CMC disagreed. It said that the loan was for ten years, and that Mr M could not have 
known there was a reason to claim until about halfway through the loan term. And that it was 
too complex for him to know this without the CMCs help. The CMC also suggested that 
Mitsubishis actions should be looked at since the supplier sold the loan as its agent. 
Our adjudicator wasnt persuaded to change his mind, and the CMC asked for the complaint 
to be reviewed by an ombudsman. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In this complaint Im considering whether Mitsubishi has treated Mr M fairly in its response to 
his s.75 claim. There are a number of things Ive taken account of when reaching my 
decision, including the law, rules and regulations, good practice, and the facts of Mr Ms 
complaint. In this decision Ill refer those that I consider to be most central to my conclusions. 
relevant considerations 
Mr Ms complaint is about a claim under s.75 and so naturally the appropriate parts of the 
Consumer Credit Act 1974 are relevant here. 
As Ive explained above, s.75 sets out why a claim can be made against Mitsubishi, and it 
can be held responsible for a purchase Mr M made using his credit card. Im satisfied in this 
instance that the debtor-creditor-supplier chain hadnt been broken and theres an 
appropriate relationship between the parties for Mitsubishi to consider a s.75 claim. 
There are also high-level principles which apply to all firms authorised by the financial 
regulator (the FCA). Principle 6 of the FCA Principles states: 
A firm must pay due regard to the interests of its customers and treat them fairly. 
So, Mitsubishi must have treated Mr M fairly when it declined his s.75 claim. And as the 
reason Mitsubishi gave for declining Mr Ms claim was that it was made outside of the 
relevant time limits, the Limitation Act 1980 is of particular relevance. 
The CMC has made a point about looking at Mitsubishis actions, suggesting such a claim 
would not be out of time. However, I only have the power to consider Mitsubishis response 
to the claim made to it. This additional point was not made as part of the claim that 
Mitsubishi responded to. So, I will not comment on that any further in this decision. 
The Limitation Act 
The Limitation Act is the law which sets out the time limits which apply to different causes of 
action that a party can pursue. As Mr Ms rights to claim against Mitsubishi under s.75 are on 
the same basis of those he could make a claim against the supplier, I consider the relevant 
time limits set out in the Limitation Act are: 
Section 2 which applies to causes of action founded in tort law  which includes 
claims for misrepresentation. 
Section 9 which applies to causes of actions for sums recoverable by statute. 
Section 14A which sets out when time limits are linked to when a claimant had the 
necessary knowledge and right to bring a claim. Misrepresentation 
s.2 of the Limitation Act states, An action founded on tort shall not be brought after the 
expiration of six years from the date on which the cause of action accrued.
For me to determine whether a claim was brought within six years, I have to decide when the 
cause of action, or damage, took place. The damage is the financial loss arising as a result 
of the misrepresentation. 
In this case, Mr M says the benefits of the system was the inducement that made him make 
the purchase. But his s.75 claim is largely that those benefits were misrepresented and so 
he entered a contract which wasnt the value for money he expected. Mr M says were it not 
for the misrepresentation about the potential benefits, then he wouldnt have entered the 
contract to purchase the system at all. 
So, Mr Ms financial loss occurred when he when he took out the fixed sum loan agreement 
to pay for the system in October 2014 and owed money to Mitsubishi under the loan 
agreement. 
Mr M raised his claim with Mitsubishi in June 2022, which is more than six years from when 
the damage occurred, and his cause of action accrued. 
Sums recoverable by statute law 
s.9 of the Limitation Act states, An action to recover any sum recoverable by virtue of any 
enactment shall not be brought after the expiration of six years from the date on which the 
cause of action accrued. 
Ive considered this section because the basis of Mr Ms claim against Mitsubishi is under 
s.75 and so is a sum recoverable by virtue of enactment (statute law from an act of 
parliament). But I dont think this changes the position compared to the other provisions in 
the Limitation Act. s.75 makes the lender jointly and severally liable for a suppliers 
misrepresentation or breach of contract  effectively making Mitsubishi step into the shoes of 
the supplier. 
This means that the limitation period under s.9 is the same as for misrepresentation and 
breach of contract  and gives rise to effectively the same cause of action. 
s.14A Limitation Act 
Although the limitation time period is six years for cause of action as set out above, s.14A 
provides for a second period in which a claim be made. That is, if later than the six-year 
period, three years from the earliest date on which the claimant had both the knowledge 
required to bring a claim for damages, and the right to bring such a claim. 
This is a relevant consideration for Mr Ms claim as Ive already explained he raised his 
complaint with Mitsubishi over six years from when the contract was entered, and damage 
suffered. So, applying s.14A in this instance Ive considered when Mr M knew, or ought to 
have known, that he had a claim for misrepresentation against the supplier. Mr M says the systems benefits did not match what he was told they would be. The contract 
set out the benefits as follows:
So, Mr M was clearly told what he could expect to receive in benefits in the first year after 
installation. After about a year he wouldve received or had access to FIT statements and 
electricity bills, which wouldve allowed him to compare what he was told with what benefits 
he had actually received. So, I think that about a year after installation Mr M wouldve had 
the knowledge required to bring a claim for damaged and the right to bring the claim.
For FIT payments that would be a simple comparison  since Mr M could just compare the 
income received with what is shown on the contract.  
In terms of the electricity savings, the CMC says it would have been too complex for Mr M to 
work out the benefit. But I disagree, he simply couldve compared what he paid for electricity 
the year before installation with what he had paid the year after installation, to see if he had 
paid at least £317 less. While that may not be an entirely accurate way to calculate any 
savings, I think it would be sufficient to judge whether Mr M might have a claim for 
misrepresentation. 
Overall, the CMC says the benefits were much less than Mr M was told to expect, so if that 
was the case I think it would have been clear to Mr M that he had a claim after about a year. 
As such, the three-year part of the time limit under s.14A would not extend the time Mr M 
had to make the claim. 
So, I consider it reasonable for Mitsubishi to have concluded the claim was made out of time 
and it had no liability. 
Summary 
In this decision I am considering whether Mitsubishi has acted in a fair and reasonable 
manner when dealing with Mr Ms s.75 claim. It is for the courts to ultimately decide whether 
or not any right to claim against the supplier (and so Mitsubishi) has expired under the 
Limitation Act but given the information available and representations made by both parties, 
Im satisfied Mitsubishi has applied the rules fairly and made a reasonable decision. 
Ive not seen any evidence to show Mr M was unable to make a claim within time, and so I 
cannot fairly ask Mitsubishi to do anything else now. I realise this will come as a 
disappointment to Mr M. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold Mr Ms complaint against Mitsubishi HC Capital UK 
Plc trading as Novuna Personal Finance.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 20 March 2023.
 
Phillip Lai-Fang
Ombudsman