DRN-3752245
The complaint
Mrs C complains about Domestic and General Insurance PLCs (D&G), level of 
compensation and the time it took to complete a claim, under her home emergency policy. 
What happened
Mrs C contacted D&G when her cooker developed a fault. It sent an engineer who ordered 
parts to complete a repair. Mrs C relative chased D&G for updates regarding the repair or 
replacement of the cooker. There was a delay in obtaining the parts to repair the cooker, but 
those parts came back into stock and a return date to carry out the repair was provided. 
On that appointment, the engineer couldnt carry out a repair and D&G offered to replace the 
cooker. This was replaced around a week later. Mrs C complained due to the time it had 
taken to complete the claim. 
In its final response, D&G accepted that there had been delays for which it apologised and 
offered £100 compensation for the trouble and upset caused. Mrs C felt that the 
compensation offered didnt adequately cover for the trouble and upset caused especially as 
she said that if affected her family life, her ability to look after a sick relative and the stress it 
caused. So, she referred a complaint to our service. 
One of our investigators considered the complaint and thought it should be upheld. He said 
that D&G had caused substantial distress and trouble over a number of weeks and he didnt 
think the £100 offer adequately reflected this. So, he recommended that D&G increase its 
offer of compensation to total of £300 (a further £200). 
Mrs C accepted the view, D&G did not. It questioned how (given that Mrs C was out of the 
country for some of the time that the cooker couldnt be used) our investigator had been 
persuaded that an increase of a further £200 was fair in the circumstances. So, it asked for a 
decision from an ombudsman. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I considered the complaint and I thought the complaint should not be upheld. I issued a 
provisional decision on 13 September 2022 and asked both parties to send me anything else 
by 11 October 2022. In my provisional decision I said:
I have considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of the complaint.
Having done so, I dont intend to uphold this complaint. I understand that this is likely to be a 
disappointment for Mrs C, but I hope my findings go some way in explaining why Ive 
reached this decision.
I have carefully considered both parties comments and evidence they have presented. The 
main issue of this complaint is whether the £100 compensation offered is fair in the 
circumstances. 
Both parties accept that there were delays and both parties accept that there would have 
been some impact on Mrs C daily life. But, from the evidence that I have read and from the 
call recordings that I have listened to, I note that for some of the period when the cooker was 
not functioning as it should have, Mrs C was not in the country. 
The timescale of events was that on 30 May 2022, Mrs C reported a fault with her cooker. 
There was an issue regarding the obtaining of parts for the cooker repair and it seems, from 
what I have read, this was the reason for the delay. It wasnt until 27 June that the parts 
were available, and the proposed repair should have taken place. The repair didnt take 
place but on 6 July the cooker was replaced. It was about a total of five weeks that Mrs C 
was without the use of her cooker.
However, Mrs C confirmed that she was out of the country from 3 June 2022 to 24 June 
2022 so many of the weeks that Mrs C was without the use of her cooker, she was not in the 
country.  Taking this into consideration, I think that the impact on Mrs C wouldve have been 
moderate, given that she didnt need to use her cooker for around three out of the five 
weeks. 
Also, I have taken into consideration whether she wouldve suffered from additional stress by 
the repair not taking place when it should have. But, from the evidence, it seems that a 
relative and a neighbour had to undertake waiting in for engineers to attend or chasing D&G 
for updates. Whilst I accept that there wouldve been some inconvenience, I do think the 
inconvenience that Mrs C suffered was greatly reduced. So, for this reason, I think D&G offer 
of £100 was fair as overall, Mrs C was without the use of her cooker for around two weeks.
Although I understand that this is not the outcome Mrs C wouldve liked, I wont be asking 
D&G to do anything more to resolve this complaint, as it has already offered Mrs C £100 
compensation, which I think is fair.
Responses to my provisional decision
Mrs C did not reply to my provisional decision.  D&G accepted my provisional decision. 
As there was no reply to my provisional decision from Mrs C and D&G has accepted my 
provisional decision. My final decision will be the same as my provisional decision. 
My final decision
For the reasons given, I dont uphold this complaint. 
Domestic and General Insurance PLC has already offered £100 compensation, which I think 
is fair in all the circumstances.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs C to accept or 
reject my decision before 10 November 2022.
 
Ayisha Savage
Ombudsman