DRN-4115323
The complaint
Miss N and Mr P are unhappy that Aviva Insurance Limited declined a claim made on their 
travel insurance policy.
What happened
Miss N and Mr P were due to travel abroad with their daughter on 12 March 2020, returning 
16 March 2020. They were due to stay at a theme park resort and their daughter was due to 
attend a dance camp. Miss N, Mr P and their daughter had the benefit of a travel insurance 
policy which was paid for as part of a packaged bank account (the policy). The policy is 
underwritten by Aviva.
They didnt end up travelling on 12 March 2020 and made a claim on the policy in 
September 2020 for the cost of the return flights theyd paid for (the claim). This was after 
theyd tried, and failed, to get their money back from the airline and credit card provider. 
Aviva declined the claim on 15 October 2020. From the information provided, it concluded 
that Miss N and Mr P cancelled the trip because the dance club was cancelled, and this 
wasnt an insured event under the cancellation section of the policy. It also said:
the trip was cancelled before the Foreign Commonwealth and Development Office 
advised against all but essential travel to the country they were visiting for reasons 
relating to the Covid-19 global pandemic;
point 2(b) of the Activities section of the policys terms and conditions say theres no 
cover if the leisure activity is cancelled by the organiser;
the main purpose of the trip (to participate in a dance club, dance workshops and 
competitions) isnt listed as an accepted activity under the policy terms, so theres no 
cover in place for the trip.
Unhappy, Miss N and Mr P brought a complaint to our service. Our investigator didnt uphold 
their complaint. Miss N and Mr P didnt agree so their complaint was passed to me to 
determine. I issued my provisional decision in April 2023 explaining why I was intending to 
uphold the complaint. An extract of my provisional decision is set out below:

Aviva has an obligation to handle insurance claims fairly and promptly. And it mustnt
unreasonably decline a claim. Im intending to uphold this complaint as Im not currently
satisfied that Aviva has fairly and reasonably declined Miss N and Mr Ps claim. Ill explain
why.
The reason for the trip being cancelled
Subject to the remaining terms of the policys terms and conditions, the cancellation section
of the policy (starting from page 23 of the policys terms and conditions) does provide cover
if a trip needs to be cancelled.
Section 10 says cover is provided if one of the following events occurs or prevents the
policyholder from travelling within 31 days of their scheduled departure date:
 a Foreign and Commonwealth Office advisory notice is in place advising against
all travel or all but essential travel to your destination is still in place
Im satisfied that at the time when Miss N and Mr P decided not to go on the trip, there was
no such advice in place in respect of the country theyd planned to travel to (and it hadnt
been in place within 31 days of their scheduled departure date). That advice didnt come into
effect until a few days after their intended departure.
However, theres another reason in section 10 which I do think is applicable here. Thats if:
you choose not to travel because
 your accommodation is directly affected by a food poisoning outbreak, or an area
in which you are staying is affected by a pandemic or epidemic influenza (my
emphasis).
The policy doesnt define area.
The World Health Organisation declared Covid-19 as a global pandemic on 11 March 2020 
one day before Miss N and Mr P were due to travel.
Although the theme park resort was still open for business around the time they were due to
depart the UK, on 12 March 2020, it announced later that evening that it would be closing
after 14 March 2020 for reasons relating to the pandemic  at least until the end of the
month.
Further, before this on 8 March 2020, it looks like the country Miss N and Mr P were due to
visit prohibited gatherings of more than 1,000 people including the area they were due to
visit in an attempt to limit the spread of Covid-19. By 11 March 2020, the theme park had
some restrictions in place due to the pandemic and three members of staff at the theme park
had contracted Covid-19. Before they were due to travel, it was also being reported that the
country Miss N and Mr P were visiting was going to be the next epicentre of the pandemic.
So, overall, in the circumstances of this particular case, Im satisfied that it would be fair and
reasonable to conclude that the trip was cancelled because the area in which they were due
to travel to was affected by a pandemic. And I think that was the main reason they cancelled
their holiday, based on the evidence thats available to me.
Aviva concluded that the main reason for the trip being cancelled was due to the dance
camp being cancelled. Its said that this isnt a stipulated insured event under the
cancellation section of the policy, which is correct. I think the main reason Miss N and Mr P
cancelled their trip was due to the area they were staying in being affected by a pandemic. 
But Ive still considered Avivas comments on this point.
Aviva has also relied on the section of the policy entitled: your activities, where it says
theres no cover under the cancellation section of the policy for:
cancellation of a pre-paid leisure activity or any activity-based holiday by the
organiser of that activity
However, from what Ive seen, it looks like dance camp was cancelled after 12 March 2020 
when they were due to fly. That was in response to the announcement that the theme parkresort  where the dance club was due to take place  would be closing because of the
pandemic. So, I dont think this can reasonably be said to be the reason for cancelling the
trip. As such, I dont think its fair and reasonable for Aviva to rely on that as the reason for
Miss N and Mr P (and their daughter) not going on their trip  or this particular exclusion.
Leisure activity
The policys terms and conditions say on page 22:
Leisure activities and activity based holidays
You are automatically covered for claims arising from your participation in a number
of leisure activities on an incidental and recreational basis; or if you have booked an
acceptable activity based holiday  see the Leisure activities, Activity based holidays
and Winter sports activities section for full details.
Under the leisure activity section of the policy (on page 45 of the policys terms and
conditions) it says:
There is no cover at all where the main purpose of your trip is to take part in a leisure
activity (unless shown as an Activity Based Holiday below).
The policy doesnt define main purpose. But, using the ordinary meaning of the word, I think
a reasonable person would interpret this to mean the key reason for travelling. So, if the key
reason for travelling was to take part in a leisure activity not listed as an activity-based
holiday, the entire trip wasnt covered.
Aviva has concluded the key reason for travelling was for Miss N and Mr Ps daughter to
take part in the dance club and dancing isnt listed as an activity-based holiday. Even if thats
right, the information provided to a policyholder in its terms and conditions needs to be
brought to their attention in a prominent and transparent way. Because the effect of the 
exclusion is to exclude an entire trip abroad, Im satisfied Aviva needed to clearly bring this 
term to the policyholders attention. I dont think it has.
The exclusion is listed under the section relating to leisure activity in the policy booklet. So, I
think it isnt in a place where a policyholder would reasonably expect to look to understand
whats excluded under the policy. For example, under the cancellation section of the policy
or within the general exclusions. They wouldve had to navigate around different sections of
the policy  onto page 45  to understand this significant exclusion.
So, I dont think it was made reasonably clear or obvious to a reasonable policyholder that
theyd have no cover in place if the key part of the trip was to take part in activities not
mentioned  which are limited in number.
I think this created a significant imbalance in the rights and interests of Miss N and Mr P and
Aviva which is unfair in this case. So, I dont think its fair and reasonable for Aviva to rely on
this exclusion to decline the claim. Had this term been brought to Miss N and Mr Ps
attention in a clearer and fairer way, they wouldve been able to find travel insurance which
did offer them cover for trips abroad which included an activity such as dancing.

I explained that I intended to direct Aviva to pay the value of the claim less the excess, and 
simple interest at a rate of 8% from the date on which the claim was declined to the date on 
which the claim is paid.Response to provisional decision
I invited both parties to provide any further information for me to consider. Aviva didnt reply. 
Miss N and Mr P agreed with my provisional decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As neither party has provided any further substantive information for me to consider, I see no 
reason to depart from my provisional findings. For this reason, and for reasons already set 
out in my provisional decision (an extract of which is set out above and forms part of my final 
decision), I uphold Miss N and Mr Ps complaint.
Putting things right
I direct Aviva to pay:
the value of the claim less the excess payable under the cancellation section of the 
policy; and
simple interest on the claim amount at a rate of 8% per annum from the date on 
which the claim was declined (15 October 2020) to the date on which the claim is 
paid.
If Aviva considers its required by HM Revenue & Customs to take off income tax from any 
interest paid, it should tell Miss N and Mr P how much its taken off. It should also give them 
a certificate showing this if asked for one. That way tax from HM Revenue & Customs, can 
be reclaimed if appropriate.
My final decision
I uphold this complaint and direct Aviva Insurance Limited to put things right as set above. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss N and Mr P 
to accept or reject my decision before 7 June 2023.
 
David Curtis-Johnson
Ombudsman