DRN-4139496
The complaint
Mrs M and Mr M have complained that AWP P&C SA have not responded to a claim they 
made under their travel insurance policy for medical expenses.
What happened
Mrs M and Mr M submitted a claim under their travel insurance policy in August 2022. AWP 
sent a final response in December 2022. It acknowledged that there had been unnecessary 
delay in handling the claim and apologised.
Frustrated with the lack of progress Mrs M and Mr M referred their complaint here. Our 
investigator recommended that the claim be upheld. He recommended that AWP review the 
claim in line with the policy terms and that AWP pay £200 to Mrs M and Mrs M for the delay 
and lack of progress.
Mrs M and Mr M accepted this, but AWP didnt respond. Further enquiries were made as to 
the progress of the claim and whether it had been assessed. But again, no response was 
received. As no agreement has been reached the matter has been passed to me to 
determine. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so I agree with the conclusions reached by the investigator for these reasons:
The Financial Conduct Authority (FCA) Handbook sets out a number of Principles for 
Businesses, which AWP must follow, including: 
Principle 6  A firm must pay due regard to the interests of its customers and treat 
them fairly.
By failing to assess a claim made under their policy AWP is not treating Mrs M and 
Mr M fairly.
Additionally The FCA has set out rules and guidance for insurers in the Insurance: 
Conduct of Business Sourcebook (ICOBS). ICOBS 8.1.1 says that insurers should 
act honestly, fairly and professionally in accordance with the best interests of their 
customers, and that they should handle claims promptly and fairly and shouldnt 
unreasonably reject a claim.
AWP has not acted in accordance with this rule  from the information available to 
me it seems the claim hasnt been assessed at all, let alone promptly.
I recognise that this outcome is not ideal for Mrs M and Mr M  they want their claim 
to be assessed. I require AWP to assess the claim expediently, if it hasnt done so 
already, and let Mrs M and Mr M know the outcome. 
I agree that compensation is due for the distress and inconvenience caused to Mrs M 
and Mr M whilst this matter has been ongoing but with no progression. Mrs M has 
said that the matter has impacted her mental health. I have no reason to doubt that 
this is true. I find that compensation in the sum of £200 is merited in the 
circumstances.
My final decision
My final decision is that this complaint should be upheld. I require AWP P&C SA to:
Assess Mrs M and Mr Ms claim 
Pay Mrs M and Mr M £200 in compensation for the delays to date
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs M and Mr M to 
accept or reject my decision before 15 June 2023.
 
Lindsey Woloski
Ombudsman