DRN-4509546
The complaint
Mr B complains about the way in which Barclays Bank UK PLC (Barclaycard) responded to 
a claim he made against it under the connected lender liability provisions of section 75 of the 
Consumer Credit Act 1974 (section 75).
What happened
Mr B acquired a car through a third party hire-purchase provider P. He paid part of the cost 
using his Barclaycard credit card. Unfortunately, soon afterwards the car developed faults 
and attempts at rectification werent successful. Mr B considered the car wasnt of 
satisfactory quality as required under the Consumer Rights Act 2015 (CRA). He sought to 
reject the car and recover his claimed losses by means of a breach of contract claim against 
P. Mr Bs claim against P has been considered under a separate decision from one of my 
ombudsman colleagues, and more recently by the county court.
Mr B also made a section 75 claim against Barclaycard for breach of contract, on the basis 
that he had a like claim as he had against P. He was dissatisfied with Barclaycards 
response, which rejected his claim. Barclaycard issued a number of responses giving 
different reasons for its rejection of Mr Bs claim. These included that P rather than Mr B was 
the legal owner of the car, that Mr B had sold back the car accepting the reduced value, that 
he was no longer in possession of the car, that there was no breach of contract by the 
supplier, and that the transaction wasnt covered by section 75 due to the existence of the 
finance arrangement with P.
In response to Mr Bs subsequent complaint, Barclaycard acknowledged thered been some 
shortcomings in its handling of the claim. It said it had been wrong to reject the claim on the 
basis the car was no longer in Mr Bs possession. It apologised and paid Mr B £25. 
However, it maintained its decision to reject the underlying claim, citing the previously 
mentioned resale as well as the outcome our service reached in respect of Mr Bs claim 
against P.
Our investigator didnt think it would be appropriate for us to deal with Mr Bs complaint. She 
felt it was more suitable to dismiss the complaint on the basis that dealing with it would 
seriously impair our effective operation, given the decision wed made in relation to the claim 
in Mr Bs complaint about P.
Mr B didnt agree with this analysis. He felt there was a distinction to be drawn between the 
actions of Barclaycard and those of P. Mr B also questioned the finding that dealing with the 
complaint would seriously impair our effective operation, saying the impact on our 
organisation would be minimal given wed already reached a view on the underlying subject 
matter.
my provisional findings
I recently issued a provisional decision setting out my findings and how I was minded to 
conclude the complaint was best resolved. I invited the parties to let me have any further 
information or evidence, if they wished, before I finally determined the complaint. My 
provisional findings were, in summary:
It wasnt appropriate for me to dismiss the complaint, notwithstanding the previous 
consideration of Mr Bs claim against P by my ombudsman colleague and 
subsequently, by the court. There was sufficient distinction between that 
consideration and the complaint about how Barclaycard had responded to the claim;
The transaction was covered by the provisions of section 75. Barclaycard had 
already recognised some shortcomings in its response to Mr Bs claim. I felt there 
were additional problems with the way in which Barclaycard had dealt with the claim, 
and that its existing payment of £25 wasnt enough to address the inconvenience this 
had caused to Mr B. It should increase this sum to £200; and
The courts finding was relevant to determining the extent of any liability Barclaycard 
might have to Mr B in respect of his breach of contract claim. It had considered 
whether Mr B should be entitled to recover the various aspects of his claim, and had 
decided that he was entitled only to some of the amount claimed. In light of this, I 
proposed that Barclaycard should meet the sum the court awarded, less any 
payment Mr B had received from P under the judgment. 
Both parties responded to my provisional decision. Mr B provided a copy of the court 
judgment and said that it had been made on the merits of the claim, as opposed to a default 
judgment. Mr B added that the court had decided the deposit hed paid represented a 
suitable deduction for the use hed had of the car and had decided he wasnt entitled to 
receive an amount in respect of the government grant that had applied to the original 
contract. He said P had paid him the judgment sum in full.
In his response Mr B made a number of comments in relation to the operation of section 75, 
which Ill address in my findings below. In summary, he considers the claim he made under 
the CRA to be distinguishable from a claim under section 75, and that he should thus be 
able to recover the money  some £2,500  by which he believes he remains out of pocket.
Mr B has also sought to highlight that his decision to sell back the car to the original dealer 
was a genuine attempt to mitigate any loss suffered, rather than acceptance of any 
resolution of his claim. I appreciate he has raised this in response to comments within 
Barclaycards final response, rather than my provisional decision which didnt impose any 
limitation on these grounds.
Barclaycard acknowledged my provisional findings. It has also been informed of the 
additional information Mr B has provided about the court judgment and payment received. 
Barclaycard didnt state whether it was in agreement with my findings, but made no further 
submissions by the response date.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Neither Barclaycard nor Mr B has sought to argue the case to dismiss the complaint and so I 
adopt as part of this final decision the reasoning I set out in my provisional decision for 
concluding that it is appropriate for me to deal with the merits of Mr Bs complaint about 
Barclaycard.
In a similar vein, Ive no reason to depart from my provisional conclusion that section 75 
applies to the transaction Mr B undertook using his Barclaycard credit card. However, in light of certain of Mr Bs comments, I think it might be helpful if I explain how section 75 operates 
in respect of his claim.
Mr B has a claim against P in breach of contract. That claim arises primarily from the 
provisions of the CRA, which incorporate certain requirements  such as the requirement 
that goods are of satisfactory quality  into his contract with P. As that claim arises from the 
provisions of the CRA, other aspects such as the deduction for use that is permissible under 
the CRA are material considerations in determining the resolution of the claim.
Section 75 does not in itself provide that Mr B has a claim in breach of contract. Rather, it 
provides a mechanism by which, if Mr B has such a claim against P, then he has a like claim 
against Barclaycard. Having established Mr Bs breach of contract claim against P relates to 
whether the car P supplied was of satisfactory quality, it follows that his like claim against 
Barclaycard relates to the same cause of action. Under section 75 Barclaycard is jointly and 
severally liable for that claim. But section 75 doesnt create a new or different head of claim 
under which Mr B might pursue his loss. It simply provides him with an additional party 
against whom he can pursue his original claim.
As Ive noted, Mr Bs breach of contract claim has been determined by a court, which 
granted judgment in his favour and also set out the amount it considered appropriate to 
settle that claim. That award might mean Mr B hasnt received back all of the money he 
considers he should. I understand why he feels aggrieved at this.
However, Im not persuaded that it would be right for me to reach a finding that would 
effectively be saying that the court reached the wrong conclusion. Our service is an informal 
alternative to the court, rather than offering a form of appeal against the award made by the 
court in respect of Mr Bs claim. Im satisfied its appropriate to for me to accept the wisdom 
of the higher authority that the court represents and accept as fact that the sum Mr B should 
receive in settlement of his breach of contract claim is that set by the court.
Barclaycards liability to him for that claim is therefore that amount, less any sum he has 
already received in satisfaction of the judgment. As Mr B has confirmed that P has already 
paid him the judgment sum in full, it follows that Barclaycard has no further liability under his 
breach of contract claim. As such, its appropriate to remove this element from my final 
award.
Mr B has said he doesnt understand the statement I made in my provisional decision that a 
respondent isnt bound to agree a claim simply because it can be made. For clarity, this 
statement simply recognises the fact that a respondent to a claim is entitled to make a 
defence to that claim (as, indeed, I understand P did in the court proceedings). It may then, 
as here, fall to an arbiter or judge to decide whether that claim should succeed, and if so 
whether in part or in full.
I accept that Barclaycard made arguments in response to Mr Bs claim that contained 
inaccuracies and might not have been sufficient to defend the claim in court. However, there 
was nothing to prevent Barclaycard from making different or stronger arguments in the event 
of Mr B instigating legal proceedings against it. As I set out in my provisional decision, I 
consider the way Barclaycard dealt with the claim fell some way short of a reasonable 
response, which put Mr B to greater inconvenience than its payment of £25 recognises.
Im conscious Mr B has noted that in dealing with his complaint about P my ombudsman 
colleague directed a higher award than the £200 I proposed in my provisional decision. As 
Mr B has himself noted, however, there is a distinction to be drawn between the complaint 
about the way P dealt with him and the way Barclaycard did. I remain satisfied that £200 
(inclusive of the £25 already paid) is a fair amount for Barclaycard to pay him in settlement of this complaint.
My final decision
My final decision is that to settle this complaint I direct Barclays Bank UK PLC to pay Mr B a 
total of £200, inclusive of any amounts it has already paid him in relation to the dispute. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 9 January 2024.
 
Niall Taylor
Ombudsman