DRN-2825415
The complaint
Mr C complains that Monzo Bank Ltd trading as Monzo (Monzo) lost the money he 
transferred to his account.
What happened
In July 2019, Mr C applied for an account with Monzo. He was placed on its waiting list. In 
September 2019, his account was opened by Monzo. In June 2019, he made a transfer of 
£195 from his other bank account to a Monzo account. In March 2020, he made two 
purchases for £185 from his Monzo account. This resulted in an overdraft of £185. Overdraft 
fees were debited to the account. In October 2020, Monzo sent a notice of default to Mr C.
Mr C complained. He said hed paid in £195 into his Monzo account when it was opened and 
therefore he couldnt have been overdrawn. He showed us his bank statements which 
showed a payment to Monzo on 3 June 2019. He said Monzo must have lost the money. 
He had now incurred overdraft fees and adverse information had been advised to credit 
reference agencies. He complained to Monzo on 1 October 2020, but they didnt log or deal 
with his complaint.
Monzo said they didnt receive the money into Mr Cs account. And the payment was made 
three months before his Monzo account was opened  so it may have been possible Mr C 
had made the payment to a different account. They suggested he follow up with his bank to 
find out where the payment went to. They apologised for not dealing with his complaint when 
he called them and offered compensation of £75 for this.
Mr C brought his complaint to this service. Our investigator said Mr Cs account wasnt 
opened until September 2019, and the payment to Monzo was made in June 2019  so it 
couldnt have been made to Mr Cs Monzo account. He suggested Mr C contact his bank to 
trace where the payment was sent to. He said that any default information that Monzo 
advised to the credit reference agencies was fair and accurate  and had to remain in place. 
Mr C asked that his complaint be looked at by an ombudsman.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I can see that Mr C is adamant that he made the payment of £195 to his new Monzo account 
in June 2019  so he says the money must have been lost or mis posted to another account 
by Monzo. I want to assure Mr C that I have gone into his complaint in detail - and I have 
seen all of Monzos records relating to what happened. We have also asked detailed 
questions of Monzo about Mr Cs case.
I can see that Mr C signed up to Monzos waiting list on 14 July 2019. Ive seen the 
documents in Monzos records that show this. I had wondered whether Monzo had advised 
an account number to Mr C at that stage  but Monzo told us that they only had a record of 
Mr Cs email address  nothing more. Ive the seen that his account was then actually 
opened on 9 September 2019. Ive seen the identification and address verification details 
submitted then by Mr C. So, for me, its clear that the account wasnt opened until then.
Ive seen Mr Cs bank account statement which show a payment of £195 to Monzo on 3 
June 2019. But there are no account details such as sort code and account number in the 
description  neither would there be. So, this doesnt prove the payment went to his Monzo 
account. 
We asked Monzo to look again  and they told us a payment of £195 from Mr C was credited 
to another account (not Mr Cs account) on 3 June 2019. Mr C showed us the payment 
details provided by his bank  and I can see that the account number on the payment is not 
his Monzo account number. So, it looks like Mr C made the payment, my mistake, to another 
account. Neither we, not Monzo, can tell Mr C what that account was, or who it belongs to  
due to privacy laws. All I can suggest is that Mr C speaks to his bank and ask his bank to 
approach Monzo to see if they can get the money back  as it appears it was a genuine 
mistake. This is standard practice across the banking industry. However, I would say that 
with the passage of time since June 2019, this may not produce a positive outcome  as the 
money may have been spent by the recipient.
It follows that Monzo werent at fault sending a notice of default to Mr C. Its not clear if 
theyve registered a default on Mr Cs credit file yet. But - they have an obligation to report 
accurate information to credit reference agencies. The only way this can be changed is if 
theyve made a mistake  and I dont think they have in this case.
I can see that Monzo offered Mr C compensation of £75 for not dealing with his complaint 
effectively  and if he wishes to accept this, he should get in touch with Monzo to advise 
where it should be paid.
So  and I can appreciate that given Mr Cs strength of feeling  I wont be asking Monzo to 
do anymore here.
My final decision
I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 21 July 2021.
 
Martin Lord
Ombudsman