DRN-2857840
The complaint
Mr and Mrs W complain that they were mis-sold an Advantage Gold Account (AGA) in 
January 2011 by National Westminster Bank Plc (NatWest).
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again 
here. The facts are not in dispute, so Ill focus on giving the reasons for my decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr and Mrs W say that they had to take out an AGA in 2011 to get better interest rates on a 
loan they were taking out.
NatWest says that Mr and Mrs W chose to take out the AGA based on information it had 
given them.
Mr and Mrs W had both had free accounts and individual accounts before the AGA sale. And 
Mr W had previously had loans while not holding an AGA.
So, I think its more likely than not that they knew they had a choice whether to take out the 
AGA, and they knew they didnt have to have an AGA to get a loan. So, I think they chose to 
take out the AGA based on the information that NatWest gave them.
This service is aware that NatWests usual practice at the time of sale was not to provide 
advice or recommend the AGA. And Ive not seen any evidence such as an assessment of 
Mr and Mrs Ws circumstances to suggest that it did. 
So, I think its more likely than not that this was a non-advised sale. This means that 
NatWest was not required to ensure the AGA was suitable for Mr and Mrs W, it was only 
required to provide them with enough information to make an informed choice. 
And I think it did. I say this because NatWest was trying to sell the AGA to Mr and Mrs W, so 
I think its likely it explained all the benefits, and it has provided evidence that it sent Mr and 
Mrs W an information pack.
Mr and Mrs W appear to have been aware of the AGA benefits and say they decided to take 
the AGA to get better rates on a large loan they were about to take out. Mr and Mrs W saved 
a considerable sum on the loan so I can see why it would have been of interest to them. I 
note that the amount they saved wouldve paid for the AGA for a substantial period and they 
couldve closed the AGA at any time. So, its not possible for me say the AGA was 
unsuitable for them even if it had been an advised sale.
Mr and Mrs W complain that they could only get the better interest rates on their loan by 
taking out the AGA. But it is entirely a commercial decision for the bank whether it offers 
betters rates as part of a packaged bank account, and in my view, it did nothing wrong by 
doing so.
Mr and Mrs W have also implied that they had to keep the AGA over many years to get the 
better interest rates on their loan. But Ive seen nothing in NatWests information pack that 
said they had to, and after the loan completed, they kept the AGA for several more years 
and later upgraded it to a more costly product.
So, in summary, I think its more likely than not that Mr and Mrs W chose to take out the 
AGA based on the information NatWest provided, and NatWest didnt do anything wrong in 
the sale.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold Mr and Mrs Ws complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W and Ms W to 
accept or reject my decision before 28 August 2021.
 
Richard Hill
Ombudsman