DRN-3083688
The complaint
Mr R complains that the car he acquired from Moneybarn No. 1 Limited (Moneybarn) was 
not of satisfactory quality.
What happened
Mr R acquired a used car from Moneybarn through a conditional sale agreement in February 
2020. The car had a cash price of around £4,000 and was around 7 years old. It had 
travelled around 84,000 miles when it was supplied.
Mr R told us that the engine management light came on in the car in the first 2 or 3 weeks 
and he heard a knocking sound from the engine. There was also a smell of fuel. He has told 
us he took the car back to the supplying dealership but before they inspected it, the national 
lockdown due to coronavirus occurred. 
He raised his concerns with the broker for his finance in April 2020, and they arranged for a 
complaint to be raised with Moneybarn. Towards the end of May 2020, when they had re-
opened, Mr R took the car back into the dealership and they carried out some repairs. The 
finance broker has said that the dealership replaced some sensors. 
However, in July 2020 Mr R has said he was still experiencing the same problems, so he 
contacted Moneybarn again (through the finance broker) to say the car was still having the 
same issues. He said the dealership hadnt test driven the car properly when they repaired it 
and when he got it back, he took it on the motorway and found it still misfired and the engine 
management light came on again. 
An independent inspection was arranged by the finance broker. This took place in August 
2020. The report says that the previous repairs included a sensor which was affecting the 
engine management light. It says that the car was in generally good condition for its age and 
mileage, and the only faults they identified were an uneven idling, and an oil leak from the 
cam cover area which may have been creating the smell of burning fuel the customer had 
mentioned. The engineer attached the diagnosis equipment to the car, and no fault-codes 
were recorded, or present. 
The report said there was no evidence of an engine knocking noise, no misfire, and nothing 
else of concern was identified. The engineer felt that because the car had passed its MOT 
shortly before Mr R had acquired it, with no mention of an issue with an oil leak or seepage, 
that fault must have developed after the point of sale. He said it was not a significant issue 
and estimated it would probably cost around £60 to repair. 
The conclusion was that the vehicle was road worthy and had no other issues but suggested 
the oil leakage should be dealt with as it could be a fire risk. 
At this point, Moneybarn issued a second final response letter. They had issued one in May 
2020 not upholding the complaint because theyd been unable to investigate the concerns or 
get hold of Mr R to get any more information about the problems. 
So, when Mr R had contacted them again in July 2020 saying there were still problems, they 
re-opened an investigation and issued a further final response letter. This said that the 
independent report said there were no faults evident that had been present or developing at 
point of sale, so did not uphold his complaint. 
Unhappy with this, Mr R said that he felt the car was unsafe, and he voluntarily terminated 
the finance agreement and gave the car back. After this, he brought his complaint to our 
service. The investigator here who looked into it did not uphold the complaint. They felt that 
there wasnt any evidence of the issues Mr R said he had experienced, and the problems 
identified in the independent report were wear and tear issues for a car of this age and did 
not make the car of unsatisfactory quality. 
Mr R didnt agree with this and asked for the case to be reviewed by an Ombudsman. He 
said that the Citizens Advice Bureau had told him about a 30 day rule from when hed 
acquired the car, and it wasnt fair that national lockdown had meant the garage hadnt 
looked at the car inside 30 days, when he had first identified the faults, because he felt that 
would make a difference to the outcome of his complaint. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The Consumer Rights Act 2015 is of particular relevance to this complaint. It says under a
contract to supply goods, there is an implied term that the quality of the goods is 
satisfactory.
The Consumer Rights Act 2015 says the quality of goods are satisfactory if they meet the
standard a reasonable person would consider satisfactory taking into account any 
description of the goods, the price and all the other relevant circumstances. So, it seems 
likely in a case involving a car, the other relevant circumstances a court would take into 
account might include things like the age and mileage at the time of sale and the vehicles 
history. 
Before I look at the issue of whether the car was of satisfactory quality, I will first look at Mr 
Rs concerns that because the faults had appeared within the first 30 days, he was unfairly 
treated because the dealership didnt look at the car in a timely fashion and then national 
lockdown prevented them doing so. 
If it is shown there was an issue with the quality of the car, the impact that the timing could 
have here would be on how the complaint could be resolved. If it was shown that the car was 
not of satisfactory quality within the first 30 days, the consumer would have the immediate 
right to reject the vehicle. This would apply without having to give the business the 
opportunity to repair the issues. 
The car was taken for repairs in May 2020, and it seems one or two sensors were replaced, 
potentially including one which affected the engine management light coming on. This would 
fit with the testimony that Mr R has provided about the engine management light coming on 
in the first few weeks, so I am satisfied that there may well have been an issue he noticed 
within the first 30 days. 
But that issue would need to make the car of unsatisfactory quality. I dont agree that 
replacing a sensor to ensure the warning light works correctly would make the car of 
unsatisfactory quality in a car of this age. Alongside this, Mr R accepted the repairs provided by the dealer, and has provided text messages showing these conversations and that he 
agreed to bring the car in to be repaired without asking to reject it. 
Mr R has said that also within that first 30 days, there was a knocking noise, a smell of fuel 
and the engine misfired. He felt the problem might be connected to a head gasket failure and 
there might be issues with the cam shaft cover. 
The business has not said that any of these issues were identified and repaired in May 2020, 
and Mr R has said that the issues remained after those repairs, hence he complained again 
in July 2020. 
So, I think its fair to say that when the independent report was undertaken in August 2020, if 
any of these issues were evident, they could be linked back to the first 30 days when Mr R 
acquired the car. So the fact the car wasnt inspected in the first 30 days doesnt mean any 
faults cant be shown to have been present at this time. 
However, the independent report does not identify any issues other than an oil leak. The 
report says that if an oil leak had been present when the car was supplied, it would most 
likely have shown up in the MOT carried out shortly before the car was supplied. This is 
plausible, and I agree this is most likely to have been the case. 
Alongside this, a small oil leak like this would not in my view be considered an issue which 
made the car of unsatisfactory quality. From the details provided in the independent report, it 
is most likely this was just a wear and tear issue, and not something which made the car of 
unsatisfactory quality. 
So even if it had developed inside 30 days, because of the age and mileage already covered 
by the car when it was supplied, this wouldnt make the car of unsatisfactory quality. The car 
was 7 years old and had covered 84,000 miles already. It would be reasonable to expect 
that a car of this age and mileage might suffer from some wear and tear, and some of these 
parts might need fixing or replacing quite soon after it was supplied.  
Unfortunately, Mr R has not been able to provide any evidence of an engine knock, or any 
issues with the head gasket or the cam shaft cover. And the independent engineer who 
inspected the car did not find any issues with these things (other than the oil leak onto the 
cam cover which may have caused the smell which concerned Mr R). I appreciate that 
sometimes it can be difficult to evidence issues with a car, and sometimes they can be 
intermittent and appear at times and not at others. But I have to base my decision on the 
balance of probabilities where there is any contradictory evidence. 
I give the independent report significant weight here in considering the evidence. The car 
had only done around 1000 miles since it had been supplied when the inspection was 
carried out in August 2020. So, if the report had identified any significant issues, I would be 
satisfied that they were most likely developing at point of sale. Ultimately, whether the car 
had been inspected within 30 days, or later on as was the case, wouldnt make a difference 
here as to the outcome of the complaint. Whether the car was of satisfactory quality when it 
was supplied is the key issue, and when this was identified isnt important. 
The report carried out in August 2020 did not find any significant issues with the car which 
would make it of unsatisfactory quality. As there is no similar or more persuasive evidence 
that contradicts this independent report, I am satisfied that on the balance of probabilities, 
the car was of satisfactory quality when it was supplied to Mr R. I wont be asking the 
business to do any more here.
My final decisionI am not upholding this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision before 14 January 2022.
 
Paul Cronin
Ombudsman