DRN-3479816
The complaint
Mr R complains that RAC Financial Services Limited (RAC) unfairly automatically renewed 
his RAC breakdown policy without his permission and wants a refund of the fee charged.
What happened
Mr R received a renewal notification by email from RAC which detailed the renewal of his 
roadside assistance policy.
As his payment details had changed and he had no wish to renew the policy he did not 
contact RAC because he was under the impression his policy would end due to this.
The policy was renewed by RAC. When this was noticed by Mr R he contacted RAC to 
obtain a refund.
Mr R made a complaint that RAC had taken payment without authorisation. He said that 
RAC had given him a number of incorrect explanations as to how it had held his updated 
payment details. Mr R said his bank confirmed to him they had not updated RAC with his 
card details. 
RAC agreed to refund the policy and retained a £25 arrangement and administration fee.
As Mr R was not happy with RAC, he brought the complaint to our service.
Our investigator did not uphold the complaint. He looked into the case and felt that RACs 
explanation of how it obtained Mr Rs valid card details was fair. And RAC had acted 
reasonably and within the policy terms and conditions when it auto-renewed his cover.
As Mr R is unhappy with our investigators view the complaint has been brought to me for a 
final decision to be made.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Since the sale and administration of insurance became regulated in 2005 we can look at 
roadside assistance sales and administration complaints provided this activity was carried 
out by a business under our compulsory or voluntary jurisdiction.
RAC are in our compulsory jurisdiction. So Ive looked at if Mr Rs complaint relates to a 
regulated activity.
There are two main categories of regulated activities relating to insurance - the sale or 
administration of the contract (the policy) and the performance of the contract.
As Mr Rs complaint concerns renewal, its about the administration of the contract  and this 
is a regulated activity.
I looked at the documentation sent by RAC to Mr R. I saw that an email was sent one month 
prior to the renewal date of his roadside assistance policy. Mr R acknowledges that he 
received this email. Within this email it said;
Renewal of your RAC Membership
Your RAC membership is due for renewal so please go to your MyRAC account to
check your renewal documents.
If your payment details have changed, or you need to make a payment, please call us
on XXX XXX XXXX to stay covered.
I saw evidence that on the day he received the renewal email from RAC Mr R did log in to 
his online MyRAC account. It is Mr Rs responsibility to check the details
Mr R said, As my payment details had changed and I had no wish to renew I never 
contacted them as I was under the impression the policy would simply end due to this.
He further said I never read through the document as I felt it wasn't relevant as I had no 
intention of renewing and felt I had no need to contact them because the renewal email led 
me to believe it would simply expire. 
I looked at the renewal invitation letter. It says;
You currently have Standard cover, which will renew automatically on 18 January 2022. 
You dont need to do anything to stay covered.
And in the next paragraph it says;
If you dont want to renew automatically, you can change this online. Just go to 
MyRAC.co.uk and select Account Settings in the menu. Or you can call us on XXXX XXXX 
XXX.
I think this is clear that Mr R needed to contact RAC if he did not want his policy to renew 
automatically.
Within the policy terms and conditions it says;
If you have authorised us to hold onto your account details, we will automatically renew your 
policy and collect the premium that is due. If you do not wish us to do this, please contact us 
as soon as possible and before the renewal date.
It continues on to say;
If your card details have changed, we will look to update them from your card provider to let 
us renew your policy.
If you have informed us you do not wish to automatically renew your policy and you have not
authorised us to keep your account details, we will not renew your policy and it will expire at 
the end of the policy period.
It also says:
If you have not made a claim and you cancel within 14 days of your renewal date, we will 
retain £25 of your arrangement and administration fee and refund any remainder. If you 
cancel your policy after this time further charges will apply - full details are in your policy 
booklet.
In the renewal documentation some of the details of Mr Rs updated payment card was 
provided. Which included the expiry date.  
Mr R said RAC used his card without his permission and wanted to know how RAC obtained 
his up to date bank account details to be able to renew his policy. As I have detailed above, in the terms and conditions of Mr Rs policy RAC it says it will look 
to update card details from the card provider. An update service is a standard service offered 
by card organisations. It allows companies, such as RAC, who process recurring card 
transactions to ensure they always hold the correct and up to date card details to take these 
payments.
In this case as Mr R had selected to pay for his cover by automatic yearly renewal by card 
this means he has authorised RAC to take yearly payments. As RAC gave Mr R notice of the 
payment amount to be taken, payment date and the details of the card it was to be taken 
from it has worked within the update scheme.
I accept that Mr R said he did not contact RAC before the renewal was due because he 
believed his policy would just expire. But if he had checked the details of the renewal when 
he logged in to his MyRAC account he would have seen that the payment details held were 
those of his current payment card. 
I dont think the renewal letter was written in a way that would lead the reader to think the 
policy would simply expire. I think RAC acted within the terms and conditions of the policy by 
refunding the policy fee to him but retaining the £25 for arrangement and administration.
When Mr R realised his policy had renewed he contacted RAC by phone. Mr R said RAC 
gave him four different explanations for having his new card details. He further said his 
bank had told him RAC had contacted them directly and asked for updated card details.
I listened to the calls made by Mr R to RAC. Although I dont think the RAC representative 
was very clear, I didnt find it gave him four different explanations. 
I know Mr R will be disappointed, but I think the renewal letter sent to him by RAC prior to 
the renewal date were clear that he needed to contact it should he not wish to renew his 
policy. RAC did not use his card without permission as he had selected to pay for cover by 
automatic yearly renewal.
Therefore, I do not uphold his complaint and do not require RAC to do anything further in this 
case.
My final decision
For the reasons I have given I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision before 27 June 2022.
 
Sally-Ann Harding
Ombudsman