DRN-1757920
The complaint
Ms R feels that Etika Finance UK Limited has treated her unfairly in relation some cosmetic 
goods and services she purchased from a salon using a finance agreement with Etika.
What happened
In August 2018 Ms R entered into a contract for some cosmetic goods and cosmetic 
services. These goods and services were supplied by a salon and paid for through credit 
provided by Etika. This was a fixed sum loan agreement for a total repayable amount of 
£1800 to be repaid over twenty-four monthly repayments (a further £200 having being paid 
directly). She signed the agreement electronically.
Ms R says she was pressured into an agreement and didnt know shed signed up to a loan. 
Ms R attended the salon between August and December 2018 for treatments and during the 
treatment she says her skin was damaged. So she wants to get out of the agreement. In 
January 2019 the salon closed. So she spoke to Etika who acknowledged there had been a 
breach of contract and it offered her a financial settlement. Ms R feels should she pay 
nothing further. So she complained to this service.
Our investigator felt that the settlement suggested by Etika was fair and that Ms R should 
pay the significantly reduced outstanding amount bearing in mind the goods and services 
she has received. But Ms R doesnt agree. So, this complaint comes to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Where the evidence is incomplete, inconclusive or contradictory (as some of it is here), I 
reach my decision on the balance of probabilities  in other words, what I consider is most 
likely to have happened in the light of the available evidence and the wider circumstances.
Ms R raised her complaint under section 75 of the Consumer Credit Act 1974. The 
Consumer Rights Act 2015 is also relevant in this complaint as it covers contracts where 
goods and/or services are provided.
The general effect of Section 75 is that if Ms R has a claim for material misrepresentation or 
breach of contract against a supplier of goods or services, she can also bring that claim 
against the credit provider (Etika here) provided certain conditions are met. Etika says Ms R 
should receive a significant reduction in what she owes in light of the acknowledged breach 
of contract.
To gain protection under Section 75 there are certain conditions that have to be met before 
even considering whether there has been a breach of contract or material misrepresentation. 
I think it likely this transaction falls within the financial limits required by the Act. There also 
needs to be the required three-party contractual relationship-debtor, creditor and supplier; 
often referred to as the DCS relationship. I think this is made out here also. Bearing in mind 
Etika has acknowledged that the entire course of goods and services hasnt been provided 
and thus a breach of contract has occurred, I need to consider how this matter should be 
resolved fairly between the parties.
I think it worth making clear here that this complaint is about Etika and how it has treated Ms 
R. For the reasons given it has obligations here, and through the avenues Ive described, I 
can hold it responsible for issues with the salon in this case. However it must be 
remembered that it is an entirely separate legal entity to the salon. Its obligations in this 
relationship in this case are not limitless. And it should be remembered that the primary 
responsibility for what the salon did or didnt do sits with the salon. The key question for me 
in making this decision is whether or not Etika has treated Ms R fairly or not. It is not what 
the salon did or didnt do-as the salon isnt in my jurisdiction and no longer exists as a legal 
entity. Just because Ms R feels the salon treated her unfairly it doesnt necessarily follow 
that Etika treated her unfairly. I hope Ive made this key issue clear.
Ive considered the invoice from the salon. I can see its personalised with Ms Rs name and 
it says Client signed invoice and collected products and device. I can see it sets out that 
the agreement for items in the contract across both goods and services. It notes that £200 
has been paid direct by Ms R and that £1800 is being paid for through a named Lender 
(which is now known as Etika). 
I can see Ms R attended the salon on a number of occasions between September and 
December 2018. I can see from the invoice she left with some of the products but then the 
salon ceased trading before she could complete the course of treatments shed paid for. So I 
think Etikas approach of accepting that there has been a breach of contract and offering a 
settlement is fair.
Ms R has made the point that this was a course of treatments and without completing the 
course the full benefit of the course isnt achieved. But clearly some benefit must be 
achieved by each treatment otherwise there wouldnt be a need for a course of treatment as 
opposed to a single treatment. Similarly the amount of benefit received from treatments, 
products and diagnostics differs not only between them but in their respective impacts on 
different customers. And as Ms R points out there are a number of people who find 
themselves in similar positions to Ms R in not having received their whole course of 
treatment. 
Accordingly it is important that this service not only tries to fulfil its duty to be fast, fair and 
impartial but also that it applies a consistent approach where it can. In this instance the 
Investigator has chosen to see the contract as being for nineteen items and to treat them 
equally. This has been done as there is an overall cost and a list of goods and services 
provided, some of which are discounted. Clearly items provided either discounted to no cost 
or reduced cost as part of a larger agreement (with significant cost) do have some individual 
value. And it is also clear that other methodologies could lead to more unfairness than this 
methodology. So in the interests of fairness to consumers I consider this approach to be fair. 
Furthermore I think it fair that Ms Rs outstanding debt is based on the premis she pays for 
the goods and services she did receive and doesnt pay for those that she didnt receive. 
The total price was £2,000 (including the deposit Ms R paid). This divided by the nineteen 
equal parts of the contract means the applied value of each element is £105.26. I therefore 
feel Ms R should receive a price reduction of £947.37 (9 x £105.26). The total price was 
£2,000 and this therefore means the total amount Ms R is liable for on this agreement is now 
£852.63. Ms R paid up front a £200 deposit so that should be removed from the outstanding 
amount that Ms R needs to repay.Ms R has said that the treatment affected her skin negatively. The Consumer Rights Act 
states that goods provided must be of a satisfactory quality. It also says services must be 
provided with reasonable skill and care. It is clear Ms R received both goods and services 
here in relation to her skin. It is also clear that Ms R had a number of treatments at the salon 
over a period of time. And although this service has asked Ms R for evidence of damage 
done Ms R hasnt provided any, other than her comments on the matter. In order to uphold a 
complaint on this basis Id need to be satisfied that damage had been done and that it was 
as a direct result of something the salon did which was either due to the goods provided not 
being of satisfactory quality or that the service provided wasnt provided with reasonable skill 
and care. Im not satisfied on balance of probabilities that I can fairly decide such damage 
has been done for such reasons based on the evidence available to me at this time. 
Accordingly Im not persuaded Etika has treated Ms R unfairly for not upholding this element 
of her complaint. I should add for clarity that even if Ms Rs arguments had been made out 
here this service cannot award for loss of amenity. So if she feels she has suffered such a 
loss then she should take independent legal advice on that specific matter. It may be that 
with such independent medical evidence to support her position a court, which can decide 
on loss of amenity, may find differently on different evidence to that available to me.
Ms R has made many arguments as to why she shouldnt have to pay for anything received 
from the salon and I shall now address those key outstanding arguments here.
She says Etika didnt do enough with regard to the salon and should have known it was a 
scam. But this service hasnt seen persuasive evidence that this salon was a scam. After all 
it is clear that goods and services were provided over a period of time by the salon. 
Furthermore it must be remembered that although the law does place Etika under 
obligations here for what the salon did or didnt do, Etika is not one and the same as the 
salon (as Ive described). It had a relationship with the salon and provided finance to its 
customers, but they are separate legal entities. So Etikas liability here isnt endless. And the 
dispute that I have to decide upon here is whether Etika treated Ms R fairly or not.
Ms R says she wasnt provided with the agreement she entered into at the time and didnt 
know she was getting a loan. But Etika has pointed to emails it sent her enclosing a link to 
the fixed sum loan agreement shed made. I can see she provided significant personal 
information which has been placed in the agreement. I can also see Etika spoke to her at the 
time when performing its checks before agreeing the finance. Ive also seen copies of the 
agreement and the invoice from the time which both explain what was agreed. So Im not 
persuaded that there is sufficient reason here for me to say there was no agreement for the 
provision of goods and services as described.
Ms R points to licencing issues between the salon and some of the products used here. But 
Ive seen no persuasive evidence that the products used werent genuine. So there is no 
misrepresentation about that. And Ive not seen persuasive evidence that there was failings 
in the treatments Ms R received in this case. So although there may have been issues 
between the salon and its suppliers or staff Im not persuaded Ms R has lost out because of 
these through Etikas position.
Ms R has argued latterly that there were aggressive sales techniques used in her case, and 
she didnt have a free choice at the time of entering the agreement. In situations where I see 
these aggressive techniques, consumers are very aware of it at the time and normally react 
strongly at or near the time in order to complain and get out of what theyve agreed to under 
duress. 
In this case Ms R signed the agreement, and it and the invoice clearly state the significant 
sums involved here. She didnt complain to Etika but rather returned to the salon repeatedly 
over months for treatments.She also provided significant details about herself which are evidenced on the fixed sum 
loan agreement. She also provided her bank details and direct debits to be paid on a 
monthly basis. And the documentation shows she also signed an invoice to say shed taken 
possession of the products listed. Taking all we know into account Im not persuaded Ms R 
didnt have free choice in agreeing to what she agreed to here. So I dont think Etika has 
treated her unfairly in expecting her to pay a fair amount under the agreement for the goods 
and services she did receive.
Ms R also points to other instances where people in similar situations have managed to 
extricate themselves fully from obligations under similar loan agreements. This may be so. 
But I am obliged to come to a fair and reasonable decision on the facts of this particular 
case. And I think Etikas position that Ms R pays for the goods and services she received 
here is fair. Just because other companies in other cases may have come to more generous 
positions than Etikas, doesnt mean Etika has itself treated Ms R unfairly.
Ms R also points to a wealth of comment about the salon online on various websites. There 
is no dispute that the salon closing here has left some consumers such as Ms R with 
incomplete treatments and unhappy. But as Ive stated already I can only decide in this 
decision on the merits of Ms Rs complaint regarding Etika. And I think it has treated her 
fairly, as I agree she should pay for what she has received and not pay for what she hasnt 
received.
Ms R has also said that the time and effort she has expended in traveling to and from the 
salon should be considered. However when she made this agreement she knew where the 
salon was and that shed be treated there. So I dont see what Etika has done wrong in this 
regard.
Summary
In short, Ive considered everything that Ms R has said. I appreciate how Ms R feels about 
the whole situation and I can understand the situation she finds herself in now is decidedly 
different to that she set out to be in when she first agreed terms with the Etika. 
However, I dont think what Etika has done with regard to the Section 75 claim has meant 
that Ms R has been treated unfairly by it. I think Etikas decision to acknowledge the breach 
of contract and offer a financial solution is fair. And on balance Im not persuaded that the 
goods supplied were of an unsatisfactory quality or that the services provided were not 
carried out without reasonable skill and care. So Etika can ask Ms R to repay the 
outstanding amount as Ive described above. Accordingly I do not uphold this complaint.
It maybe that Ms R choses to not be bound by this decision by not accepting it as is her right 
under our process. However this decision does bring to an end our consideration of the 
merits of this complaint about Etika.
My final decision
For the reasons I have explained, my final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint 
about Etika Finance UK Limited.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms R to accept or 
reject my decision before 3 March 2021.
 
Rod Glyn-Thomas
Ombudsman