DRN-1569770
 
The complaint
Mr R is unhappy that ActiveQuote Limited mis-sold him an income protection policy.
What happened
In early 2017 ActiveQuote sold Mr R an income protection policy which couldve paid him a 
monthly benefit in the event that he was unable to work as a result of an accident or 
sickness. It had previously sold him a similar policy in 2015 which had been underwritten by 
a different insurer.
Subsequently, Mr R was off sick from work for over two weeks and sought to make a claim 
under the policy. However, as he hadnt been off work for 30 consecutive days, that period of 
sickness wasnt covered under the policy. Thats because Mr R had the benefit of a back to 
day 1 policy which meant that he had to be off work sick or injured for 30 consecutive days 
before he could claim on the policy. And if the claim was accepted, the policy would cover 
him back to the first day of absence.
Mr R says that wasnt explained to him before taking out the policy, so it was mis-sold. 
ActiveQuote didnt uphold his complaint.
Unhappy, Mr R complained to our Service. Our investigator didnt think ActiveQuote had 
mis-sold the policy. Mr R disagrees so his complaint has now been passed to me to look at 
everything afresh to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I dont uphold it. Ill explain why.
ActiveQuote recommended the policy to Mr R. So, not only did it have an obligation to 
ensure that it was suitable for his needs, but it also had to provide him with clear, fair and not
misleading information about the main terms of the policy.
Ive seen nothing to conclude that the policy was unsuitable for Mr R. For example, taking
into account the answers he gave to certain questions during the call, he was eligible for the 
policy and it doesnt look like he was caught by any of the policys main exclusions at the 
time the policy was sold. And I dont think the cost of the monthly premium meant that the 
policy was unaffordable or - when compared with the monthly benefit  unsuitable.
Mr R only received statutory sick pay if he was off work ill or injured. But the policy he was 
sold could cover the first 30 days of absence, so long as he was off work for 30 consecutive 
days. So Im satisfied this didnt make the policy unsuitable in the circumstances of this 
particular complaint. 
Im also satisfied that during the call Mr R was given clear, fair and not misleading
information about the main terms of the policy such as the monthly benefit, how long the
policy could pay out for (1 year), what it covered and the waiting period; for the policy to pay 
out he needed to be off work for 30 days, but it would be backdated to day 1. 
Mr R was told that the policy documentation would be sent to him and he should read this. 
He was also told of the cancellation period. 
I dont think anything sent to Mr R by ActiveQuote - or the insurer  after the call is
inconsistent with the information he was told during the call. 
So, Im satisfied that the policy wasnt mis-sold to Mr R.
When making this finding Ive taken into account all of Mr Rs comments including what he 
says about the previous income protection insurance policies ActiveQuote had sold to him. 
The complaint Im looking at relates to the sale of the policy in 2017. But Mr R says that hed 
been told during a previous sale process that he would be covered if he was off work for a 
couple of weeks and he had the benefit of a back to day 1 policy previously. So, he was 
under the impression that the policy he bought in early 2017 would cover him if off for less 
than 30 consecutive days. 
Weve received recordings of previous calls and theres nothing to suggest Mr B was told 
that previously. But in any event, for the reasons above, Im satisfied that he was given clear, 
fair and not misleading about the effect of the back to day 1 benefit when the policy was 
sold to him in early 2017.
My final decision
I dont uphold Mr Rs complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision before 25 August 2020.
 
David Curtis-Johnson
Ombudsman