DRN-3458658
The complaint
Mr P complains about account handling and negative information Volkswagen Financial 
Services (UK) Limited (VWFS) recorded on his credit file. And the impact his has had on 
him. He would like the credit information corrected and more compensation than VWFS has 
offered.
. 
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties so I wont repeat them again here 
instead I will focus on giving the reasons for my decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so I have reached the following conclusions:-
VWFS has accepted it made mistakes with Mr Ps account as payments were made 
as expected. His credit file, which I understand has now been amended , shouldnt 
have been affected and VWFS  shouldnt have sent account arrears correspondence. 
The main issue is that Mr P doesnt feel the £330.56 compensation that VWFS has 
offered him is sufficient.
We consider a range of factors when looking at suitable redress such as distress 
,inconvenience and any resultant loss. I dont doubt the distress caused to Mr P by 
account arrears letters and  the frustration of the time taken and effort involved  to 
resolve the matter.
I have also noted  Mr P  had a credit card application turned down due to negative 
information on his credit file. He has told us the only negative information recorded 
was by VWFS. He hasnt evidenced this, but  I have no reason to disbelieve him. In 
which case its likely the credit refusal was down to the VWFS credit information and I 
have taken that into account when considering if  VWFS suggested compensation of 
£330.56 (which is based on one months payment on his credit agreement with 
VWFS) is reasonable..
I do feel VWFSs offer is reasonable and is in line with what I would have awarded 
had it not made this offer. I think its original offer of £100 was too low  it took some 
attempts to finally get Mr Ps credit file sorted adding to the inconvenience for him.  I 
have also considered the failed credit card application which  would have added to 
Mr Ps inconvenience. But I have no evidence of any actual loss or other factors that I 
could take into account as result of VWFSs actions that would lead me to believe a 
higher level of compensation would be appropriate. .
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint.
In full and final settlement Volkswagen Financial Services (UK) Limited should pay Mr P 
£330.56 compensation for distress and inconvenience.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision before 31 May 2022.
 
Bridget Makins
Ombudsman