DRN-4436768
The complaint
Ms T complains about Aviva Insurance Limiteds (Aviva) handling of her claim, under her 
home emergency policy. 
What happened
Ms T contacted Aviva to make a claim due to blocked toilets and sinks in her home. It sent 
an engineer who said that due to an incorrect installation of a waste pipe, the sanitaryware 
continually blocked. The engineer also said that the toilets and sinks were clear, but advised 
Ms T to carry out works, to correct the poor installation and prevent further blockages. 
A few weeks later, Ms T contacted Aviva again, as the drain had blocked. It sent an engineer 
who cleared the blockage. A week later, Ms T contacted Aviva as the blockage had returned. 
The engineer advised that a specialist machine was required. A further visit was arranged, 
and the pipe was unblocked.
Ms T contacted Aviva around a week later and said that the blockage had returned. Aviva 
failed to attend and when it did, its engineer reported that he managed to clear all the 
blockages but advised that a section of the pipe would need to be replaced and an all-day 
appointment was required.
A few weeks later, Ms T contacted Aviva to advise that the blockages had returned. 
Although two further appointments were made and re-arranged, it did send an engineer and, 
on that occasion, he replaced a section of pipe, tested the drains, toilets, and sink, removed 
the scale, leaving the system clear. 
Ms T raised a complaint with Aviva given the way in which it had handled her claim. She felt 
that out of the six appointments it had made, three of which were cancelled at short notice, 
and this caused her a great deal of inconvenience. 
In its final response, it accepted that the missed appointments were inconvenient to Ms T 
and offered compensation of £75. It said that it had warned Ms T that the blockages would 
continue until she got the pipe correctly installed (which wasnt covered under the policy). 
But it said that it would still attend any future blockages. 
Ms T was given her referral rights. And as she remained unhappy with the resolution (as she 
wanted £100 compensation), she referred a complaint to our service. 
One of our investigators considered the complaint and thought it shouldnt be upheld. He 
said that Aviva accepted that there were three failed appointments. It offered compensation 
of £75, which was within our services guidelines on compensation awards. So, he was 
unable to increase the level of compensation further. 
Aviva accepted the view, Ms T did not. She said our investigator hadnt answered queries 
that she wanted answered in his view. These were:
First failed appointment (where the engineer was ill) was still an inconvenience to Ms 
T and this (along with the other issues)  should result in a higher amount of 
compensation.
Why did Aviva book an appointment over a bank holiday weekend, when it shouldve 
known that staff numbers would be limited?
Why didnt Aviva do all it could to ensure it had obtained the correct parts? As this 
was another reason it gave for one of the failed appointments. 
So, she asked for a decision from an ombudsman. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I wont uphold this complaint. I understand that this might be a 
disappointment to Ms T, but I hope my findings go some way in explaining why Ive reached 
this decision. 
Ive carefully considered all the evidence, comments, including the report from Ms T, as well 
as the policy terms and conditions. 
Ms T has raised a number of issues as outlined above. As an informal dispute resolution 
service, we investigate complaints and provide decisions, on the evidence, with the minimal 
of formality. As such, its not necessary to address each and every issue raised, but to 
address the main issue(s) of a complaint. 
From the evidence, it seems that the main issue of the complaint, relates to the short notice 
given, of the cancellation of the appointments.
The first appointment that was cancelled at short notice shouldve taken place on 26 
February 2023. Aviva notified Ms T that the engineer, who was due to attend, had become ill 
and the appointment would need to be re-arranged. Ms T accepts that this was unfortunate. 
Aviva said that it notified Ms T at 11.47 am, about the ill health of the engineer. The engineer 
had attended work but was taken ill.
I asked Aviva why it was unable to send an alternative engineer, it said that there was no 
capacity for it to do so, as they were fully booked. I think Aviva was fair to have notified Ms T 
as soon as it was able to. I accept it was unfortunate, as illness cant be foreseen.
Ive also looked at the policy terms and conditions, to see what both parties agreed to and in 
particular the obligations on Aviva when arranging appointments. The policy states:
When your claim requires us to visit your property, we will attend within a reasonable 
timescale. If something beyond our control makes that impossible to keep to  well let you 
know as soon as possible and give you another time when we can visit.
Im satisfied that Aviva complied with the policy terms and conditions as this event was 
beyond its control. And Im satisfied that it let Ms T know as soon as possible, that the 
appointment would be cancelled. Ive next looked at the appointment scheduled for 4 April 2023. Ms T said she was contacted 
by Aviva the day before, as the appointment had to be rescheduled. Aviva said this was 
because the part that it had expected to collect from its supplier was not available. 
Ms T said that she had to rearrange her day in order to accommodate the engineer, just for 
the appointment to be cancelled. I understand this wouldve been frustrating, but I can see 
that Aviva contacted Ms T, fairly early on (4pm the preceding day) to notify her of the 
cancellation. And whilst this wasnt ideal, I do think it notified her early enough, in an attempt 
to prevent any inconvenience. Also, it did comply with the above policy term and offered an 
alternative appointment, for a few days later. 
The final cancelled appointment was scheduled for 8 April 2023. Ms T said she received a 
text at around 7.14 am that she should expect an engineer between 8 am  1 pm. But at 
10.15 am Aviva cancelled the appointment. 
I asked Aviva the reason for this cancellation. It said that its engineer had attended its 
supplier for the part, but the part wasnt available. 
I can see that Aviva notified Ms T as soon as practicable, and I think in line with the policy 
term. I appreciate the frustration that this cancellation wouldve caused Ms T, especially as 
this was the second time that the part was unavailable. But the availability of parts from a 
third-party supplier, isnt something that Aviva is wholly responsible for. So, I dont think its 
reasonable to blame Aviva for this, as it was something beyond its control. 
Ms T did experience three cancelled appointments. However, I dont agree that they were 
avoidable. I must say that any home emergency is going to involve a homeowner in some 
inconvenience including, almost inevitably, making arrangements to accommodate an 
engineer to come in and put things right. 
Its fair to say, that Aviva accepted the poor service issues. It offered Ms T compensation for 
the trouble and upset caused of £75. Im aware that Ms T believes that this amount ought to 
be increased. 
Our service has strict guidelines on awards of compensation. And whilst I accept there were 
incidents of poor service, having reviewed our guidelines, I think that its error caused Ms T 
more than the levels of frustration and annoyance you might reasonably expect, and the 
impact was more than just minimal. Consequently, Im satisfied that the amount of 
compensation paid by Aviva, is in line with our services guidance on compensation awards. 
So, I wont be asking it to increase this further. 
I acknowledge Ms Ts strength of feeling about this complaint and the reason why she 
referred it to our service. I understand that my findings are likely to be a disappointment to 
Ms T. But, in the overall circumstances of this complaint, I havent seen enough evidence to 
show that Aviva acted unfairly. Im therefore not going to tell it to do anything further here.
My final decision
For the reasons given, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms T to accept or 
reject my decision before 1 January 2024.
 
Ayisha Savage
Ombudsman