DRN-4415848
The complaint
Mr G complains about Highway Insurance Company Limited (HIC) and the time it took 
them to process the claim he made on his motor insurance policy. 
What happened
Mr G held a motor insurance policy, underwritten by HIC. Unfortunately, on 31 December 
2022, Mr G was involved in a road traffic accident, with no other party involved, that 
significantly damaged his car. So, he made a claim on his motor insurance policy.
But Mr G was unhappy with the length of time it took HIC to arrange for his car to be 
collected by their collection agent, who Ill refer to as S, from storage. And that during this 
time, he was without a courtesy car to keep him mobile. So, he raised a complaint about this, 
asking HIC to compensate him £750 for the inconvenience hed been caused.
HIC responded to the complaint and upheld it. They accepted there was a delay of around 4 
weeks caused by S failure to collect Mr Gs car, which prevented Mr Gs car from being 
inspected and being declared a total loss. So, they sent Mr G a cheque to refund him his 
£200 excess that was originally deducted from the total loss settlement. But Mr G didnt 
accept this offer, as he didnt think it was enough to compensate him for the inconvenience 
he'd been caused.
HIC issued a follow up response, maintaining their belief the £200 was a fair refund. But they 
also offered, as a good will gesture, to refund Mr G any travel costs he incurred during the 
delay subject to receipts of these costs being provided. To date, Mr G hasnt provided these 
receipts and so, no further payment has been offered or issued. Mr G remained unhappy 
with this response and so, he referred his complaint to us. 
Our investigator looked into the complaint and didnt uphold it. They agreed there was a 
delay caused by S. And, while they had seen evidence to show HIC had continued to chase 
S to arrange collection, they did think HIC couldve sought an alternative collection agent. 
But they thought the £200 offered by HIC, and the offer to reimburse any travel costs upon 
the production of receipts, was a fair one considering Mr G would only have been entitled to 
a courtesy car had his car been repaired. And in this situation, Mr Gs car was deemed a 
total loss. So, they didnt think HIC needed to do anything more.
Mr G didnt agree, and he maintained his position that he was inconvenienced by the delays 
in a way that warranted a higher compensatory amount that £200. As Mr G didnt agree, the 
complaint has been passed to me for a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im not upholding the complaint for broadly the same reasons as the 
investigator. Ive focused my comments on what I think is relevant. If I havent commented 
on any specific point, its because I dont believe its affected what I think is the right 
outcome.
First, I want to recognise the impact this complaint has had on Mr G. I note its not disputed 
that there were delays during HICs handling of Mr Gs claim that resulted in him receiving 
his total loss settlement later than he shouldve. And during that time, Mr G was without a car 
and so, had to arrange alternative transport for an extended period of time which I 
appreciate would most likely incur additional, unforeseen costs. So, I do understand why Mr 
G would feel unfairly treated and want to be compensated to an amount he feels fair.
But for me to say HIC should do something more than they have already, for example 
increase the compensation amount offered to Mr G, Id need to be satisfied the offer put 
forward by HIC was unfair and failed to adequately address the impact caused to Mr G, 
considering the original mistakes they are responsible for. And in this situation, I dont think 
thats the case.
As Ive already explained above, HIC have accepted there were avoidable delays in 
retrieving Mr Gs car from storage. While I appreciate HIC did chase S to try and prevent 
these delays, S were ultimately acting on HICs behalf as HICs agent and so, I do think HIC 
are ultimately responsible for S failure here. And had HIC acted proactively, they couldve 
turned to another collection agent to recover the car, and this may have avoided some of the 
delays Mr G experienced. So, I dont think its in dispute that HIC acted unfairly and because 
of this, I dont intend to discuss the merits of the complaint in any further detail. Instead, Ive 
turned to what does remain in dispute, which centres around what HIC should reasonably do 
to put things right.
Any award or direction our service makes is intended to place Mr G back in the position he 
wouldve been in, had HIC acted fairly in the first place. Had HIC acted fairly, I think Mr Gs 
car wouldve been collected sooner. And had this happened, I think its reasonable for me to 
assume Mr Gs car wouldve been declared a total loss in a quicker amount of time, which in 
turn means Mr G wouldve received his total loss settlement sooner, allowing him access to 
the funds to begin searching for a replacement. So, I do think Mr G should be compensated 
for the delays HIC caused in receiving this payment, and the impact these had on Mr G.
But crucially, having read through Mr Gs insurance policy, I think it makes clear that Mr G 
would only be entitled to a courtesy car if his car was repairable. And this wasnt the case 
here. So, I dont think Mr G would ever have received a courtesy car during the claim 
process, and I dont think HIC should be expected to compensate him for the fact a courtesy 
car wasnt provided.
I can see that in HICs final responses to Mr Gs complaint, they issued him with a cheque 
for £200, which they described as a refund of the excess he paid. Although this was titled as 
a refund, Mr G was obligated to pay the excess when making a claim on his policy. So, I do 
think this £200 refund provides financial compensation to Mr G, as it places him financially in 
a better position that he shouldve been in when claiming on his policy. And because of this, 
I think its fair for me to treat this as financial compensation.
And having considered this £200, I think this offer falls in line with our services approach and 
what I wouldve directed, had it not already been put forward by HIC. I think it fairly 
recognises the inconvenience Mr G would no doubt have been caused being without a 
settlement payment for longer than he shouldve been. And I do think it also takes into 
consideration the times Mr G proactively chases HIC for an update, rather than HIC taking 
responsibility for providing these themselves.
But I do think it also reflects the fact Mr G would never have been entitled to a courtesy car, as his car wasnt repairable, as well as the actual length of the delay HIC were responsible 
for. And Im also unable to say for certain whether receiving the settlement sooner wouldve 
definitively allowed Mr G to purchase a replacement sooner, considering he wouldve 
needed to source a suitable replacement which may have taken some time to do. 
And alongside this, HIC have agreed to consider reimbursement of any travel costs Mr G 
incurred during the claim, to ensure any additional costs he incurred because of their delays 
are considered. But they have made clear this would be subject to the receipt of evidence to 
show what these costs were. And I think this is a fair request from HIC, as our service 
wouldnt expect a business to reimburse any financial losses without evidence of what these 
losses were, nor would be direct a business to do so, as were unable to place a customer in 
a position of betterment. And directing a payment for financial losses without evidence of 
these would potentially do so.
So, I dont think I can say HIC should offer anything more than the £200 already put forward 
plus the option of travel cost reimbursement and because of this, I dont think they need to 
do anything more.
I understand this isnt the outcome Mr G was hoping for. And I want to reassure Mr G I have 
thought carefully about the impact he has been caused, in consideration with what he feels 
is a more adequate compensatory amount. But as Ive explained above, I think the £200 falls 
in line with our services approach. Im aware this £200 was initially sent to Mr G by cheque 
and from what Ive seen, it hasnt been cashed. It is Mr Gs own decision whether to now 
cash this cheque. If he wishes to do so, and the cheque has expired, Id expect HIC to issue 
a new cheque to allow Mr G access to the funds as agreed.
My final decision
For the reasons outlined above, I dont uphold Mr Gs complaint about Highway Insurance 
Company Limited. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision before 2 January 2024.
 
Josh Haskey
Ombudsman