DRN-3936060
The complaint
Mr J has complained about Liverpool Victoria Insurance Company Limiteds (LVs) handling 
of a claim he made under his home insurance policy.
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I will not repeat them again in 
full detail here. But to briefly summarise Mr J is unhappy with the time it took for LV to accept 
and settle a claim he made for fire damage to his home in September 2019. 
Mr J is also unhappy with the level of support he received in arranging alternative 
accommodation and says he has yet to be reimbursed for all the additional costs he incurred 
as a result of being away from his property.
LV has issued two separate final responses to Mr Js complaint. All parties accept that Mr J 
brought his complaint about the issues answered in the first final response letter too late. So, 
in this complaint Im only deciding the issues complained about and covered in LVs second 
final response letter. These are:
The time taken to validate and accept the claim
Support around alternative accommodation (AA)
Outstanding costs
One of our investigators considered this complaint. He said it was reasonable for LV to carry 
out investigations to validate the claim before accepting it. While the claim took a long time 
to resolve, he said he couldnt reasonably hold LV responsible for the full time, as Mr J also 
caused some of the delays. He also noted that LV had continued to pay for AA despite Mr J 
exceeding his policy limit  which he felt was sufficient to compensate for the delays caused 
by LV. He said the evidence he had seen suggested that LV had reimbursed all of the costs 
it was required to do so.  
Mr J didnt accept our investigators opinion. So as no agreement has been reached, the 
complaint has been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with our investigators conclusions. Ill explain why in more detail 
below, addressing each issue in turn.
The time taken to validate and accept the claim
Mr J says LV has caused several periods of unreasonable delay through the claim. As a 
result, he says he has suffered undue distress and inconvenience. He also says the cost of 
reinstatement has increased due to the delays, so he feels LV should have to increase the 
cash settlement he previously accepted.
LV accepts that the validation process took longer than it ought to have. But it says Mr J was 
responsible for a portion of the delays as he objected to some of LVs investigations, which 
delayed matters, and because he insisted on appointing his own surveyor rather than using 
one from LVs panel. LV did accept it caused around three weeks worth of delays and 
offered compensation for this. But this was covered in the first final response letter  which I 
am unable to consider as part of this complaint. LV later accepted it was partly responsible 
for a total of four months worth of delays. But it extended Mr Js alternative accommodation 
payments by five months past his policy limit, which it considered fair compensation for the 
delays it was responsible for. 
From what Ive seen, LV had reasonable concerns about the proximity of the fire to policy 
inception and about occupancy of the property  given the need to renovate the property had 
been mentioned prior to inception. So, I dont consider that it was unreasonable for it to carry 
out some investigations before accepting the claim.
I can also see how Mr Js insistence on appointing his own surveyor  and wishing for this to 
be at LVs expense  would delay matters as its not unusual for insurers to insist on 
appointing their own loss adjusters or surveyors to assist with claims. However, I note that 
LV eventually agreed to meet the cost of Mr Js surveyor as he was unhappy to accept one 
of LVs. 
From everything Ive seen, I dont think LV has been solely responsible for the delays in this 
claim. And I think by extending Mr Js alternative accommodation payments, it has 
adequately compensated him for those periods of delay which it was jointly responsible for, 
along with Mr J, and/or unavoidable periods of delay due to the effects of the COVID-19 
pandemic. So, Im making no additional award for the time it took to validate or accept the 
claim, or the alleged increase in reinstatement costs as a result.
Support around alternative accommodation (AA)
Mr J says LV initially refused to fund his alternative accommodation, despite his property 
being uninhabitable as a result of the fire. Because of this, he states he needed to accept a 
room in a house some 11 miles from his property for a period of the claim.
LV says Mr J wasnt refused alternative accommodation. It says Mr J refused offers of 
properties within a mile of his home and decided to stay in the property 11 miles away 
himself. Despite this, LV says it covered Mr Js initial hotel expenses and costs, the cost of 
the room he rented, and later the cost of a suitable alternative property throughout the claim.  
LV says it also continued to pay for the final property beyond the policy limit for alternative 
accommodation. 
I can see that Mr J was initially told hed need to fund his hotel stay himself and claim the 
money back once LV had validated the claim. I dont think this was necessarily 
unreasonable, given the claim hadnt been accepted and LV had reasonable concerns. 
However, I can also see that LV made the decision to cover AA on a without prejudice basis 
fairly quickly, following this. I say this because Ive seen evidence that Mr J was offered what I consider to be a suitable 
alternative property, in his local area, by LVs agent in September 2019  which Mr J 
declined. So, I dont think I can reasonably conclude that Mr J was forced to accept the 
property 11 miles from his home as a result of LVs actions. Ive also seen that the property 
11 miles away was near to where Mr Js partner lived  which suggests, to me, an element 
of choice on Mr Js part.
Mr J has also suggested that because his policy entitles him to a similar property to his own, 
that LV should reimburse him the difference between the cost of the one-bedroom property 
11 miles away, and the rental value of his property  for the period he lived there. But I dont 
think it would be fair or reasonable to expect LV to do this. The property was found by Mr J 
and funded by LV, and I think LV has acted fairly in covering the actual cost of the 
accommodation, rather than the equivalent rental value of Mr Js property.
Ultimately, Ive seen that LV covered Mr Js accommodation throughout the claim, and 
significantly beyond the limit of policy coverage. So, I dont think I can reasonably conclude 
that LV has treated Mr J unfairly in its handling of the AA part of his claim.
Outstanding costs
Mr J has complained that not all of the additional costs he incurred as a result of being out of 
his property have been reimbursed. In particular, he says he was promised a £25 per day 
food and travel allowance which he hasnt received for the full duration of the claim.
LV says it has fully reimbursed Mr Js additional utility and council tax expenses as well as 
food and travel expenses while he was staying in hotels. LV says the offer of a food 
allowance was only intended to cover the period Mr J was without his own cooking facilities 
 which I think is reasonable.
Ive seen evidence to confirm that the additional utility and council expenses Mr J set out on 
a spreadsheet to LV were fully settled by March 2022. So, I dont think any of these 
expenses remain outstanding.
In terms of the food and travel expenses, it appears LV reimbursed roughly £1,600 in 
November 2019, based on the invoices supplied by Mr J. So again, I think LV has met its 
obligations to Mr J here.
Mr J has said he should be paid the £25 per day allowance between October 2019 and 
April 2020, when he was staying in the one bedroom, 11 miles from his home. This is 
because he says didnt have access to a kitchen at that time, due to social distancing. 
However, as I understand it Mr J was renting a room in a property which had a kitchen. And 
there was nothing within the social distancing restrictions which would have prevented Mr J 
from using a shared kitchen within the same household. So, as Mr J had reasonable access 
to a kitchen, I dont consider that LV would need to have continued paying a food allowance 
during this period.
Ive also considered whether LV ought reasonably to cover some of Mr Js additional travel 
expenses. But from what Ive seen, the hotel Mr J was initially staying in was less than a mile 
from his home, and the 12-month rental LV eventually arranged for him was even closer to 
his home than this. So, I dont think there would be additional travel expenses during this 
time which LV would reasonably need to cover. There was the roughly six-month period that Mr J was staying 11 miles away from his home. 
But as Ive seen evidence that Mr J refused a property less than a mile from his home, and 
opted to stay that far away himself, I dont think it would be reasonable to expect LV to pay 
his additional travel expenses in those circumstances.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, Ive decided not to uphold Mr Js complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr J to accept or 
reject my decision before 19 May 2023.
 
Adam Golding
Ombudsman