DRN-3065777
The complaint
Ms B is unhappy that Bank of Scotland plc, trading as Halifax, continued to apply charges to
her account when she was in financial difficulty.
What happened
Ms B had a Halifax current account with an overdrawn balance that she was struggling to
make the necessary payments towards. Ms B contacted Halifax about this in October 2014
and again in August 2015. Ms B then contacted a debt charity in May 2016 who contacted
Halifax on her behalf. The overdraft was repaid, and the account closed in May 2017.
In 2020, Ms B raised a complaint with Halifax because she felt that Halifax shouldnt have
continued to apply overdraft charges on the account when they were aware that she was in
financial difficulty. Halifax looked at Ms Bs complaint, but they felt that they had given
reasonable financial assistance to Ms B when she had contacted them, and they noted that
no interest of fees had been applied to that account from the point that they were contacted
by the debt charity in May 2016. So, they didnt uphold the complaint.
Ms B wasnt satisfied with Halifaxs response, so she referred her complaint to this service.
One of our investigators looked at this complaint. They felt that Halifax should have
recognised that Ms B was in continuing financial difficulty when she contacted them for the
second time in August 2015, and that interest and fees should have been stopped on the
account from that time. So, they recommended that the complaint be upheld in Ms Bs
favour.
Halifax didnt respond to the recommendation put forward by our investigator, so the matter
was escalated to an ombudsman for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I issued a provisional decision on this complaint on 13 August 2021 as follows:
When a customer informs a business that they are experiencing financial difficulty 
such that they are struggling to meet the necessary financial commitments on their 
account, what this service would expect would be that the business in question would 
take note of the difficulties being experienced by that customer and provide a fair and 
reasonable level of financial support.
Halifax say that they did that here. When Ms B first contacted them in October 2014, 
they discussed her personal situation with her, at which time Ms B advised that she 
anticipated her financial difficulties to be short lived and that they were as a result of 
a change in personal circumstances. In response to this, Halifax waived fees that 
were due on the account and placed a hold on all account fees for six months.
In August 2015, when Ms B contacted Halifax for a second time, Halifax took details 
of Ms Bs income and expenditure and determined that Ms Bs financial position was 
such that she wasnt able to afford the overdraft fees due on the account. Because of 
this, Halifax offered to close the account and transfer the balance to their recoveries 
department, which would have had the effect of freezing the outstanding balance 
such that no further interest or charges would apply, albeit with the caveat of Ms B no 
longer being able to use the account.
Ms B declined Halifaxs offer at that time, so Halifax provided a further six month hold 
on account fees for Ms B and referred Ms B to a debt charity so that she might seek 
further financial assistance. And it was this debt charity which contacted Halifax 
sometime later, in May 2016, from which point no further interest or fees were 
applied to Ms Bs account.
Considering these points, its difficult to see what more Halifax could have done here. 
In 2014, Ms B explained that she anticipated her financial difficulties to be temporary, 
and so Halifax provided six months of fee free overdraft so that Ms B might overcome 
those temporary difficulties. And in 2015, Halifax assessed that Ms Bs current 
financial position was such that she couldnt afford the overdraft and offered to move 
the balance to their recoveries department so that Ms B didnt fall further into debt  
an offer which Ms B declined. Halifax then provided Ms B with a further six months 
fee free overdraft and referred her to a debt charity so that she could get additional 
help.
This is what this service would have expected Halifax to do, and so Id find it difficult 
to conclude that Halifax havent treated Ms B with a fair and reasonable degree of 
forbearance so as to help Ms B negotiate the financial difficulties that she 
encountered and to be able to repay the balance that she owed without falling further 
into debt.
I realise that this wont be the outcome that Ms B wants here, but it follows from all of 
the above that I dont feel that Halifax applied fees to Ms Bs overdraft unfairly and 
that I am satisfied that Halifax offered Ms B a level of support that was both 
reasonable and what this service would have expected them to offer.
As such, my provisional decision will be that I do not uphold this complaint, and I 
wont be asking Halifax to take any further action at this time.
In my provisional decision letter, I gave both Ms B and Halifax the opportunity to provide any 
comments or further information they might wish me to consider before I moved to a final 
decision. Halifax confirmed that they were happy to accept my provisional decision, while Ms 
B did not respond.
As such, I see no reason not to issue my final decision on the same basis as outlined in my 
provisional decision above, and it follows from this that my final decision will be that I do not 
uphold this complaint.
I realise that this might not be the outcome that Ms B was wanting here, but I hope that she 
will understand, given what Ive explained above, why Ive made the final decision that I 
have.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms B to accept or 
reject my decision before 21 October 2021.
 
Paul Cooper
Ombudsman