DRN-2942204
The complaint
Mr H complains Fresh Insurance Services Group Limited didnt tell him the underwriter of his 
all risks home insurance policy had changed when he renewed it.
What happened
Mr H took out his home insurance policy through Fresh in 2016. The policy was with an 
underwriting agency specialising in home insurance products for intermediaries. It was 
underwritten by an insurer Ill call U1. It was important to Mr H that his insurer was one he 
regarded as reputable, and he was happy with U1 as the underwriter.
Mr H renewed his policy through Fresh in 2017 and 2018. His policy terms and conditions 
didnt change. But the underwriter did change, to an insurer Ill call U2. Mr H says he didnt 
know this until he made a claim in 2018. Mr H isnt happy with Fresh for not telling him the 
underwriter had changed. He says if hed known, he wouldnt have renewed the policy.
When Mr H complained to Fresh about this, it didnt uphold his complaint. It said although 
the ultimate underwriter had changed, this didnt affect any of Mr Hs policy benefits or 
limitations.
Mr H then brought his complaint to us. The investigator who looked at it didnt uphold it. She 
was satisfied Fresh had made Mr H aware of the change in underwriter in various renewal 
documents. 
Mr H disagrees. He says, among other things, he shouldve been told about such a material 
change before being invited to renew his policy and he didnt get any emails from Fresh 
attaching his renewal documents (which showed the change). So Mr Hs complaint has 
come to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided not to uphold Mr Hs complaint.
Fresh advised Mr H to buy the policy. So Fresh needed to make sure it was right for him, 
taking into account his particular circumstances. And Fresh also needed to give Mr H 
enough clear information about the policy terms and conditions for him to be able to make an 
informed decision about whether or not he wanted to go ahead with it.
I can see from emails and a phone call from 2016 that, when he was first looking to take out 
cover, Mr H was clear he wanted a policy with an insurer he regarded as reputable. And its 
also clear he thought U1 was reputable.
I understand that, part way through the 2016 policy term, the underwriting agency providing 
Mr Hs policy changed its ultimate underwriter to U2. But Mr Hs 2016 policy continued to be 
underwritten by U1. It was only in 2017 that it changed to U2. And in 2018 it remained with 
U2.
When the policy was due for renewal in 2017 and in 2018, Fresh still had a duty to make 
sure the policy was right for Mr H and give him all the clear information he needed to decide 
whether or not to renew it. In neither phone calls nor in any emails it sent to Mr H did Fresh 
specifically draw his attention to the change in underwriter (although  as Ill mention later in 
this decision  it was referred to in documents attached to some emails). 
Mr H says the change in underwriter was a material change that he shouldve been told 
about specifically. In the circumstances of this complaint, I dont agree. Mr Hs policy terms 
and conditions remained unchanged in 2017 and 2018. Because of this, I dont think the 
change in underwriter had an impact on whether or not the policy was still suitable for Mr Hs 
needs nor, for the same reason, is it information Id have expected Fresh to highlight to him. 
So I dont think Fresh did anything wrong in not specifically drawing this change to Mr Hs 
attention.
But I should also say Ive looked at the renewal invitations and policy documents Fresh sent 
by email to Mr H in 2017 and 2018. The name of U2 is prominent (in bold) in the early pages 
of many of these documents. So I think it was reasonably clear from the policy documents 
themselves who the underwriter was, and that it was U2 rather than U1. 
Also, as our investigator has said, Fresh sent welcome emails with both sets of renewal 
documents to Mr H asking him to check everything was ok and to get in touch if it wasnt. 
Fresh also told Mr H about his cancellation rights if he changed his mind. Given how 
important the underwriter was to him  and given, as Ive said, that the change in underwriter 
didnt mean the policy wasnt right for Mr H  I think it was for him to check this point. And, if 
he had, Mr H couldve chosen not to renew the policies.
Mr H says he didnt get the emails from Fresh, and so couldnt do this. I can see Fresh sent 
them to his correct email address. And Ive seen nothing to suggest they werent delivered. 
So while I cant explain why Mr H didnt get them, I think Fresh sent them correctly. So I cant 
say it did anything wrong here either.
Ive looked at all the other points Mr H has made about this complaint but they dont change 
my conclusions. I dont think Fresh has treated him unfairly or unreasonably.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given, I dont uphold Mr Hs complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 13 September 2021. 
Jane Gallacher
Ombudsman