DRN-4285522
The complaint
Mr Ks complaint is about a claim he made on his Amtrust Europe Limited legal expenses 
insurance policy.
Mr K says Amtrust have treated him unfairly by not accepting his claim and causing delays in 
dealing with it.
What happened
Mr K made a claim on his Amtrust legal expenses insurance policy for cover to pursue a firm 
of Solicitors that had acted for him. 
Amtrust asked for evidence of the legal expenses insurance cover he said he had in place. 
Mr K provided an email from his insurance broker confirming the dates of cover and 
enclosing the policy terms. Amtrust asked Mr K for a copy of the policy schedule, but Mr K 
couldnt provide this. His broker provided confirmation that no policy schedule was ever 
issued because the cover was provided under a master certificate.
Amtrust took the view that it didnt have enough to validate cover was in place and as such 
said they werent prepared to progress Mr Ks claim any further. They also said they thought 
the event complained of didnt fall within the period of cover.
Our investigator considered Mr Ks complaint and concluded it should be upheld. She said 
that Mr K had provided Amtrust with enough evidence to show he had cover in place and 
given his cover was continuous, Amtrust should consider the claim in line with the remaining 
policy terms. The investigator also said Amtrust should pay Mr K £150 for the delay their 
refusal to accept his claim has caused.
Amtrust doesnt agree so the matter has been passed to me to determine. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I uphold Mr Ks complaint for the same reasons set out by the investigator.
The issue for me to determine is whether Mr K has done enough to demonstrate he has 
cover in place and if so what the impact of Amtrusts failure to accept the position is on him. 
Mr K provided Amtrust with an email from his broker confirming the dates of cover and the 
policy terms and conditions. The email from the broker confirms the cover Mr K held was a 
legal expenses insurance policy and that it was based on a master certificate number and no 
schedule was ever issued. The terms themselves make no reference to a policy schedule- 
which is unusual as legal expenses insurance policies do usually reference this.
Amtrust set out a number of concerns about the information provided. They seem to be:
The document from the broker doesnt confirm the inclusion of legal cover;
Mr K provided an obscured document mentioning legal cover but its unclear whether this 
is his policy, when it ran from and whether it was taken out at all;
The policy wording doesnt confirm who the cover applies to- anyone could obtain this 
online;
The broker should be able to provide a policy schedule. As things stand theres no 
evidence of legal cover in Mr Ks name being in place.
Given the evidence Mr K has provided and the explanation from his broker around the policy 
schedule, I dont think the stance Amtrust have taken is reasonable. The email from the 
broker does confirm the inclusion of legal cover and encloses the policy terms that apply. It 
also confirms that a policy schedule doesnt exist because the cover derives from a master 
certificate number but notes the relevant dates of cover and the fact that Mr K was covered. 
Given the cover ran from 2016- 2019, I think its reasonable for Amtrust to have accepted the 
position much sooner. And the fact that theyve continued to ask for different and additional 
evidence since the complaint has been brought to this Service is in my view unreasonable.
It follows that Amtrust should now accept that Mr K has cover in accordance with the terms 
provided by his broker and pay him compensation for the delays its caused in this regard. 
Mr Ks claim was first made in May 2022. He referred his complaint to this Service in 
January 2023- some eight months later because Amtrust refused to consider it. I think £150 
in compensation is an appropriate sum to compensate him for the delay Amtrusts refusal to 
accept his claim have caused him.
I note that Amtrust have said that his claim is unlikely to be one that falls into cover given the 
date of the event complaint of. Amtrust should note this Services approach to claims where 
continuous cover is in place. If a claim doesnt fall within the policy year but falls within a 
policy period and is being rejected by insurers on consecutive periods where the event must 
have fallen- we usually direct one of them to cover the claim because it would be unfair not 
to. Amtrust should take that on board when considering Mr Ks claim under the terms of the 
policy hes provided. 
Putting things right
Amtrust should reconsider Mr Ks claim under the remaining policy terms and pay him £150 
in compensation for the delay caused by its refusal to consider his claim sooner.My final decision
I uphold Mr Ks complaint against Amtrust Europe Limited and direct them to put things right 
as Ive set out above. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision before 13 September 2023.
 
Lale Hussein-Venn
Ombudsman