DRN-4386383
The complaint
Mr S complains Mutual Clothing and Supply Company Limited (Mutual) gave him loans 
which he couldnt afford to repay because he was on benefits and was self-employed at the 
time. 
What happened
Mr S took seven loans from Mutual and Ive outlined a summary of his borrowing below.
loan 
numberloan 
amountagreement 
daterepayment 
datenumber of 
weekly 
instalmentsweekly 
instalment
1 £700.00 13/07/2013 05/08/2015 102 £10.63
2 £1000.00 18/01/2014 23/12/2015 102 £15.19
3 £1,719.96 22/11/2014 19/07/2017 150 £17.19
4 £1,500.00 19/12/2015 30/08/2017 102 £22.73
5 £1,000.00 27/05/2017 24/05/2018 51 £27.45
6 £2,000.00 22/07/2017 outstanding 102 £30.39
7 £1,200.00 15/09/2018 outstanding 102 £18.23
Loan 3 was a hire purchase agreement for furniture. 
The weekly instalment is the cost per week per loan, and so where loans overlapped the 
cost per week would be greater. For example, when loans one and two were running at the 
same time Mr S was due to pay Mutual £25.82 per week.
Following Mr Ss complaint about the sale of these loans, Mutual issued its final response 
letter (FRL) in October 2022. Mutual didnt uphold the complaint about loans 1 - 5. But it did 
agree that loans 6 and 7 ought to not have been granted. It then made an offer to put things 
right for Mr S. 
Mr S didnt agree with the proposed outcome and instead referred the complaint to the 
Financial Ombudsman.
The complaint was considered by an adjudicator who explained he wouldnt consider loans 6 
and 7 because Mutual had already upheld the complaint about them. The adjudicator also 
thought for loans 1  3 given the term of the loans and the capital borrowed Mutual ought to 
have gained a full picture of Mr Ss finances perhaps by reviewing his bank statements. But 
at the time, the adjudicator didnt have copies of the statements and so couldnt uphold the 
complaint about those loans. Finally, the adjudicator upheld Mr Ss complaint about loans 4 
and 5 because by now the lending was harmful for him. 
Mutual responded to say that it agreed with the recommendation made by the adjudicator, 
and it explained that the total refund due to be paid was £3,128.16.
Mr S responded, not fully agreeing and he provided details of the benefits he was receiving 
when loans one to three were granted. He also explained that he had taken other loans from 
other companies throughout the time he was borrowing from Mutual. Mr S also said that 
during the covid period, he had made around £2,000 worth of payments, none of which he 
says have been registered with Mutual  and he provided a bank statements showing the 
payments. Later, Mr S provided copy bank statements for the period of time the adjudicator 
had requested. 
The adjudicator then wrote to Mr S and explained why he thought he should accept the 
recommendation  to uphold loans 4  7 only. He also explained that even if Mutual had 
reviewed his bank statements, it wouldve still likely have thought loans one to three were 
affordable for him. 
Mr S didnt agree saying at the time of loan one, the household income was around £200 per 
week and £80 per week when loan two was given. Mr S also queried why selling second-
hand items  such as the ones visible in the bank statement from a third-party processing 
site have been counted as income. Finally, Mr S asked about the refund calculation. 
The adjudicator explained how he had reached the income figures for the months when 
loans 1  3 were approved. Mr S disagreed with how the figures had been calculated and he 
also said the refund amount that Mutual was asking it to pay was incorrect. 
What followed were a number of emails between Mr S and the adjudicator. Where Mr S 
queried the refund amount that Mutual was proposing to pay as well as querying the income 
and expenditure information the adjudicator had used to determine that further checks 
wouldnt have led to a different outcome for loans 1  3. Mr S also provided additional 
information in the form of a business account spreadsheet.  
The adjudicator then explained why he thought the interest payment was correct, and he 
explained the Financial Ombudsmans approach to reviewing bank statements.  
As no agreement could be reached the complaint has been passed to me for a decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints lending - including all the relevant rules, 
guidance and good industry practice - on our website.
Mutual had to assess the lending to check if Mr S could afford to pay back the amounts hed 
borrowed without undue difficulty. It needed to do this in a way which was proportionate to 
the circumstances. Mutuals checks could have taken into account a number of different 
things, such as how much was being lent, the size of the repayments, and Mr Ss income 
and expenditure.
With this in mind, I think in the early stages of a lending relationship, less thorough checks
might have been proportionate. But certain factors might suggest Mutual should have
done more to establish that any lending was sustainable for Mr S. These factors include:
Mr S having a low income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make any loan
repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income);
The amounts to be repaid being especially high (reflecting that it could be more
difficult to meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income);Mr S having a large number of loans and/or having these loans over a long period of 
time (reflecting the risk that repeated refinancing may signal that the borrowing had 
become, or was becoming, unsustainable);
Mr S coming back for loans shortly after previous borrowing had been repaid (also
suggestive of the borrowing becoming unsustainable).
There may even come a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable for Mr S. The adjudicator thought this 
applied in Mr Ss case from loan four.  
Mutual was required to establish whether Mr S could sustainably repay the loans  not just 
whether he technically had enough money to make his repayments. Having enough money 
to make the repayments could of course be an indicator that Mr S was able to repay his 
loans sustainably. But it doesnt automatically follow that this is the case.
Ive considered all the arguments, evidence and information provided in this context, and
thought about what this means for Mr Ss complaint.
Loans 1  3
For these loans it does seem that Mutual asked Mr S for the same sort of information. Which 
included details of his income. For loan one, Mutual has provided a copy of the form that 
was likely completed but this is blank.
This could mean one of two things. The original completed copy is no longer available, which 
I think is likely due to the passage of time and I dont consider that to be unreasonable. Or, 
at the time the loan was granted no information was sough from Mr S about his income. 
Whatever the explanation, in this case, for the reasons Ill come on to below, it makes no 
difference to the outcome that Ive reached. 
When loan two was granted, loan one was still outstanding, so Mr Ss weekly repayment to 
Mutual increased to £25.82 per week. Loan two has been noted as being taken for a holiday 
and Mr S has been noted as being a self-employed as a toy retailer earning £400 per week  
which is a monthly income of around £1,700. Mr Ss wifes details have also been noted as 
receiving benefits at a rate of £250 per week. 
Taking information about Mr Ss wife, isnt on its own unreasonable, if there was a 
reasonable expectation that Mr S would have access to those funds  if needed. In order to 
enable Mutual to have established this, it wouldve needed to have taken details about 
Mr Ss wifes expenditure as well  which doesnt appear to have happened. But again, for 
the reasons I come on to below, this hasnt made a difference to the outcome that Ive 
reached. 
When loan three was advanced, loans one and two were still outstanding which meant 
Mr Ss commitment to Mutual rose to £43.01 per week. A copy of any income and 
expenditure form that may have been completed hasnt been provided by Mutual. Again, Im 
not sure why that is, but the lack of the form doesnt impact the findings Ive reached. 
In my view, given the term of each of these three loans  at a minimum of two years the fact 
that it doesnt appear Mutual made any enquires with Mr S about his living costs  and it also 
seems only limited information was collected about his income. These factors together, and 
in line with the adjudicator I do think this ought to have led Mutual to have concluded it didnt 
know enough about Mr Ss finances before it advanced the first three loans. This has led me to conclude, that Mutual needed to gain a full understanding of Mr Ss actual 
financial position to ensure these loans were affordable beyond relying on what Mr S had 
declared about his income. 
Mutual couldve carried out these additional checks, in a number of ways, it couldve asked 
for evidence of his outgoings such as copy bills. It couldve asked to see copies of 
Mr Ss bank statements or any other documentation it felt it needed to obtain in order to 
satisfy itself that it had carried out more robust checks. 
However, that isnt the end of the matter. For me to be able to uphold the loans, I have to be 
satisfied that had Mutual carried out what I consider to be a proportionate check it wouldve 
likely discovered that Mr S couldnt afford the repayments or discovered the lending was 
likely unsustainable for him for some other reason.
Firstly, as noted by the Mutual agent on the income form for loan two, Mr S declared that he 
was a self-employed toy retailer. And he has provided as much information as he has been 
able to in order to demonstrate his likely income from the business. Mr S has explained he 
cant obtain business bank statements, but he has provided a spreadsheet that covers the 
profit and loss accounts of the business between May 2013 and April 2014. This covers the 
period of time when loans one and two were advanced. 
According to the spreadsheet Mr S provided, the net profit for business during that period of 
time was £9,558 which all things being equal is roughly £796.50 per month although I do 
readily accept that this may not be the full amount of money that Mr S was withdrawing from 
the business at the time as a salary. I can also see from the screenshot of Mr Ss tax returns 
from the year ending 2013 and 2014 that he paid no tax through the self-assessment 
process. 
I also know from other information Mr S has provided (as well as details from the later loan 
applications) that he was also receiving certain benefits  so Ive considered the bank 
statements provided to see how much in each month Mr S received. 
Mr S provided his bank statements between June 2013 (the month before loan one was 
advanced) and December 2014 which is the month after loan three was given. So, Ive taken 
a look at these to see what Mutual may have seen had it reviewed them. 
Its also worth saying that Mutual, when looking the bank statements, wouldnt be expected 
to consider every single transaction line by line  as that wouldnt be reasonable. But what I 
think it ought to have done, is to at least considered the income that was clearly visible, 
payments for priority bills such as rent for example, consider any direct debits or standing 
order payments and anything else that may have caused it to have considered whether it 
was sustainable to have lent, By this I mean is there evidence of gambling and / or other 
evidence of payday or high cost credit loans and / or other signs of difficulties such as 
returned unpaid payments. 
For loan one, its likely that had Mutual asked to see bank statements  which is just one of 
the ways it couldve gone about verifying the information Mr S had provided, it wouldve seen 
at the very least June 2013s statements. In those statements, I can see payment for 
benefits and working tax credits totalling around £1,140 per month. There is then one 
payment being received through a third-party processing site of £120  but as that is the only 
payment in the month I think its likely Mutual wouldve disregarded that. And there are 
transfers of just under £400 made from another account.
Mr S says that this other account was his business account (ending 5616), which statements 
cant be provided for because he has since moved banking provider. But Mr S says and has highlighted that some of the money that was transferred in from the business account went 
towards business expenses, which Mr S says for the month of June 2013 totalled more than 
the amount he transferred in. But it isnt entirely clear whether Mutual wouldve either been 
told this at the time, or wouldve discovered this by reviewing the statements Mr S had 
provided.  
In terms of outgoings, just on existing commitments such as two catalogue shopping 
accounts, two mobile phones and a tv subscription which was costing Mr S around £330 per 
month. And of course on top of that there also payments for food and other living costs that 
Mutual may have seen.  
I can also see from the letters provided by Mr S, that the Department of Work and Pensions 
had stopped one of the benefits in July 2013 (around the same time loan one was granted) 
because according to it  Mr S didnt meet the criteria to receive it.
And that does appear to have happened, given through July 2013 and onwards no payments 
are received into the account for that benefit. And Ive considered that in terms of 
affordability for all of the loans. But even doing so, for loan one I still think the loan wouldve 
been affordable for Mr S. 
Having thought about everything, given the bank statements didnt show that Mr Ss account 
was overdrawn, there were no returned payments, no signs of any other high-cost credit or 
payday loans. I think had Mutual asked to see the bank statements, it wouldve likely 
concluded Mr S could afford the repayments due for loan one of around £11 per week. I am 
therefore not upholding Mr Ss complaint about that loan. 
When loan two was advanced, Mr Ss tax credits had reduced, and in December 2013 he 
received a weekly amount of £80.10 and over the course of the month this was around £400. 
As far as I can see there were no other benefits being paid at this time. 
There are again further transfers from Mr Ss business account into the account statements 
have been provided for of £650. Even assuming the best case scenario that this was all 
income  this gave Mr S an income of just over £1,000 for the moth  which is modest when 
you consider that he was committed paying just over £25 per week to Mutual for this loan. 
As before there are the same sort of transactions, for television services, mobile phones and 
catalogue shopping. I accept there may be some discrepancy over how much of the £650 
which was transferred in was actually income instead of being used for business expenses. 
But taking account of the transaction I can see there are again, no obvious signs from the 
bank statements that Mr S was using unsustainable forms of credit, was overdrawn, or in 
financial difficulties. So again, I do think, if Mutual had reviewed Mr Ss bank statements, it 
wouldve concluded that loan two was just about affordable. 
For loan three, Mr Ss commitment to Mutual increased again  and as Ive said it reached a 
point where he was due to pay over £43 per week. However, whereas before the loans could 
be used for other purchases such as a holiday loan three was taken for a specific reason 
and the list of furniture purchased is outlined in the credit agreement. 
By the time of loan three, Mr Ss benefit had been reinstated and there were other benefits 
being received into the account. The total income for the month before the loan was 
approved was £1,211 solely from tax credits and benefits. Then there were payments into 
the account from the business account of around £150, transfers from another account of 
£150 and then a number of deposits from a well-known online retail outlet of around £500. So further checks wouldve highlighted that the majority of Mr Ss income was made up of 
various tax credits and benefits but in addition, there was a business that he was operating. 
As with pervious loans there are the same sort of transactions to the catalogue shopping 
accounts and mobile phone. There are still the same sort of transfers from the previously 
known business account and another account where funds are being deposited and then 
moved too. But again, there isnt anything that wouldve alerted Mutual that Mr S was in 
financial difficulties or was struggling to repay these loans. So even though this was the 
largest weekly commitment Mr S had, I still think it was just about reasonable for Mutual to 
have advanced this loan. 
Ive also thought about what else Mr S has said about his circumstances at the time. That 
being he had other home credit loans outstanding, which as the payments wouldve been 
collected in cash wouldnt have shown on the bank statements. 
For one of those lenders Mr S has had to enter a scheme to receive compensation. And 
while there are loan numbers within the scheme letter - the dates of the loans arent visible, 
so I cant be sure whether all or some of those loans were taken around the time of these 
three Mutual loans. And as there is no other evidence of those loans in the statements or 
anything else I can see, I dont think even if Mutual had carried better checks as it ought to 
have done that it wouldve discovered Mr Ss other lending. 
I am therefore not upholding Mr Ss complaint about loans 1 - 3.
Loan 4 - 7
Mutual has accepted that these loans ought to not have been provided to Mr S. And it 
outlined in the FRL and in the follow up letter to Mr S in response to the adjudicators 
assessment about the steps it would take to put things right for him. 
And the steps that Mutual has agreed to take, are the exact same ones the 
Financial Ombudsman directed it to do in the adjudicators assessment. 
As Mutual has accepted these loans ought to not have been provided and has offered 
compensation to Mr S there is no need for me to investigate whether these loans were 
correctly provided. But Mutual, should, if it hasnt already done so, arrange to redress these 
loans as it has outlined in the letter to Mr S in response to the adjudicators assessment. But 
for completeness Ive outlined at the end of this decision what it needs to do in order to put 
things right for Mr S. 
Other consideration 
There are two other points that Ive considered that Mr S has raised following the 
assessment by the adjudicator. The first one is to do with the payments he made during the 
pandemic  after Mutual switched from collecting payments in person, to collecting 
payments online. Secondly, Mr S has queried the redress that Mutual has agreed to pay (if it 
hasnt already done so) for loans 4  7. 
Payments made during the pandemic
Mr S has been able to demonstrate  through a record of payments from his bank that he 
had indeed made payments of over £2,000 between February 2020 to January 2022 to 
Mutual.  Mutual responded to the Financial Ombudsmans questions about this and provided 
confirmation that between the above dates it did indeed receive just over £2,100 worth of 
payments from Mr S. However, at the time there were other outstanding loan accounts for 
other family members. And Mutual has said that with the agreement of the agent, any funds 
received from Mr S would be split across the active accounts.  
Having looked at the payments Mutual received, these do indeed match with the payments 
made by Mr S. So Mutual has received all those payments. For example, on the 
30 November 2020 a payment of £100 was split between £35 towards Mr Ss account with 
the rest being credited to another active loan held by a family member. 
I make no finding about what may nor may not have been agreed between Mr S and the 
agent about how funds would be split because this hasnt been investigated. Instead, I am 
merely happy to conclude that Mutual has received the payments that Mr S has evidenced 
were made. 
Payment of interest 
I can see that Mutual has sent a copy of a letter, which it says was sent to Mr S on 
2 May 2023, and Ive considered the content of that letter and how Mutual has calculated the 
interest and it does appear to be correct. 
For example, for loan seven Mr S borrowed £1,200 so this is the amount he has to repay. 
According to Mutuals statement and letters, by May 2023 Mr S had repaid £1,572.50. So, 
based on this, Mr S has in effect overpaid Mutual by £372.50. And so this is the amount of 
interest that he will received back. 
And of course, he would receive 8% simple on top of this amount. But the 8% will only start 
to accrue once Mr S had made sufficient payments to Mutual in order to repay the capital 
that was lent. So, what that means is that Mutual would take all of Mr Ss payments towards 
this loan and deduct it from the capital. Only when Mr S in effect goes into credit does the 
8% simple interest start. 
According to Mutual, the original capital loan of £1,200 wasnt repaid to it until 
November 2021 and so 8% starts from the date. If we assume that the full overpayment was 
made in November 2021  then Mr S is due 8% simple on £372.50 which is around £29 per 
year. Although in reality it will be less than that as the 8% is due on the overpayments when 
they are paid  this would be the maximum per year. 
Of course, it is now nearly two years, so for loan seven Mr S will be due around £59 worth of 
8% simple interest. But tax is payable on the sum as well, which would reduce the figure to 
around £47 plus the original overpayment amount of £372.50. Making a refund, assuming 
the overpayments occurred on the same day, and assuming the overpayment remained for 
two years Mr S would be due around £420 for loan seven.  
Based on the credit agreements and what Ive seen this is entirely in line with the approach 
the Financial Ombudsman takes and so on balance Im satisfied that the proposed redress 
Mutual has agreed to pay has likely been correctly calculated.  
Putting things right
In deciding what redress Mutual should fairly pay in this case Ive thought about what might 
have happened had it stopped lending to Mr S from loan four, as Im satisfied it ought to 
have. Clearly there are a great many possible, and all hypothetical, answers to that question. For example, having been declined this lending Mr S may have simply left matters there, not 
attempting to obtain the funds from elsewhere  particularly as a relationship existed 
between them and this particular lender which they may not have had with others. If this 
wasnt a viable option, they may have looked to borrow the funds from a friend or relative  
assuming that was even possible.
Or, they may have decided to approach a third-party lender with the same application, or 
indeed a different application (i.e. for more or less borrowing). But even if they had done 
that, the information that would have been available to such a lender and how they would (or 
ought to have) treated an application which may or may not have been the same is 
impossible to now accurately reconstruct. From what Ive seen in this case, I certainly dont 
think I can fairly conclude there was a real and substantial chance that a new lender would 
have been able to lend to Mr S in a compliant way at this time.
Having thought about all of these possibilities, Im not persuaded it would be fair or 
reasonable to conclude that Mr S would more likely than not have taken up any one of these 
options. So, it wouldnt be fair to now reduce Mutuals liability in this case for what Im 
satisfied it has done wrong and should put right.
Mutual shouldnt have given Mr S loans 4 to 7.
If Mutual has sold the outstanding debts Mutual should buy these back if it is able to do so 
and then take the following steps. If Mutual cant buy the debts back then Mutual should 
liaise with the new debt owner to achieve the results outlined below.
Mutual has written to Mr S about how much refund it is due to make, so it is possible, that a 
refund has already been paid. If it has, as long as Mutual has followed the below redress 
direction it wont have to pay any more. If the refund hasnt yet been paid, then below is what 
Mutual needs to do  and what it has already agreed to do in order to put things right for 
Mr S. 
A. Mutual should add together the total of the repayments made by Mr S towards 
interest, fees and charges on all upheld loans without an outstanding balance, not 
including anything Mutual have already refunded.
B. Mutual should calculate 8% simple interest* on the individual payments made by 
Mr S which were considered as part of A, calculated from the date Mr S originally 
made the payments, to the date the complaint is settled.
C. Mutual should remove all interest, fees and charges from the balances of loans 6 and 
7, and treat any repayments made by Mr S as though they had been repayments of 
the principal towards them. If this results in Mr S having made overpayments then 
Mutual should refund these overpayments with 8% simple interest* calculated on the 
overpayments, from the date the overpayments would have arisen, to the date the 
complaint is settled. Mutual should then refund the amounts calculated in A and B 
and move to step E.
D. If there is still an outstanding balance then the amounts calculated in A and B 
should be used to repay any balance remaining on loans 6 and 7. If this results in a 
surplus, then the surplus should be paid to Mr S. However, if there is still an 
outstanding balance then Mutual should try to agree an affordable repayment plan 
with Mr S. 
E. The overall pattern of Mr Ss borrowing for loans 4, 5, 6 and 7 means any information 
recorded about them is adverse, so Mutual should remove these loans entirely from 
Mr Ss credit file. Mutual does not have to remove loans 6 and 7 from Mr Ss credit 
file until these have been repaid, but Mutual should still remove any adverse 
information recorded about these loans.*HM Revenue & Customs requires Mutual to deduct tax from this interest. Mutual should 
give Mr S a certificate showing how much tax has been deducted, if he asks for one.
My final decision
For the reasons outlined above, I am upholding Mr Ss complaint about loans 4 to 7 only. 
So, my decision is that Mutual Clothing and Supply Company Limited should put things right 
for Mr S as directed above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 3 November 2023.
 
Robert Walker
Ombudsman