DRN-1812938
The complaint
Mr B complains that Tesco Personal Finance PLC (Tesco) didnt uphold a claim he made 
to them under section 75 of the Consumer Credit Act 1974 (section 75). 
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again 
here. Instead Ill focus on giving my reasons for my decision.  
 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I agree with the investigators view on this complaint. Please let me explain why.
Where the information Ive got is incomplete, unclear or contradictory, as some of it is here I 
have to base my decision on the balance of probabilities.
Ive read and considered the whole file, but Ill concentrate my comments on what I think is 
relevant. If I dont comment on any specific point its not because Ive failed to take it on 
board and think about it but because I dont think I need to comment on it in order to reach 
what I think is the right outcome.
When considering a complaint about a financial services provider, Im not determining the 
outcome of a claim that a party might have under section 75. I take section 75 into account 
when I think about whats a fair way to resolve the complaint, but I dont have to reach the 
same view as, for example, a court might reach if Mr B made a claim through them for 
breach of contract or misrepresentation.
When something goes wrong and the payment was made, in part or whole, with a credit 
card, as is the case here, it might be possible to recover the money paid through a section 
75 claim. This section of the Consumer Credit Act (1974) says that in certain circumstances, 
the borrower under a credit agreement has a like right to claim against the credit provider as 
against the supplier if there's either a breach of contract or misrepresentation by the 
supplier.
I dont think there can be any doubt that the hotel accommodation was misrepresented to  
Mr B as hes provided evidence from the UK advertising regulator who have explained that 
the hotels advertisement breached UK advertising rules. Mr B has explained that contrary to 
what was advertised, the accommodation wasnt new or luxury; some facilities were closed; 
rooms were old and dilapidated and there was ongoing renovation. 
In those circumstances I think there has been a misrepresentation and I dont think its likely 
Mr B would have booked accommodation with the hotel if it wasnt for the misrepresentation. 
It would therefore be fair for Tesco to try to put Mr B back in the position he would have been 
in had he not entered into the transaction.
But that doesnt mean its fair for Tesco to refund all the money Mr B paid on his package 
holiday. Some of that money was for flights, transfers and the facilities at the hotel he did 
benefit from; albeit not the five-star facilities he expected. And whilst I understand Mr B was 
not satisfied with the food that he received whilst on his holiday its clear some was provided 
and consumed.
Putting things right
Taking all of that into account I think the investigator has arrived at a fair settlement and that 
Tescos should therefore refund £1,250 of the £3,968 Mr B spent on his holiday.  
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above I uphold this complaint and tell Tesco Personal Finance 
PLC to refund £1,250 to Mr B.  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 25 February 2021.
 
Phillip McMahon
Ombudsman