DRN-2364220
The complaint
Mr P complained because Barclays Bank UK PLC refused to refund him for a debit from his 
account which he said he didnt authorise.
What happened
On 30 January 2020, a payment was made from Mr Ps Barclays student account. It was for 
£1,126 and was carried out through mobile banking at just after 3.30 am. The payment went 
to an account in Mr Ps name with another bank, which Ill call bank A.
Later that day, Mr P contacted Barclays. He said his phone had been stolen, and that he 
hadnt authorised the £1,126 payment. He said the money transferred his account with bank 
A had then been taken out fraudulently from his account with bank A. Mr A wanted a refund 
from Barclays.
Barclays didnt uphold Mr Ps complaint. It said that the payment had been made from Mr Ps 
genuine device, to one of his own accounts with bank A. It also pointed out that as the 
money had been transferred between Mr Ps own accounts, there wasnt any financial loss.
Mr P wasnt satisfied and complained to this service. He said he was surprised and 
disappointed that Barclays had done little if nothing to ensure the transaction had been 
credible. He said his account had been emptied and hed been left with no money for nearly 
two weeks. He said Barclays had tried to dodge any responsibility for the fraudulent activity.
Our investigator didnt uphold Mr Ps complaint. He pointed out that the payment had been 
made to another account in Mr Ps name, using his registered mobile device, and for a sum 
that was in line with usual transfers to that account. And the mobile app would have had to 
have been accessed through either finger print ID or a passcode  which had been correctly 
input. Mr P had also said the time of the transaction should have made Barclays aware that 
the transaction could have been fraudulent. But the investigator pointed out that Mr P had 
made other, undisputed, transactions at similar times of day.  
Mr P wasnt satisfied. He said that the other payments hed made during the night had been 
for smaller amounts.  He said the payment had effectively cleared his account in the early 
hours of the morning, which he hadnt done before. He said that Barclays online and mobile 
services guaranteed that if a fraudster takes money from the account, the customer would 
be protected by its guarantee, and Barclays would pay money back into the account, 
refunding any charges and interest. He said that bank A had confirmed there had been a 
fraud on his account with bank A. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
First, Id point out that this decision only considers Mr Ps complaint about Barclays. What 
happened to the money after it reached Mr Ps account with bank A, and how bank A 
responded, isnt relevant to whether or not Barclays dealt with Mr Ps complaint fairly. 
The relevant regulations for disputed transactions taking place on 30 January 2020 are the 
Payment Services Regulations 2017. These say that the payment service provider (here, 
Barclays) must show the payment was authenticated. Thats the technical part, and here, 
Barclays has provided its computerised logs of the transaction. So I find that the payment 
was authenticated.
The regulations also say that its necessary to look at whether the card holder authorised the 
payments. In general terms, the bank is liable if the customer didnt authorise the payments, 
and the customer is liable if he did authorise them.
I recognise that Mr P has said that his phone was stolen, and that he wouldnt have 
emptied his Barclays account during the night. But I have taken into account that:
- the Barclays app on the phone was accessed using Mr Ps correct five digit 
passcode. Ive checked this on Barclays computerised records, which show all 
aspects of the transaction including the security used;
- its also likely that Mr Ps phone would have needed a code or fingerprint ID to unlock 
it; and
- Mr Ps 16 digit debit card number, expiry date and three digit security code would 
have been needed to make the payment.
I consider its most unlikely that any fraudster who had stolen Mr Ps phone would have had 
all this information.
In addition,
- the payment was a transfer to Mr Ps own account with bank A, to which Mr P had 
previously transferred money;
- Mr Ps statements show that hed made other large transfers, and had frequently 
made other transfers, for varying amounts, in the middle of the night.
I consider its most unlikely that any fraudster would transfer a large sum of money to the 
account of the person whose phone theyd stolen and whose account theyd been able to 
access. Any such fraudster would have transferred the money to their own account, or taken 
out cash.
Taking these factors into account, I find that its more likely than not that it was Mr P himself 
who authorised the £1,126 payment to his own account with bank A.
Mr P has argued that when hed taken money out overnight before, theyd been for smaller 
amounts. I dont consider this makes any difference to whether the transaction was genuine 
or not. He had made payments at this time of night, and hed also made payments to his 
own account with bank A before.
Mr P has also said that the transaction emptied his account. But his balance was already 
in debit before the transaction. Certainly there was an overdraft facility, but Mr Ps 
statements show that there were other occasions when Mr Ps balance was within a couple 
of pounds of his maximum overdraft. So I wouldnt expect a payment which took Mr P further 
into his overdraft, as he had done before, to have triggered Barclays fraud systems.Finally, Mr P argued that Barclays online and mobile services guaranteed that if a fraudster 
takes money from the account, the customer would be protected by its guarantee, and 
Barclays would pay money back into the account, refunding any charges and interest. But I 
have found that theres no evidence that a third party fraudster took the £1,126 from Mr Ps 
account, and I consider its most likely that he authorised it himself. So Barclays anti-fraud 
guarantee doesnt apply.
My final decision
My final decision is that I consider its most likely that Mr P authorised the payment himself, 
and I do not uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision before 9 February 2021.
 
Belinda Knight
Ombudsman