DRN-3362553
The complaint
Mr S complains that TSB Bank plc has refused to refund transactions he thought he was 
making to a binary options company called Golden Markets, which he says turned out to be 
fraudulent.
What happened
The circumstances of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I will not repeat them 
all again here in detail.  But I will provide an overview of events below.
In short, Mr S is disputing several transactions  made using his TSB Bank debit card  he 
thought he was making to Golden Markets from December 2017 to April 2018.  He has told 
this service, amongst other things:
 the merchant, called Golden Markets were a scam organisation operating out
of eastern Europe, they are not licenced and did not trade with my money - they STOLE my 
money. The people who operate this company (Golden Markets) have recently been 
arrested for operating this scam and stealing money in these scams  I was scammed by 
this company who claimed to be able to provide me with trading opportunities and stole my 
money - leaving me with nothing.
The payments concerned were made to: CTBILL *HUAHENG CNY, ZM Broker USD and BO 
Trader USD.
Mr S contacted TSB Bank and asked it to recover his money.  Because this did not happen, 
he raised a complaint.  TSB Bank responded stating:
It raised a chargeback under Visas Reason code 13.5 based on the evidence Mr S 
had provided.  However, this was unsuccessful as the evidence itself showed that 
Golden Markets were not registered in the United Kingdom and had not claimed to 
be regulated.
Mr S had received a Golden Markets trading account and he had agreed to the 
terms and conditions of it.  
It was unable to take the transactions to pre-arbitration because it had no evidence to 
prove the type of service Mr S expected was one Golden Markets claimed to offer, as 
the service they did provide was explained in the terms and conditions.
The chargeback was raised out-of-time under the Visa scheme rules.
Unhappy with TSB Banks position, Mr S referred his complaint to our service.
One of our investigators considered the complaint and upheld it.  In short, he considered that 
Mr S had requested a chargeback claim be raised within the required timeframe under the 
scheme rules.  He also thought TSB Bank should have pursued Mr Ss chargeback claim 
further.  For these reasons, the investigator recommended that TSB Bank refund Mr S his 
money.
Mr S accepted the investigators findings, but TSB Bank did not.
As an agreement could not be reached, the complaint has been passed to me to make a 
decision.
On 9 February 2022, I issued a provisional decision upholding this complaint in part.  For 
completeness, I repeat my provisional findings below:
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I believe this complaint should be upheld, but only in part, for the reasons I 
set out below.
Not every complaint referred to us and categorised as a binary-options scam is in fact a 
scam.  Some cases simply involve high-risk investment bets on the performance of (e.g.) 
commodities or stocks that resulted in very disappointing returns or losses.  Some binary-
options traders promoted these products  which were not regulated by the Financial 
Conduct Authority (FCA) or its predecessor at the time  using sales methods that were 
arguably unethical and/or misleading.  However, whilst customers who lost out may 
understandably regard such acts or omissions as fraudulent, they do not necessarily meet 
the high legal threshold or burden of proof for fraud, i.e. dishonestly making a false 
representation and/or failing to disclose information with the intention of making a gain for 
himself or of causing loss to another or exposing another to the risk of loss (Fraud Act 2006).
Banks and other Payment Services Providers (PSPs) have duties to protect customers 
against the risk of financial loss due to fraud and/or to undertake due diligence on large 
transactions to guard against money laundering (see below).  But when simply executing 
authorised payments, they do not have to protect customers against the risk of bad bargains 
or give investment advice  and the FCA has confirmed that a fraud warning would not 
constitute unauthorised investment advice (see its predecessors 2012 consultation paper on 
investment fraud, below).  So, the first question to resolve is whether this particular 
retailer/trader was actually a fraudster.
I am satisfied that Golden Markets were not carrying out legitimate binary-options trades but 
were instead dishonestly defrauding customers, e.g. by not actually making trades/bets with 
the money received from clients but simply manipulating their online trading platform to 
show purported gains  with initial token pay-outs  in order to induce further investments 
from victims such as Mr S.  In the absence of evidence to the contrary, I have concluded this 
because:
a) After 13 January 2018, binary-options, forex and CFD traders operating in the UK 
were required to be regulated by the FCA (prior to this, they were regulated by the 
UKs Gambling Commission)  whereas Golden Markets were not regulated by either 
during the relevant periods.  Nor were they regulated in any other jurisdiction so far 
as I am reasonably aware. This indicates they were operating illegally, probably with 
dishonest intentions.  Legitimate firms tend to comply with regulatory requirements.
b) b) On 25 May 2018, a warning about Golden Markets was published on the FCAs 
website.
c) There are several reports in the public domain  e.g. foreign press and online forum 
 stating that Golden Markets were scammers.  This hearsay is not in itself sufficient 
evidence of fraud.  But in the context of known regulatory facts, it may fairly and 
reasonably be regarded as circumstantial evidence that helps build an overall picture 
of scammers dishonestly seeking gains at the expense of others.Having concluded that this was a scam rather than just a bad bargain or poor investment 
advice, I need to consider the following:
a) Did TSB Bank deal with Mr Ss chargeback claims fairly?
b) If so, were any of the disputed transactions still so unusual or uncharacteristic for Mr 
S and/or their account that TSB Bank fraud alerts ought reasonably to have triggered 
some sort of intervention?
c) If triggered, would TSB Banks intervention have made a difference and prevented or 
reduced the loss?
d) And if so, was Mr S partly to blame for what happened such that it would be fair and 
reasonable to reduce compensation proportionately?
Chargeback
Chargeback is a voluntary scheme run by Visa whereby it will ultimately arbitrate on a 
dispute between the merchant and customer if it cannot be resolved between them after two 
presentments.  Such arbitration is subject to the rules of the scheme  so there are limited 
grounds on which a chargeback can succeed or be deemed a valid claim.  Our role in such 
cases is not to second-guess Visas arbitration decisions or scheme rules, but to determine 
whether the regulated card issuer (i.e. TSB Bank) acted fairly and reasonably when 
presenting (or choosing not to present) a chargeback on behalf of its cardholder.
Having considered Visas rules, the possible chargeback reason codes did cover binary-
options/investment trading at the time of Mr Ss payments.  Visa expanded its rules to cover 
situations whereby binary options/investment traders prevented cardholders from 
withdrawing their available balances from on or after 14 October 2017.
The applicable misrepresentation reason code was 53 (later re-coded by Visa to 13.5) and 
it required very specific evidence.  Mr S needed to present dated evidence that he had an 
available balance (in the form of a screenshot or confirmation from the merchant) and that 
he tried to withdraw sums equal to, or less than, his available balance on the same day.  
Unfortunately, based on the evidence before me, I cannot see that Mr S provided this.
TSB Bank could only have successfully presented a chargeback claim if Mr S had produced 
this evidence.  I am aware that in these types of cases, consumers only realise there is a 
problem when they no longer have available balances, or their balances have dramatically 
reduced.  This might be because the merchant manipulates the trading software and whilst 
this is unfortunate, it doesnt change Visas chargeback rule requirements.  And should TSB 
Bank process a chargeback under this reason code without the required evidence, Visa 
would deem it invalid and it would not succeed in at Visas final stage of arbitration.
TSB did attempt chargeback claims but these were defended for various reasons by Golden 
Markets bank. So, declining to pursue a chargeback claim any further on Mr Ss behalf 
where there were no reasonable prospects of success was neither an unfair nor 
unreasonable exercise of TSB Banks discretion in my view.
In summary
Taking all the above factors together, I do not agree with the investigator that Mr S should 
receive a full refund of all the payments he made.  However, I do take the view that TSB 
Bank should refund him some of his payments.  I will explain why in the below sections.Unusual or uncharacteristic activity
TSB Bank is aware of our general position on a PSPs safeguarding and due-diligence 
duties to protect customers from the risk of financial harm due to fraud.  We have published 
many decisions on our website setting out these principles and quoting the relevant rules 
and regulations.  It is unnecessary to rehearse them again here in detail.
It is common ground that the disputed payments were authorised by Mr S for the purposes 
of the Payment Services Regulations 2009/2017 (the Regulations), in force at the time.  
This is because they were made by Mr S using the legitimate security credentials provided to 
them by TSB Bank.  These must be regarded as authorised payments even though Mr S 
was the victim of a sophisticated scam.  So, although he did not intend the money to go to 
scammers, under the Regulations, and under the terms and conditions of his bank account, 
Mr S is presumed liable for the loss in the first instance.
However, taking into account the law, regulatory rules and guidance, relevant codes of 
practice and what I consider to have been good industry practice at the time, I consider TSB 
Bank should fairly and reasonably:
Have been monitoring accounts  and any payments made or received  to counter 
various risks, including anti-money-laundering, countering the financing of terrorism, 
and preventing fraud and scams;
Have had systems in place to look out for unusual transactions or other signs that 
might indicate its customers were at risk of fraud (amongst other things).  This is 
particularly so given the increase in sophisticated fraud and scams in recent years, 
which banks are generally more familiar with than the average customer; and
In some circumstances, irrespective of the payment channel used, have taken 
additional steps, or made additional checks, before processing a payment, or in 
some cases declined to make a payment altogether, to help protect customers from 
the possibility of financial harm from fraud.
First, regulated firms ought reasonably to take notice of common types of scams.  As long 
ago as June 2012, the FCAs predecessor indicated  in its consultation paper entitled 
Banks Defences Against Investment Fraud: detecting perpetrators and protecting victims  
that it was good industry practice for firms to build up an updated watch-list of types of 
scams and potential perpetrators; and regularly to share timely and detailed intelligence 
with other banks, UK and overseas regulators, the police, etc.  Whilst the regulator gave no 
specific timings, it is not unreasonable in my view to expect an international bank to update 
its watch-list and communicate internally to staff within, say, one month of an alert being 
posted by the FCA or on the Investor Alerts Portal of the International Organization of 
Securities Commissions (IOSCO).  In my judgment, such alerts should automatically trigger 
alarm-bells  and lead to the payment being paused  pending further enquiries (and a 
possible scam warning) to the payer.
In Mr Ss case, there was no warning published about Golden Markets on the FCAs website 
until after he made all his payments (25 May 2018).  Moreover, although Mr S believed he 
was paying Golden Markets  his payments were in fact made to CTBILL *HUAHENG CNY, 
ZM Broker USD and BO Trader USD.  I therefore do not think TSB Bank ought to have 
automatically blocked the payments. 
Notwithstanding this, in light of the odd pattern of these payments, I do think that by the first 
payment made on 4 April 2018, there are fraud triggers here  particularly given this was a payee trading in binary options without being registered with the FCA (as required at the 
time).
Therefore, it would have been reasonable for TSB Bank to have properly questioned Mr S 
before processing all his payments in order to satisfy itself that all was well.
If TSB Bank had fulfilled its duties and carried out due diligence by contacting Mr S and 
asking suitably probing questions, there is no reason to doubt that he would have explained 
what he was doing.  In such circumstances, whilst TSB Bank had no duty to protect Mr S 
from a bad bargain or give investment advice, it could have invited him to check whether the 
payee was registered with the FCA.  It could have also explained its own customer 
experiences with merchants like Golden Markets in that customers would often be prevented 
from withdrawing available balances.  After all, at that time, there was information in the 
public domain  which a bank ought to have known even if a lay consumer ought not  about 
the very high risks associated with binary options including many warnings of potential fraud 
(e.g. Action Frauds June 2016 warning; the European Securities and Markets Authoritys 
July 2016 warning; the Financial Conduct Authoritys consultation paper of December 2016; 
the Gambling Commissions December 2016 scam warning that an unlicensed operator is 
likely operating illegally; and Visas business news 26 October 2017 and so forth).
There is no evidence that TSB Bank provided Mr S with any meaningful warnings or gave 
him other reasons to doubt the legitimacy of the payments he was making.  It was a missed 
opportunity to intervene.
Causation
If TSB Bank had asked Mr S what the payments were for and the basic surrounding context, 
it is likely they would have fully explained what they were doing and that everything had 
been done over the phone and online with the merchant.  TSB Bank did not need to know for 
certain whether Mr S was dealing with a fraudulent binary options trader or investing in a 
legitimate (albeit highly speculative) product; reasonable grounds for suspicion are enough 
to trigger a banks obligations under the various regulations and principles of good practice.  
I consider there were such grounds here and, therefore, that TSB Bank ought reasonably to 
have provided a scam warning in light of all the information then known to financial 
professionals about the risks associated with unregulated, overseas binary options.
Although Mr Ss statements suggest that he does engage in some online gambling  the 
sums involved are relatively small and not consistent with the large payments made to the 
merchants concerned.  Moreover, I have not seen anything, based on the evidence before 
me, to suggest Mr S has a propensity to engage in speculative investments.  If TSB Bank 
had given a warning, I believe that Mr S would have paused and looked more closely into 
Golden Markets before proceeding.  It seems more probable that Mr S would have made 
further enquiries into binary-options scams and whether or not Golden Markets were 
regulated in the UK or abroad. He could have discovered they were not and the various 
regulatory warnings about the risk of binary-options/forex scams (see above).  In other 
words, I am satisfied that a warning from TSB Bank would probably have exposed Golden 
Markets false pretences, causing Mr S to stop trading and preventing further losses.
Contributory negligence
Despite regulatory safeguards, there is a general principle that consumers must still take 
responsibility for their decisions (see s.1C(d) of our enabling statute, the Financial Services 
and Markets Act 2000).  I do not place too much weight on general but arcane information in the public domain for reasons previously alluded to about the information imbalance 
between financial professionals and ordinary consumers.
In this case, I do not think that Mr S was to blame for what happened; that he did not foresee 
the risk of this sort of harm or any harm.  I do not think Mr S could have foreseen the risk 
that the company they were dealing with was a scam and the trading account they were 
viewing was likely to be a simulation.
In the circumstances, I do not think it would be fair to reduce compensation on the basis that 
Mr S should share blame for what happened.
Responses to my provisional decision
TSB Bank responded stating that it agreed with my provisional findings and provided a 
breakdown of how they calculated redress.
Our investigator confirmed to TSB Bank that the redress I suggested was for TSB Bank to 
refund to Mr S all the money he lost from 4 April 2018; including any transaction fees, less 
credits.  Moreover, the investigator informed TSB Bank that it was a matter for it to calculate 
redress.  
I also contacted Mr S to confirm the redress I have suggested, which he accepted.
What I have decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Given that Mr S agreed with my provisional decision, and TSB Bank did not respond further 
to the investigator  I see no reason to depart from my provisional findings.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, my final decision is that I uphold this complaint in part.  I 
therefore direct TSB Bank plc:
Pay Mr S all the money he lost (from 4 April 2018); including any transaction fees, 
less the amount credited to Mr Ss account  within 28 days of receiving notification 
of his acceptance of my final decision; plus
Pay 8% interest on this amount from the date it was debited from Mr Ss account until 
the date of settlement.
If TSB Bank plc deducts tax in relation to the interest element of this award, it should 
provide Mr S with the appropriate tax deduction certificate. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 7 April 2022.
 
Tony Massiah
Ombudsman