DRN-3306363
Complaint
Miss C has complained that Greenlight Credit Ltd (trading as Varooma) provided her with 
an unaffordable logbook loan. 
Background
Varooma provided Miss C with a logbook loan for £900 in June 2019. This loan had an APR 
of 233.79%. And the total amount to repay of £2,047.50, which included interest of 
£1,147.50, was due to be repaid in 18 monthly instalments of just under £114. 
One of our adjudicators looked at this complaint and thought that Varooma unfairly provided 
this loan to Miss C as it ought to have realised that is was unaffordable for her. 
Varooma disagreed and asked for an ombudsman to review the complaint. 
My findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about unaffordable/irresponsible lending -
including the key rules, guidance and good industry practice - on our website. And Ive
referred to this when deciding Miss Cs complaint.
Having carefully thought about everything, I think that there are two overarching questions
that I need to answer in order to fairly and reasonably decide Miss Cs complaint. These two
questions are:
1. Did Varooma complete reasonable and proportionate checks to satisfy itself that  
Miss C would be able to repay her loan in a sustainable way?
o If so, did it make a fair lending decision?
o If not, would those checks have shown that Miss C wouldve been able to 
do so?
2. Did Varooma act unfairly or unreasonably in some other way?
Did Varooma complete reasonable and proportionate checks to satisfy itself that Miss C 
would be able to repay her loan in a sustainable way?
Varooma provided this loan while it was authorised and regulated by the Financial Conduct 
Authority (FCA). The rules and regulations in place at the time required Varooma to carry 
out a reasonable and proportionate assessment of Miss Cs ability to make the repayments 
under this agreement. This assessment is sometimes referred to as an affordability 
assessment or affordability check.
The checks had to be borrower focused  so Varooma had to think about whether
repaying the loan would cause significant adverse consequences for Miss C. In practice this
meant that Varooma had to ensure that making the payments to the loan wouldnt
cause Miss C undue difficulty or adverse consequences.
In other words, it wasnt enough for Varooma to simply think about the likelihood of it getting 
its money back, it had to consider the impact of the loan repayments on Miss C. Checks also 
had to be proportionate to the specific circumstances of the loan application. The fact that 
Miss C loans were secured on her car didnt somehow negate or dilute these obligations.
In general, what constitutes a proportionate affordability check will be dependent upon a
number of factors including  but not limited to  the particular circumstances of the
consumer (e.g. their financial history, current situation and outlook, and any indications of
vulnerability or financial difficulty) and the amount / type / cost of credit they are seeking.
Even for the same customer, a proportionate check could look different for different
applications.
In light of this, I think that a reasonable and proportionate check ought generally to have
been more thorough:
the lower a customers income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make
any loan repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income);
the higher the amount due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to
meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income);
the longer the term of the loan (reflecting the fact that the total cost of the credit is
likely to be greater and the customer is required to make payments for an 
extended period); and
the greater the number and frequency of loans, and the longer the period of time
during which a customer has been given loans (reflecting the risk that repeated 
refinancing may signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, 
unsustainable).
There may also be other factors which could influence how detailed a proportionate check
shouldve been for a given loan application  including (but not limited to) any indications of
borrower vulnerability and any foreseeable changes in future circumstances.
Ive carefully thought about all of the relevant factors in this case.
Were Varoomas checks reasonable and proportionate?
Varooma has said that it completed an income and expenditure assessment with Miss C. 
Before arranging these loans. It says it also carried out credit checks to work out what     
Miss Cs existing credit commitments were as well having sight of Miss Cs bank account 
transactions too. 
So bearing in mind Varooma says and has evidenced that it obtained a significant amount of 
information on Miss Cs circumstances, Im prepared to accept that it did carry out 
proportionate checks  at least in terms of the information requested  before providing this 
loan to Miss C.
Did Varooma make a fair lending decision?It isnt enough for a lender to simply request information from a consumer before deciding to
lend to them. So even if a lender may have requested a proportionate amount of information,
it may still be the case that it will not have acted fairly and reasonably towards that consumer
if it didnt carry out a fair and reasonable evaluation of the information it obtained.
I say this because a lender is required to carry out an assessment of the borrowers ability to
repay any credit advanced. And any assessment requires an evaluation, judgement,
appraisal and scrutiny of any information obtained. Varooma says its assessment of the 
information obtained led it to conclude that Miss Cs loan was affordable for her as shed be 
able to sustainably make her repayments.
Varooma was required to establish whether Miss C could make her loan repayments without 
borrowing further or experiencing significant adverse consequences  not just whether the 
loan payments were technically affordable on a strict pounds and pence calculation.
Ive carefully considered the information provided in light of this. Having done so, it is clear 
Miss C was already overstretched. She had multiple defaults, a County Count Judgement 
against her, was in a debt management plan and still had other creditors including debt 
collection agencies who she was paying. Varooma says Miss Cs debt management plan 
and her payments was her owning up to her debts and seeking help. 
Im not persuaded by this argument  especially Miss Cs credit file shows extensive payday 
and high-cost lending and a history of debts being passed to debt collection agencies. But, in 
any event, its clear that Miss Cs ongoing difficulties was as a result of being unable to 
manage her debts previously.
And in these circumstances, I dont see how it was fair and reasonable for Varooma to 
provide further expensive credit when Miss C was already struggling to repay what she 
owed. Indeed its no surprise at all to see that Miss C didnt adhere to the original payment 
schedule for this loan either. In my view, while Varooma believed that the monthly payments 
were pounds and pence affordable for Miss C, I think Miss C was always unlikely to be able 
to make the payments she was being asked to commit to without borrowing further or 
suffering significant adverse consequences.
Bearing this in mind, and what exactly it was Varooma was required to consider, Im satisfied 
that it is more likely than not the information Varooma says it obtained demonstrated that 
Miss C wasnt in a position to take on any more debt and so Varoomas decision to arrange 
this loan wasnt fair and reasonable in the circumstances.
Did Varooma act unfairly or unreasonably towards Miss C in some other way?
Having considered everything provided, Ive not seen anything here to suggest that Varooma 
acted unfairly or unreasonably towards Miss C in some other way. Did Miss C lose out as a result of Varooma unfairly providing her with this loan?
As Miss C paid a high amount of interest and charges on loans that she shouldnt have been 
provided with, Im satisfied that she lost out as a result of what Varooma did wrong.
So I think that Varooma needs to put things right.
Fair compensation  what Varooma needs to do to put things right for Miss C
Having thought about everything, I think it would be fair and reasonable in all the 
circumstances of Miss Cs complaint for Varooma to put things right by:
terminate any bill of sale it may have on Miss Cs vehicle and arrange for ownership 
to be transferred back to her. 
refunding all interest, fees and charges Miss C paid as a result of being provided with 
this loan;
adding interest at 8% per year simple on any refunded amounts from the date they 
were paid by Miss C to the date of settlement;
removing any adverse information, if any, still recorded on Miss Cs credit file as a 
result of this loan.
 HM Revenue & Customs requires Varooma to take off tax from this interest. Varooma 
must give Miss C a certificate showing how much tax it has taken off if she asks for one.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, Im upholding Miss Cs complaint. Greenlight Credit Ltd 
needs to put things right in the way set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss C to accept 
or reject my decision before 31 March 2022.
 
Jeshen Narayanan
Ombudsman