DRN-3898008
The complaint
Mr J complains about the advice Dobson & Hodge Limited gave to him to transfer the 
benefits from his defined-benefit (DB) occupational pension scheme, the British Steel 
Pension Scheme (BSPS) to a self-invested personal pension (SIPP). He says the advice 
was unsuitable for him and believes this has caused a financial loss. 
What happened
In March 2016, Mr Js employer announced that it would be examining options to restructure 
its business, including decoupling the BSPS from the company. The consultation with 
members referred to possible outcomes regarding their preserved benefits, which included 
transferring the scheme to the Pension Protection Fund (PPF), or a new defined-benefit 
scheme (BSPS2). The PPF acts as a lifeboat for insolvent DB pension schemes, paying 
compensation to members of eligible schemes for their lifetime. The compensation levels 
are, generally, around 90% of the level of the original schemes benefits for deferred 
pensions. But the PPFs rules and benefits may differ from the original scheme. Alternatively, 
members of the BSPS were informed they could transfer their benefits to a private pension 
arrangement.
In May 2017, the PPF made the announcement that the terms of a Regulated Apportionment 
Arrangement (RAA) had been agreed. That announcement included that, if risk-related 
qualifying conditions relating to funding and size could be satisfied, a new pension scheme 
sponsored by Mr Js employer would be set up  the BSPS2. The RAA was signed and 
confirmed in August 2017 and the agreed steps were carried out shortly after.
In September 2017 the BSPS provided Mr J with an updated summary of the transfer value 
of his scheme benefits, following the RAA taking effect. These benefits had a cash 
equivalent transfer value (CETV) of £470,195.
In October 2017, members of the BSPS were sent a time to choose letter which gave them 
the options to either stay in the BSPS and move with it to the PPF, move to the BSPS2 or 
transfer their BSPS benefits elsewhere.
Mr J approached Dobson & Hodge for pension advice. It conducted a fact-find with him and 
an assessment of his attitude to risk. Amongst other things it recorded that Mr J was 54 
years old and married to Mrs J who was 53. They were both working. They had two non-
dependent children. They owned their own home subject to a mortgage which was due to be 
repaid within two years. They had savings with a value of around £26,000. They were adding 
around £500 each month to their savings with £200 earmarked for holidays. Mr J had started 
paying into his employers defined contribution (DC) pension scheme. Dobson & Hodge 
assessed Mr J as having a cautious to moderate attitude to risk.
After obtaining a transfer value analysis report (TVAS) Dobson & Hodge gave Mr J a 
Financial Report setting out its analysis and recommendations. Such documents are often 
known as suitability reports and thats the term I've used in this decision. In short Dobson & 
Hodge recommended that Mr J should transfer his DB scheme funds to a named SIPP. It 
noted he wanted to retire early preferably between ages 57 and 60 with a target income of 
£20,400 a year. Dobson & Hodge noted that a transfer would not be in Mr Js financial best 
interests. It added that:
I would suggest that our recommended portfolio is unlikely to achieve the Critical Yield and 
therefore, on that basis you are likely to receive less income from a private pension than you 
would otherwise receive from the BSPS
However, Dobson & Hodge recommended the transfer, in brief, because it would allow Mr J 
to take early retirement while having flexible access to his funds. And so he could take more 
in the early years of retirement and reduce his drawings from his SIPP once his state 
pension became payable.
Mr J accepted Dobson & Hodges recommendation and transferred his DB funds to the 
named SIPP. 
Mr J complained to Dobson & Hodge in 2022 that the advice to transfer wasnt suitable for 
him. Dobson & Hodge didnt uphold his complaint. In brief it said that transferring allowed 
him to achieve his objectives. 
Mr J asked us to consider his complaint. One of our Investigators looked into it. He didnt 
think a transfer was in Mr Js best interests. Our Investigator recommended that Dobson & 
Hodge calculate if Mr J has suffered a loss as a result of its unsuitable advice and if so pay 
compensation, including £250 to address Mr Js distress and inconvenience.
Dobson & Hodge didnt reply to the Investigators complaint assessment. So we have 
assumed it did not agree. As we couldn't resolve the matter informally the complaints been 
passed to me to make a final determination. 
Mr J has since told us that he retired in April 2023 at age 60.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive taken into account relevant law and regulations, regulators rules, guidance and 
standards and codes of practice, and what I consider to have been good industry practice at 
the time. This includes the Principles for Businesses (PRIN) and the Conduct of Business 
Sourcebook (COBS). And where the evidence is incomplete, inconclusive or contradictory, 
I reach my conclusions on the balance of probabilities  that is, what I think is more likely 
than not to have happened based on the available evidence and the wider surrounding 
circumstances.
The applicable rules, regulations and requirements
The below is not a comprehensive list of the rules and regulations which applied at the time 
of the advice, but provides useful context for my assessment of Dobson & Hodge's actions 
here.
PRIN 6: A firm must pay due regard to the interests of its customers and treat them fairly.
PRIN 7: A firm must pay due regard to the information needs of its clients, and communicate 
information to them in a way which is clear, fair and not misleading.COBS 2.1.1R: A firm must act honestly, fairly and professionally in accordance with the best 
interests of its client (the client's best interests rule).
The provisions in COBS 9 which deal with the obligations when giving a personal 
recommendation and assessing suitability. And the provisions in COBS 19 which specifically 
relate to a DB pension transfer.
The regulator, the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA), states in COBS 19.1.6G that the 
starting assumption for a transfer from a DB scheme is that it is unsuitable. So, Dobson & 
Hodge should have only considered recommending a transfer if it could clearly demonstrate 
it was in Mr Js best interests.
Having considered all of this and the evidence in this case, Ive decided to uphold the 
complaint for broadly similar reasons to those our Investigator gave.
Reasons for my decision 
The regulator required Dobson & Hodge to obtain a TVAS report. That said the critical yield 
 how much Mr Js pension fund would need to grow by each year in order to provide the 
same benefits as his DB scheme  was 9.06% to match the full pension hed have been 
entitled to under the scheme at age 65. The critical yield to match the PPF benefits was 
4.66% at age 65. At age 57, the critical yield was 27.72% to match the DB scheme benefits 
and 13.96% to match the PPF benefits.
Dobson & Hodge didnt produce figures for precisely how much tax free cash (TFC) Mr J 
would be entitled to under the DB scheme or how much taking a TFC lump sum would 
reduce his yearly pension by. Similarly it didnt show critical yields if Mr J took TFC and a 
reduced pension at any age from the BSPS scheme. It did produce a TFC estimate in its 
suitability report, saying that Mr J might be entitled to TFC of £41,500. But it also noted that 
this is below the figure of £60,605 produced by the scheme administrators. So I'm not 
persuaded that Dobson & Hodges figure for TFC is reliable. Also the suitability report 
doesn't give TFC figures if Mr J chose to retire early. I think that information would have 
been useful to him as he might have wished to take TFC and use that money to supplement 
his pension income until his state pension became payable. 
Further, Dobson & Hodge referred to the "time to choose" exercise in its suitability report. So 
it was clearly aware that was happening and it must have known it would have included 
Mr Js likely entitlement from the BSPS2. But Dobson & Hodge doesn't appear to have 
obtained a copy of that. Its TVAS analysis was based on the BSPS benefits. But the BSPS 
wasnt an option for Mr J. He would have had to either allow his pension to move to the PPF 
or opt to join the BSPS2. But as Dobson & Hodge didnt show BSPS2 figures, or the critical 
yields required to match those sums, I dont think it gave Mr J all the information he needed 
to make an informed decision. 
Given what we know about the BSPS2, I think the critical yields to match the benefits it 
would have provided from age 65 were likely to be between those of the BSPS and the PPF. 
At age 57, the critical yields to match the full pension from the PPF  13.96%  was roughly 
half that of the BSPS scheme  27.72%  so the appropriate critical yield for the BSPS2 was 
again likely to be somewhere between the two figures. But as Dobson & Hodge didnt set 
that out I dont think it gave Mr J all the information he needed.
From the information we do have I've thought about whether or not Mr J could meet the 
growth rates required. A reasonable method of looking at likely growth rate is a measure 
called the discount rate, which we used to publish on our website. For Mr J the appropriate 
discount rate was 2.7% for retirement at age 57 and 3.8% for retirement at age 65. So given the lowest critical yield was 4.66%  for Mr J taking his benefits from the PPF at age 65  
and considering Mr Js cautious to moderate attitude to risk, there was no real prospect of 
those yields being met. 
Indeed it's notable that Dobson & Hodge has recognised that fact. It said that transferring 
was not in Mr Js financial best interests and that Mr J would likely receive less income 
from a private pension than he would from the DB scheme. In other words Dobson & Hodge 
was aware that transferring would most probably mean Mr J would be worse off in retirement 
by doing so. I agree with Dobson & Hodge analysis here. But I dont think it did enough to 
make it clear to Mr J that he was, most likely, making himself poorer in retirement by 
transferring.
For example Dobson & Hodge said that, after Mr and Mrs Js state pensions became 
payable Mr Js DB income would be surplus to requirements. But  at 2017 levels  their 
state pension income was £14,360 a year. That was around £6,000 below their target 
income of £20,400 a year in retirement. So any other income would not be surplus as 
Dobson & Hodge said. In fact it would be essential to meet their target income. And while the 
DB scheme pension would almost certainly have taken Mr and Mrs Js income above their 
target level, that simply means that theyd be better off. In other words theyd have more 
money to enhance their lifestyle with. 
Also there was no prospect of Mr Js DB scheme benefits ever being depleted. They were 
guaranteed for life and would escalate to provide some protection against inflation. The 
same could not be said for Mr Js pension fund once invested in a SIPP. Thats because any 
withdrawals he made from it would reduce the overall fund. That in turn would reduce the 
amount left to benefit from investment growth. So, if Mr J took large withdrawals from it in the 
early years of his retirement, there was a sustained period of poor performance or the 
investments suffered losses then there was a very real chance that Mr Js fund would grow 
at a slow rate or not at all. If that happened he could deplete the entire fund within his 
lifetime and be unable to meet his target income levels in later years. So I dont think 
transferring was in his best interests.
A key reason Dobson & Hodge gave for recommending the transfer was that it would allow 
Mr J to retire early, while taking higher sums from his pension in the early years and then 
reducing his withdrawals once his state pension became payable. But Mr J could have taken 
early retirement from the DB scheme. The TVAS shows Mr J would have had a yearly DB 
pension of around £15,000 at age 57. And that amount would increase if he deferred taking 
his pension until he was older (as we now know that he did). And while that sum (£15,000) 
was around £5,400 less than his target income of £20,400, Mr and Mrs J would have income 
from other sources. 
Mrs J had told Dobson & Hodge she planned to continue working until age 60. So that would 
have been for an extra four years if Mr J had retired at age 57. And her income could have 
helped to support them for that period. Further they had savings of £26,000, which they were 
continuing to build up by around £3,600 a year. So, by the time Mr J turned 57 their savings 
could have been in the region of £36,000. Also, according to the suitability report, Mr Js DC 
pension was growing by around £5,000 a year. So he would also have those funds to help 
support him in the early years of retirement. It follows that I don't think he needed to transfer 
in order to be able to retire early. 
That said its true to say that Mr J couldnt have had the same level of flexible access to his 
DB funds as he could from a SIPP. While he could have chosen to take those early, if hed 
wanted to take TFC, then he would have had to take that at the same time as drawing a 
regular income from his pension. In contrast the SIPP would allow him to draw down funds 
as he saw fit. But while I can see why that might have been an attractive prospect for him, Im not persuaded that Mr J had any concrete need to vary his income throughout 
retirement. So I don't think it was in his best interests to potentially make himself worse off 
just to have flexibility that he didnt need. 
I've noted that Dobson & Hodge did point out to Mr J that by transferring there was a risk his 
pension fund could be depleted during his lifetime. It also said Mr J was prepared to accept 
that risk. But pointing out a risk doesn't make unsuitable advice suitable. Mr J had asked 
Dobson & Hodge to give him the benefit of its expertise. And its role wasnt simply to 
transact what Mr J might have thought he wanted. The advisers role was to really 
understand what Mr J needed and recommend what was in his best interests. So, regardless 
that Mr J might have said he was prepared to accept a risk of lower income, this doesn't 
mean it was in his best interests for Dobson & Hodge to recommend he take that risk.
Overall, I cant see persuasive reasons why it was clearly in Mr Js best interest to give up 
his DB benefits and transfer them to a SIPP. I also havent seen anything to persuade me 
that Mr J wouldve insisted on transferring, against advice to remain in the DB scheme. So, 
Im upholding the complaint as I think the advice Dobson & Hodge gave to Mr J was 
unsuitable for him.
Also, as I'm aware that learning that he might have compromised his security in retirement 
has been a source of distress and inconvenience for Mr J, I think Dobson & Hodge should 
pay him £250 to address that.
 
Putting things right
A fair and reasonable outcome would be for Dobson & Hodge to put Mr J, as far as possible, 
into the position he would now be in but for the unsuitable advice. I'm aware that the year-
on-year pension increases from the BSPS2 were higher than from the PPF. So I consider 
Mr J would most likely have remained in the DB scheme and opted to join the BSPS2 if 
Dobson & Hodge had given suitable advice. 
Dobson & Hodge must therefore undertake a redress calculation in line with the rules for 
calculating redress for non-compliant pension transfer advice, as detailed in policy statement 
PS22/13 and set out in the regulators handbook in DISP App 4: 
https://www.handbook.fca.org.uk/handbook/DISP/App/4/?view=chapter. 
Dobson & Hodge should use the FCAs BSPS-specific redress calculator to calculate the 
redress. A copy of the BSPS calculator output should be sent to Mr J and the Financial 
Ombudsman Service upon completion of the calculation together with supporting evidence of 
what Dobson & Hodge based the inputs into the calculator on.
For clarity, Mr J retired in April 2023. So, I think Dobson & Hodge should use that date when 
calculating compensation.
This calculation should be carried out using the most recent financial assumptions in line 
with DISP App 4. In accordance with the regulators expectations, this should be undertaken 
or submitted to an appropriate provider promptly following receipt of notification of Mr J 
acceptance of my final decision.
If the redress calculation demonstrates a loss, as explained in policy statement PS22/13 and 
set out in DISP App 4, Dobson & Hodge should:
calculate and offer Mr J redress as a cash lump sum payment,
explain to Mr J before starting the redress calculation that:- his redress will be calculated on the basis that it will be invested prudently (in 
line with the cautious investment return assumption used in the calculation), 
and
- a straightforward way to invest his redress prudently is to use it to augment 
his DC pension
offer to calculate how much of any redress Mr J receives could be augmented rather 
than receiving it all as a cash lump sum,
if Mr J accepts Dobson & Hodges offer to calculate how much of his redress could 
be augmented, request the necessary information and not charge Mr J for the 
calculation, even if he ultimately decides not to have any of his redress augmented, 
and
take a prudent approach when calculating how much redress could be augmented, 
given the inherent uncertainty around Mr Js end of year tax position.
Redress paid to Mr J as a cash lump sum will be treated as income for tax purposes. So, in 
line with DISP App 4, Dobson & Hodge may make a notional deduction to cash lump sum 
payments to take account of tax that consumers would otherwise pay on income from their 
pension. Typically, 25% of the loss could have been taken as tax-free cash and 75% would 
have been taxed according to Mr Js likely income tax rate in retirement  presumed to be 
20%. So making a notional deduction of 15% overall from the loss adequately reflects this. 
Also, I think Dobson & Hodge should also pay Mr J £250 to address his is arising from the 
unsuitable advice.
Where I uphold a complaint, I can award fair compensation of up to £170,000, plus any
interest and/or costs that I consider are appropriate. Where I consider that fair compensation
requires payment of an amount that might exceed £170,000, I may recommend that the
business pays the balance.
My final decision
Determination and money award: I uphold this complaint and require Dobson & Hodge 
Limited to pay Mr J the compensation amount as set out in the steps above, up to a 
maximum of £170,000.
Recommendation: If the compensation amount exceeds £170,000, I also recommend that 
Dobson & Hodge Limited pays Mr J the balance.
If Mr J accepts this decision, the money award becomes binding on Dobson & Hodge 
Limited.
My recommendation would not be binding. Further, its unlikely that Mr J can accept my 
decision and go to court to ask for the balance. Mr J may want to consider getting 
independent legal advice before deciding whether to accept any final decision.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr J to accept or 
reject my decision before 5 December 2023.
 
Joe Scott
Ombudsman