DRN-3072251
The complaint
Mrs E complains that Lowell Financial Ltd hasnt shown how the outstanding balance of a 
credit card debt came about. Mrs E also complains about the way Lowell has handled her 
account. 
What happened
In November 2019 Lowell Portfolio I Ltd bought a credit card debt from the original lender 
(C). C had previously closed Mrs Es credit card for non payment. Lowell Financial Ltd was 
appointed to administer the debt. Both Lowell and C wrote to Mrs E to confirm the change in 
ownerships and the outstanding balance was given as £280.71. 
Mrs E contacted Lowell and explained she had made payments totalling £223.11 against 
borrowing of £200 so was unclear how an outstanding balance of £280.71 remained. Lowell 
sent Mrs E a full transaction history it obtained from C in January 2020. The account history 
showed how the outstanding balance built up with C. 
Over the following months, Lowell sent Mrs E various letters, including partial settlement 
offers. Mrs E has told us she didnt receive any response despite trying to get in touch with 
Lowell. On 14 September 2020 Lowell wrote to offer Mrs E a 60% settlement offer if she 
agreed to clear the balance by the end of the month. 
On 22 October 2020 Mrs E contacted Lowell said shed made repayments totalling £223.11 
and proposed to make a further payment of £50 to clear the remaining balance. Lowell then 
took the decision to instruct solicitors in contemplation of taking legal action to recover the 
outstanding balance. 
Mrs E complained but Lowell didnt agree it had treated her unfairly or that it was seeking to 
collect the wrong amount. Mrs E referred her complaint to this service and it was passed to 
an investigator. They didnt agree Lowell had treated Mrs E unfairly so didnt ask it to do 
anything else. 
Mrs E asked to appeal and said she still thought the outstanding balance was too high when 
compared to her credit limit and payments made to the credit card. Mrs E also said it took 
too long for Lowell to send her information about the outstanding balance. Mrs E also said 
she received a partial settlement offer dated 14 September 2020 but Lowell went on to 
instruct solicitors and is now seeking to recover the full outstanding balance. As Mrs E asked 
to appeal, her complaint has been passed to me to make a decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mrs E says she feels the amount Lowell is seeking to recover is too high and that it took too 
long to send her information about her outstanding balance. I understand Mrs E asked for 
evidence showing how the balance of £280.71 became due in November 2019 and Lowell 
sent that information to her in January 2020. I agree it took around two months, but I think 
that reflects the fact Lowell had to obtain the information requested from C. I dont agree the 
information was unreasonably delayed. 
Ive looked at the account history information Lowell sent to Mrs E. I can see it shows all the 
transactions on Mrs Es credit card with C going back to the date it was opened. The 
information includes details of all the interest, fees, charges and payments applied by C to 
the account and shows how the balance of £280.71 came about. Im satisfied the information 
provided is sufficient to show how the outstanding balance came about. If Mrs E is 
concerned that the debt C sold to Lowell is wrong because of the interest, fees and charges 
applied to her credit card she has the option of taking that up directly. But Im satisfied that 
Lowell is working from an accurate balance. 
Mrs E has said that Lowell failed to respond to her queries, but as Ive set out above, Im 
satisfied it provided the information she requested in January 2020 when it sent Cs 
transaction history to her. 
After Lowell sent Mrs E the account history, it sent several follow up collection letters 
including some partial settlement offers. Mrs E says she responded to Lowell in October 
2020 asking it to accept a payment of £50 in recognition of the other payments that were 
made directly to C. But by this point, Lowell had been seeking repayment from Mrs E for 
nearly a year. Lowell sent the account history, to show how the balance came about, around 
nine months earlier. 
Mrs E says Lowell refused to consider her offer in October 2020. But Lowell wrote to Mrs E 
on 14 September 2020 and she emailed it back on 22 October 2020, over a month later. Mrs 
E was also asking Lowell to accept substantially less than the existing 60% partial settlement 
it offered.
We cant force a business to accept less than the outstanding balance. Im satisfied Lowell 
was within its rights to reject the £50 Mrs E offered. As no agreement to either make monthly 
payments or accept the partial settlement offer were made, Lowell took the decision to 
instruct solicitors to collect. Lowell decided to take formal action to recover the funds owed 
and is free to pursue the full outstanding balance. Im sorry to disappoint Mrs E but I dont 
agree Lowell treated her unfairly when it took the decision to instruct solicitors in this case. 
Im satisfied Lowell has dealt with Mrs Es complaint fairly. As a result, Im not telling it to 
take any further action. 
My final decision
My decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs E to accept or 
reject my decision before 16 November 2021.
 
Marco Manente
Ombudsman