DRN-2104206
 
The complaint
Mrs and Mr T have complained about QIC Europe Ltd. They are not happy about the way it 
dealt with a claim under their motor insurance policy.
What happened
I looked at Mrs and Mr Ts complaint and the finer detail of the case previously and set out 
the background as follows;
Mr T was involved in an accident in November 2018 which he reported to QICs agent. QIC 
inspected Mr Ts car and eventually concluded that there was damage unrelated to the 
accident which made the car uneconomical to repair.
However, QIC eventually decided the car was a total loss from this incident and offered a 
market value of £8,500 in June 2019. Mr and Mrs T thought the car was worth more and 
disputed whether the car should be deemed a total loss. So, QIC asked its appointed 
engineer to again look at the car who reaffirmed the earlier position that the car had pre-
existing damage and changed its offer. It offered a cash-in-lieu payment of about £2,700 in 
order that Mr and Mrs T could get the car repaired themselves. As Mr and Mrs T werent 
happy about this, they complained to QIC (it offered £100 compensation for its change of 
position) and then this service.
Our investigator looked into things for them and partly upheld the complaint. She thought 
that although QICs CIL offer was reasonable it shouldve concluded this around March 2019 
and before it offered to pay the market value of the car. She asked QIC to give Mr and Mrs T 
four weeks to nominate a repairer of their choice to have the car delivered to, and to settle 
the claim CIL of about £2,700 with interest, so they could get the car repaired themselves. 
And she asked it to pay £500 (total) compensation for its poor service, especially the error it 
made in offering the market value of the car.
As QIC agreed with the investigators position but Mr and Mrs T didnt, the matter was 
passed to me for review and I outlined my provisional thoughts as follows. 
What I provisionally decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Having done so I think the complaint 
should be fully upheld. But I must highlight that this is my provisional view and is subject to 
change depending on any further representations and evidence I receive.
One of the difficulties with this case is the amount of time QIC took to decide how to finalise 
Mr and Mrs Ts claim. It took about six months for it to decide their car was a total loss and 
offer a valuation of £8,500 in June 2019. And by that stage it had already raised questions 
around pre-existing damage, and presumably satisfied itself that it was happy to pay a total 
loss market value payment.Mr and Mrs T raise the point that QIC only retracted the offer when they queried the 
valuation as they thought the car was worth about £2,000 more than it had offered. And 
having looked at the valuation of their car it does seem QICs offer was low.
While the case has been with me for consideration Ive asked QIC about this. And it told the 
investigator that once Mr and Mrs T didnt agree the total loss payment it looked to reinspect 
the car. This seems to support Mr and Mrs Ts position, and this doesnt feel fair. 
Furthermore, the reinspection only reiterated the first inspection's position about pre-existing 
damage, so Im not sure why QIC changed its position. 
Plus, Mr and Mrs T have made the point that some of the damage QIC say was pre-existing 
was caused in the retrieval of the car from the ditch. And having seen the photographs from 
the scene I agree that further damage couldve been caused. I know Mr T wasnt in a 
position to discuss this with QIC which probably hampered things. But it still couldve tried to 
speak with him about the accident when it chose to reinspect the car. And it couldve spoken 
to the independent witnesses about the retrieval of the car and any likely damage caused.
I also asked QIC about how it proposed to put right any deterioration in Mr and Mrs Ts car 
caused by the fact the car has been left standing. It told our investigator it takes no 
responsibility for this. I dont think that is fair as although Mr and Mrs T may be responsible 
for some of the delay, QIC is mainly responsible and the reason it accepts it should pay 
£500 in compensation is because it didnt handle the claim and investigation very well.
All this leads me to suggest that the fair and reasonable thing to do, in the particular 
circumstances of this case, is for Mr and Mrs Ts car to be written off. I say this as this was 
the conclusion QIC reached in June 2019, and nothing has really changed since it made its 
offer other than Mr and Mrs T questioned the market value offered. And this would ensure 
that Mr and Mrs T dont face any additional (potentially significant) problems caused by their 
car being left standing for so long.
In relation to the market value offered I agree that the value offered was too low, so I can 
understand why Mr and Mrs T questioned this. QIC knows how this service approaches 
complaints about the valuation of cars. And in line with this our investigator has used the 
trade guides to look at the market value of Mr and Mrs Ts car. The trade guides suggest that 
the value is approximately £1,000 more than QIC offered which is what Ill ask QIC to pay, 
again subject to any representations that I receive.
Finally, I think the level of compensation already agreed (£500 total) is sufficient for the 
stress and inconvenience all this has caused Mr and Mrs T. And Ill also ask QIC to pay 8% 
simple interest in line with our usual approach.
Replies
QIC asked for an extension of time while it got a senior engineer to review the matter and 
eventually responded to say that it didnt agree with my position. While Mrs T also 
responded, she said she appreciated that Id found mainly in her favour. But went onto say 
that she didnt feel the compensation was sufficient to cover all the inconvenience she had 
faced. She felt that there had been a bias towards the insurer and felt that the suggested 
outcome didnt consider the finance on the car. Mrs T outlined that QIC hadnt made an 
interim payment and that she had been without a car for an extended period of time.
QICs said again that its engineer was happy that most of the damage to the car was pre-
existing and said that none of the damage was consistent with the recovery of the car after 
the accident. Indeed, it said that the reason it offered £8,500 initially was because of the pre-existing damage. Ultimately, QIC doesnt agree that the car should be classed as a total loss 
now.
What Ive decided
Ive again considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. I must highlight that my review of the case 
is impartial and independent. I know Mrs T feels that there is bias towards QIC, but I can 
assure her that isnt the case. Indeed, as Im upholding the complaint, Im sure QIC wouldnt 
agree as it maintains that it should be paying an awful lot less to settle the claim.
I dont propose to go over the main points again as they have already been addressed. But I 
will consider both sides further representations. 
I can understand QICs position and it is difficult, given the significant passage of time, to say 
what damage was or wasnt pre-existing. But it looked to settle Mr and Mrs Ts claim as a 
total loss and offered £8,500 as market value initially. It now says that this offer was £1,000 
below the true market value in acknowledgement that the car had some pre-existing 
damage. Had it have explained this to Mr and Mrs T at that point in time or when they 
questioned the valuation of their car they may well have accepted £8,500 in settlement.
But QIC didnt explain this and instead chose to offer £2,700 as a cash-in-lieu payment. This 
was because QIC said most of the damage on the car was pre-existing (even though it says 
it was already aware of this when it offered £8,500 initially). 
By the time QIC revised its offer the car had already been sat for quite a period of time and 
was clearly deteriorating. QIC has acknowledged it delayed the claim significantly and has 
offered compensation for this and, obviously, the car only got worse while Mr and Mrs T 
advanced their complaint. So, even if I thought that QICs offer of a cash-in-lieu payment 
was fair then Mr and Mrs T would be left with a car that wasnt driveable now. And there is 
no way of working out what part of the car seizing was linked to any pre-existing damage or 
what was linked to the damage QIC says was attributable to this claim.
So, as QIC acknowledges that it knew all along about any pre-existing damage when it 
offered £1,000 less than the market value originally. And the car has clearly been left to fall 
into a state of disrepair. I think the fair and reasonable thing to do is for QIC to pay Mr and 
Mrs T the true market value of their car from the time of claim, plus 8% simple interest. 
I know Mr and Mrs T feels that they should get more by way of compensation. But they are 
getting paid the full market value of the car when QIC say it deducted £1,000 for pre-existing 
damage originally. Given what the engineer has said that doesnt seem unreasonable to me 
and puts Mr and Mrs T in a better position than they ought to have been. And I feel that this 
needs to be considered alongside any compensation awarded.
Ive considered Mrs Ts point about paying finance on the car and being without the car as 
she wasnt offered an interim payment. But this service expects consumers to mitigate their 
position and Mrs T couldve bought a small run-around if she wished and I wouldve 
considered any loss she may have incurred on this. And the finance was always going to be 
payable and hopefully Mr and Mrs T have considerably less to pay off with the settlement Im 
proposing here which includes 8% simple interest.
As such I think QIC should pay Mr and Mrs T the market value of their car (£9,500) plus 
£500 compensation (total) for the delay, stress and inconvenience caused. 
My final decisionIt follows, for the reasons given above, that I uphold this complaint. I require QIC Europe Ltd 
to pay Mr and Mrs T £9,500 (plus 8% simple interest from the date of claim until the date of 
settlement). And £500 compensation.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr T to accept or 
reject my decision before 17 September 2020.
Colin Keegan
Ombudsman