DRN-1427799
The complaint
Mr and Mrs W have complained that they were given inaccurate information by HSBC UK 
Bank Plc (trading as First Direct), as a result of which they had to pay an Early Repayment 
Charge (ERC) when they repaid their mortgage. They are asking HSBC to reimburse them 
for the ERC theyve had to pay, approximately £7,500.
What happened
Mr and Mrs W had a mortgage with HSBC which, in June 2019, had reverted to Standard 
Variable Rate. Mrs W, who has dealt with the complaint throughout, telephoned HSBC on 
6 and 11 June 2019 to discuss a new product. 
HSBC explained that this could be on an advised basis, or if Mr and Mrs W simply wanted a 
new rate, HSBC would provide information about the available rates and Mr and Mrs W 
could proceed on a non-advised basis. Mr and Mrs W decided to proceed without advice, 
and chose a new product, a two-year fixed rate.
During the calls HSBC explained that if the mortgage was repaid in full during the two-year 
period, an ERC would apply. HSBC also explained that overpayments could be made and 
the account could be reduced to a nil balance, but as long as the account remained open, no 
ERC would be payable. 
HSBC also explained that the mortgage rate was portable  so the product could be 
transferred onto a new mortgage account secured on a new property. Mr and Mrs W were 
referred to the account terms and conditions for full details of the ERC and porting policies.
A mortgage offer was issued on 11 June 2019 setting out this information. Clause 7, relating 
to the ERC, says that an ERC is payable if you repay this Mortgage Loan in full (which 
includes when you move to a different mortgage product or move to a different lender) within 
2 years from First Drawdown Mr and Mrs W accepted the mortgage offer on a non-
advised basis. 
On 23 August 2019 Mr and Mrs W made a complaint to HSBC. They were selling their 
house and wanted to repay their mortgage, but were unhappy theyd be charged an ERC. 
They said that they thought they could move house (and take out a new mortgage with 
another lender), pay off the mortgage (reducing the account to a nil balance) but keep the 
account open and thus avoid paying the ERC. 
HSBC explained that this wasnt how the account worked and that an ERC was payable if 
Mr and Mrs W decided to move and repay the mortgage. HSBC said that in June 2019 no 
mention had been made during the calls that Mr and Mrs W were selling their house; if this 
had been raised by Mr and Mrs W, HSBC would have been able to provide more detailed 
information about its porting and ERC policies. HSBC did clarify that there was a six-month 
window within which Mr and Mrs W could have applied to port their mortgage product onto a 
new loan secured on the property they were buying.Unhappy with HSBCs response, Mr and Mrs W complained to the Financial Ombudsman 
Service. Mrs W says that the information given by HSBC was misleading. She was under the 
clear impression that the mortgage balance could be reduced to £0, but the account left 
open, so that when they moved house and took out a new mortgage, no ERC would be 
payable. Mrs W says that she thought the mortgage account operated like a credit card, 
where you can pay off the entire balance but keep the card account open.
An investigator looked at the complaint but didnt think it should be upheld. He was satisfied 
that the mortgage offer was clear about the circumstances in which the ERC would apply.
Mr and Mrs W disagreed. Mrs W has made some further points, which I summarise below:
Mrs W had asked various people about how to get out of paying the ERC and 
assumed that by reducing the mortgage to a £0 balance meant that they could do 
exactly that  keep it open after the house was sold and close it at the end of the two-
year fixed-rate period.
They didnt tell HSBC they were selling their house, but surely it is HSBCs duty of 
responsibility to tell them  using terminology that is clear  that if the house is sold 
within that time then the consequences will be that X amount of money will have to 
be paid back, that is language that anyone can understand.
They were never told there was a six-month period where they could sell the house 
and keep the mortgage, taking it to their new property. This was only explained when 
they called to pay off the mortgage and HSBC wanted a new product sale. As they 
were taking a mortgage with another bank, HSBC asked why they werent porting 
their mortgage. It was only then that HSBC said there was a six-month window, but 
also said there wasnt enough time, given that Mr and Mrs W were about to pay off 
their mortgage, for this to be set up.
 
What Ive decided, and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. I confirm Ive listened to the telephone 
conversations between Mrs W and HSBC on 6 and 11 June 2019, and Ive reviewed all the 
documentation.
Having done so, Im afraid Ive some disappointing news for Mr and Mrs W; Im not 
upholding the complaint.
Mr and Mrs W accept that they didnt tell HSBC in June 2019 that their house was on the 
market, and so Im satisfied HSBC wasnt aware that the ERC and porting the mortgage 
might need to be discussed in more detail. Given that Mr and Mrs W were arranging a new 
mortgage with a two-year tie-in, I dont think it would, or should, have been obvious to HSBC 
that it should ask Mr and Mrs W if they were in the process of selling their house.
Ive looked at the mortgage offer, and this says quite clearly and in language that Im 
satisfied would be easily understood by the average person who has no specialist financial 
knowledge that the ERC will apply if the mortgage is repaid in full or a mortgage taken out 
with a new lender.
I appreciate that Mr and Mrs W might have misunderstood the position concerning 
overpayments on the mortgage account. They assumed (incorrectly) that they could reduce 
the account to £0 (by selling their property and paying off the mortgage) but keep the 
account open. But this isnt how a mortgage account works. A mortgage is a loan secured against a property. The mortgage is registered against the 
property title at the Land Registry. When the property is sold, the mortgage account is paid 
off, the account closed and the entry removed on the register, giving clear title to the new 
owner of the property. 
It isnt possible for Mr and Mrs W to sell their property and still have the mortgage account 
registered against it. Nor is it possible to have a mortgage account where there is no security 
for the loan.
I think if Mr and Mrs W had explained to HSBC in June 2019 that they were selling their 
house, the bank would have had the opportunity to answer any questions Mr and Mrs W had 
about the circumstances in which the ERC would apply. As I said above, I dont think that, in 
the context of arranging a new fixed-rate mortgage product, these were questions HSBC 
would or should have been aware it needed to ask.
I appreciate that it was only at the point where Mr and Mrs W were about to repay their 
mortgage that they say they learned about the six-month window for the first time. But this 
information is on HSBCs website, and so was available to Mr and Mrs W.
Taking everything into account, I cant find that HSBC has done anything wrong or that there 
is any basis upon which it would be fair or reasonable to expect the bank to reimburse the 
ERC.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
This final decision concludes the Financial Ombudsman Services review of this complaint. 
This means that we are unable to consider the complaint any further, nor enter into any 
correspondence about the merits of it.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr and Mrs W to 
accept or reject my decision before 7 July 2020.
Jan O'Leary
Ombudsman