DRN-2423053
The complaint
Mr M and Miss W complain Royal & Sun Alliance Insurance Plc (RSA) unfairly declined 
their home insurance claim following an escape of water.  
Mr M is the representative on this case so for ease Ive referred to all comments and actions 
as being those of Mr M.
What happened
In early 2019, Mr M noticed some water damage to his ceiling, and made a claim on his 
home insurance policy for an escape of water.
RSA initially accepted the claim and asked Mr M to obtain some quotes for the work that 
would be needed to carry out the repairs. It agreed an initial amount of around £1,900 for 
strip out works to start. Once the work had started, it became evident the damage was worse 
than first thought. RSA said Mr M and his family would have to go into alternative 
accommodation whilst repairs were carried out.
Mr M was asked to assist in sourcing alternative accommodation. He also arranged a kennel 
for his two dogs. In July 2019 RSA asked for the quote for the kennels to be provided. Mr M 
provided this in an email. He also later provided RSA with an invoice confirming the 
amounts. RSA had some concerns about the amounts quoted. It conducted an investigation 
and thought Mr M had exaggerated the cost of the kennel fees. As a result it declined Mr Ms 
claim and cancelled his policy from the date he provided the quote for the kennels to RSA. It 
also asked for any money it had already paid to be returned and kept his insurance 
premium.
Mr M complained to RSA. He said it had caused delays in its handling of the claim and hed 
been left to essentially project manage the works alongside his job and caring for his 
children. He said hed made a mistake when changing the amounts in the email regarding 
the kennel costs. He said he forwarded the information to RSA whilst boarding a flight with 
his children, so wasnt in the right frame of mind. 
Hes also provided reference to case law to say that RSA cant decline the claim if the 
alleged fraudulent gain is minor to the overall claim amount. He also said RSA has breached 
principles of treating customers fairly.
Our investigator was satisfied RSA had acted reasonably in reaching the decision it had. So 
he didnt think RSA needed to do anything differently.
Mr M didnt accept this. He said he could provide bank statements showing his income and 
evidence that the work still hadnt been carried out on his home.
As Mr M didnt agree, the matter has come to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I understand Mr M has asked to speak to me before I reach my decision. But I dont feel its 
necessary for me to be able to reach a fair and reasonable outcome in this case. And having 
Mr Ms bank statements or the evidence the work hasnt been done isnt relevant in deciding 
whether RSA acted reasonably in declining the claim and voiding the policy.
Mr Ms policy says where fraud is detected, claims will not be paid and the policy can be 
made invalid. Fraud is a serious accusation that can have consequences beyond the claim 
decision itself. So RSA should only rely on the fraud condition when theres strong reason to 
do so. Its not the role of this service to decide whether or not a customer acted fraudulently. 
What we look at is whether a business reached a reasonable decision about this. Having 
considered everything, Im not going to interfere with RSAs decision to cancel the policy and 
not continue with the claim. 
Ive looked at the email quote sent in July 2019 to RSA by Mr M. The email looked as if it 
had been forwarded from the kennel owner and sets out the cost per dog per day. But when 
RSA spoke to the kennel owner as part of its investigation, he said this wasnt the email sent 
to Mr M. He showed RSA the email hed sent to Mr M. The figures in this email were much 
lower than those passed on by Mr M. The kennel owner also confirmed he hadnt written the 
invoice Mr M had supplied to RSA. 
RSA has said Mr M has exaggerated his claim. It says hes done something to increase the 
amount of money he was entitled to. Mr M says he made a mistake because of the stress of 
the airport experience with three children. He said he wasnt in the right frame of mind.
Mr Ms comments dont persuade me that RSA has acted unreasonably in declining the 
claim. Im satisfied from what Ive seen on the file that RSA came to a reasonable decision, 
having completed an investigation and spoken to both Mr M and Miss W before reaching its 
decision.
Ive considered the relevant law and case law in this area. Im satisfied RSA has acted in line 
with this. It says if a claim is exaggerated an insurer can decline the claim, cancel the policy 
and keep the insurance premium. It also says that if any part of the claim is exaggerated, the 
insurer doesnt have to pay out for any genuine loss suffered. Im not persuaded that the 
caselaw Mr M has provided shows RSA has acted unreasonably.
Having considered whats been provided, and the relevant law and case law in this area, I 
cant say RSAs decision to cancel the policy, refuse the claim, keep the premiums and ask 
for any money paid to be returned is unfair. So Im not going to interfere with RSAs decision. 
Mr M has said that the service leading up to the policy being cancelled was very poor. Hes 
outlined a number of points of complaint about delays and having to source his own 
contractors and alternative accommodation. Ive noted that RSA apologised for a delay of 
around two weeks in confirming Mr M would need to source his own alternative 
accommodation. I find this to be a minor delay in such a claim, and having considered 
everything, Im not persuaded that RSA need to do anything more to put things right.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M and Miss W 
to accept or reject my decision before 7 January 2021.
 
Michelle Henderson
Ombudsman