DRN-3674564
The complaint
Mr H is unhappy that Tesco Personal Finance PLC trading as Tesco Bank (Tesco Bank) 
decided to close his credit card account.
What happened
In February 2022, Tesco Bank wrote to Mr H and told him that in May 2022 they will close 
his credit card account down as his address is outside of the United Kingdom (UK). Later in 
March 2022, Tesco Bank wrote to Mr H and said that they are extending the closure date by 
six months, to give him more time to find a new credit card provider. In this correspondence 
they said that his account will now be closed in November 2022, instead of May 2022. 
Mr H was unhappy that Tesco Bank decided to close his credit card account without giving 
him a valid reason, so he raised a complaint with them. He was also unhappy that during a 
conversation in an electronic chat medium they wouldnt tell him the date his account was 
opened or post that information to him, but then later they were prepared to correspond by 
email. 
In April 2022, Tesco Bank wrote to Mr H. In this correspondence they confirmed the date on 
which Mr H opened his credit card account with them, and they apologised for the 
inconvenience caused, but explained that their customer service emails use a system that 
allows them to send password protected emails.
Regarding the closure of his credit card account, they explained that while the decision to 
leave the European Union (EU) may not directly impact the Crown Dependency, it has 
impacted, and will continue to impact, the UK banks, and as such this is why they have 
taken the decision to close down his credit card account. In the correspondence Tesco Bank 
explained that to ensure they comply with regulations, and as their products are specifically 
designed for customers living in mainland UK, the decision was taken to close Mr Hs 
account as he didnt have a UK mainland address.
Tesco Bank said that they appreciate that the Crown Dependency is a British Crown 
Dependency, but it is also self-governing and, as such, has its own regulations. They also 
assured Mr H, that the closure of the credit card account had nothing to do with the way he 
has managed his account. They summarised by saying that it was a business decision to 
close Mr Hs account. They wrote that they reserve the right to decide where they feel they 
can best serve their customers, and therefore that they are entitled to make decisions off the 
back of these factors. So, they said, they are unable to uphold his complaint.
Mr H was unhappy with this, so an investigator at our service looked at his complaint.  
Our investigator didnt think that Tesco Bank have acted unfairly. He thought they were 
within their right to close Mr Hs credit card account.  
Mr H disagreed with the investigator. So, the complaint has been passed to me to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In considering what is fair and reasonable, I need to take into account the relevant rules, 
guidance, the law and, where appropriate, what would be considered to have been good 
industry practice at the relevant time.
Where evidence is unclear or in dispute, I reach my findings on the balance of probabilities  
which is to say, what I consider most likely to have happened based on the evidence 
available and the surrounding circumstances.
I also want to acknowledge that Ive summarised the events of the complaint. But I want to 
assure both parties that Ive reviewed everything on file. And if I dont comment
on something, its not because I havent considered it. Its because Ive concentrated on
what I think are the key issues. Our powers allow me to do this. This simply reflects the 
informal nature of our service as a free alternative to the courts.
In summary, Mr H would like our service to intervene in, what he said, are Tesco Banks 
incorrect actions and intentions of closing his credit card account. He has told our service 
that he believes that Tesco Banks reasoning for closing his credit card account is 
completely incorrect and seriously flawed; as the Crown Dependency was never in the EU 
and they have always operated the accounts of its customers who live there without any 
issues. Also, he would like us to consider asking Tesco Bank for an appropriate amount of 
compensation for the loss of his account.
So, Ive taken all the above into consideration, but for me to uphold Mr Hs complaint I would 
need to be satisfied that Tesco Bank have breached the terms and conditions of his credit 
card account agreement. Having examined the terms and conditions of the credit card 
agreement, I can see that Tesco Bank can end the agreement at any time provided they do 
so by giving written notice. The terms and conditions also stipulate that if this is to happen, 
they will usually give at least two months notice. Tesco Bank provided written notice to 
Mr H, and they gave him more than two months notice, so overall I cant say that they have 
breached the terms and conditions of his credit card agreement. 
Tesco Bank also explained to Mr H that while the decision to leave the EU may not directly 
impact the Crown Dependency, it has and will continue to impact the UK banks, so this is 
why they have taken the decision to close down his credit card account. I understand that Mr 
H was unhappy about the reason that was provided to him, but under the terms and 
conditions of his credit agreement, Tesco Bank are not required to provide him with a 
reason. So overall, I cant say they treated him unfairly. 
Mr H was also unhappy that during a conversation in an electronic chat medium Tesco Bank 
wouldnt tell him the date his account was opened or post that information to him, but then 
later were prepared to correspond by email. I know that Mr H thinks this information is not 
sensitive, and I understand that he didnt want to call Tesco Bank as he felt that this would 
take a considerable amount of time. But I can see that Tesco Bank when they wrote to him 
in April 2022, which is only about a month later after he posed this question, confirmed the 
opening date of his account and apologised for the inconvenience this had caused him. In 
this correspondence they also explained that this information could be provided through their 
Customer Relations emails as this system allows them to send password protected emails. 
So, I dont think it would be fair or reasonable to ask Tesco Bank to take any further action in 
relation to this part of Mr Hs complaint, as they provided the information to Mr H within a 
reasonable period of time, and they apologised for the inconvenience caused. Also, I dont think that it is unreasonable for them to only want to share this information through a 
communication medium that allows for secure exchange of information, because this 
information, most likely, would be considered personal data under the UK data protection 
legislation.
Overall, I appreciate the difficulties that Mr H is experiencing but taking all the circumstances 
of the complaint into account, I dont think Mr H has been treated unfairly.
My final decision
For the reasons given above I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 24 November 2022.
 
Mike Kozbial
Ombudsman