DRN-3633424
The complaint
Mr and Mrs M complain about delays they experienced when trying to access and sell their 
investments held by ITI Capital Limited. 
What happened
In 2020 Mr and Mrs Ms joint investment account, which they held with another firm that had 
gone into administration, was transferred over to ITI. At the end of July, shortly after 
receiving confirmation that their account had been migrated, Mr and Mrs M found they 
couldnt access it online. Once they could access it, they found it was only set up in Mr Ms 
name, when it ought to have been joint. There were also problems with the number and 
value of the shares they could see on their account, so they made a complaint. Theyve said 
their intention was to sell the shares that were held within the account, and by the time they 
did, the share price had fallen. 
ITI admitted they had caused the problems and offered £100 compensation. Mr and Mrs M 
declined the offer, as they felt it wasnt enough to make up for their time, and some of the 
issues were still ongoing. They also said they wanted compensation for the loss in the value 
of the shares. So, they brought the complaint to our service. 
For clarity, Mrs M also made a complaint about problems she experienced when her 
personal account was transferred to ITI. ITI offered her £100 for those issues, which she 
accepted. So, our service has just considered the problems encountered on the joint account 
as part of this complaint.  
An investigator at our service looked into the complaint and upheld it. He said ITI should:
Pay £300 for the distress and inconvenience caused, less the £100 offered, if it had 
already been paid
Calculate how much Mr and Mrs M would have received for their investments if they 
had been sold earlier. He felt the earliest Mr and Mrs M ought to have been able to 
access the investments was 31 July 2020 and would have submitted instructions to 
sell at some point during the following week. So, he said ITI should use an average 
of the closing prices of the shares for that week, to calculate how much Mr and Mrs 
M ought to have received. 
If Mr and Mrs M would have received more in August 2020 than they did when the 
shares were eventually sold, then ITI should pay them the difference, plus 8% simple 
interest from 7 August 2020 to the date of settlement. 
On the amount Mr and Mrs M did eventually receive after the shares were sold, the 
investigator said they should have received that money by 7 August 2020  so ITI 
should pay 8% simple interest on that amount from 7 August 2020 to the date they 
did receive the proceeds of the sale. 
Mr and Mrs M agreed with the investigator and confirmed they hadnt yet received the £100 
offered. ITI didnt let us know whether they accepted the outcome and so the case has been 
passed to me for a decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the outcome the investigator reached, for the same reasons. 
Its not disputed that the problems Mr and Mrs M have experienced were caused by ITI. So, 
the focus of my decision is how to put things right. Both Mr and Mrs M and ITI have provided 
many emails from July to October 2020 which clearly show the ongoing issues, even after 
the complaint was looked into by ITI. Overall, the inconvenience caused was not small here, 
and Mr and Mrs M were naturally frustrated and worried about their lack of access to their 
investments. Having considered the circumstances, I think £300 is a fair amount of 
compensation for the trouble caused. 
Mr and Mrs M initially told our service that they required at least some of the proceeds of the 
investments to pay for a tax bill, though later they explained it wasnt used for that. They 
explained they didnt trust ITI to hold their investments and decided to cash them in and 
move their money to a different business. 
Im persuaded that it had always been their plan to cash in their investments. Mr M indicated 
in an email in mid-August 2020 that he wanted to trade and throughout the last two years, 
hes maintained that was always his intention. They were clearly very eager for access, 
having already had a period of not being able to access their investments with the previous 
company. So, Im satisfied that if Mr and Mrs M had been able to trade earlier than October, 
theyd have done so. 
ITI have admitted they caused the initial delay in access and the problems with the holdings 
Mr and Mrs M could see on their accounts. ITI were still themselves trying to reconcile this at 
least as late as September, so no trading could be done until then. It appears all the issues 
with the number and value of shares held were resolved by 14 October  but the account 
was still held in Mr Ms sole name and needed to be showing as joint before the sale could 
take place. As far as Im aware, Mr and Mrs M sold the investments quite soon after that was 
resolved. So, I think its fair to say Mr and Mrs M placed the trade and withdrew their money 
as soon as they reasonably could.
From the emails Ive seen, I believe they did receive their log in details by 31 July 2020. That 
is around the time they ought to have gotten them, based on an email Ive seen from ITI on 
28 July 2020 showing emails were still being sent out with log in details at that time. So, I 
dont think it would be fair to say that they ought to have had access earlier than 31 July 
2020. However, once they could log in, their holdings were not showing properly and so they 
werent able to trade. Had no problems occurred, Mr and Mrs M ought to have had full 
access to their account to trade at this time. 
I cant say precisely how soon Mr and Mrs M would have traded if they did have access at 
that time. Ive looked at what they did afterwards and considered their testimony about what 
they intended to do with the money. Given their desire to withdraw Im satisfied theyd have 
moved relatively swiftly. I think a week is a reasonable time for them to have made their 
decisions and given their instructions. So overall, I think the way in which the investigator 
has suggested putting things right is fair, and Ive set out below what ITI should do.
My final decision
I uphold the complaint. The following amounts should be used by ITI Capital Limited to 
calculate the amount payable:A = An average of the closing price of the shares Mr and Mrs M held, over the week from 
31 July 2020 to 7 August 2020 inclusive 
B = The amount Mr and Mrs M received when they sold their investments
C = The difference between A and B
D = 8% simple interest per year on C from 7 August 2020 to the date of settlement
E = 8% simple interest per year on B from 7 August 2020 to the date Mr and Mrs M 
received the money following the sale of their investments
F = £300 for the distress and inconvenience caused 
If A is more than B, then ITI Capital Limited should pay Mr and Mrs M: C + D + E + F.
If A is less than B, then ITI Capital Limited should pay Mr and Mrs M: E + F.
ITI Capital Limited should provide details of its calculation to Mr and Mrs M in a clear, 
simple format.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs M and Mr M to 
accept or reject my decision before 27 September 2022.
 
Katie Haywood
Ombudsman