DRN-3537797
The complaint
Mr and Mrs B, as trustees of the B Trust, complain that David Jameson Limited (DJL) gave 
them unsuitable advice to invest using a Discounted Gift Trust (DGT).
What happened
The background to this complaint is well known to both parties so I wont repeat it in detail 
here. In summary, Mr and Mrs B received advice from 2013 onwards to invest in a DGT with 
the purpose of mitigating a potential Inheritance Tax (IHT) liability.
More recently, Mr and Mrs B changed advisers and found out there was a mandatory 
income they needed to take from the trust fund. As this hadnt been taken before they had to 
withdraw a lump sum of £100,000 which triggered additional tax charges and had to be 
absorbed into their estate. They complained as the purpose of the advice was to reduce their 
estate for IHT purposes.
Our Investigator upheld the complaint as she felt the advice was unsuitable as it didnt meet 
Mr and Mrs Bs needs of mitigating their IHT liability. She recommended DJL do the 
following:
Put in place an indemnity to cover any potential IHT liability on the £100,000 lump 
sum and cover the cost of doing so
Put in place an indemnity to cover any potential IHT liability on excess income, if it 
can be shown that income cant be stopped or reduced
Pay for reasonable costs in assessing the tax liability on the £100,000 lump sum 
withdrawal, if required
If a tax liability has been incurred, DJL should pay this; if its already been paid then 
DJL needs to refund this to Mr and Mrs B adding 8% simple interest from the date of 
payment to HMRC to the date of settlement
Pay for reasonable costs incurred in determining if income can be stopped or 
reduced, and the cost of making those changes
Refund the adviser fees, with simple interest of 8% from the date each fee was taken 
to the date of settlement
Pay Mr and Mrs B £750 for the distress and inconvenience.
Neither Mr and Mrs B nor DJL accepted the Investigators view. DJL maintains the advice 
was suitable. It also made the point that it had told the bond provider where to pay the 
income, and what income needed to be taken so it had no responsibility for the lump sum of 
£100,000 having to be taken. DJL believes this has happened due to Mr and Mrs Bs new 
adviser.
Mr and Mrs B feel they shouldve been advised to invest the full sum into a Business 
Property Relief (BPR) scheme  and would like to be put into a comparative position if that 
had been the case. They said that the income has fallen into their estate and they hadnt 
consented to a DGT being put in place.
As neither party agreed, the complaint has been passed to me for a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Both parties have submitted very detailed information on this complaint, and Id like to 
assure them that Ive considered it all. However, our Investigator has covered in detail 
already what happened and their reasons for upholding the complaint. So, Ive focused this 
decision on the main points of the complaint which are:
- Was the advice DJL gave to Mr and Mrs B to invest using a DGT suitable? 
- If it wasnt suitable, what needs to be done to put it right.
Mr and Mrs Bs circumstances and objectives
Mr and Mrs B received advice between 2013 and 2015 about the DGT. DJL has submitted 
the adviser notes covering this period which record some details about Mr and Mrs B. Its 
seems from this that they had assets totalling over £2m, surplus income every month and 
they were looking to mitigate IHT. It appears that they were raising funds through an equity 
release mortgage with the purpose of investing it in tax efficient ways to mitigate IHT. The 
equity release mortgage isnt the subject of this complaint so I dont intend to comment on it 
further. Although I will say that it doesnt appear from the adviser notes that DJL took the 
lending into account when determining Mr and Mrs Bs assets.
Overall, its clear that there was a potential IHT liability that Mr and Mrs B wanted to address 
so its right that DJL looked into ways to mitigate this for them.
The advice
DJL advised Mr and Mrs B to invest £400,000 into a bond to be held in a DGT. I can see that 
DJL gave Mr and Mrs B a print-out of what a DGT was, which appears to be from an internet 
search, as well as information from the platform provider about how the DGT works.
DJL didnt provide Mr and Mrs B with a suitability letter setting out why it recommended the 
DGT. It said the adviser preferred to use notes, but by not issuing the letter, DJL hasnt 
complied with its regulatory duties. Ive looked at the notes to understand why a DGT was 
recommended. Throughout the notes the adviser refers to the DGT as being tax efficient. It 
said the income from the bond, which isnt needed, would be used to invest in other tax 
efficient strategies. Although these arent actually expanded upon.
A DGT is ordinarily set up to allow the settlors to take an income from the lump sum 
investment. When applying for a DGT some underwriting takes place to determine what 
income may be needed for life for the settlors and this portion of the investment often 
represents the discount  essentially that amount falls immediately outside of the estate for 
IHT purposes and the remainder is a Potentially Exempt Transfer  falling outside the estate 
after seven years. A DGT is designed to reduce IHT immediately through the settlors taking 
an income and can be a useful tool for IHT planning  specifically when that income is used. 
If the income isnt spent, it falls back into the estate which dilutes the effectiveness of a DGT 
for IHT planning.DJL, as well as the platform provider, has provided us with copies of the forms used to set 
up the DGT. The first form didnt specify what income was to be taken, theres another form 
that says 5% income is to be taken over monthly withdrawals but didnt specify where to pay 
it. A further form DJL provided showed it asked the provider to pay the income to Mr and Mrs 
Bs General Investment Account but this form doesnt show how frequent the withdrawals 
should be and how much. Ive also seen notes suggesting a 3% annual income would be 
taken quarterly. The evidence shows that it wasnt clear how much income should be taken 
and where it should be paid. And I cant see Mr and Mrs B were told how to take the income, 
or that it was crucial to do so. On the contrary, DJL said, in its correspondence to Mr and 
Mrs B:
We are not taking any income from that source at present and nor do we need to. This is 
efficient from an Inheritance Tax point of view, although still has some time to run before its 
fully effective
Ive also noted that theres no clear record of what discount Mr and Mrs B were to receive 
from the DGT. The adviser notes at some point that theres a discount of around 50% but 
theres nothing documented about the actual discount that applied to Mr and Mrs B when 
they invested.
In summary, and in the absence of a suitability letter, the advice DJL gave Mr and Mrs B was 
to invest £400,000 into a DGT to mitigate IHT but they also told Mr and Mrs B that they didnt 
need to take any income from it.
Was the advice suitable?
I can see that the Investigator concluded Mr and Mrs Bs risk profile and the risk exposure of 
the underlying investments were likely suitable, and Id agree based on what Mr and Mrs B 
have said about other investments they made and wouldve preferred to make in the 
circumstances. Following the Investigators view there hasnt been any dispute over the risk 
associated with the underlying investment so I will focus on the use of a DGT.
As mentioned above, a DGT can be an effective IHT planning tool where income withdrawal 
is part of the objective. But Mr and Mrs B didnt need any additional income. It is recorded 
multiple times that they had no use for additional income and so I dont think recommending 
the use of a DGT was suitable. I also note that DJL told Mr and Mrs B they didnt need to 
take an income  which isnt correct. As 5% withdrawals were set up as part of the trust 
provisions, the income had to be taken. And to not take an income, or set one up, would 
mean this wasnt a DGT but rather a standard discretionary trust.
DJL has clarified that the income was meant to be paid to Mr and Mrs Bs investment 
account on the same platform, and it was to be used for further tax planning. DJL has sent in 
forms to show that it told the platform where to pay the income. But the form it refers to 
doesnt outline how much income is to be taken. And the form when setting up the trust 
specifies 5% annually to be taken but not where to pay it. It was DJLs responsibility to 
ensure the forms were completed and submitted correctly and that wasnt the case here. 
And in any event, even if the income had been paid to Mr and Mrs Bs investment account, I 
cant see what further tax planning was discussed or put in place. This may be a result of 
the adviser choosing to rely only on notes and not issuing a suitability letter despite being 
obliged to do so.
To summarise, Mr and Mrs B were advised to use a DGT when they had no need for an 
income. As this means that the income, that is surplus to requirements, would fall directly 
back into Mr and Mrs Bs estate, I cant agree that it was suitable for IHT planning. It didnt meet their objectives of mitigating IHT liability as only the amount that wasnt withdrawn 
would fall outside of the estate and only after seven years.
Consequences of the advice
The advice DJL gave was unsuitable, and as a result Mr and Mrs B may be liable for more 
IHT than they would be had suitable advice been given. But crucially in this case, the fact 
income wasnt taken when it shouldve been has meant Mr and Mrs B had to take a lump 
sum of £100,000 which represented five years of income that they hadnt withdrawn.
DJL has said that the £100,000 withdrawal was due to new advice Mr and Mrs B received, 
and it isnt responsible for this. But I disagree. DJL didnt give suitable advice, didnt tell Mr 
and Mrs B that the income had to be taken and didnt give correct instructions about the 
withdrawal. The income of 5% of the investment annually must be taken as part of the trust 
that was set up. As it wasnt taken, in 2019 upon discovery, Mr and Mrs B had to take it as a 
lump sum  all of this is a direct consequence of DJLs advice.
This £100,000 appears to have fallen into Mr and Mrs Bs estate  although I understand 
they have new advisers who are looking into ensuring it is tax efficient. Mr and Mrs B also 
say they incurred an income tax liability due to a chargeable gain. Overall I think its likely 
that Mr and Mrs B may face some negative tax consequences as a result of DJLs unsuitable 
advice and DJL should provide an indemnity for these consequences.
Its also important to note here the impact this advice has had on Mr and Mrs B. The notes 
suggest that Mr and Mrs B put a great deal of trust into DJL and provided them with very 
sensitive details. Aside from the continual use of unprofessional language that Ive seen in 
the notes, DJL didnt provide Mr and Mrs B with suitable advice. And, to find out they had to 
then take £100,000 as a lump sum back into their estate wouldve caused them significant 
trouble and upset. I say this specifically because they were told they didnt need to take an 
income, that their investment was effective for IHT planning and they were both at an age 
where they needed to ensure their IHT planning arrangements were in place. I agree with 
our Investigator that £750 compensation is fair and reasonable. And I also agree that adviser 
fees should be refunded. The fundamental advice wasnt suitable, the instructions provided 
werent correct or clear and Mr and Mrs B werent told how the DGT worked, that they 
needed to take an income or what the discount was, if there was one.
I do note that Mr and Mrs B have continually said they didnt consent to the DGT being put in 
place. Having considered the evidence, I dont agree that was the case. I can see Mr and 
Mrs B signed the relevant documents and they were told about the DGT on a number of 
occasions. But, as Ive already explained, the advice DJL gave was unsuitable.
Putting things right
I note that Mr and Mrs B would like to be put in the position theyd have been in if theyd 
invested the full amount utilising BPR. I appreciate with hindsight they feel this is what theyd 
have done but Im mindful that use of BPR comes with higher risks and I dont think this is 
the right comparison to make here. I think its likely Mr and Mrs B are using the benefit of 
hindsight to decide what they feel theyd have done.
My role is to put Mr and Mrs B in the position theyd have been in had they not been given 
unsuitable advice  and in this case that is to ensure they dont have a higher tax liability as 
a consequence of DJLs errors. Im pleased to see that the amount in the trust has been held 
there for seven years and falls outside of the estate now. DJL say that Mr and Mrs B havent 
lost out because of this and the investment did what it was supposed to do, but I think its 
fortunate that the investment has now been in place that long. I note Mr and Mrs Bs new advisers are considering the options with the continual withdrawals that need to be taken 
and weighing up the right options for mitigating IHT going forward. This does mean its not 
possible to know exactly the effects of the advice on Mr and Mrs Bs estate, so to put things 
right we need to look to the future somewhat. With this in mind, I agree with our Investigator 
that DJL needs to provide Mr and Mrs B with indemnities to ensure that they havent lost out 
as a result.
For clarity, I uphold this complaint and direct David Jameson Limited to put the following in 
place:
Put in place an indemnity to cover any potential IHT liability on the £100,000 lump 
sum and cover the cost of doing so
Pay for reasonable costs in assessing the tax liability on the £100,000 lump sum 
withdrawal, if required
If a tax liability has been incurred, DJL should pay this; if its already been paid then 
DJL needs to refund this to Mr and Mrs B adding 8% simple interest* from the date of 
payment to HMRC to the date of settlement
Pay for reasonable costs incurred in determining if income can be stopped or 
reduced, and the cost of making those changes
Put in place an indemnity to cover any potential IHT liability on excess income to be 
taken from the investment, if it can be shown that income cant be stopped or 
reduced
Refund the adviser fees, with simple interest of 8%* from the date each fee was 
taken to the date of settlement
Pay Mr and Mrs B £750 for the distress and inconvenience.
It should be noted that when I say above reasonable costs, these need to be evidenced and 
broken down. 
*If David Jameson Limited considers that its required by HMRC to deduct income tax from 
that interest, it should tell Mr and Mrs B how much its taken off. It should also give Mr and 
Mrs B a tax deduction certificate if they ask for one, so they can reclaim the tax from HMRC 
if appropriate.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, I uphold this complaint. David Jameson Limited must follow 
the directions Ive set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs B and Mr B to 
accept or reject my decision before 20 October 2022.
 
Charlotte Wilson
Ombudsman