DRN-2964907
The complaint
Mr P complains that Liverpool Victoria Insurance Company Limited (LV) provided a poor 
service when dealing with the recovery of his vehicle, and that additional damage was 
caused to his vehicle in the recovery process. 
    
What happened
Mr P has European breakdown cover provided as part of his bank account, which LV act as 
the insurers for. 
In July 2020 Mr P broke down while travelling to his holiday home abroad with his family. He 
had taken his trailer with him to help him complete a specific project on his holiday home, 
and the trailer broke down.  
LVs agents recovered the trailer and took it to a garage, but the tyre was unable to be 
replaced, and so the trailer was loaded onto another truck and taken to Mr Ps holiday home. 
During the process of changing it from one truck to another, the leg and jockey wheel on the 
trailer were damaged. Replacement tyres were ordered and eventually delivered to Mr Ps 
holiday home where he fitted them himself.     
The trailer was checked and Mr P returned to the UK in August 2020. 
Mr P complained to LV that the experience caused disruption to his family holiday, his family 
were left at the side of the road for many hours, they were sent to different garages, the tyres 
were not delivered when they should have been, and the presence of the immobile trailer on 
his drive caused disruption to the work he was hoping to complete on his property. He 
incurred further costs as he could not use his trailer, and he wanted recompense for the 
damage caused during the recovery. Further, there was a lack of communication with the 
companies involved, and he had to make numerous phone calls to try and sort things out. 
LV looked into this and they paid Mr P £50 towards his phone call costs, £150 compensation 
to apologise for the experience, and £200 expenses for the trailer being out of use. In their 
final response, LV also offered to reimburse the costs of the drop legs and jockey wheel that 
had been damaged if Mr P provided a receipt of the replacement purchased.   Mr P has now 
been reimbursed for these costs.
Mr P was unhappy with this and so he complained to us. 
One of our investigators has looked into Mr Ps complaint. He thought that LV had made a 
fair offer in respect of the failings in the service provided.  
Mr P disagreed with our investigators view. The case has therefore come to me to review.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I have not upheld the complaint and I will explain why below. 
What I have to decide is whether LV have acted in accordance with the terms and conditions 
of their policy, and fairly and reasonably when dealing with Mr Ps claim.    
I have read the schedule and the policy wording which were provided to Mr P, the records 
from LV, and the testimony of Mr P. 
The policy schedule provides the following cover if a vehicle or the trailer it is towing breaks 
down and cant be repaired at the roadside in Europe. 
If the fault cannot be fixed at the roadside, we will transport the vehicle, driver and up to 7 
passengers to a local place of repair. 
If your vehicle cannot be repaired by the end of the working day on which the breakdown 
occurred, we will:
Arrange and pay a maximum of up to £800 for you to hire a replacement vehicle, subject to 
availability, with you being responsible for all other costs or benefits imposed or offered to 
you by the hire company; or
Pay up to a maximum of £500 to transport you, up to 7 passengers and your luggage to your 
onward destination; or
Pay for overnight accommodation for you and up to 7 passengers, up to  £60 per night to a 
maximum of £500, to cover any additional costs you may incur in excess of your planned 
accommodation costs.
In this case, the local garage could not provide the parts for a repair that day but instead of 
one of the options above, the recovery team transported the trailer to Mr Ps destination 
holiday home, which was over 1000km away. I note that at the beginning of section D of the 
policy it says We aim to provide the most suitable and cost effective solution to your 
problem, and I think in this situation, the offer to transport Mr P s trailer to his destination 
was a fair and reasonable offer which got him to his holiday accommodation.  
LV say that after recovery to the destination, the contractual obligation ended. However, they 
did try to assist further by trying to help in the location of parts to repair the trailer. 
Unfortunately, this didnt go well and the communication broke down on several occasions, 
with the replacement tyres only being delivered in time for Mr P to return home. 
 
I agree that LV effectively discharged their liability under the policy once Mr Ps trailer had 
been transported to his accommodation. They were not obliged to assist in ordering the 
parts for repair, but they did so, and it seems that this was subject to further problems with 
communication and issues with delivery of the parts. Whilst I appreciate that this caused inconvenience to Mr P and there were issues with the delivery, I think that LV were doing 
their best to assist Mr P and I cant fairly say that error made by the delivery man was LVs 
fault. It is likely that these issues may have been encountered whether it was LV or Mr P 
himself sourcing the parts. I note that LV have paid £50 for the telephone calls Mr P made 
chasing up the parts and £150 for inconvenience. I find that this is fair given that LV 
appeared to be trying to assist Mr P as best they could.  
Mr P says that as a result of the breakdown of the trailer, he was unable to undertake all the 
work that he wanted to at his holiday home, as he had planned to use the trailer to transport 
materials, and that the presence of the immobile trailer on the drive made the task of 
completing work more difficult. He has incurred additional costs as a result of this. 
I have thought about this, but I dont consider that LVs liability under the terms of the policy 
extends this far. The responsibility for the repair of the trailer tyres lay with Mr P once it had 
been delivered to his holiday home. The inability to use the trailer arose from the trailer 
breaking down, and a delay in the parts being available and delivered, not from LVs actions. 
I note that LV have paid £200 for the inconvenience of the trailer being out of use, and I 
consider this is fair given that they werent under an obligation to assist with repairs once the 
trailer had been delivered. 
In respect of the issue about the damage caused to the trailer whilst it was being moved 
from one transporter to another, LV offered to replace the parts if an invoice was provided 
and I understand this has now taken place. 
I appreciate that this is not the decision that Mr P had hoped for, and I understand that the 
breakdown of the trailer and the events that followed caused significant inconvenience and 
disruption to his holiday, but I think that in view of the above, LVs offer is fair and 
reasonable. 
My final decision
My decision is that I am not upholding Mr Ps complaint, and Liverpool Victoria Insurance 
Limited do not need to do anything further.  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision before 7 October 2021.
 
Joanne Ward
Ombudsman