DRN-3031260
complaint
This complaint is about a mortgage payment protection insurance (PPI) policy taken out in 
2003. Mr L says Bank of Scotland plc (trading as Halifax) mis-sold him PPI.
background
The background and circumstances leading up to this complaint, which includes Mr Ls 
circumstances at the time of the sale as well as the PPI policy benefits, limitations and 
exclusions of cover, arent disputed. So I havent repeated all of this information here.
Mr L took out a package called Total Mortgage Protection Plan, which included PPI, critical 
illness cover and life cover. As Mr L has only made a complaint about the PPI, this is all Ive 
considered in the decision. 
Our adjudicator did not uphold the mis-sale complaint. And they said that, although Halifax 
says it didnt do anything wrong in relation to the commission on the policy, its made an offer 
as if it had.
Mr Ls representative disagreed with the adjudicators opinion  they didnt raise any new or 
additional points but repeated the same complaint points and arguments theyd previously 
made. 
As the complaint couldnt be resolved informally, it has been passed to me for a final 
decision.
my findings
Although I have only included a summary of the complaint, I have read and considered all 
the evidence and arguments available to me from the outset, in order to decide what is, in 
my opinion, fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of this complaint. 
When considering what is fair and reasonable, I am required to take into account relevant: 
law and regulations; regulators rules, guidance and standards; codes of practice; and, 
where appropriate, what I consider to have been good industry practice at the time. 
Weve set out our general approach to PPI mis-sale complaints on our website and 
published some example final decisions that set out in detail how these relevant 
considerations may apply to PPI sales like Mr Ls. I havent set out that detailed information 
here but Ive taken into account all relevant considerations in deciding Mr Ls complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided not to uphold the mis-sale complaint. Ive also considered the 
issue of non-disclosure of commission. And Ive decided Halifax didnt need to tell Mr L 
about the commission it received - so Halifax doesnt need to pay back any of the 
commission Mr L paid for the PPI. But in any event Halifax has paid back some of the cost of 
the PPI, so I dont think it needs to do anything more. Ive summarised my reasons for each 
of these conclusions below. 
 
In summary, my reasons for not upholding the mis-sale part of this complaint are:
Halifax had to make it clear that Mr L didnt have to take out the PPI. Halifax has 
provided some documents from the time of the sale, but no longer has a copy of the PPI 
application form that Mr L would have completed. I dont think this is unreasonable 
considering the sale was around 18 years ago. Mr L hasnt made any complaint points 
about being unaware the policy was an optional product, or that he didnt consent to it. 
And with nothing to suggest otherwise, I think its more likely Halifax followed its normal 
procedure and set out the policy was optional before gaining Mr Ls consent to set it up. 
Halifax recommended the PPI to Mr L so it had to check that the PPI was right for him. 
And the evidence about Mr Ls circumstances at the time, shows that the policy wasnt 
fundamentally wrong or unsuitable for him. For example Mr L was eligible for the cover 
and while he had some redundancy pay available to him, he still seems to have had a 
need for cover. The policy could have covered Mr Ls monthly mortgage payments for up 
to 24 months per claim if he was too sick to work, had an accident or was made 
redundant. And that would have been in addition to any other benefits he had through his 
employer. There was nothing about Mr Ls employment or occupation which would have 
made it difficult for him to claim and the policy didnt exclude any pre-existing medical 
conditions Mr L may have had.
Its possible the information Halifax gave Mr L about the PPI wasnt as clear as it 
shouldve been. But Ive found that he chose to take it out - so it looks like he wanted this 
type of cover. The cover wasnt fundamentally wrong for Mr L as I concluded above, or 
too dissimilar to what he reasonably thought he was buying from the information he was 
given. It also looks like it was affordable  so it seems like it would have been useful for 
him if something went wrong. Because of this I dont think Mr L would have declined the 
cover had Halifax done anything more.
While the policy contained limitations on claims relating to back and mental health 
conditions, in light of Mr Ls circumstances at the time of sale and despite its limitations 
and exclusions, the policy wasnt fundamentally wrong or unsuitable for him. So I think 
he would have still thought he had some good reasons to take the policy out.
Overall, I consider that Mr L would have still taken out PPI. I think the policy could provide a 
useful benefit in a difficult time, given his circumstances at the time. I also think the policy 
was sufficiently close to what its likely he thought he was getting. And in those 
circumstances, I think that he would have taken out the policy in any event.
Mr Ls representative has raised a number of what I consider to be general complaint points, 
which it says apply to all PPI complaints. These general points include: a claim that the 
Financial Ombudsman Service is not correctly applying the regulators rules and guidance 
for handling PPI complaints; these policies represented poor value because of the number of 
significant exclusions and limitations of cover coupled with the low claims ratio; and the duty 
of utmost good faith meant Halifax should have disclosed the poor value and explained the 
significance of the limitations and exclusions and the impact it had on the chances of making 
a claim.
But Mr Ls representative has not said how these points apply to the specific facts and 
circumstances of Mr Ls individual complaint  just that they apply to all PPI complaints.
I have thought about these things and how they might apply in Mr Ls particular case. But 
these points dont persuade me to alter my conclusions about what is fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of the complaint  for the reasons Ive set out above I dont uphold the 
mis-sale element of this complaint. 
This means Halifax doesnt have to pay back all of the cost of the PPI to Mr L.
non-disclosure of commission
As I said above, Ive also considered the issue of non-disclosure of commission, including 
whether the non-disclosure resulted in an unfair relationship under section 140A of the 
Consumer Credit Act  and if so, what fair compensation would be to remedy that 
unfairness.
Having done so Ive decided Halifax didnt need to disclose the commission it received  but 
in any event Halifax has paid back some of the cost of PPI, so theres nothing more it needs 
to do. My reasons are set out below.
was there an unfair relationship?
Mr Ls representative has made a number of representations about this part of the complaint 
including the impact of the Plevin1 judgment and sections 140A and 140B of the Consumer 
Credit Act on his complaint.
In summary they have said Mr L should get back all the money he paid for the policy 
because: Halifax failed to tell Mr L about the high commission and profit-share rates paid, 
the low claims ratio and the restrictions and exclusions on cover. Because they say that 
meant the policy was poor value, I should find that Mr L wouldnt have taken out the policy 
had they known about the level of commission and he should receive a refund of all the 
premiums he paid.
But in this case, Halifax has told us that the commission for Mr Ls PPI was less than half of 
what he paid for each premium. Weve looked at how Halifax has worked this out and based 
on what weve seen, Im satisfied that the commission in Mr Ls case was less than half the 
cost of the PPI.
As thats the case, taking into account:
- the effect of section 140A and B of the Consumer Credit Act;
- The Supreme Court judgment in Plevin and the conclusion in that case; and
- The FCAs rules and guidance for handling complaints about the non-disclosure of 
commission and profit share - introduced in light of the Supreme Court judgment in 
Plevin - which requires a business to presume that the failure to disclose commission 
gave rise to an unfair relationship where the business expected commission and 
profit share to be more than 50% of the cost of the policy
I dont think Halifax needed to tell Mr L about the commission. So it follows that I dont think 
the non-disclosure created an unfair relationship - I dont think Halifax treated Mr L unfairly. 
This means Halifax doesnt need to pay Mr L back any of the commission he paid for the 
PPI. 
1 Plevin v Paragon Personal Finance Limited [2014] UKSC 61 in which the Supreme Court concluded 
that the non-disclosure of commission could lead to an unfair relationshipBut in any event Halifax has paid back some of the cost of the PPI to compensate Mr L as if 
it had treated him unfairly. So I dont think it needs to do anything more.
my decision
Overall, having considered all the evidence and arguments to decide what is, in my opinion, 
fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of this complaint and for the reasons I have set 
out above, I dont uphold the mis-sale element of Mr Ls complaint or make any award in 
favour of him for this part of the complaint.
And because Ive decided that Bank of Scotland plc didnt need to disclose the commission it 
received, it doesnt need to pay back any of the commission Mr L paid for the PPI.
But Bank of Scotland plc has paid back some of the cost of the PPI to Mr L, so it doesnt 
need to do anything more.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, I am required to ask Mr L to accept or 
reject my decision before 30 December 2021. 
Rebecca Norris
Ombudsman