DRN-3631158
The complaint
Mrs T complains about the way in which TSB Bank plc handled a balance transfer request 
on her credit card account. 
What happened
Mrs T has credit card accounts with TSB and with another bank. In December 2020 she 
decided to take advantage of an account transfer offer, which meant that she could transfer 
her outstanding balance on her other account to her account with TSB and save interest. 
The transfer of just over £1,900 was made on 30 December 2020. That is, TSB paid Mrs Ts 
other bank and the balance on her TSB increased by the same amount, together with a fee 
of £56.52. 
However, Mrs Ts other bank was unable to credit the payment to her account. Thats 
because she had missed a digit when completing the application. The payment was 
returned, the balance on Mrs Ts TSB account was reduced to the fee of £56.52, and the 
balance on her other credit card account was restored. The transfer fee was paid by direct 
debit the following month, but no further payments were taken, since the balance on the TSB 
account was reduced to zero. 
The balance remained on Mrs Ts other credit card account  where it continued to attract 
interest. Mrs T continued to make payments to that account.   
Mrs T says she called TSB to check that the direct debit had been set up correctly. She was 
told that it had been. She says that she noticed that her balance was zero but assumed that 
was because she had not used the card for purchases.
It was not until June 2021 that Mrs T realised that she still had an outstanding balance on 
her other credit card account. She was unhappy with the explanation provided by TSB and 
so referred the matter to this service, where one of our investigators considered the 
complaint. He thought that, as the transfer had not been successful, it was fair that TSB 
should return the balance transfer  which it agreed to do.
Mrs T did not however accept the investigators recommendation and asked that an 
ombudsman review the case.           
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In my view, it is important to note that this complaint arose because of an error in making the 
transfer application. That error was Mrs Ts. I have no reason to think that, but for that error, 
the balance transfer would have been successful.
Mrs T says that it is unacceptable that TSB has no record of her call when she asked about 
the direct debit. I accept however that the call took place as she has described it. But the 
direct debit had been set up successfully; thats why the transfer fee was paid. The problem 
was not with the direct debit but with the fact that the transfer had been reversed. 
I note too that Mrs T says she was not told about the failed transfer. However, I think she 
had enough information on the statements for the two accounts to see that it had not been 
completed. And, because she had access to both accounts, she had more information than 
either bank alone. 
Putting things right
I do not believe that TSB has made an error here, although it has agreed to refund the 
transfer fee. I will make a formal award requiring it to do so. 
My final decision
My final decision is that, to resolve Mrs Ts complaint in full, TSB Bank plc should pay her 
£56.52.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs T to accept or 
reject my decision before 5 September 2022.
 
Mike Ingram
Ombudsman