DRN-2560083
The complaint
Mr B is unhappy with the customer service provided, and compliance checks carried out by 
Currencies Direct Ltd (CD) when he attempted to make two foreign exchange transactions 
through his account with it.
What happened
The details of this complaint are known to both parties, so I will not repeat them again here 
in detail, instead I will summarise the events.
Mr B set up a new account with CD and made a transaction to a foreign account. Two days 
later he wanted to send a second much larger payment to the same person. CDs 
compliance team stopped the second transaction being sent to the beneficiary and asked 
Mr B for more information and some identification documentation before it would send the 
money.
In response Mr B didnt provide all of the information CD asked for, so the payment wasnt 
made. Mr B told CD the beneficiary was a friend. He then asked for the money to be 
returned to him as they payment wasnt being made that day, but CD couldnt return it 
immediately. Mr B exchanged a number of emails with CD after this, but it wasnt able to do 
anything further. The next working day it explained to Mr B he could have his money 
returned, but he would receive a slightly lower amount back due to the exchange rate. Or he 
could provide the information itd asked for, so it could make the payment. Mr B asked for 
the money to be returned, so CD paid him the next working day.
Mr B raised a complaint about the compliance checks on the second transaction, the cost he 
incurred, the service received and the delays with the payment. Then a short while later his 
complaint changed to him being unhappy with the service received, the cost of the second 
transaction and the checks carried out with the first transaction. He wanted the first 
transaction returned to him with interest and the exchange cost refunded on the second one. 
CD said the first transaction had been sent as requested and now couldnt be recalled, so 
Mr B should discuss this with his friend. And it didnt agree it had provided poor service or 
that it should refund the cost of converting the second payment back to GBP to return it to 
Mr B.
Our investigator didnt uphold Mr Bs complaint. Mr B provided new information in response 
to her assessment, but as CD hadnt seen this information or known about the situation Mr B 
was now describing, she directed him back to CD with this information. Mr B also asked for 
an ombudsmans decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the conclusions reached by the investigator for these reasons:
I think CD acted reasonably in carrying out additional compliance checks on the second 
transaction Mr B wanted to make, as this was a large transaction. And as Mr B didnt 
provide what it asked for, it couldnt make the payment.
I appreciate Mr B had to wait a few days to find out what was happening and get the 
funds returned. But I dont agree this timescale was unreasonable. Mr B put the transfer 
through on Friday morning. It wasnt completed and compliance information was 
requested from him later that day, some of which he provided shortly after the request. 
The agent he was dealing with went back to the compliance department later on Friday 
to find out why the transaction still hadnt gone through. The agent kept Mr B updated 
and explained on Saturday morning theyd now have to wait until Monday to hear back. 
And then they did respond to him first thing Monday morning with his next steps from the 
compliance department  with the money being refunded on Tuesday. So while I 
appreciate why this was frustrating for Mr B, I dont agree CD provided poor service. 
Mr B says CD shouldnt have converted his funds until after the compliance checks were 
complete, but it didnt have to deal with his transaction in this way. CD can carry out 
compliance checks at any time. And as Mr B was buying foreign currency by selling GBP 
and then sending this money onto someone else, while he was looking to carry out one 
transaction, this process was made up of several parts.
Mr Bs unhappiness with the above is due to him losing out on £422 when the funds 
were converted back to GBP, before being returned to him. But if Mr B had wanted to go 
ahead with the transaction then he wouldve benefited from the earlier, better exchange 
rate, despite the transaction not going through that day. So I can see that CD acting in 
this way does have the potential to benefit a customer.
CD made Mr Bs options clear to him and he knew that by having the payment returned 
hed lose money. He chose to have the money returned and then make the payment 
another way  despite the cost. To satisfy compliance checks, CD didnt ask him to 
provide information that was onerous or difficult to obtain, so I cant see any reason he 
couldnt have complied with its instructions and attempted to complete the payment with 
CD. This is especially as Mr B went on to still make the payment elsewhere. So it doesnt 
seem CDs delay in making the payment impacted his desire to send the money. And 
CDs terms and conditions set out that the customer will bear any costs if a payment 
instruction is cancelled.
Compliance checks need to be proportionate to the transaction. Considering the second 
payment was above CDs online limit and over three times the amount of the first 
payment, I accept that a different level of check was needed. So I dont agree that 
because CD wouldnt make the second transaction without more information, it 
automatically means it made a mistake when it carried out the first transaction.
I accept Mr B was the victim of a scam in relation to both these payments. But this isnt 
something he disclosed to CD when he brought this complaint. And he also hasnt 
explained to CD the difficult personal situation he was in  this information was all 
provided to us after our view. I understand Mr B raised that he was unhappy with the 
checks it did on the first transaction, but at this time CD still believed Mr B had made this 
payment to a friend and he didnt explain why he now wanted this money returned. Given 
that further information has come to light that could be of relevance, I agree with our 
investigator that Mr B now needs to discuss this transaction further with CD  as our 
service cant consider information or a complaint before CD has had the chance to 
properly investigate it. 
I understand Mr B was able to get the second transaction refunded by the business he 
did later go on to send the money with. But this is a different complaint, with a different 
type of business who Mr B has disclosed the full situation too. So it doesnt influence my 
outcome on this complaint.I appreciate that Mr B has been through a very difficult time and that hes the victim in 
this situation. But I cant simply direct CD to refund his money on that basis. At the time 
of the initial complaint, Mr B was unhappy that CD wouldnt send the money and that it 
was doing these checks, so Im not sure how more checks wouldve changed things. 
When Mr B approached CD to make these transfers he was unfortunately already 
invested in the scam. So based on what I can consider, I dont agree that CDs staffs 
behaviour contributed to him losing this money. 
For these reasons, although I understand Mr Bs frustration and empathise with his situation, 
I dont uphold this complaint.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I dont uphold Mr Bs complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 18 April 2021.
 
Amy Osborne
Ombudsman