DRN-2093811
The complaint
Mr M complains that U K Insurance Limited (UKI) declined a claim on his pet insurance, as 
it says the treatment was outside the period of cover.
What happened
Mr M complains that UKI declined a claim for surgery his dog needed. He feels the facts of 
the situation have been misinterpreted by UKI and doesnt agree with its decision to consider 
the condition as a bilateral condition. Mr M feels the surgery was required due to a separate 
condition and UKI should pay the claim.
In October 2018, the vet noted Mr Ms dog had a lame left leg on extension. In November 
2019, his dog was suffering problems in the right leg, with the vet noting swinging of the leg 
and elbow effusion. Initial treatment was given but didnt improve things, so an operation 
was carried out in December 2019. UKI says that according to the vets notes, the dog first 
showed signs or symptoms of elbow problems in October 2018. It says the definition of 
condition within the policy wording doesnt say that a diagnosis has to be made, only that 
signs or symptoms need to be shown. 
Mr Ms dog had treatment in November and December 2019, but as UKI only cover 
conditions for up to 12 months, it says this isnt covered as Mr Ms dog showed symptoms of 
the condition more than 12 months prior to that. 
Our investigator didnt uphold the complaint. She thought it was reasonable for UKI to 
consider the condition treated in November to December 2019 was the same condition as 
the one that had been treated in October 2018 and didnt think enough time had passed 
between the two episodes to say they were unrelated. She relied on the dates from the vet 
notes and didnt think UKI declined the claim unreasonably.
Mr M didnt agree. He said the two episodes were separate, unrelated conditions  and 
given the time that had passed between the two episodes, he didnt think it was fair of UKI to 
say it was the same condition. He also reiterated that his dog hadnt received a diagnosis of 
elbow dysplasia until towards the end of 2019. So the complaint has been passed to me for 
a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr Ms policy provides cover of up to £3,000 or 12 months, whichever is reached first, for 
each condition. The 12 months begins from the date the vet fees were first charged for 
treatment of the condition.
The policy wording defines Condition as Any injury or illness or any symptoms or signs of 
injury or illness, including related conditions or problems, no matter where these are noticed 
or happen in or on your pet. It also defines Bilateral Condition as Any condition affecting 
body parts of which your pet has two, one each side of the body such as (but not limited to) 
ears, eyes, cruciate ligaments, hips and patellae. When applying a benefit limit or exclusion 
Bilateral Conditions are considered as one condition.
As an insurer, UKI is required to handle claims promptly and fairly  and shouldnt reject 
them unreasonably. This is set out in the relevant rules (ICOBS) and can be found within 
the FCA Handbook.
UKI consider the condition to have started on in October 2018, meaning the treatment 
needed in November and December 2019 was outside the period of cover of 12 months. I 
dont think thats unreasonable  and I will explain why.
Ive looked at the vets notes and correspondence from the vet. These confirm that Mr Ms 
dog was seen in October 2018 for lameness in his left leg which was later confirmed to be in 
the left elbow. His pet was then seen again in November 2019 for lameness in the right leg, 
which resulted in the diagnosis of elbow dysplasia and surgery was carried out. I accept 
there wasnt a specific diagnosis of elbow dysplasia until late 2019, but I dont see that it 
makes a difference here. I say this because the definition of condition within the wording 
doesnt specify that a diagnosis needs to be made. It instead refers to signs or symptoms  
and UKI identified there were symptoms of elbow dysplasia in October 2018. 
UKI initially said the condition started in March 2018, as Mr Ms dog had had some treatment 
then. But Mr Ms vet wrote to say the issue in March 2018 was different, and concerned the 
dogs shoulder rather than elbow. UKIs veterinary adviser spoke to Mr Ms vet about this 
who said there was nothing to support a different diagnosis of the elbow lameness from 
October 2018 and understood why UKI would take that as the start date for the condition. In 
view of this it seems to be agreed by the vets that Mr Ms dog showed signs or symptoms of 
this condition in October 2018. 
I appreciate the issues in October 2018 were in a different leg. But Im satisfied this met the 
policy definition of a condition with regard to the elbow problems in October 2018, so its 
reasonable of UKI to start the 12 months cover for that condition from this date. The policy 
wording explains the 12 months begins from the date the vet fees were first charged for 
treatment of the condition and I can see that C did receive treatment for the condition in 
October 2018, for which vet fees were charged. 
I consider the policy wording to be clear on what it considers to be a bilateral condition. 
Elbows are something a dog has two of, on each side of the body  and the wording 
confirms it will consider it to be one condition when applying a benefit limit. In my view its 
reasonable for UKI to treat this as a bilateral condition. If the veterinary evidence showed 
that the underlying cause of the two incidents were completely different and unrelated, it 
might not be fair to treat them as the same condition. But the evidence Ive seen doesnt 
persuade me they were two different, unrelated conditions. 
For the reasons above, my judgment is that UKIs decision to decline the claim was in line 
with the policy wording and was fair.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 2 March 2021.
 Peter Whiteley
Ombudsman