DRN-4338946
The complaint
Mr F complains that Revolut Ltd did not process a chargeback claim for a payment he did 
not recognise.  
What happened
Mr F noticed a transaction for £36 to a hotel which he says he did not authorise. The 
transaction occurred on 2 February 2023 and Mr F attempted to raise a chargeback claim on 
30 March. Revolut could find no evidence of fraud on his account, so declined to process the 
chargeback claim.
Mr F referred the complaint to our service and our investigator looked into it. They explained 
that Mr F is generally liable for any payments he authorises himself. Based on what they had 
seen, they did not agree the payment followed the pattern of a fraudulent payment and the 
evidence they had seen suggested Mr F authorised the payment himself. So they did not 
agree Revolut should refund Mr F.
Mr F disagreed with the outcome and felt he had been targeted by an individual fraudster. As 
an informal agreement could not be reached, the complaint has been passed to me for a 
final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, the evidence I have seen suggests its more likely Mr F himself made or 
otherwise authorised the payment to the hotel, so I think it is reasonable that Revolut has 
held him liable, Ill explain why in more detail. 
Mr F attempted a fraud chargeback on the payment of £36 because he said he did not 
recognise it. While we would expect Revolut to attempt a chargeback if they felt it would be 
successful, it is still a voluntary scheme, with no guarantee of success. So, if Revolut did not 
feel a chargeback would be successful, it would be reasonable for them not to carry on with 
the claim.
Revolut has explained that the payment was made using Mr Fs virtual card, meaning 
whoever authorised it had to have access to Mr Fs Revolut app on his phone. Mr F has said 
that around that time, he was in class at the time and had left his phone and card in a locker 
outside the classroom. He felt it was safe as, although the locker was unlocked, it was near 
a reception desk, there was CCTV, a security guard nearby, and he does not think another 
student would tamper with his phone.
Considering what Mr F has said, I think its unlikely someone would have been able to 
access his phone to make the payment considering the security around where it was 
located. In addition, even if someone were able to access his phone, they would then have 
to bypass the security on the phone itself, as well as any security on Mr Fs Revolut app. 
And I think this is unlikely as Mr F has confirmed he did not pass on his security details to 
anyone else. Also, even if someone were able to access his phone, I think it is unlikely that 
they would only make a £36 payment, as fraudsters typically will spend as much as possible 
on the account and not such a small payment.
Generally, Revolut can hold Mr F liable for the disputed transaction if the evidence suggests 
its more likely than not that he made or authorised them himself. This position is confirmed 
in the Payment Service Regulations 2017 (PSRs) and the terms and conditions of his 
account. And as Ive explained above, based on the evidence Ive seen, I think its more 
likely Mr F made or otherwise authorised the transaction himself. So, I think it is reasonable 
that Revolut held him liable for the payment and did not process the chargeback claim. 
My final decision
I do not uphold Mr Fs complaint against Revolut Ltd.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr F to accept or 
reject my decision before 4 December 2023.
 
Rebecca Norris
Ombudsman