DRN-2057955
The complaint
Ms B complains about Civil Service Healthcare Society Limiteds (CSHS) handling of claims 
under her private medical insurance policy. 
All references to CSHS include the agent it has appointed to deal with claims on its behalf. 
What happened
Ms B was a long-standing policyholder under a private medical insurance policy, provided by 
CSHS. 
Ms Bs policy year began on 1 December 2019 and she made a claim for the cost of medical 
treatment provided in January 2020. 
In March 2020, Ms B asked CSHS to clarify how her policy excess of £1000 was being 
applied for the year to date. Ms B contacted CSHS by both telephone and email with this 
request and mentioned a payment of £23 which CSHS said she owed, as well as a payment 
of £323 which remained outstanding to a consultant. 
CSHS responded to Ms B by email on 12 March 2020 to say £797 of her excess had been 
allocated to various treatments, and it would write to Ms B stating the amounts she needed 
to pay once it had received some outstanding invoices (including an invoice for an MRI 
scan). 
Ms B subsequently advised CSHS of a further claim under her policy for a telephone 
consultation and a medical appointment. In late April 2020, Ms B contacted CSHS to say she 
had repeatedly requested that CSHS set out how her £1000 policy excess was being used, 
but that no clarification had been provided to her. Ms B said the payment of £323 which 
shed previously mentioned was still outstanding, and she was now awaiting payment for two 
further claims of £195 each. 
CSHS responded to Ms B by email on 27 April 2020 to explain that, in relation to the policy 
excess, it would make a part payment of amounts claimed for and let Ms B know whether 
she needed to settle the excess amount with the medical provider directly. CSHS said Ms B 
needed to settle amounts of £323, £23 and £90 so far and that it was awaiting invoices for a 
further £90, as well as for the MRI scan. 
On 1 May 2020, Ms B sent CSHS a comprehensive email outlining the events that had 
happened since the beginning of her policy year. Ms B said she had spent four days going 
through her paperwork to calculate what amounts were owed to whom, and said she was 
anxious for CSHS to send her on the invoice for the MRI scan, so she could pay this herself 
as part of her £1000 policy excess. Ms B subsequently told CSHS shed paid the 
outstanding consultants bill of £323 herself, as part of her £1000 policy excess. 
CSHS sent a final response letter to Ms B on 22 May 2020. In this letter, CSHS 
acknowledged there had been much confusion surrounding how the excess was allocated 
for the policy year beginning December 2019. It said it had only received the outstanding 
invoice for the MRI scan on 14 May 2020 and went on to set out a summary of the amounts 
that had been offset against Ms Bs £1000 policy excess. CSHS said the only amount now 
outstanding for Ms B to pay was towards the MRI scan and enclosed a copy of the invoice 
Ms B had been asking for. CSHS confirmed the £1000 excess for the year had now been 
paid in full and that any further invoices for medical treatment should be sent directly to it. 
CSHSs final response letter also acknowledged various other complaint points, including 
information Ms B said she was given about how the excess process worked and the content 
of certain telephone calls between CSHS and Ms B. CSHS concluded by saying it could 
appoint a specific claims advisor as a direct point of contact for Ms B going forward. It 
apologised for Ms Bs experience and offered her £200 compensation for the level of 
customer service shed received overall. This compensation has already been paid to Ms B. 
In response to CSHS, Ms B said she was still awaiting reimbursement for two invoices of 
£195 each. CSHS asked Ms B to resubmit details of these invoices to it. Ms B subsequently 
received payment for these invoices from CSHS and she has since cancelled her insurance 
policy.  
Unhappy, Ms B brought her complaint to our service. 
Our investigator looked into what had happened and said she didnt think CSHS had 
provided Ms B with clear information about how her excess was worked out. But our 
investigator concluded that the £200 compensation which CSHS had paid for this was fair 
and reasonable in the circumstances. Ms B didnt agree with our investigators opinion, so 
the complaint has been passed to me to make a final decision.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im sorry to hear Ms B has been unwell and I have no doubt this has been a difficult 
experience for her.
It may be helpful if I explain what the role of the Financial Ombudsman Service is. We 
investigate individual complaints independently and impartially, to reach an outcome that we 
think is fair and reasonable to both parties involved. If we think a business has done 
something wrong which has caused a consumer to lose out financially, then we can 
recommend that the business should put this right. And we also have the power to award 
compensation for any trouble and upset caused to a consumer as a result of a business 
error. 
But we arent a regulator - thats the role of the Financial Conduct Authority. We dont have 
the power to punish or fine businesses, or to make broader, more general recommendations 
about their internal commercial processes. I understand Ms B has raised concerns about 
issues such as CSHSs call centre operations, its line management and its relationships with 
its appointed agents, but these arent things I can comment on or make recommendations 
about. 
When considering the individual circumstances of Ms Bs complaint, Ive taken into account 
industry rules set out by the Financial Conduct Authority. These say an insurer must handle 
claims promptly and fairly and provide reasonable guidance to help a policyholder make a 
claim, and provide appropriate information on its progress. 
The terms and conditions of Ms Bs policy set out how the policy excess process works. These say:
When invoices for treatment are received they will be settled directly with your 
provider. We will contact you to advise you of anyexcess amount you will need to 
settle directly. 
Ms Bs policy documents go on to say:
Settlement of invoices
CS Healthcare will settle its share of treatment costs on your behalf. We will inform 
you in writing of the payment made and any outstanding amounts for you to pay. 
I understand Ms B says this process changed since previous years. She was under the 
impression that the new process meant CSHS would meet all claim payments until the 
excess of £1000 was reached, and that CSHS would then bill her directly for £1000. 
However, this isnt how the process works. Instead, CSHS apportion part of the cost of 
medical bills towards the excess and pay the balance of each bill to the medical provider. 
CSHS then let Ms B know how much of each bill has been apportioned towards her excess 
(i.e. how much of each bill she is responsible for) so that Ms B can pay this amount directly 
to the medical provider herself. CSHS has acknowledged that this process can be a 
complicated one.  
CSHS did set out an explanation of its excess process in correspondence with Ms B in 
March and April 2020 but I think it could have done so in a much clearer and more 
straightforward way. Its obvious from Ms Bs telephone calls and emails to CSHS that she 
wanted clarification of how much of her excess was remaining, and that the situation was 
causing her confusion and distress. So, I think CSHS could have done more to set out the 
information Ms B was asking for in an easily accessible and understandable manner. 
I understand Ms B wanted CSHS to work out the excess based on her own calculations but 
CSHS wasnt obliged to do that. It was entitled to calculate Ms Bs excess in the same way 
that the excess for all other policyholders is calculated. 
Im pleased to see CSHSs final response letter clearly sets out what costs were apportioned 
towards the £1000 policy excess. However, I note that after CSHS sent its final response 
letter, Ms B had to resubmit information about the payment of invoices which shed already 
provided. Ive taken this into account when considering what award of compensation I think 
is appropriate in this case, but I understand Ms B has now been reimbursed by CSHS for 
these additional costs. I wont be setting out a list of the claim payments made by CSHS, as 
CSHS has done so in its final response letter and the claim payments made are no longer in 
dispute. 
Its clear Ms B is very frustrated and upset about the lengths she had to go to in order to 
obtain the information she was seeking from CSHS. But I cant fairly say all the confusion in 
this case was of CSHSs making. CSHS had difficulties processing some of the invoices 
because of the information given by Ms B to the medical provider for the January 2020 
claim, and CSHS made Ms B aware in April 2020 that it didnt have the MRI invoice she was 
asking for at the time. 
I know Ms B wanted a response from certain named individuals at CSHS, but organisations 
often delegate responsibilities internally for operational reasons and CSHS is entitled to 
structure its claims and complaint handling processes as it sees fit. Given the ongoing nature of the claims in this case and the information available to it, I dont think CSHS unreasonably 
delayed in providing an answer to Ms B about how her policy excess worked  but, as Ive 
mentioned above, I dont think CSHS set this out as clearly as it could have and Im aware 
Ms B had to resubmit information. I think compensation is due to Ms B for these failings.  
When considering what award of compensation I think is fair and reasonable in the 
circumstances, Ive taken into account our published guidance on the payment of 
compensation for non-financial loss as well as awards made by our service in other cases 
sharing similar features. Ive also had regard to the impact of CSHSs errors on Ms B. 
Ive taken into account Ms Bs clear frustration and upset following her many telephone calls 
and emails to CSHS. Ive had regard to what Ms B has said about having to do CSHSs work 
in calculating the payments due to her on what she feels are a small number of simple 
claims. In particular, at Ms Bs request, Ive given detailed consideration to her emails of 1 
May, 27 May and 28 May 2020. 
I understand Ms B has been seriously unwell and feels CSHSs actions caused her illness. 
Ive considered the medical evidence Ms B has provided and while it does refer to Ms B 
being under stress, I cant fairly conclude this was caused solely by CSHSs actions. 
Overall, having taken all of the circumstances into account, I think CSHSs apology and offer 
of £200 compensation is fair and reasonable for the distress and inconvenience experienced 
by Ms B. I understand CSHSs offer of a direct point of contact for Ms B has come too late as 
she has now cancelled her policy, but that doesnt change my decision. 
Im sorry to disappoint Ms B but I wont be asking CSHS to do anything further.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold Ms Bs complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms B to accept or 
reject my decision before 13 January 2021.
 
Leah Nagle
Ombudsman