DRN-3392688
The complaint
Ms M and Mr W complain Barclays Bank UK PLC refused to let them end their fixed interest 
rate mortgage early and take a new mortgage at current rates, without incurring an early 
repayment charge, when they wanted to move house in 2020.
What happened
In 2013 Ms M and Mr W took out a mortgage with Barclays Bank UK PLC with a three-
year fixed interest rate product. In early 2015 they wanted to redeem the mortgage. The 
interest rate product was subject to a significant early repayment charge (ERC) if they 
ended it before the three years expired. But Barclays porting policy at the time allowed 
them to refund the ERC if their customers were unable to port their existing interest rate 
product provided they took a new mortgage with Barclays within six months of paying back 
their existing mortgage.
In around October 2015, in line with that policy, Ms M and Mr W took an increased 
mortgage with Barclays with a new interest rate product for the full amount of the loan. 
Barclays refunded the ERC theyd paid when they redeemed the previous mortgage. Ms M 
and Mr W say they were reassured by Barclays theyd be able to end the interest rate 
product they took then early and have any ERC refunded, as theyd done in 2015, if they 
decided they wanted to move later. They say they went ahead and fixed their rate for ten 
years based on that understanding.
Ms M and Mr W wanted to move again in 2020 and take advantage of new lower interest 
rates on offer at the time. Barclays wouldnt agree to refund the ERC that would be payable 
if they brought their ten-year fixed rate product to an end. They would only allow them to 
port the remainder of the product term to their new mortgage in line with their current 
porting policy.
Ms M and Mr W went ahead with their move in March 2021, ported their existing product 
and didnt incur an ERC. But they think Barclays should have let them switch to a new rate 
and refunded the ERC based on what Barclays had told them in 2015. They say they would 
have saved an amount broadly equivalent to the ERC if theyd been allowed to take a new 
interest rate product. And they think Barclays should compensate them for that.
Barclays didnt uphold Ms M and Mr Ws complaint, so they brought it to our service. 
Our investigator didnt think Barclays had done anything wrong. Since Ms M and Mr W 
didnt accept our investigators view, their complaint was passed to me to review. I 
recently issued a provisional decision, an extract of which follows:
What Ive provisionally decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im grateful to the parties for all the information theyve provided. If I dont mention here 
something theyve said, that reflects the informal nature of this service and no discourtesy is 
intended. Id like to reassure the parties Ive taken everything theyve told this service into 
account in coming to my decision.
I can understand why Ms M and Mr W are unhappy they werent able to get out of their ten- 
year fixed interest rate product without incurring a significant ERC. Interest rates have gone 
down since 2015, so they are paying more interest than they would if theyd been able to 
access a more favourable rate when they moved. I appreciate this is a concern when theyve 
been experiencing financial difficulties over the last few years.
Barclays porting policy in 2015 was that customers who redeemed a mortgage, but didnt 
complete on a new purchase within 30 days, would have any ERC refunded as long as they 
took a new mortgage of at least 75% of their redeemed balance on a current product, 
provided the new mortgage completed within 180 days of redemption. In line with that 
policy, Ms M and Mr W redeemed their 2013 mortgage, took a new rate on their 2015 
mortgage and got a refund of the ERC they paid.
Ms M and Mr W say they wanted to have the same flexibility on their new mortgage in 
2015 in case their income fluctuated due to changes in their circumstances, as it had done 
previously, and they had to sell their house. Ms M and Mr W say Barclays reassured them 
theyd be able to do the same again. They decided to downsize in late 2020 to reduce 
their mortgage payments and pay off other debt. But Barclays policy had changed. And 
they wouldnt allow Ms M and Mr W to end their deal early without incurring the ERC.
Mr W exchanged emails with Barclays in early 2015 to check how the ERC worked in 
relation to the move they were planning at the time. He acknowledges there arent any 
written records that confirm Barclays told him the same porting policy would apply in the 
future. But he says they were told in a face to face meeting it would. Ive no reason to 
doubt his recollection, but theres no written evidence of what was said, and Im conscious 
memories can fade over time. So, Ive thought carefully about whats more likely than not 
to have happened based on what I know.
Im prepared to accept, on balance, that Barclays told Ms M and Mr W in 2015 that, based 
on the policy at the time, theyd be able to re-mortgage on the same basis later if they 
decided to move during the ten-year fixed rate period. But I think its unlikely Barclays 
would have said their policy would remain the same indefinitely given lenders policies are 
updated from time to time depending on changing commercial considerations and risk 
appetite.
Mr W says he and Ms M were happy fixing the interest rate over a long period as interest 
rates had been historically low and they couldnt have anticipated they would go down 
further. But they wanted to know they could get out of the deal because their incomes were 
unpredictable. He says their key concern when taking out the 2015 mortgage was that theyd 
be able to bring the fixed interest rate product to an end without paying an ERC. Im not 
persuaded that avoiding an ERC was Ms M and Mr Ws key motivation at the time they took 
the 2015 mortgage, or that Barclays knew it was.
The 2015 mortgage offer set out in terms that I think were clear, fair and not misleading  
as they should - that
Ms M and Mr W would have to meet Barclays lending criteria at the time of 
any application to be able to port their interest rate product; and
an ERC may be payable if the mortgage ended within the fixed rate period.
Porting involves transferring a fixed interest rate product to a new mortgage. The mortgage 
itself isnt transferred. The borrower has to apply for a new mortgage for their new property and the application is subject to the lenders lending criteria at the time. So, even if the 
2015 policy had still been in place when Ms M and Mr W decided to move during the ten-
year fixed rate term, there was no guarantee theyd still be eligible for a Barclays mortgage 
and that theyd have avoided paying an ERC in any circumstances. I think the mortgage 
offer made that clear.
Bearing that in mind, there was always a risk to Ms M and Mr W, which they ought to 
have been aware of, that theyd have to pay an ERC even though they were able to get a 
new mortgage with Barclays in 2021.
Mr Ws email exchange with Barclays in March 2015 doesnt suggest he and Ms M were 
concerned about their finances. Mr W told Barclays they were happy to stretch 
themselves more than theyd done previously, and they borrowed almost double the 
amount of their earlier mortgage.
If Ms M and Mr W had made clear to Barclays they were concerned about having the 
flexibility to bring their mortgage to an end without incurring an ERC, I would have 
expected that to be recorded in their application. Barclays records suggest Ms M and     
Mr Ws main concern was to fix their interest rate so they had certainty about their monthly 
payments and could plan their lives around them over several years. They show too that 
Barclays discussed with them the ERCs that applied.
On balance, I think Ms M and Mr W wanted to fix their interest rate term over several years. I 
dont think it was unreasonable for Barclays to recommend the ten-year fixed interest rate 
product based on what I think Ms M and Mrs W told them their priorities were at the time.
Ms M and Mrs W argue its unfair for Barclays to charge an ERC. I disagree.
ERCs are widely charged across the mortgage industry. Put simply, lenders borrow money 
themselves on wholesale markets to enable them to offer preferential rates to their 
borrowers. If a borrower repays early, the lender has to bear the cost of repaying the loan. 
ERCs are charged by lenders to meet the costs they incur when borrowers end their fixed 
rates early. If rates are ported, they dont incur those costs. The costs a lender might incur 
are calculated across groups of mortgages in line with Financial Conduct Authority 
regulations. So, the lender is able to set out what the ERCs payable under an individual 
mortgage will be, as they did for Ms M and Mr W.
By entering into the mortgage contract, Ms M and Mr W agreed to its terms, one of which 
was paying the ERC. They knew what it would be at the outset. They benefited from the 
stability the fixed rate provided in terms of the monthly payments, in line with their aims at 
the time they took out the mortgage. Its unfortunate rates have reduced since and Ms M 
and Mr W havent been able to benefit from them yet. But that was a risk Ms M and Mr W 
took when they chose to fix their rate for ten years. I dont think its fair to ask Barclays to 
apply the 2015 porting policy to their situation around five years later. Lenders are entitled 
to change their policies in line with commercial considerations and the risks they are 
prepared to take from time to time.
I acknowledge Ms M and Mr Ws strength of feeling about what happened and I understand 
my decision will be disappointing for them. But bearing everything in mind, I dont uphold 
their complaint. If Ms M and Mr W are concerned about their financial situation, Id 
encourage them to discuss things with Barclays or to seek independent financial advice.
My provisional decisionBased on what Ive seen so far, for the reasons Ive explained, I dont uphold Ms M and Mr 
Ws complaint.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Neither party had any comments to make on my provisional decision. So, I see no reason to 
change the conclusions I reached there.
My final decision
For the reasons set out in my provisional decision I dont uphold Ms M and Mr Ws 
complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms M and Mr W to 
accept or reject my decision before 21 April 2022.
 
Julia Wilkinson
Ombudsman