DRN-3808374
The complaint
Miss Bs complaint is about the mortgage she has with Pepper (UK) Limited trading as 
Engage Credit. She believes that the amount advanced was for more than she required to 
pay off her existing mortgage and other debts, but Pepper has been unable to explain what 
the additional funds were used for and she thinks it might have been for a payment 
protection insurance (PPI) policy. In addition, Miss B wanted the arrears and associated 
charges to be looked at in order to reassure her that they were applied fairly.
Miss B is represented in her complaint, but for simplicity I will refer to all comments as being 
hers. 
What happened
Miss B took out her mortgage in 2005. The mortgage was for £71,068 (including £1,840 
fees) over a term of 25 years and was arranged on a repayment basis. 
Miss Bs mortgage was taken out with another lender and transferred to Pepper in 
March 2015.  
Miss M complained to Pepper in May 2021. Pepper responded to the complaint but didnt 
uphold most of it. It upheld an administrative issue in that Miss Bs representative hadnt 
been informed that it intended to send a field agent to speak to her. It apologised for the 
omission. It said that it thought the complaint about the discrepancy in the loan amount had 
been raised too late and it didnt comment on it. Pepper also said that it was required to keep 
a consumer in arrears up to date with their account and, it had not been its intention to cause 
Miss B stress in sending her these communications. 
Miss B wasnt satisfied with Peppers response and referred her complaint to this service. 
As Pepper had raised concerns about the time scales involved in Miss B in raising her 
complaint with it, one of our investigators looked at whether we were able to consider the 
various aspects of the complaint. He concluded that we were not able to consider the 
complaints about the discrepancy in the amount of the advance provided or the affordability 
of the mortgage because those points had been raised too late. However, the investigator 
concluded that we could consider the administration of the mortgage, including the 
application of charges/fees over the six years before the complaint was made  after 
18 May 2015. 
Miss B accepted the investigators conclusions and another of our investigators went on to 
consider the merits of the parts of the complaint that fell within our remit. She concluded that 
Pepper hadnt inappropriately applied any charges or fees. She was also satisfied that the 
balance of the account had reduced in line with the payments Miss B had made, but that it 
was higher than would originally have been expected at this point due to the payment 
arrears, charges and additional interest that had accrued. 
Miss B didnt accept the investigators conclusions. She commented on the situation she was 
in as a whole, including concerns about new issues that had occurred since the complaint 
was referred to this service. No comment was made specifically about the investigators 
findings. As agreement couldnt be reached, it was decided that the complaint should be 
referred to an ombudsman for review.
What Ive decided  and why
At each stage of our process we look at whether we have jurisdiction to consider a 
complaint. As such, I have reviewed this complaint and I am in agreement with our 
investigator that we are unable to consider the complaint about a potential discrepancy in the 
figures when the mortgage was advanced. As for the concerns about the administration of 
the account, including the field agent visit and the charges/fees applied to the mortgage, we 
can only consider the events from May 2015. 
In relation to the concerns that Miss B has raised about the sale of the mortgage, as our 
investigator explained, Pepper is not responsible for that advice, and so I cant comment on 
it in this decision. I would also make Miss B aware that in order for a complaint to fall within 
our remit, the complaint must first be made to the responsible business and it has to be 
given the opportunity to address it. As such, we are unable to comment on the complaint 
points about the issues that have occurred since this complaint was referred to us. 
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
When considering a complaint about charges and fees applied to a mortgage that is in 
arrears, we accept that there will be times when there is additional administration needed 
and in general it is not unreasonable for a lender to add the cost of this to the debt owed. 
However, we dont consider that it is reasonable for a lender to apply charges where the 
consumer pays the contractual monthly payment or if lower, the amount of an agreement to 
pay. Nor would we consider it appropriate for a lender to apply more than one charge in a 
month for managing an account in arrears.
I have examined the charges that Pepper applied to the account between May 2015 and the 
complaint being referred to us. I wont set out each charge that was applied for arrears 
management as the parties are aware of them, but I would confirm that I am satisfied that 
they were reasonably applied in the circumstances where Miss B didnt make payments in 
full or, mainly, at all. 
In relation to the field agent visit in 2021, it is unfortunate that Pepper only informed Miss B 
that this was happening, rather than both her and her representative. However, I dont 
consider that it was unreasonable for a field agent visit in the circumstances. The account 
was in arrears and, while Miss B was making payments consistently, Pepper had asked her 
to get in touch with it on numerous occasions so that it could review the situation. Miss B 
didnt do that and, in such circumstances, a field agent visit to obtain the information a lender 
needed wouldnt be considered unreasonable. 
I have also looked at the overall administration of the mortgage since May 2015 and Ive 
seen nothing that indicates Pepper hasnt administered the mortgage as it should have. The 
payments made have been allocated and have reduced the balance of the mortgage. While 
that balance is higher than it would have been expected to be at this stage of the term, thats 
because of the missed payments and the associated fees and additional interest charged. 
Overall, I am satisfied that Pepper has administered Miss Bs mortgage appropriately during 
the period I am considering.My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint. Under the rules of the Financial 
Ombudsman Service, I am required to ask Miss B to accept or reject my decision before 
18 January 2023.
 
Derry Baxter
Ombudsman