DRN-3150992
The complaint
Mr C is unhappy with the service he received from Barclays Bank UK PLC.
 
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again 
here. Instead Ill focus on giving my reasons for my decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I realise Mr C feels very strongly about the things that have happened and I want to assure 
Mr C Ive considered and thought carefully about all of the points he has made. The purpose 
of my decision isnt to address every single point the parties have raised or to answer every 
question asked. My role is to consider the evidence presented by both parties to reach what 
I think is a fair and reasonable decision.
Having done so, I agree with the conclusion reached by the investigator for the following 
reasons:
When Mr C made Barclays aware he hadnt received a telephone banking PIN, it 
sent out a further one. It did what I would have expected it to have done here.
While Mr C did use the switching service, in order to ensure he continued to receive 
foreign pension payments. Mr C would have always needed to update his pension 
providers of Barclays account details. Im satisfied Mr C was made aware of this in 
telephone calls and that Barclays attempted to assist Mr C in being able to do this. 
Mr C has suggested he wouldnt have switched had he known this information. This 
is a new point that Barclays have not considered and therefore I will not do so here. 
I realise it would have been concerning to Mr C, not knowing if the payment had gone 
into his account and he specifically wanted to make use of push and SMS alerts. 
However, there were IT issues with these systems that were outside of Barclays 
immediate control. 
While I recognise Mr C made over 20 calls to try and sort the matter out, there was 
little that could be done in the meantime and this is why individuals couldnt provide 
assistance to him. In trying to help, Mr C was referred to others. However, Im 
satisfied this was in a genuine attempt to help Mr C resolve his issues rather than to 
frustrate him.  Not all actions require monetary compensation, in this instance, 
Barclays has apologised for the inconvenience caused, which I think is sufficient.
 
Mr C chose to credit his account with more funds just in case he went overdrawn, 
while I can understand why he did this, it was his choice to so do. And, Im satisfied 
there were other methods available to Mr C which he could have used to check his 
balance. 
Mr C was offered £50 compensation for the level of service received and having 
reviewed everything, I think this is fair and reasonable. 
For the above reasons, I do not uphold this complaint. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold Mr Cs complaint against Barclays Bank UK PLC.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 7 January 2022.
 
Alison Gore
Ombudsman