DRN-3225952
The complaint
Miss C complains about the advice she received from Debt Advisory Help Ltd (DAH) in 
relation to an IVA that was set up for her.
What happened
In 2019, Miss C applied for a consolidation loan, she wasnt accepted for the loan and so 
she was transferred to a representative of DAH to discuss other options.
DAH had a phone conversation with Miss C where she was given a recommendation to 
enter into an IVA. After Miss C initially accepted this recommendation, her information was 
passed over to a different business where the IVA was set up by an Insolvency Practitioner 
(IP).
Miss Cs complaint stems from the advice she received from DAH in taking out an IVA. She 
says that a representative of DAH set up the IVA and didnt tell her about the possible impact 
to her credit file, and that the repayments towards the IVA were set up using incorrect 
income and expenditure information. 
Miss C says that DAH have taken advantage of her, and that the IVA was wrongfully set up 
because it was done so by DAH who arent authorised to carry out this type of activity. Miss 
C also says that the representative of DAH was dishonest, emotionally abusive and her 
mental and physical health issues against her.
To put things right, Miss C would like compensation for the distress she has been through. 
And she would like the IVA terminating.
DAH responded to Miss Cs complaint, but it didnt uphold it. It confirmed that an IVA isnt a 
form of bankruptcy, it explained the impact an IVA would have on Miss Cs credit file, and 
that creditors couldnt contact Miss C once the IVA had been approved.
Our Investigator looked into Miss Cs complaint, but they didnt think it should be upheld. 
They found that based on everything they had seen, the IVA wasnt set up by DAH, and had 
been set up by a separate company. The Investigator thought that DAH had used 
information that it had gathered from Miss C to recommend an IVA as a suitable debt 
solution. 
Miss C didnt agree with our investigator. Because Miss C didnt agree, the complaint has 
been passed to me to make a decision on the matter. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Miss C has provided this service with a lot of information during the course of this complaint. 
Ive read and taken into account all of the information provided by both parties, in reaching 
my decision. I havent reflected much of the information Miss C has provided in this decision. 
But Id like to reassure her that this isnt because I didnt see it, its because I didnt deem it 
relevant to the crux of the complaint. This isnt intended as a discourtesy to either party, but 
merely to reflect my informal role in deciding what a fair and reasonable outcome is. This 
also means I dont think its necessary to get an answer, or provide my own answer, to every 
question raised unless its relevant to the crux of the complaint.
Id like to express my empathy for Miss Cs situation. Its clear that her complaint about the 
IVA is causing her much stress and anxiety  and Im also very sorry to have read of Miss 
Cs ongoing health issues. In reaching my conclusion, I dont wish in any way to downplay or 
disregard the situation Miss C is in. But being independent means, I have to take a step back 
and consider what both parties have said. And having done so, Im not upholding Miss Cs 
complaint.
Unfortunately, DAH no longer has a copy of the call recording, or call transcript from when it 
recommended Miss C take out an IVA. But it has been able to send me details of the 
information it gathered on the call, and a list of potential debt solutions and reasons that 
these solutions were rejected (or accepted) by Miss C. 
The notes suggest that a debt management plan was discussed, however this was rejected 
because this solution wouldnt guarantee that service charges and interest would be frozen  
and that the term of the debt management plan would have been more than 12 years. A debt 
relief order was rejected as being a suitable solution because Miss Cs disposable income 
was higher than the maximum allowed under this type of solution. The notes also suggest 
that Miss C didnt want to enter into bankruptcy because she wanted to make some 
contributions to her creditors. The notes suggest that there were also other debt solutions 
which were discussed and rejected for various reasons. 
So, it seems that some discussion happened where DAH made a recommendation Miss C 
took out an IVA based on her circumstances at the time. I havent seen anything that makes 
me think this was an unsuitable solution. 
Once the IVA had been suggested as a suitable debt solution, Miss Cs details of this were 
then sent to an different company where an IVA was set up by an IP  it would have been 
the role of this business to go through the finer details of the IVA and the implications that 
this could have before setting up the IVA.  
I appreciate that Miss C feels strongly about the fact that DAH set up the IVA (and didnt just 
provide advice about debt solutions) but based on everything Ive seen, I dont think DAH set 
up the IVA on Miss Cs behalf. The role of DAH is to gather information to decide on an 
appropriate debt solution. It will then pass this information onto an appropriate business to 
administer the debt solution. I appreciate Miss C has sent this service information and phone 
calls that she feels proves DAH set up the IVA, but I cant agree that what she has sent 
confirms it had done this. On the contrary, I can see Miss C has been sent correspondence 
from a different business confirming that they set up the IVA. And so, I think this is more 
likely to be correct. 
I have looked at all the messages provided by Miss C, and I dont think the messages she 
has received from the representative of DAH confirm that it set up the IVA  these messages 
dont appear to show that DAH did much more than try and help Miss C with some questions 
she had relating to the IVA  for example payment dates and being contacted by creditors. I 
can see that some of these conversations happened once the IVA had been put in place, but 
I think it likely that this was done in an attempt to help Miss C with her concerns. Although, it 
might have been more helpful if DAHs representative told Miss C to contact the IP instead of 
trying to help directly. But this doesnt change my view that it wasnt DAH that set up the IVA.Miss C has also made reference to the representative of DAH being dishonest, emotionally 
abusive and using her mental and physical health issues against her. I know Miss C is very 
unhappy about the actions of this representative, but without being able to listen to this call, 
which is no longer available, I cant fairly say that DAH did anything wrong. From looking at 
the text conversations Miss C had with the representative, I dont find these to be dishonest 
or abusive, nor do they, in my opinion, take advantage of Miss C or her health issues. 
Miss C thinks that DAH has acted unlawfully by deleting and changing her personal data. It 
isnt the role of this service to make a finding on whether a business has acted unlawfully. 
But I havent seen any evidence to suggest that DAH has intentionally deleted or changed 
information about Miss C. I can understand why she is disappointed that DAH no longer has 
a copy of the call, but I dont think the fact that the call is no longer available means that 
DAH has done anything wrong. 
I appreciate that Miss C has raised a number of points about the actions of DAH, and what 
she thinks it has done wrong. But these points relate to the IVA and how it was set up, and 
given that Ive found it more likely than not that DAH didnt set up the IVA, they merely 
referred Miss C to a business to set it up, I wont be commenting on these points any further. 
I know this complaint has been a cause of much stress and anxiety for Miss C  and I know 
how strongly she feels about her complaint. But based on everything Ive seen, I cant fairly 
conclude that DAH has done anything wrong. 
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I dont uphold Miss Cs complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss C to accept 
or reject my decision before 1 September 2022.
 
Sophie Wilkinson
Ombudsman