DRN-2302204
The complaint
Mr C complains about the valuation Watford Insurance Company Europe Limited
gave for his car after it was stolen.
What happened
The details of the complaint are well-known to both parties, so I will not repeat them again
here. Instead, I will focus on giving the reasons for my decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I can understand how disappointing it must be for Mr C to have his car stolen and 
him feeling his car has been significantly undervalued. But having considered what 
Watford has done, Im not upholding this complaint. Ill explain why.
When an insurer assesses the valuation of a vehicle it isnt an exact science. Mr Cs 
policy says Watford will pay the market value of the car immediately before the 
accident. In the policy terms it outlines how market value will be established and 
highlights that it will use the industry trade guides to determine this. The guides 
determine the market value by looking at many factors including actual selling prices 
of cars. 
I can see that one trade guide placed a valuation of £2,920 and the second £1,975.  
Watford has offered Mr C the average of the two valuation, £2,447.50. 
Ive also looked at the same trade guides, and one other and can confirm that the 
£2,447.50 Watford paid represents a fair market value, when looking across the 
guides, for Mr Cs car. 
Ive seen the adverts that Mr C has provided from a car sales website. Its important 
to understand that many car dealerships will add a margin for negotiation when 
advertising cars. And many of the cars for sale. So, this is why trade guides can give 
a better indication of what the market value is.
I understand why Mr C feel this is unfair, but its important to note that his insurance 
policy does say it will pay the market value, and not that it will pay the cost of a new 
car.
Watford has used trade guides to determine the market value of the car and I can 
see that it paid the slightly higher than the average of the values. 
The payment it made is in line with the trade guides Ive looked at, so I dont think its 
acted unreasonably.
I appreciate Mr C has also said the valuations hadnt taken into account the high 
specifications. But having reviewed the policy schedule and the information he 
provided Watford, I cant see he declared any enhancements.
So, for the reasons I have explained, I wont be asking Watford to do anything 
further. 
My final decision
My Final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 3 December 2020.
 
Jade Rowe
Ombudsman