DRN-3261758
The complaint
Mr and Mrs B, trading as C, complain about the decision of Royal & Sun Alliance Insurance 
Limited to decline their commercial insurance claim, made as a result of the COVID-19 
pandemic.
What happened
Mr and Mrs B operate as market traders, selling groceries from static premises within a 
market. They held an industry specific commercial insurance policy underwritten by Royal & 
Sun Alliance Insurance Limited (RSA). Following the start of the COVID-19 pandemic, Mr 
and Mrs B closed their premises and contacted RSA to claim for their losses. 
RSA declined the claim though. It said that the deterioration of Cs stock was not covered in 
the circumstances. Mr and Mrs B were unhappy with this, saying that there had been high 
temperatures, and this had caused the deterioration. They brought their complaint to this 
service.
However, our Investigator did not uphold the complaint. She felt that the stock had 
deteriorated over time because it had not been sold, and that this was not a circumstance 
covered by the policy. She also considered whether RSA should have met Mr and Mrs Bs 
claim under the business interruption section of their policy, but she did not think the 
circumstances Mr and Mrs B experienced were covered under this section either. 
Mr and Mrs B remained unsatisfied, so their complaint has been passed to me for a final 
decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr and Mrs B have made their claim for loss of Cs stock. They had apparently purchased a 
large amount of stock just prior to Cs closure, so I appreciate the circumstances have led to 
them suffering a significant loss. As well as considering whether the policy provides cover for 
these losses directly, like the Investigator, I have considered whether their losses would be 
covered indirectly by the business interruption section of their policy.
Having done so, whilst I am sorry to hear about the considerable financial impact COVID-19 
pandemic has had on Mr and Mrs B, I wont be upholding their complaint. My reasons are 
substantially the same as the Investigators.
Mr and Mrs Bs policy provides cover for a number of areas of risk, including for losses to 
property, including stock, and for losses to income. I will deal with each of these in turn.
Stock
Mr and Mrs B claimed for losses to Cs stock. The stock is potentially covered by the 
Property Damage section of their policy and the Deterioration of Stock section. 
The first of these requires the stock to have been damaged by one of the Covers listed in 
the policy. These Covers include things like fire or flood, which were clearly not the cause of 
any damage to Cs stock. There is a Cover relating to any other accident. I dont think 
COVID-19, or the pandemic generally, could reasonably be described as an accident in the 
way I consider this policy intended this word to be interpreted. But even if this were not the 
case, this Cover also includes a number of exclusions  including for damage caused by:
inherent vice latent defect gradual deterioration wear and tear.
Cs perishable stock was by its very nature something which was inherently likely to 
deteriorate over time - it had a sell by date for this very reason. And this deterioration of the 
stock would also have been a gradual process. So even if the impact of COVID-19 or the 
pandemic did fall into this Cover, I think this exclusion would apply. 
Mr and Mrs Bs policy also includes a specific section relating to Deterioration of Stock. 
Effectively, this section provides cover for loss of stock stored in a fridge, etc. 
The policy says that such fridges need to be listed on the policy schedule, and it doesn't 
appear that any are for Mr and Mrs Bs policy. But before considering whether this is a 
relevant concern, I will address whether a claim in the circumstances would be covered for 
any fridge that might be included in the cover provided. 
I understand that some of Cs stock would have been stored in fridges. However, no 
evidence has been provided that it was an issue with these fridges that resulted in the 
deterioration of the stock. 
Mr and Mrs B have said that the weather during the relevant period was the issue, and the 
section does provide cover where there is a rise or fall in temperature, unless the cause of 
this is excluded. However, whilst I appreciate that the spring months of 2020 were 
reasonably warm, I am not persuaded that it was this weather that was the main cause of 
Cs stock deteriorating. My understanding is that the purpose of a fridge is to maintain a 
reasonably constant temperature, and whilst excessively high temperatures outside of a 
fridge might impair this function, I dont think that the weather during this period reached 
such heights. 
Ultimately, I consider it was the fact that Mr and Mrs B were not selling the stock that led to it 
deteriorating. And I think this deterioration would have happened regardless of the weather. 
Their inability to sell the stock, for whatever reason, is not something that this part of the 
policy provides cover for. 
Taking everything into account, I dont consider any part of the policy provides cover for the 
loss of Cs stock in the circumstance of Mr and Mrs Bs claim. It follows that I do not consider 
RSA acted inappropriately in declining their claim for this loss. 
Business interruption
Whilst Mr and Mrs B focussed their claim on their loss of stock, like the Investigator, I have 
considered whether these losses should be indirectly covered by the Business Interruption 
section of their policy. Having done so though, I do not think they are. 
The core cover provided by the business interruption section of Mr and Mrs Bs policy, as 
well as a number of the extensions to this cover, is based on an interruption to the business 
of the insured which has been caused by damage to property. As above, whilst I appreciate 
the pandemic has caused substantial financial loss, I dont think COVID-19 caused damage 
to property which has led to an interruption of Cs business.I also dont think that any damage to stock, regardless of whether such damage is insured or 
not, was the cause of any interruption to Cs business. The cause of the interruption was the 
closure of Cs premises and/or the closure of the market those premises are located in. This 
was not damage.
So, I dont think either the standard business interruption cover, or the extensions that rely 
on there having been damage, provide cover in the circumstances of Cs claim. And I think 
RSA acted fairly and reasonably in not meeting Cs claim under this area of cover.
This section does include a further extension to the business interruption section that 
provides cover where a disease has led to the premises being closed. But this is limited to 
providing cover in the situations where certain diseases manifest at the premises. I think the 
relevant term does apply to COVID-19. However, there has been no evidence provided that 
this disease manifested at the premises. For COVID-19 to have manifested at the premises, 
I consider someone would have had to have been diagnosed with the disease, or to have 
displayed symptoms of the disease and been at the premises at the time. 
Mr and Mrs B have provided no evidence that any such person was at Cs premises. And it 
is for a policyholder to demonstrate that an insured event has happened. 
I should also point out that even if Mr and Mrs B could demonstrate there had been such a 
manifestation, this must also have led to closure or restrictions being placed on the premises 
by or with the approval of the Medical Officer of Health of the Public authority. And it is not 
clear that this happened either. C operates as a grocer and such business would not have 
been required to close by, for example, the Health Protection (Coronavirus, Restrictions) 
(England) Regulations 2020. It is not clear if the owner of the market in which Cs premises 
are located required them to close, but I do not consider such a party would fall within the 
requirements of this extension. And the actions or advice of the parties that would fall under 
this extension, meant that businesses such as C could remain open. 
So, given that neither a manifestation of COVID-19 on Cs premises has been demonstrated 
nor that it is clear that C premises were required to close or had restrictions placed on them 
by a relevant party, I dont consider this extension provides cover in the circumstances of 
Mr and Mrs Bs claim.
Having considered the sections mentioned above as well as the rest of the policy carefully, I 
do not consider there to be any area of cover that means RSA should have met Mr and 
Mrs Bs claim. I am satisfied RSAs decision to decline the claim was in line with the policy, 
and in all the circumstances of this case fair and reasonable.
I know this decision will be disappointing for Mr and Mrs B, but I hope Ive provided them 
with a thorough explanation of why this policy doesnt offer cover in the circumstances of this 
claim.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr and Mrs B to 
accept or reject my decision before 24 June 2022.
 
Sam Thomas
Ombudsman