DRN-3436988
The complaint
Mrs K complains that Somerset Bridge Insurance Services Limited trading as Go Skippy 
mishandled her motor insurance policy.
Where I refer to Go Skippy, I include employees and others insofar as I hold Go Skippy 
responsible for their acts or omissions. 
What happened
Mrs K took out motor insurance with effect from mid- May 2021. Go Skippy acted as an 
intermediary between Mrs K and her insurer or underwriters. The policy covered Mrs K as 
the policyholder and her mother as a named driver. 
The insured car was a hatchback first registered in 2002 and valued at about £300.00. The 
cost of the insurance for the year was going to be about £500.00. Any claim for damage was 
subject to an excess of £545.00.
Unfortunately, on 30 June 2021, Mrs Ks vehicle was damaged so badly that she decided to 
scrap it. 
On 3 August 2021, Go Skippy told Mrs K she had until 5.00pm on 17 August 2021 to 
complete a change of vehicle on the policy, otherwise it would be cancelled. 
Go Skippy cancelled the policy before that deadline, then reinstated it and extended the  
deadline until 23:59 on 17 August 2021. But Go Skippy cancelled the policy at about 17:30 
that evening.
On about 24 August 2021, Go Skippy tod Mrs K that the policy could be reinstated. On 25 
August 2021, Mrs K emailed details of her new car and her new address.
On 26 August 2021, Go Skippy said that the insurer had quoted an additional premium of 
£416.02 to put the new car on the policy.
On 3 September 2021, Mrs K said shed changed her address on 1 June 2021. Go Skippy 
said that the insurer wouldnt offer cover at the new address, so the policy remained 
cancelled. 
On about 13 September 2021, Mrs K complained to Go Skippy.
By a final response dated 21 September 2021, Go Skippy upheld the complaint in part. It 
said that it had incorrectly cancelled the policy earlier than agreed on 17 August 2021. But it 
said that the underwriters wouldve cancelled the policy anyway because of the change of 
address. Go Skippy apologised for some shortcomings in its service. It offered £100.00 
compensation for the inconvenience caused.
Mrs K brought her complaint to us in November 2021.
Our investigator didnt recommend that the complaint should be upheld. She didnt think that 
Go Skippy acted unreasonably or treated Mrs K unfairly. She said that what Go Skippy had 
done, and the compensation offered was fair and reasonable for the error it had made. 
Mrs K disagreed with the investigators opinion. She asked for an ombudsman to review the 
complaint. She says, in summary, that:
She got married, moved home and suffered from long Covid. That should be taken 
into account in relation to the delay in telling Go Skippy of her change of address.
During a fuel crisis, she spent time looking for a replacement car.
She put a deposit down for a car.
Go Skippy cancelled the policy before its deadline of 17:00, then reinstated the policy 
and extended the deadline to 23:59, then cancelled it at 17:30.
Due to the length of time it took to resolve the issues, she ended up losing the car.
She suggests compensation of £250.00. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im dealing with Mrs Ks complaint against Go Skippy. Ive looked at the acts and omissions 
of Go Skippy. I keep in mind that it was the insurer rather than Go Skippy that decided what 
it would cover (including what addresses) and at what premium. I make no findings against 
the insurer.
But I note that the insurers policy terms included a requirement as follows:
You must tell Us immediately if: You change Your address or the address where 
Your Car is normally kept.
That is what I would expect.
Mrs K has told us that, when she took out the policy, she was living at her mothers address . 
From what she said, Mrs K changed address on 1 June 2021. 
The vehicle was damaged on 30 June 2021. And Mrs K was in contact with Go Skippy about 
that. So  whilst there were mitigating factors  she shouldve told the insurer her new 
address in June 2021.
I accept that Mrs K spent time and trouble in early August 2021 finding a newer car.
Go Skippy has accepted that it was responsible for incorrectly cancelling the policy too early 
on 17 August 2021 and for some shortcomings in its service and communication. 
I dont underestimate the extra distress and inconvenience that Go Skippy caused Mrs K at 
an already difficult time for her. She felt that she was receiving poor service and had to  
telephone to chase for progress and updates.However, Mrs K shouldve told the insurer of her change of address in June 2021. And when 
she did so, the insurer didnt recognise that address and wouldnt cover it. I dont hold Go 
Skippy responsible for that. And I find it likely that the insurer wouldve cancelled the policy 
as soon as Mrs K gave her new address.
So I dont hold Go Skippy responsible for Mrs Ks inability to put the new car on the policy. 
And I dont hold Go Skippy responsible for Mrs Ks decision not to proceed with the purchase 
of the new car.
Also, I dont hold Go Skippy responsible for the times when it could only tell Mrs K that it was 
wating to hear from the insurer.
So overall, Im satisfied that Go Skippys payments totalling £100.00 were fair and 
reasonable compensation. I dont find it fair and reasonable to direct Go Skippy to pay Mrs K 
any more. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. I dont 
direct Somerset Bridge Insurance Services Limited trading as Go Skippy to do any more in 
response to this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs K to accept or 
reject my decision before 10 June 2022.  
Christopher Gilbert
Ombudsman