DRN-3117313
The complaint
Mr B is complaining Omni Capital Retail Finance Limited hasnt refunded the cost of a 
course he entered into that he financed through a fixed sum loan agreement. He brings the 
claim under Section 75 of the Consumer Credit Act 1974 as he says the course was 
misrepresented to him. He also says he wasnt aware he was entering into a finance 
agreement.
What happened
In May 2018 Mr B attended a three-day seminar with the supplier  who I shall refer to as G 
 following which he entered into a five-year fixed sum loan agreement provided by Omni to 
finance a business training course. The cash price of the course was £11,500. Under the 
terms of the finance agreement he had to make 60 monthly payments of around £240. 
Inclusive of interest, the total amount hed have to repay over the full term would have been 
around £14,500.
Mr B contacted G a few days later to say hed changed his mind and asked to cancel the 
course but he was told he wasnt able to do so. He says he looked to engage in the course 
but a few months later Mr B complained that he had been unfairly coerced into entering into 
the course and again said he wanted to cancel it. In particular he raised the following points: 
He wasnt given the time to read the documentation to understand what he was entering 
into. He says G said there was a promotion whereby the first 12 people to sign up would 
get the course for free. So he said everyone rushed to sign up and he felt under pressure 
to sign as quickly as possible.
He says he wasnt told he was entering into a loan provided by a separate company.
He thinks the course was misrepresented to him as he didnt get the benefits of the 
course that he was told hed get. Also he said the course content was available for free 
on the internet and the coaches didnt have relevant qualifications.
G maintained Mr B couldnt withdraw from the course, so Mr B referred his complaint to 
Omni as the finance provider. Omni didnt uphold the complaint as it said G didnt give any 
guarantees on what results the course will give. And it didnt think there was anything to 
support that Mr B had been pressured into entering into the course and finance agreement.
I issued a provisional decision in September 2021 not upholding this complaint and I said the 
following:
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. I dont intend to uphold this complaint and 
Ill now explain why.
Mr B paid for the course through a fixed sum loan agreement. Section 75 of the Consumer 
Credit Act 1974 sets out that in certain circumstances, as the finance provider, Omni is 
jointly liable for any breach of contract or misrepresentation by the supplier  G. Im satisfied 
those circumstances apply here.
Further to this, section 56 of the Consumer Credit Act 1974 has the effect of making G the 
agent of Omni during the antecedent negotiations leading up to Mr B entering into the loan 
agreement, starting from when he first approached G. But essentially, this means Omni is 
responsible for the acts or omissions of G in relation to the sale of the loan to Mr B. In other 
words, Omni has to stand behind the things G said, did, didnt say, or didnt do during the 
sales process.
Ms S is complaining that both the finance agreement and the course were mis-sold to him. 
Hes also complaining he wasnt allowed to cancel it and that the course wasnt as 
described. Ive set out my thoughts on each point separately. 
Sale of finance agreement
Mr B says G didnt tell him he was entering into a finance agreement with a third party and 
thought he was entering into a direct debit arrangement directly with G. 
The Financial Conduct Authority, in its Consumer Credit Sourcebook (CONC), set out in 
CONC 4.2.5 that, when selling a finance agreement, a business must give the consumer an 
adequate explanation of the key features of the finance agreement to enable the applicant to 
make an informed choice. In particular, it said a business should highlight that they were 
entering into a regulated consumer credit agreement and the total cost of doing so.
Omni has provided us with a copy of the presentation that G gave at a similar workshop 
around the same time and the presenter set out that there were two options available to the 
applicant  pay for the course up front in full or they have an arrangement with a finance 
partner to pay for the course monthly. I think she could have set out that the applicant would 
be taking out a loan, but Im satisfied that she does explain the applicant would be entering 
into an arrangement with a third party.
Furthermore, Im also conscious that Mr B completed an online application for the finance 
which I understand was completed through Omnis portal. As part of this, Omni asked for 
Mr Bs estimated income and requested some details of his monthly expenses. I understand 
Mr B was initially declined for the loan and Mr B would have been informed of this. The 
application was reviewed the next day and the loan was approved. I understand Omni later 
contacted Mr B that day by email confirming this. Omni has provided us with screen grabs of 
this process which show that it would have sent Mr B an email asking him to electronically 
confirm hed read the loan agreement and that he agreed to its terms before the agreement 
would have gone live.
Further to this, weve also spoken to Mr B and hes told us he was aware he was entering 
into a long-term financial commitment payable over a number of years. So, on balance, I 
think Mr B did have a reasonable understanding of the arrangement he was entering into. 
Ive also thought about whether the cost of credit was made clear to Mr B. Under the terms 
of the finance, Mr B has to pay around £3,000 in interest over the course of the five-year 
term. Omni says the cost of credit is set out in the welcome pack it sent Mr B after he 
entered into the finance agreement. But CONC sets out that Mr B needed to be informed of 
the cost of credit before he entered into the finance agreement.
However, the cost of credit is clearly set out on the finance agreement. Mr B electronically 
signed the agreement. And, as I said above, I think Mr B would have had to electronically 
confirm that hed read it. Ultimately, while I do think Omni could have ideally taken further 
steps to set out these costs separately, I think it did enough to inform Mr B how much the 
loan would cost.However, even if I didnt think it made the cost clear enough, Im not persuaded Mr B would 
have acted differently if it had made the costs clearer. Mr B had already chosen to enrol on 
the course before he applied for the finance agreement and was aware the course cost 
£11,500.
I think its likely Mr B would have had known it would cost more to pay in monthly instalments 
rather than paying for the course upfront. Mr B wasnt in a position to pay £11,500 upfront, 
so the only way to finance the course was through taking out this finance agreement. 
I also note he didnt raise any concerns regarding the finance agreement until after hed 
referred his complaint to this service  i.e. he didnt raise these concerns with Omni at the 
time he first complained. It seems to me Mr Bs primary concern is the sale of the course 
itself, not the sale of the finance agreement.
So, taking everything into consideration, Im not persuaded Mr B would have acted 
differently even if Omni had explained all the key features more clearly. 
Sale of the course
As I said above, Omni can be held jointly liable for any misrepresentations by G. What this 
means is Omni may be liable for Mr Bs losses where it can be shown G made a false 
statement of fact which induced Mr B to act in a way he wouldnt have done had this 
statement not been made. 
Mr B says he hasnt had the success from the course that he was promised. Hes also said 
he was promised a high-quality business coaching programme, but he said it was nothing 
special and everything he was taught could have been found in books. 
As Ive said above, G has provided a video of a similar presentation to the one it gave Mr B 
when it sold the course. But I havent seen anything to show it promised Mr B certain results. 
Ive also looked at the marketing material G used at the time and, similarly, I dont think G 
gave any guarantees here. 
However, as I said above, Omni can also be held liable for anything G did or said to Mr B 
before he entered into the contract  including any oral statements made outside of the 
presentation. And Ive thought about what Mr B has told us and whats most likely. But I dont 
think I have enough for me to say he was given any guarantees about any uplift in 
turnover/income with his business. I dont dispute it may have strongly emphasised the 
potential rewards from the course, but this is different to giving specific guarantees. 
Ive also thought about Mr Bs comments that the coaches werent experts and that the 
training material was freely available elsewhere. However, as I said above, Gs marketing 
material does acknowledge that some of the training material may be available elsewhere. 
And I havent seen anything to show he was given any guarantee that the training material 
was exclusive to G. Further to this, the course was marketed that Mr B would be given one-
on-one access to a coach and he was given this. I also havent seen anything to show G 
said the coaches would have certain qualifications. I appreciate Mr B may have assumed 
that the coaches would do so, but, as I said above, I need to be satisfied Mr B was given a 
false statement of fact and Ive not seen anything to show he was.
So, taking everything into consideration, I dont think I have enough to say G misrepresented 
the course to Mr B. 
Ive also thought about Mr Bs comments that he was pressured into taking out the course. 
Hes referred to the fact he was told the first 12 people who signed up to the course would get it for free. I accept G uses specific strong and clever sales techniques to sell the course, 
but this doesnt mean it pressured Mr B into the course. The presentation G has provided, 
does confirm what Mr B said. But, giving an incentive to sign up doesnt mean G pressured 
Mr B to enter into the course. And I note the presenter specifically said he didnt have to sign 
up to the course. Ultimately, Im satisfied Mr B was aware he had a choice about whether to 
sign up to the course or not and he chose to do so.
Breach of contract
Mr B is unhappy he wasnt allowed to cancel the course when he changed his mind. He 
thinks he should have been given a cancellation period. And hes said hes unhappy 
legislation allowing him to cancel doesnt apply because of where the presentation took 
place. He also says the quality of the course wasnt as he was promised. 
Under the terms of the course, Mr B entered into a non-cancellable contract. This meant, he 
was unable to withdraw from the course once he signed the enrolment form. I note Mr B 
says legislation should have given him a cooling off period and he thinks its unfair that, 
where the sale took place, has meant he didnt get the benefit of this. Mr B is referring to the 
Consumer Contracts (Information, Cancellation and Additional Charges) Regulations 2013 
(CCRs). This sets out that, in certain circumstances, a supplier must give a consumer a 
cancellation window for where the consumer changes their mind.
However, I dont think Mr B had the protection of the CCRs in this case for two reasons. 
Firstly, in order to qualify as a consumer for the purposes of the CCRs, an individual has to 
be acting for purposes which are wholly or mainly outside of their trade, business, craft or 
profession. Mr B entered into the course as a means to get more clients for his business. So, 
given I think he entered into the course mainly for the purposes of his trade, the CCRs dont 
apply.
Further to this, the CCRs only apply to off-premises contracts or distance contracts. Mr B 
entered into the contract at a workshop run by G. Weve seen a copy of Gs lease, which I 
think shows that it was trading from that property for a reasonable period of time. So I think it 
would reasonably be considered to be Gs trading premises. I appreciate Mr B changed his 
mind very shortly after entering into the contract. But, given what Ive said above, I dont 
think G breached the terms of Mr Bs contract by not allowing him to cancel the contract. 
Ive also thought about whether what Mr B has said about the quality of the course would be 
considered a breach of contract in itself. Under the contact with Mr B, G had agreed to 
provide a coaching course designed to help him increase his client base. Legislation  in this 
case the Consumer Rights Act 2015 (CRA)  implied a term into the contract that G had to 
deliver the course with reasonable care and skill.
I dont think its disputed G gave Mr B the materials it was contractually required to provide. 
But, as I said above, Mr B is unhappy that these materials were freely available elsewhere 
and hes unhappy with the quality of the coaches. Assessing the quality of a service provided 
is naturally a rather subjective matter  what is reasonable for one person, may not be for 
another. I appreciate Mr B was unhappy with the level of qualifications the coaches had, but 
this doesnt mean the course and quality of coaching wasnt provided with reasonable care 
and skill.
As I said above, there wasnt any requirement for the coaches to have a certain level of 
qualifications or industry experience. While I appreciate Mr Bs strength of feeling regarding 
this matter, I dont think Ive seen enough to say the quality of service fell below that of a 
reasonable service provider.Ultimately, I dont think Ive seen enough for me to say G has breached either an express or 
implied term of its contract with Mr B. So, it follows, that I dont think it was unfair for Omni to 
not uphold Mr Bs Section 75 claim.
Mr Bs mother responded to my provisional decision on Mr Bs behalf disagreeing with what I 
said. She provided a detailed response setting out why Mr B didnt agree with my provisional 
decision. In summary, she raised the following points:
Mr B thought he was attending a training course and wasnt expecting to be sold 
anything else. She said, had he known the workshop was more about hard sale of a 
product, he probably wouldnt have attended.
She maintained G used unfair and harassing sales techniques designed to exploit 
individuals eager to succeed. She said the atmosphere was purposely frenzied and 
wired to mislead and influence the audience into thinking the product was essential. She 
said the coaches G used would use unfair techniques making Mr B feel his business 
would fail if he didnt sign up. She thought it was wrong that I referred to Gs sales 
techniques as clever sales techniques, whereas she considered them to be intimidation, 
ruthless and cunning. She maintains that G guaranteed an increase in turnover in a 
matter of months.
She said G had changed its name and trading location, which she suggested was a 
means to cover its tracks and to close any potential gaps.
She said Mr B wasnt an isolated case and said there were numerous complaints of a 
similar nature. She also said she was aware a senior employee left the company as he 
was so disgruntled with the sales techniques.
She didnt think it was right to rely on a previous seminar as evidence of what was likely 
to have been said in the seminar Mr B attended. She thinks it was highly likely the 
presentations were subsequently adapted and each workshop was unique. Further to 
this, she said the official presentations dont take into account the individual 
conversations Mr B had with the coaches and sales people.
She said the terms and conditions were ruthless and water tight and in such small font, 
they were impossible to read.
She maintains the finance agreement wasnt sold fairly. She says he didnt apply for the 
finance, but it was forced upon him. She didnt think it was right that Mr B electronically 
signed the agreement and thinks it should have been printed off for him to hand sign. 
She didnt think the finance agreement was affordable. She said Mr B hadnt been 
trading a long time and had no payslips. She questioned how the loan could be declined 
on one day and accepted the next day.
She thinks its wrong Mr B wasnt allowed to cancel the course. She said he tried to 
cancel the course almost straight away, but he wasnt allowed to. She suggested a 
reputable business should give a cooling off period.
Omni didnt respond to my provisional decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive taken all of the additional points Mr B and his mother have raised. I recognise their 
strength of feeling in this matter that G mis-sold this course to him. I also recognise Ive 
summarised Mr Bs submissions in far less detail than what they provided. No discourtesy is 
meant by that, but it simply reflects the informal nature of this service. I assure Mr B that I 
have read and fully considered everything theyve sent. However I dont think theyve raised 
anything significantly new to what theyd provided before. And I dont think Ive seen anything for me to say that the conclusion I reached in my provisional decision was either 
wrong or unfair. So I dont intend to respond in significant detail because I am satisfied my 
provisional decision explains why I came to the conclusion I did. But I do think there are 
some areas where further clarification will be useful.
Sale of the course
I recognise Mr B and his mother strong believe Gs sales techniques were underhand and 
have made a number of comments about the actions of the seminar leader and sales staff. I 
think it would be helpful to explain that Im not considering the actions of G in this case  
including the way G operates in general as a company. The sale of a course in its own right 
isnt something this service can look at. However, as Mr B paid for the course through a 
regulated finance agreement, Omni can be held jointly or severally liable for any 
misrepresentation or breach of contract by G.
For me to conclude G misrepresented the course, I have to be satisfied that G gave Mr B an 
actual false statement of fact that induced him into entering into the course. I acknowledge 
Mr B thinks its wrong to use a previous seminar as evidence of what took place in his 
seminar. I accept its not definitive evidence of what was said. But, naturally, I can never 
know for certain what was said as I wasnt present at the seminar. So I have to think about 
what I think was most likely to have happened. Mr B has told us what he thinks was told to 
him at the time. At the same time G has provided its own evidence of what it thinks Mr B was 
likely to have been told. And Ive given both versions of events equal consideration.
As I said, I do not dispute G uses clever and strong sales techniques to sell its courses. But 
theres a difference between using sales techniques to sell the products and giving false 
statements to mislead customers. I appreciate Mr Bs strong sense of feeling in this matter 
and I recognise that he says he was given a number of promises  such as G guaranteed 
hed increase his client base. But, as I set out in my provisional decision, I think its also 
possible they could have set out Mr B could double or triple his turnover  i.e. didnt give any 
specific guarantees.
I dont dispute Mr B took from the session and sales speeches that by participating in the 
course hed learn how to increase his client basis and turnover. But, for me to be able to hold 
Omni liable for Gs actions, I have to be satisfied G specifically told Mr B something untrue 
and Im not persuaded Ive seen enough to say it did. 
Cancellation rights
I understand Mr Bs unhappiness about the terms of the contract  in particular that he 
wasnt able to cancel the course. The terms of the contract were set by G, not Omni. I 
appreciate Mr B thinks the terms are unfair and unreasonably watertight. But not being 
allowed to cancel a training course isnt an unusual term in a training course contract as its 
not unusual for such courses to be non-cancellable contracts once entered in to. And it 
wouldnt be considered an unfair term.
Ultimately, in reviewing Mr Bs S75 claim, Omni has to assess whether G breached the 
terms of the contract in not allowing Mr B to cancel. But the contract doesnt allow for 
cancellation so I cant say it acted unfairly in not refunding the cost of the course. 
Sale of the finance
I note Mr Bs mother thinks Mr B should have been required to hand sign the finance 
agreement. But Omni was entitled to take an electronic signature as a means to Mr B 
consenting to the loan. As I set out in my provisional decision, Mr B has told us he was aware he was entering into a long-term arrangement. And I dont have anything further to 
add to what I set out in my provisional decision in this respect.
However, I have further considered Mr Bs comments that he doesnt think Omni should 
have allowed him to enter into the finance agreement because it wasnt affordable. In 
particular hes expressed concern that the application was initially declined and then 
accepted the next day when nothing had changed.
I appreciate Mr Bs mothers comment that she doesnt understand why the loan was initially 
declined, but then accepted the next day. Omni has explained that the loan was declined 
through its automated process, so the next step was for the loan to be reviewed by one of its 
underwriters, which is what happened in this case. And the underwriter concluded that the 
monthly loan repayment was affordable. Ive now considered whether this was fair. 
When Mr B applied for the finance, Omni was required to carry out proportionate checks to 
assess whether he could afford to keep up with the monthly repayments. Ive looked at 
whether Omni did enough to assess whether Mr B could afford to keep up with the monthly 
repayments.
I think the starting point in assessing this complaint has to be looking at the guidelines the 
Financial Conduct Authority (FCA) set out in its rules  the Consumer Credit Sourcebook 
(CONC). In this the FCA has said that the extent and scope of the creditworthiness 
assessment needs to be proportionate to the individual circumstances of each case. So I 
think the checks Omni would need to do would be different for a loan of £2,000 as opposed 
to a loan of around £15,000 (as in this case).
CONC sets out that there's no requirement to do an income and expenditure form if it's 
obvious in the circumstances of the particular case that the customer is able to make 
repayments. But it also says that if a firm chooses to not do an income and expenditure 
assessment "it should keep in mind that the burden would be on the firm to demonstrate, if 
challenged, that the absence of a material affordability risk was obvious such as to make the 
process of determination or estimation of the customer's income disproportionate".
Omni has given us details of the information Mr B gave when he applied for the finance. In 
this case, Mr B disclosed that he had an annual income of around £22,500. It seems Mr B 
also advised his monthly rental payments were £270. Omni further reviewed Mr Bs credit file 
which its said revealed monthly payments for his car insurance of around £103. It said Mr B 
had a had a strong credit history, with very low debt levels, so it thought the loan was 
affordable.
Mr B was repaying around £240 per month, which is not an insignificant amount of money. 
Given this, I think Omni should have asked some more questions of Mr Bs situation  i.e. do 
a more thorough income and expenditure to understand what additional outgoings Mr B had 
in addition to his rent and car insurance. But I havent seen anything to show that there were 
any other significant outgoings to make the loan unaffordable. So, I still think Omni would 
have lent to Mr B had it done these additional checks and I dont think it would have been 
unfair for it to do so.
Ultimately, I havent seen enough for me to say that it was irresponsible for Omni to have 
allowed Mr B to enter into this finance agreement.
Summary 
I appreciate Mr B feels strongly about this matter and I acknowledge his mothers comments 
regarding the impact this matter has had on him personally. But, it seems to me his unhappiness is in respect to G as a company in itself. In this case Im considering Omnis 
handling of Mr Bs S75 claim. And, ultimately, I dont think it acted unfairly in not upholding 
his claim.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive set out above, its my final decision that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 24 November 2021. 
Guy Mitchell
Ombudsman