DRN-2333270
The complaint
Mr C complains about the service he received from Nationwide Building Society. Hes 
unhappy with the delay and the service he experienced when he asked Nationwide to 
process chargebacks for cancelled flights and unsatisfactory hotel accommodation.
What happened
Mr C purchased flights and accommodation online using his Nationwide debit card. One of 
the airlines changed the scheduled departure time for Mr Cs first flight which caused him 
some concerns about whether thered be sufficient time to make a connecting flight. And Mr 
C was unhappy with the standard of the accommodation hed booked; he says the standard 
was inadequate and he didnt receive the service hed paid for. Mr C contacted Nationwide 
to see whether he could seek reimbursement under the chargeback scheme. He told us:
he first contacted Nationwide in February 2020 to find out whether hed be able to 
make successful claims under the chargeback scheme;
over the next five weeks, he exchanged 13 emails with different Nationwide 
employees and he visited a Nationwide branch, but he says the information he was 
given was unclear and contradictory, and he wasnt able to complete the online 
dispute form;
in April he raised a formal complaint with Nationwide and it acknowledged the quality 
of its communications had been disappointing and it paid him some compensation, 
but he says it still didnt answer all his questions about whether his claims would be 
successful;
he contacted Nationwide six more times in April and May before he was told his 
chargeback claims had been passed to the correct department and he finally got his 
transactions refunded;
he wouldve got his money back far sooner if Nationwides communication had been 
clearer and he wants further compensation for the poor communication and the 
stress this caused.
Nationwide confirmed it had upheld Mr Cs original complaint and it apologised for the 
frustration Mr C had experienced. It acknowledged that the service it had given Mr C was 
poor and it credited his account with £100 compensation in recognition of this.
Nationwide explained that it had to follow the chargeback rules and processes as set down 
by Visa, and that it could only pursue a claim if it was eligible under the rules, and only if the 
customer has provided the evidence that Visa requires.
Nationwide confirmed that once it had the information it needed from Mr C, it had been able 
to dispute the transactions on 2 June 2020. It says it credited Mr Cs current account with 
£426.45 on 14 July 2020, even though the refunds had initially been declined by the online 
travel agent and before it had received confirmation that the chargebacks had in fact been 
successful.
Nationwide told us its operations were badly affected by the pandemic and that all categories 
of dispute were very seriously delayed. It apologised for the inconvenience its customers 
experienced but said this had been outside its control.
Our investigator looked at this complaint and said she didnt think it should be upheld. She 
explained that Nationwide would not have been able to say at the outset whether or not 
Mr Cs chargebacks would be successful it simply didnt have sufficient information to make 
that assessment. But she said she thought Nationwides subsequent communications 
couldve been clearer; she said some of the emails shed seen were misleading and 
incorrect. And she recognised the frustration this wouldve caused Mr C.
But she also acknowledged the impact the pandemic had had on Nationwides operations 
and the operational challenges it faced during this period. And, taking all this into account, 
she thought the £100 compensation paid by Nationwide was fair and in line with what she 
wouldve recommended.
Mr C disagrees so the complaint comes to me to decide. Mr C says he wants further 
compensation for the delays he experienced. He says it took Nationwide weeks to clarify 
something that shouldve been possible to do within a couple of days and he doesnt think 
£100 compensation is satisfactory.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having considered everything very carefully, Ive reached the same conclusion as our 
investigator and I dont think this complaint should be upheld.
In this particular complaint, Im only looking at the delays and the associated level of service 
that Mr C received from Nationwide. This is because although Mr C disputed payments 
totalling £426.45, both parties have now confirmed that £426.45 was credited back to Mr Cs 
current account in July 2020.
It might be helpful if I explain that in some cases, a bank may be able to request a refund 
from the supplier through the chargeback scheme. This is a way in which payment 
settlement disputes are resolved between card holders and suppliers/merchants. They are 
dealt with under the relevant card scheme rules and in this case thats Visas. In certain 
circumstances the process provides a way for Nationwide to ask for a payment Mr C made 
to be refunded. Those circumstances include where goods or services arent supplied by the 
company Mr C paid or they werent as described by the supplier.
Theres no obligation for a card issuer to raise a chargeback when a consumer asks for one.
But I would consider it good practice for a chargeback to be attempted where the right exists
and there is reasonable chance of success.
In this case, it appears that Mr C has ultimately not been provided with the goods and 
services that he originally paid for. And in normal circumstances, it would seem reasonable 
to expect Nationwide to raise a chargeback for him, as Im satisfied that this scenario is one 
that is covered within Visas chargeback rules.
Its not unusual for a chargeback to take some time to process. It can take time for a bank to 
gather the correct and necessary information needed to raise the claim, and the chargeback 
rules also require banks to give suppliers time  usually around a month - to respond to any 
chargeback raised, in case they want to dispute it. But even so, in normal circumstances, Id have expected Nationwide to have resolved this chargeback sooner than it did. If, in March 
2020 it had given Mr C clearer information about the chargeback process and the 
information it needed him to provide, it couldve commenced the chargeback process sooner 
than it did. But because of its poor communication, it didnt start the chargeback process 
until 2 June 2020. Thereafter, the chargeback appears to have followed the usual processes 
and the time taken for the money to reach Mr Cs account was in line with what I would 
expect.
I dont doubt for a moment that this whole experience was worrying and stressful for Mr C. 
Hed booked and paid a considerable sum for flights and accommodation, and from what 
hes told us, his experience with the airline when it changed his flight times on several 
occasions wouldve understandably caused him some anxiety. 
But I cant hold Nationwide responsible for any of this because the initial problems were 
caused by the airline, and then compounded by the pandemic.
I also need to take into account that these werent normal circumstances. It was an 
unprecedented and unusual time for the banks, when Mr C first contacted Nationwide, 
dealing with significant numbers of enquires from consumers looking to get money back as 
the global pandemic unfolded. Many of these claims will have brought up issues which were 
relatively novel, and the banks were having to digest new information, rules and guidance at 
a very unusual time. And many firms faced operational challenges during this period.
Ive noted that Nationwide has already paid Mr C £100 in recognition of the mistakes it made 
when he first contacted it and it failed to provide him with clear and correct information about 
the chargeback process. And although I wouldve expected Nationwide to identify vulnerable 
customers who may need more immediate support and help, from the information I have, I 
dont think Mr C fell into this category. Ive also noted that once Nationwide had the 
information it needed to dispute the transactions for Mr C, his chargebacks were processed 
within the timescales that Nationwide was reasonably able to offer its customer and which I 
consider to be reasonable in the given circumstances. So, for the reasons Ive given, I think 
£100 compensation is fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of this complaint and I 
dont think Nationwide needs to do anything more.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 4 May 2021.
 
Andrew Macnamara
Ombudsman