DRN-3955551
The complaint
Mrs C complains that Bank of Scotland plc trading as Halifax provided poor customer service 
when she tried to withdraw £5,000 in cash. 
What happened
Mrs C says she telephoned Halifax to pre-arrange a cash withdrawal of £5,000 in her local 
branch. Unfortunately, she was unable to make the original time so telephoned again to     
re-arrange the withdrawal for the following day.
When she arrived at the branch, the staff would only allow a withdrawal of £2,500. Mrs C 
says she had all of the required documentation with her and she spent over an hour trying to 
withdraw the funds. Eventually the bank staff agreed to dispense £5,000 but told Mrs C she 
would have to wait another thirty minutes for the cash. 
Following this, there was an issue with the card machine not working which caused further 
problems. Finally, Mrs C says she was asked a series of security questions about the cash 
withdrawal and eventually she left the branch without the cash.  In addition to this, Halifax 
then placed a block on Mrs Cs accounts, including her credit card account held with a 
separate legal entity under the Bank of Scotland umbrella. 
Halifax issued a final response letter in which it explained Mrs C became abusive towards 
staff which caused issues, and that a cash withdrawal over £2,500 needs to be agreed 24 
hours before a branch visit. When our service asked Halifax to provide their file for this case, 
they looked into the issues again and acknowledged Mrs C had made a request for a large 
withdrawal prior to her visit to the branch. And they accepted the branch staff were unaware 
of this on the day which likely added to the tension.
Our adjudicator looked into the case and felt Halifax had made an error when it did not 
inform the branch staff of Mrs Cs large cash withdrawal request. In recognition of this, they 
recommended £50 compensation for the distress and inconvenience the issue caused.
Halifax agreed with the recommendation. Mrs C did not feel £50 was sufficient and she 
pointed out that she did answer all of the security questions posed to her on the day but was 
still denied the funds. She asked what more she could have done to stop the block as she 
had her identification, her bank card and knew her PIN. Despite this both her Halifax savings 
account and credit card with another provider were blocked. As a result, she felt Halifax 
should be reprimanded for more than £50. As an informal agreement could not be reached, 
the complaint has been passed to me for a final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I think the £50 compensation is broadly in line with what I would have 
recommended in the circumstances. Ill explain why in more detail. 
It is not in dispute that Halifax made an error when it did not inform the branch staff Mrs C 
intended to make a large withdrawal in branch. I need to decide what is reasonable 
compensation for the distress and inconvenience caused by this error. 
It appears this caused delays in the cash being available. Partly because the branch staff 
were unaware of the request and Mrs C has said they had to collect the funds from the safe 
which has a thirty-minute delay when opened. I can understand why having to explain the 
situation to the bank staff and wait for the funds to be available would be an inconvenience 
for Mrs C. And having carefully considered this, I think the recommendation of £50 
compensation is broadly in line with what I would have recommended in the circumstances.
Ive gone on to consider the additional issues. Mrs C has said she left the branch without the 
funds as it had taken too long, but that she did answer all of the security questions asked of 
her. However, the branch notes from the visit in question say that Mrs C had become 
abusive when she was unable to withdraw £5,000 without an order being made or further 
checks. In this, it states Mrs C would not answer the fraud or scam questions other than to 
say the funds were for household, and she asked for the transaction to be cancelled before 
leaving.  
It should be explained that when Mrs C makes an order to make a payment, such as a cash 
withdrawal, Halifax acts as Mrs Cs agent in carrying out that instruction. Halifax has a duty 
to exercise reasonable skill and care in carrying out Mrs Cs instructions. As a result, Halifax 
is under a duty to refrain from making a payment if it has reasonable grounds for believing, 
for example, that the instruction relates to fraud or any other criminal act. Given Halifaxs 
obligations to protect its customers from potential fraud or scams, it can be expected to 
make reasonable enquiries including  but not limited to  the circumstances surrounding 
the payment instruction, in this case a large cash withdrawal. 
On Mrs Cs visit to branch, she was requesting to withdraw £5,000 in cash, which is a 
relatively unusual request. So, keeping in mind Halifaxs duties as outlined above, I would 
expect it, as a matter of good practice, to take steps to ensure Mrs C had not been tricked or 
coerced into making the cash withdrawal. And I would expect it to ask reasonable questions 
to ensure this. 
These are two different version of events and where there is a disagreement over what 
happened, I have to consider what I think is more likely. On balance, due to the branch staff 
being unaware of Mrs Cs cash withdrawal request, I can understand how the situation could 
have become tense and communication made more difficult. Because of this, as well as the 
fact the branch notes were made on the same day as the incident, I think its more likely   
Mrs C did not fully answer all of the security questions to satisfy the branch staff that there 
was no risk she was a victim of fraud or a scam. And its possible this could have happened 
even though Mrs C feels she answered all of the questions posed to her, as sometimes 
additional questions need to be asked to be sure there is no risk of a scam occurring.
On balance, I dont think Halifax acted unreasonably when it asked Mrs C questions about 
what the funds were for, and it appears there was a breakdown in communication which led 
to Mrs C deciding to leave the branch without the funds. 
And as Halifax could not be satisfied there was no risk of a fraud or scam occurring, they 
took the step to place a block on Mrs Cs account until she contacted them. As this was in 
the interest of protecting her account, I dont think Halifax has made an error in the 
circumstances. 
Mrs C has also discussed her credit card account that is run by a separate legal entity under 
the Bank of Scotland group. However, as this complaint is about Halifax, I have not considered the credit account further as a part of this decision.  
My final decision
Bank of Scotland plc trading as Halifax should now arrange to pay Mrs C £50 compensation 
in recognition of the distress and inconvenience caused to her if it has not done so already. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs C to accept or 
reject my decision before 5 July 2023. 
Rebecca Norris
Ombudsman