DRN-4344173
Complaint
Mrs R is unhappy that Metro Bank PLC hasnt reimbursed her after she was the victim of 
fraud.
Background
The background to this complaint is well known to the parties and so I dont intend to set it 
out in full here. In summary, in October 2021 Mrs R fell victim to an investment scam. She 
was looking for investment opportunities online and found a company that was endorsed by 
a well-known media personality. She entered her details on that companys website and 
received a call from someone who persuaded her to invest her money. That call wasnt from 
a genuine investment manager, but a fraudster.
The fraudster told Mrs R that, in order to help her with the process of making her 
investments, she should download a piece of remote access software. This enabled the 
fraudster to take control of her computer and show her how to carry out the steps he said 
were necessary to make the investments. She made transfers from her Metro account to 
accounts in her name that she held with third-party businesses. The funds were then 
transferred from those accounts on to the fraudsters. In total, she transferred just under 
£75,000 from her Metro account into accounts in her name 
Findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The starting point under the relevant legislation is that Mrs R will generally be considered 
liable for payments that shes authorised. Im satisfied that the evidence shows that these 
payments were authorised. Although Mrs R initially said that she wasnt responsible for the 
payments, she has since accepted that she did make them, albeit she only did so because 
she was deceived by the fraudster into thinking she was paying into a legitimate investment 
opportunity. 
The significance of that is that she is presumed liable at first instance. However, that isnt the 
end of the story. Good industry practice required that Metro be on the lookout for payments 
that were out of character or unusual to the extent that they might have indicated a fraud 
risk. On spotting such a payment, Id expect it to intervene in a manner proportionate to the 
risk identified.
I think the first payments Mrs R made in connection with this scam were clearly out of 
character for the account and they ought to have been a cause for concern for Metro. It 
shouldnt have processed those payments without first making some enquiries with her to 
satisfy itself that she wasnt at risk of financial harm due to fraud.
However, I cant ask Metro to reimburse Mrs R unless I can reasonably conclude
that its error was the cause of her loss. I have to take into account the law on this point. That 
means I need to be able to affirmatively answer the following question  would the damage 
or loss which Mrs R has complained about have occurred but for the failings of the 
respondent? In other words, is there sufficiently strong evidence to show that its more likely 
than not that, but for the failing on the part of Metro, the relevant loss would not have 
occurred? If the loss would have occurred in any event, the conduct of Metro is not a but 
for cause.
To reach a conclusion on this point, I need to consider what would have happened if Metro
had handled things differently. It ought to have contacted Mrs R and asked her about the
payment. It should also have given her general guidance about the prevalence and risk of
fraud and scams. 
I cant know with certainty what she wouldve done if that had happened. However, I do 
know how she responded to a similar enquiry from a different bank. That banks records 
show that it was concerned she was moving so much money to an account with a third-party 
business. Its records say that she told the bank that it was all her own money, and she was 
transferring it to a family member overseas. It also notes that she was asked if someone was 
helping her make the payments, but she denied that was the case. Those notes also 
suggest Mrs R was unhappy with being questioned about the payment.
I dont say any of this to downplay or diminish the fact that Mrs R has fallen victim to a cruel 
and manipulative scam. But my role here is limited to looking at the actions and inactions of 
Metro Bank. And while I know that shell be greatly disappointed by the outcome Ive 
reached, its hard to see that any intervention on Metros part wouldve been able to uncover 
the underlying reality of the payments she was making and so Im not convinced that, even if 
it had handled things differently, it wouldve been able to prevent the scam.
Final decision
For the reasons Ive explained above, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs R to accept or 
reject my decision before 5 January 2024.
 
James Kimmitt
Ombudsman