DRN-3757465
The complaint
Mr D complains that MBNA Limited didnt do enough to help him when he was the victim of a 
scam. 
What happened
The detailed background to this complaint is well known to both parties. So, Ill only provide 
a brief overview of some of the key events here.
In August 2019 Mr D started dealing with a merchant Ill refer to here as E. He was given 
access to a trading platform with E which he started to invest in via debit card and cash 
transfers from other bank accounts he held. The investments appreciated rapidly according 
to the trading platform before most of his holdings were said by E to have been lost due to 
the Covid-19 pandemic. 
Mr D was then asked to open an account with another merchant, Ill refer to here as F. In 
2019 he joined Fs platform through its website. In September 2020 Mr D made a payment to 
F, which he says was at the direction of E  this time on his MBNA credit card for a total of 
£2,721.56. 
In March 2021 Mr D thought his balance was doing well on Es trading platform but he was 
then told that his balance was in trouble and it needed to be refinanced. So, on 06 April 2021 
Mr D made a further payment to another merchant, Ill refer to here as G, on his MBNA credit 
card for a total of £3,867.08. Then, on 14 April 2021, Mr D requested that his account with E 
be closed and for his available balance (which was around $84,000) to be withdrawn. 
After not hearing from E, Mr D contacted MBNA to ask it to try and recover the two payments 
he had made. MBNA raised a chargeback for both transactions. The first payment was 
disputed by F, but the second payment to G was refunded. MBNA then said that it felt it was 
unlikely the chargeback would be successful, so it took no further action to try and recover 
Mr Ds money. 
Mr D remained unhappy, so he brought his complaint to this service. Our investigator didnt 
think the complaint should be upheld. He said that MBNA hadnt treated Mr D unfairly by not 
pursuing a chargeback for the payment to F. And that because Mr Ds interactions had been 
with E, MBNA hadnt unreasonably told Mr D that it couldnt raise a s.75 claim. The 
investigator added that the payment to F wasnt unusual or suspicious so that MBNA 
shouldve stepped in and asked Mr D why he was making the payment. 
Mr D disagreed and asked for an Ombudsmans review. He said that he was told he needed 
to fund his trading account with E through F and G and that the other bank account providers 
had accepted he had been scammed and refunded his money. So, MBNA should do the 
same. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive reached the same conclusion as our investigator. And for largely the 
same reasons. I know Mr D feels strongly about this complaint and this will come as a 
disappointment to him, so Ill explain why.
Ive read and considered the whole file. But Ill concentrate my comments on what I think is 
relevant. If I dont mention any specific point, its not because Ive failed to take it on board 
and think about it, but because I dont think I need to comment on it to reach what I think is a 
fair and reasonable outcome.
Firstly, MBNA has said the payment Mr D made to G has been refunded and has provided 
evidence to support that. So, Im only considering whether MBNA couldve done more to 
prevent and recover the payment Mr D made to F. 
Chargeback
While I think that E was likely operating a scam here, the chargeback scheme rules dont 
automatically entitle Mr D to a refund for the payment he made to F based on these 
circumstances. 
The chargeback scheme is a voluntary scheme run by card issuers whereby the card 
scheme operator  Visa in this case  will ultimately arbitrate on a dispute between a 
merchant and a cardholder if it cant be resolved between them. 
There are rules to the scheme  set by the card scheme operator  which means that there 
are only limited grounds and limited forms of evidence that will be accepted for a chargeback 
to be considered valid, and potentially succeed. Time limits also apply to when a chargeback 
can be raised by the card issuer.
Under Visas scheme rules, for issues such as the one pertinent to this dispute, Mr D would 
have needed to evidence that: 
he attempted to resolve the dispute with E and F and, if that was unsuccessful, he 
cancelled the service; 
his investment account had funds to withdraw on the date he requested the 
withdrawal; and 
he requested a withdrawal equal to or less than the funds available in the investment 
account. In addition to this, Mr D wouldve needed to have submitted his claim within 
120 days of when he was expecting to receive the service, and within a maximum of 
540 days from the transaction processing date.
Mr D requested a withdrawal from E and provided that evidence to MBNA. But he didnt 
have a trading balance with F. So, when MBNA started the chargeback process with F 
based upon the information Mr D had provided, the chargeback was disputed by F who said 
that it was a teaching trading platform. 
I understand that Mr D was the victim of a scam by E. But Im not persuaded enough 
evidence was provided to MBNA at the time the chargeback was raised that F were involved 
in that scam. And from the evidence Ive seen, Im not persuaded that E and F are linked in 
any way. It appears that Mr D provided evidence of an available balance with E. But thats 
not the same as showing he had an available balance with F who the chargeback was raised 
against. And when attempting a chargeback for misrepresentation in the circumstances here 
thats what Mr D needed. Because F said there couldnt be an available balance to withdraw 
as thats not the service F provided. And the investigator has correctly mentioned that Mr D was out of time to raise a chargeback 
for invalid data because the chargeback was requested more than 75 days after he made 
the payment to E. 
So, I dont think MBNA unreasonably decided the chargeback was unlikely to succeed here.
s.75
For s.75 to apply here there must be:
1. a debtor-creditor-supplier agreement falling under section 12(b) or 12(c); and
2. a transaction financed by the agreement; and
3. a claim for misrepresentation or breach of contract related to that transaction;
4. but not a claim which relates to any single item which the supplier has attached a
cash price below £100 or in excess of £30,000.
Having considered what happened to Mr D here, Im not persuaded theres persuasive 
evidence that shows E and F are linked which means a debtor-creditor-supplier cant be 
shown in Mr Ds circumstances. I appreciate Mr D says he was told to pay F by E, but I cant 
see anything persuasive in the evidence that link the two businesses together which would 
mean MBNA could reasonably pursue a s.75 claim. 
As a result, I cant reasonably say MBNA treated Mr D unfairly by not attempting to recover 
Mr Ds money via s.75. 
Prevention
While I dont think that MBNA could have done more with regards to the recovery of Mr Ds 
money once it was made aware of the situation, Ive also considered whether it ought to 
have intervened before allowing the payment to F to be made.
Ive taken into account the law, regulatory rules and guidance, relevant codes of practice, 
and what I consider good industry practice at the time. MBNA ought to have been monitoring 
accounts to counter various risks, have systems in place to identify unusual transactions, or 
other indicators, that its customers were at risk of fraud and, in some situations, make 
additional checks before processing payments, or declined them altogether, to protect its 
customer from possible financial harm from fraud.
There were no active warnings on the FCAs or on the International Organization of 
Securities Commissions (IOSCO) websites about E at the time Mr D made the payments. 
So, I wouldnt have expected MBNA to have stopped the payments based solely on the 
merchants name. 
It isnt in dispute that MBNA has (and had) obligations to be alert to fraud and to act in its 
customers best interests. So, the starting point here is whether the instruction Mr D gave to 
MBNA when authorising the credit card payment was unusual in relation to the typical 
account activity. Clearly there is a balance to be struck between allowing customers access 
to funds and being alert to instances of potential fraud and scams. And I note that Mr D 
didnt use his full balance to make this one-off payment. Ive also considered that its not 
unusual for customers to make one off purchases on a credit card. So, it follows that I dont 
think the activity was so unusual for this particular account where I think it would have been 
reasonable for them to have intervened and to have spoken to Mr D before processing them. 
I also dont think there were any other reasons for MBNA to have done more before following 
the instruction Mr D provided. Im sorry Mr D has lost money in this way. But I dont think MBNA reasonably ought to have 
done more at the time the payment was made, nor do I think they ought to have done more 
to pursue a chargeback or s.75 claim. As such, I cant fairly tell them to do anything further to 
resolve this complaint.  
My final decision
For the reasons outlined above, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision before 1 March 2023.
 
Mark Dobson
Ombudsman