DRN-3872259
The complaint
Mrs R complained that QIC Europe Ltd (QIC) unfairly declined her claim under her home 
insurance policy.
What happened
Mrs R made a claim after her outbuilding was significantly damaged in bad weather. After 
Mrs R contacted QIC several times, it sent a surveyor to review and validate the damage. 
Mrs R said the surveyor told her the claim would be covered and she should expect a 
settlement offer in the region of £7,500. Mrs R said the surveyor had told her although the 
shed was old it had been in a good, functioning order.
However, QIC finally decided to decline the claim. Its in-house surveying team had reviewed 
the report produced by the surveyor and photographs that had been provided. The in-house 
surveyor said the outbuilding looks in a very poor condition due to age and concluded the 
shed has clearly reached the end of its life as evidenced by the rotten timbers, resulting in 
the outbuilding losing its structural integrity. QIC said the claim was excluded from the policy 
as it was more likely gradual deterioration of the property was the main cause of the 
damage. However, as the original surveyor hadnt managed the claim outcome very well, 
QIC offered Mrs R £75 for the distress and inconvenience caused.
Our investigator decided not to uphold the complaint. She thought QIC had made a fair 
decision based upon the evidence provided. She thought QIC had shown it was likely 
gradual deterioration was the main cause of damage, so had been reasonable to decline the 
claim in line with the terms and conditions. Mrs R disagreed with our investigator, so the 
case has been referred to an ombudsman. 
My provisional decision
I issued a provisional decision on this on 22 November 2022. I said:
When our service looks at a storm claim, there are three questions to consider: 
1.    Do I agree that storm conditions occurred on or around the date the damage is said 
to have happened? 
2.    Was the damage claimed for consistent with damage a storm typically causes?
3.    Were the storm conditions the main cause of the damage?
I will use this structure to work through the complaint. Im likely to uphold the complaint if the 
answer to all three is yes. If the answer to one of the questions is no, Im unlikely to uphold 
the complaint.
Do I agree that storm conditions occurred?
QIC have agreed that storm conditions were present at the time of the incident. Our service 
has access to weather reports which show the winds at the time were strong, at around 
79mph. So, Ill consider the next question.
Was the damage claimed for consistent with damage a storm typically causes?
I think significant winds of this intensity could cause damage to structures built from timber, 
so I will consider the next question.
Were the storm conditions the main cause of the damage?
QIC concluded that it didnt think the storm conditions were the main cause of damage to the 
outbuilding. QIC thought the outbuilding was showing signs of gradual deterioration and 
thought the storm merely highlighted the poor pre-existing condition of the outbuilding. It 
therefore said the damage wasnt covered by the policy.
I have checked the policy and it sets out:
In the event of a storm, QIC doesnt cover anything that happens gradually, and
Under the general exclusions, QIC doesnt cover any gradual or maintenance 
related loss or damage  which includes wear and tear, gradual deterioration 
(whether you were aware of it or not), wet or dry rot
Therefore, if QIC has shown evidence that it was more likely that gradual deterioration / a 
pre-existing issue was the main cause of damage, then Im likely to say it has been fair to 
decline the claim as the damage caused would be excluded under the policy (so not 
covered).
Mrs R wasnt happy her claim was declined as she said she was told by the surveyor her 
claim would be accepted. So, Ive looked at the surveyors report to see what he said. The 
surveyor said [the] building was very obviously quite old, but this does not mean that it was 
necessarily in poor condition. No photographic evidence is available of the outbuilding in 
recent times but [I] have asked [policyholder] to see if any can be found. The report shows 
that the surveyors recommendation was the claim should be covered under the storm peril 
and estimated the settlement for the damage  however, it is noted it is unknown the actual 
state of repair of the structure [pre-loss] but [it] can be noted that was of decent & substantial 
build. 
However, QIC overruled the surveyors recommendation. It has provided photographs of the 
damage after the storm. It has highlighted areas of the photographs where it believes there 
is evidence of deterioration of the outbuilding - it says the bottom of supporting timbers were 
showing signs of rotting.
Im not a claims expert, so I must make my decisions based upon the evidence provided. 
Whilst I understand why QICs in-house team overruled its surveyors opinion as it thought 
the shed looked old, I dont think the age of the shed necessarily proves the pre-existing 
condition of the shed was poor. I have viewed the photographs QIC has provided and whilst 
I think rot couldve caused the issues, I dont think the photos prove conclusively that the 
shed was rotten. I think an onsite survey is more persuasive. The surveyor wouldve been 
able to examine the materials more closely. The surveyor did comment on the age of the 
shed, but he hasnt highlighted any deficiencies to it. I think if there was rot, the surveyor 
wouldve mentioned it in his report.
Therefore, as I dont think QIC has proven the pre-existing condition of the shed was poor, I 
think its more likely the strong winds of the storm were the main cause of the damage. 
Therefore, I uphold this complaint. I intend for QIC to the settle the claim in line with the 
remaining terms and conditions. I think the compensation QIC has already offered is fair for 
what has happened during this complaint. 
Responses to my provisional decision
Mrs R accepted my provisional decision and didnt have anything further to add.
QIC didnt reply to my provisional decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Given neither party has provided any new information, I see no reason to change my 
provisional decision.
My final decision
My final decision is I uphold the complaint. I require QIC to settle the claim in line with the 
remaining terms and conditions.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs M to accept or 
reject my decision before 19 January 2023.
 
Pete Averill
Ombudsman