DRN-2968197
The complaint
Mr M complains about the quality of a car he has been financing through an agreement with
BMW Financial Services (GB) Limited (BMWFS).  
What happened
I issued my provisional decision on this complaint in August 2021. An extract from that 
provisional decision is set out below.
What Ive provisionally decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I dont currently agree with the investigators opinion as I think there are some faults still
present on this car. I think those issues should be repaired but I dont think it would be
reasonable to ask BMWFS to allow Mr M to reject the car on that basis. Please let me
explain why.
Where the information Ive got is incomplete, unclear or contradictory, as some of it is here I
have to base my decision on the balance of probabilities.
Ive read and considered the whole file, but Ill concentrate my comments on what I think is
relevant. If I dont comment on any specific point its not because Ive failed to take it on
board and think about it but because I dont think I need to comment on it in order to reach
what I think is the right outcome.
Mr M acquired his car under a hire purchase agreement. This is a regulated consumer credit
agreement and as a result our service is able to look into complaints about it.
The relevant law says, amongst other things, that the car should have been of satisfactory
quality when supplied. If it wasnt then BMWFS, who are also the supplier of the car, are
responsible. The relevant law also says the quality of goods is satisfactory if they meet the 
standard that a reasonable person would consider satisfactory taking into account any
description of the goods, the price and all the other relevant circumstances.
In a case like this which involves a car the other relevant circumstances would include things
like the age and mileage at the time the car was supplied to Mr M. The car here was brand-
new so I dont think a reasonable person would expect it to have any faults, even minor
ones.
The relevant legislation explains that if the fault occurs within the first six months we are to
assume it was present at the point of supply, when BMWFS were responsible for its quality,
unless they can demonstrate otherwise.
Im persuaded there were some faults with the car when it was supplied. BMWFS repaired
some of them but Mr M still disputes the scuff to the alloy wheel; the size of the panel gaps;
the gap between the interior door trim and the door skin; whether the badge has been
reattached properly and the quality of a front seat where the back of the fabric is visible.
The relevant legislation only gives the business one opportunity to repair faults that are
present at the point of supply so it may be that if those faults are present the business could
be asked to allow Mr M to reject the car and end his finance agreement with them.
I think its more likely than not that the scuff to the alloy wheel has happened in Mr Ms
ownership. Thats because he had completed almost 2,000 miles when he raised the issue
and I think its more likely to have happened during those 2,000 miles than in the relatively
limited time before supply.
I asked the business to commission an independent inspection to investigate the other
problems Mr M had raised, as it is their responsibility to demonstrate any problems identified
were not present at the point of supply.
The independent inspector said:
- gap between the interior door trim and the door skin
When the doors were opened a small gap could be seen at the bottom rear edge of all
doors and the attached plastic trim panels. The trim panels were securely attached to the
doors. As stated, the general appearance of the doors and attached trim was satisfactory.
The hidden gaps were not causing any operational issue with the vehicle.
- panel gaps in general
I would advise the gaps were consistent in size around the vehicle and nothing could be
done to reduce the width of the gaps. No evidence of previous repair was found, the gaps
were as intended at manufacture. But he also said The rear of the door stood proud of the
quarter panel by approximately 1 or 2mm. It was not causing any operational issue. The
door could be adjusted to improve this.
- the badge
 was securely attached to the bonnet. No attention needed.
- front seat
When the adjustable thigh support was fully extended it was just possible to see the white
coloured under cloth at one corner. 
On the basis of the independent inspectors expert comments I am therefore persuaded that
there are still a couple of relatively minor issues with this car. The rear door could be
realigned and theres a piece of fabric backing visible on a front seat that isnt normal and
should be rectified.
My provisional decision
The inspector didnt suggest that these faults werent present at the point of supply and the
relevant legislation would therefore suggest we consider they were and are therefore
BMWFSs responsibility.
Whilst the relevant legislation only gives the business one opportunity to repair faults present
at the point of supply I think it would be fair to allow them another opportunity here.I say that because I think the faults that are still present are minor ones and I think rejection
of the car would be disproportionate in the circumstances.
Im therefore expecting to ask BMW Financial Services (GB) Limited to repair the left-hand
front seat and realign the right rear door to rectify the issues identified by the independent
inspector. 
BMWFS agreed with my provisional decision and had nothing further to add. But Mr M didnt 
agree and sent a detailed response for me to consider.
Mr M didnt think it was fair to give the business another chance to rectify the faults that were 
outstanding. He said the dealership had been rude to him in the past and BMWFS had not 
been proactive. 
He explained that when the independent inspector had arrived to look at the car he was 
scruffy and unkempt and biased towards BMWFS. He said he needed prompting to take any 
photographs of the problems and he found it incredulous that he didnt think the gaps were 
unusual. He explained that the size of the gaps couldnt have been intended by the 
manufacturer. 
He went on to explain that he hadnt damaged the wheel. He said the damage was entirely 
consistent with damage that would be incurred when changing a tyre. He disagreed with my 
view that it was more likely to have occurred during his ownership than under the 
dealerships as he explained a Scottish dealership had previously had the car and it was 
moved to the supplying dealership: the suggestion being that theyd had the car for some 
time before it was supplied to him.
Mr M asked me to consider the complaint again and asked where he stood now as he didnt 
believe the dealership would repair the problem or that BMWFS would show any interest in 
helping. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I understand the strength of feeling Mr M has about the quality of this car but Im afraid his 
arguments havent persuaded me to change my opinion on this complaint.
Im persuaded by the independent inspectors views because he is an expert in these 
matters and is best placed to advise if the issues Mr M complains of are normal on the car or 
not. 
I dont think the inspectors appearance is relevant and whilst I understand Mr M thinks the 
inspector wasnt thorough I dont think that can be said of the report that was provided: it 
appears to cover all the issues in sufficient detail.
I think its reasonable to suggest that when the car was supplied to Mr M it would have been 
prepared by the dealership to rectify any marks on the wheels and Im still of the mind that 
as Mr M had travelled about 2,000 miles in the car there is more chance the damage 
happened in his tenure than beforehand.
The issues that remain unresolved are the realignment of the right-hand rear door and the 
repair to the front seat. I explained that I thought it would be disproportionate to suggest the car should be rejected on that basis and Im still of that opinion as I dont think Ive heard 
sufficient evidence to persuade me otherwise.
So, Ive not been persuaded to change my provisional decision on this complaint and my 
provisional decision now becomes my final decision.  
Putting things right
Im therefore asking BMWFS to complete the necessary repairs.
I understand that Mr M has found the dealership rude and abrasive and I can understand 
that communication may have broken down between him and the dealership.
Its not Mr Ms fault that there are unresolved issues with his car so I think it would be helpful 
for BMWFS to ensure the repairs are carried out with limited disruption to Mr M. Im therefore 
asking them to arrange to collect the car directly from Mr M, take it to the dealership and 
return it to Mr M after the repair is completed and at no cost to him.   
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above I uphold this complaint and tell BMW Financial Services 
(GB) Limited to:
collect the car from Mr M and at no cost to him;
repair the left-hand front seat and realign the right rear door to rectify the issues 
identified by the independent inspector;
return the car to Mr M and again at no cost to him. 
  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 8 September 2021.
 
Phillip McMahon
Ombudsman