DRN-1295999
 
The complaint
Mr T says MYJAR Limited irresponsibly lent to him.
What happened
This complaint is about five instalment loans MYJAR provided to Mr T between September 
2014 and September 2018. A summary of Mr Ts borrowing history is as follows:
Loan Date 
TakenDate 
RepaidInstalments Amount Highest 
Repayment
1 06/09/2014 24/09/2014 1 £200.00 £240.00
2 11/10/2014 29/10/2014 1 £200.00 £240.00
3 06/11/2014 04/12/2014 3 £200.00 £128.83
4 04/12/2014 30/09/2015 3 £200.00 £124.39
Break in lending
5 16/09/2018 Outstanding 3 £200.00 £119.30
Mr Ts complaint has been reviewed by two of our adjudicators. The first adjudicator thought 
loan 4 shouldnt have been given because there was an indication Mr T wasnt managing his 
money. MYJAR disagreed and asked for the complaint to be reviewed by an ombudsman. 
Whilst it was waiting for an ombudsmans decision, Mr Ts complaint was reviewed again, 
and the adjudicator didnt think it should be upheld. They thought there wasnt anything in 
the information MYJAR had asked Mr T to provide that should have prompted MYJAR to do 
more checks. So, the adjudicator couldnt say MYJAR was wrong to have given the loans to 
Mr T.  
Mr T didnt respond to the assessment. But as the complaint was waiting for an 
ombudsmans decision, it has been passed to me. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about short-term lending - including all the 
relevant rules, guidance and good industry practice - on our website. 
MYJAR needed to take reasonable steps to ensure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In 
practice this means that it should have carried out proportionate checks to make sure Mr T 
could repay the loans in a sustainable manner. These checks could consider several 
different things, such as how much was being lent, the repayment amounts and the 
consumers income and expenditure. In the early stages of a lending relationship, I think less 
thorough checks might be reasonable and proportionate.  
But certain factors might point to the fact that MYJAR should fairly and reasonably have 
done more to establish that any lending was sustainable for the consumer. These factors 
include:
the lower a customers income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make 
any loan repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income);
the higher the amount due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
meet a higher repayment from a level of income); 
the greater the number and frequency of loans, and the longer the period during 
which a customer has been given loans (reflecting the risk that repeated 
refinancing may signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, 
unsustainable).
There may even come a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly 
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable.
Ive carefully considered all the arguments, evidence and information provided in this context 
and what this all means for Mr Ts complaint. Having done this, Im not upholding the 
complaint. Ill explain why. 
MYJAR has told this service about the checks it carried out before approving any of the 
borrowing. It has said it asked Mr T about his employment status and he confirmed he was 
employed and had a monthly income of between £1,300 and £1,787. MYJAR also checked 
Mr Ts normal monthly living costs. Mr T declared these to be between £756 and £1,435 a 
month. MYJAR says it also searched Mr Ts credit file and it has provided the results of its 
search. There werent any recent adverse entries like defaults or county court judgements 
(CCJs) recorded on it at the time the loans were taken out. So, there wasnt anything in the 
credit report which would have made MYJAR carry out further checks. 
Mr T borrowed loans 1 to 4 within three months, there was then a three-year gap between 
him repaying loan 4 and taking out loan 5. I think it would be reasonable for MYJAR to view 
this gap as an indication that Mr Ts finances had stabilised after whatever had led to him to 
need to borrow previously. A break in the chain of lending, in effect, starts the clock ticking 
again on what we would consider to be proportionate checks a business should carry out 
when considering the length of the borrowing relationship with the consumer.
So, Mr T was very early on in his lending relationship with MYJAR. Even though he had to 
make monthly repayments, the highest repayment would have appeared affordable based 
on the information he declared to MYJAR. And there wasnt anything in the information Mr T 
provided at the time which would have given MYJAR cause for concern, so I think it was 
reasonable of MYJAR to have relied on what Mr T gave it. 
I think these factors had an impact of what level of checks would have been appropriate for 
MYJAR to carry out. Given these, I think the checks MYJAR did before lending the loans 
went far enough and I wouldnt have expected it at this stage to undertake any more in-depth 
checks. 
The information Mr T declared to MYJAR at the time of the loans may not have been an 
accurate reflection of his financial circumstances, but I think MYJAR was entitled to rely on 
that information. At this stage of the lending relationship, and what MYJAR knew about Mr T, 
I wouldnt have expected MYJAR to verify the information Mr T gave it. This therefore 
means, I cant say that MYJAR has done something wrong in lending Mr T these loans.
I appreciate that my findings are likely to disappoint Mr T, but I hope my explanation will help 
him understand why Ive reached this conclusion.My final decision
For the reasons explained above, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr T to accept or 
reject my decision before 21 August 2020.
 
Claire Marchant-Williams
Ombudsman