DRN-3754837
The complaint
Mr W complains The Prudential Assurance Company Limited (Prudential) took too long to 
process the maturity of an endowment policy. 
What happened
The background of the complaint is already well known to both parties, so I wont go into 
detail again here. In summary, Mr W had an endowment policy which matured on 
18 November 2021. He complained because he didnt receive the funds until 
15 February 2022 and he was concerned he received less because of the delay. 
Our Investigator issued a view agreeing there had been some delay. They felt Prudentials 
payment of £275 already appropriately recognised the trouble and upset caused but interest 
on the funds should be paid at 8% simple (per annum). This was to cover the period 
between when Prudential should have made the payment and when the payment was 
actually made. Prudential agreed to pay the suggested settlement. But Mr W didnt agree. 
So, the complaint has been passed to me to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the conclusions reached by our Investigator for the following 
reasons. 
Ive reviewed a letter sent by Prudential to Mr W on 23 September 2021 which confirmed the 
policy was due to mature. Prudential said the estimated amount payable on the maturity date 
was £51,277. They went on to explain the value was only a guide and could not be 
guaranteed. They said the actual amount would be calculated on the maturity date and unit 
prices go up and down, so the value could be higher or lower. Im satisfied it was clear that 
the value was only estimated. 
I know Mr W has raised concerns that the letter didnt convey exactly how volatile the 
markets might be and how much the value might drop. But I dont think this was 
unreasonable. In the circumstances, it wasnt necessary for Prudential to advise about the 
specific market conditions. They informed Mr W about the maturity of his policy, but they 
werent acting as his financial advisers. Therefore, it was reasonable to provide an estimate 
and to explain why it wasnt guaranteed. 
Ive also seen the letter Prudential sent to Mr W on 15 February 2022. Prudential confirmed 
the plan matured on 18 November 2021 and it was worth £49,526.84 at maturity. They broke 
down the value for the with-profit units and investment linked units. It also included a small 
gratuitous interest payment.
Prudential have also explained the investment was switched to a cash fund on 
18 October 2021. It isnt unusual for providers to do this as it protects the value of the fund 
when the policy is very close to maturity. It was also a reasonable period in which to switch 
to the cash fund and I wouldnt have expected this to occur any sooner. Therefore, Im 
satisfied the value was correct.
  
Nevertheless, I can see there was some delay in paying the funds to Mr W. Prudential wrote 
to Barclays bank on 28 September 2021, 20 October 2021 and 14 December 2021 and 
asked for written confirmation it no longer had an interest in the policy. So, Prudential 
reasonably sought to contact the bank for the information they needed to pay out the funds 
to Mr W and this was in advance of the maturity date. 
Ive seen a letter from the bank, dated 10 January 2022, which confirmed it had released its 
interest. However, I understand Mr W contacted Prudential who told him they hadnt 
received the letter and asked Mr W to send a copy. I appreciate this would have been 
frustrating, and I cant explain why the letter wasnt received by Prudential. But Prudential 
confirmed it hadnt been and asked Mr W to send them a copy.
Mr W sent the banks letter to Prudential on 31 January 2022. I know he expressed concern 
Prudential shouldnt accept the letter as it had been passed on by him. But Prudential had 
confirmed they needed written confirmation from the bank and the letter provided this. 
Prudential have confirmed they were in a position to send the funds on 4 February 2022 but 
didnt do so until 15 February 2022. I agree with this based on the correspondence Ive seen. 
Prudential wouldnt have been able to pay the funds to Mr W until they received the banks 
written confirmation. But they would have been in a position to make the payment shortly 
after receiving it. So, payment should have been made on 4 February 2022 and Mr W was 
without the funds until 15 February 2022. 
Overall, I can see there was delay paying out to Mr W. But Im satisfied this delay did not 
impact the value of the fund which was calculated at the time of maturity. 
Putting things right
I appreciate Mr W spent a lot of time chasing and I want to assure him Ive considered the 
impact Prudentials service has had on him. Hes confirmed he chased both Prudential and 
the bank and I can see that evidenced in the correspondence provided. 
Prudential have already paid £275 for the trouble and upset caused by their service. Im 
satisfied this appropriately recognises the impact their service has had on Mr W and I wont 
be asking them to make a further payment in this respect. 
Also, Prudential have already paid interest of £13.06 to reflect the period between 
4 February 2022 and 15 February 2022 when Mr W was without the maturity funds. 
However, in this case, interest should be applied at 8% simple per annum. Prudential have 
calculated this to be an additional £84.24 (including the tax deduction). Im satisfied this 
interest payment fairly and reasonably recognises the period in which Prudential were 
responsible for Mr W being without the funds. And Prudential should pay this amount to Mr 
W.
My final decision
Im upholding this complaint and Prudential should put things right in the way outlined above. Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision before 16 December 2022.
 
Laura Dean
Ombudsman