DRN-2125918
The complaint
Mr G complains that HSBC UK Bank plc (HSBC) have requested him to provide 
unreasonable levels of personal information. 
What happened
Mr G is a long-standing customer of HSBC. He says that HSBC asked him to provide them 
with intrusive levels of personal information which he feels is so it  can target him for their 
services and products . Mr G says that the level of information being asked for is 
unreasonable and having banked with them for so long and the fact he is an ex bank 
employee means they have sufficient information already. Mr G says HSBC has now unfairly 
placed restrictions on his bank account limiting his access. 
HSBC says they wrote to Mr G on several occasions and tried to contact him by telephone to 
obtain this information which is required by them under their regulatory obligations . HSBC 
says that this  also forms part of the terms and conditions of Mr Gs bank account.  HSBC 
say they are acting reasonably in asking for this information and placing the restrictions on 
Mr Gs bank account until such time this information is received.
Mr G wasnt happy with HSBCs response and referred the matter to this service.
The investigator looked at the information available but didnt uphold Mr Gs complaint. He 
felt that HSBC acted reasonably when asking for the information and are entitled to ensure 
the information they have is up to date and is part of the terms and conditions of Mr Gs bank 
account.
Mr G wasnt happy with the investigators view and asked for the matter to be referred to an 
ombudsman for a final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I have come to the same outcome as the investigator and I will explain how 
I have come to my decision. 
When considering this complaint, I have looked at whether HSBC were being unreasonable 
when asking for the level of information they did from Mr G and acted fairly, restricting his 
account, when  the information asked for wasnt provided. 
I can see that Mr G would feel inconvenienced in having to provide a disclosure of his 
financial background given the length of time he has banked with HSBC and the fact he was 
an ex-employee. Mr G has suggested that HSBC are asking for this level of personal detail 
from him in order to target him for their products and services, rather than it being an 
essential regulatory requirement. 
I have considered Mr Gs point here but there is a need for all banks, like HSBC, to ensure 
customer due diligence can be seen to have been carried out for all its customers to meet its 
regulatory obligations. The checks they need to undertake are for both new and existing 
relationships and are a continuing and ongoing requirement expected of a responsible bank. 
Although Mr G makes the point he has banked with HSBC for many years, I am satisfied  it 
is possible that over time, individual circumstances can change, and it is not unreasonable 
for HSBC to have the most up to date customer information available to ensure customer 
due diligence has been accurately carried out. I cant see any evidence to support HSBC 
have requested this level of information in order to simply promote its products and services, 
as suggested by Mr G.  From the information I have seen this is part of HSBCs Safeguard 
initiative designed to meet its obligations and protect its customer from fraud and financial 
crime. 
Mr G believes the level of information is intrusive and unnecessary and other banks dont 
ask for the same level of detail HSBC are asking.  While Mr G may disagree, its not my role 
to tell HSBC or any other bank, how they choose to interpret the extent of the information 
they may reasonably ask from its customers to meet their regulatory obligations here.  It is 
also worth mentioning that HSBC state in their terms and conditions under section 8 :
You must give us any information we reasonably ask for as soon as possible. If you dont, 
or we suspect fraudulent or criminal activity of any kind, well have to take action. For 
example, we might try to get it from another source; or block or close your account(s). You 
might not be able to use some banking services or keep banking with us.
Having considered this, on balance, I dont feel HSBC have been unreasonable in asking for 
the information they have and did provide Mr G with sufficient notice of why this was 
required and what would happen as a result of this information not being provided to them.  
While Mr G will be disappointed with my decision it follows, I wont be asking anymore of 
HSBC. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask X and Mr G to 
accept or reject my decision before 28 October 2020.
 
Barry White
Ombudsman