DRN-3183537
The complaint
Mr F complains that American Express Services Europe Limited (Amex) lost his credit card 
payment.   
What happened
The background to this complaint and my initial conclusions were set out in my provisional 
decision. I said:
Mr F used a giro slip to make his credit card payment on 22 March 2021. But due to an 
issue with the giro slip, Amex didnt receive the payment.
On 31 March 2021 Amex referred Mr F back to his bank to try and trace the missing 
payment. Mr F raised the payment with his bank but it wasnt able to find it. Mr F fed this 
back to Amex but it referred him back to his bank for a second time to conduct a trace on 9 
April 2021.
The payment wasnt located and Mr F escalated the issue with Amex on 12 April 2021. On 
15 April 2021 Amex told Mr F it still couldnt find his payment and on 16 April 2021 he 
raised a complaint. Mr F contacted Amex on 19 April 2021 but his payment still hadnt 
been found.
On 20 April 2021 the payment was located and it was applied to Mr Fs account a few days 
later. Amex went on to refund the interest and charges it applied to Mr Fs account. Amex 
had also recorded a missed payment on Mr Fs credit file and took steps to remove it.
Amex paid Mr F £100 in response to his complaint. Mr F referred his complaint to this 
service and it was passed to an investigator. They thought Amex had dealt with Mr Fs 
complaint fairly and didnt ask it to do anything else. Mr F asked to appeal and said he 
didnt agree the compensation paid was fair.
What Ive provisionally decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive been reasonably brief in setting out the background as all parties broadly agree about 
the order of events. Amex accepts that due to an error on the giro slip Mr Fs payment was 
lost. And it took about a month to locate the missed payment and put Mr Fs account back 
into the correct position.
Mr F has told us he doesnt think £100 is a fair reflection of how the situation impacted him 
and I agree. I can see from Amexs file and what Mr F has told us, he was unnecessarily 
referred to his bank to try and trace the payment on two occasions. Its also clear that Mr F 
had to speak with Amex on multiple occasions to try and get updates and resolve the 
situation.
Mr F says the situation was very stressful and he was concerned that his money had been 
lost and that Amex was unable to find it for an extended period. Further, Amex recorded a 
missed payment on Mr Fs credit file and Im satisfied that added to his distress. Im 
satisfied the situation required involvement from Mr F to resolve and caused him an 
unreasonable level of distress and inconvenience.
I agree with Mr F that £100 doesnt fairly reflect the impact of what happened on him. But I 
havent been persuaded to increase the compensation in line with the figures hes 
requested. In my view, Amex should increase the compensation in this case to £200, a 
figure that more fairly takes into account the problems and service Mr F experienced and 
how they affected him.
As a result, Im intending to uphold Mr Fs complaint and increase the total award from
£100 to £200.
I invited both parties to respond with any additional comments or information they wanted 
me to consider before I made my final decision. Mr F responded and gave some further 
information about how the problems hes raised impacted him. Amex confirmed it accepted.   
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Id like to thank Mr F for providing some additional context setting out how he was affected. 
As I said in my provisional decision, I agree that the service provided was poor and that 
Amex caused an unnecessary level of distress to Mr F. 
In my provisional decision I said I intended to award a total of £200 in recognition of the 
distress and inconvenience caused to Mr F. I still think thats the fairest way to resolve this 
complaint. So Im going to proceed on that basis and uphold Mr Fs complaint.   
My final decision
My decision is that I uphold this complaint and direct American Express Services Europe 
Limited to pay Mr F a total of £200 (less any compensation already paid).  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr F to accept or 
reject my decision before 7 January 2022.
 
Marco Manente
Ombudsman