DRN-3581384
The complaint
Mrs E and Mr S complain that Ageas Insurance Limited (Ageas) declined their claim for 
malicious damage to a door, under their landlords building insurance policy.
Mr S is the lead complainant. I will refer to him in my decision for ease of reading. 
What happened
In July 2021 Mr Ss tenant contacted him to say damage had been caused to the propertys 
front door. A glass panel had been smashed and the door had been damaged so that the 
tenant couldnt open it. 
Mr S claimed to Ageas under his policy. It sent a contractor to survey the damage and to 
make the door safe, which meant boarding it up. Its contractor produced a quote for 
replacing the damaged door, but it says the claim should be rejected as there was existing 
damage.
Mr S didnt think this was fair and complained to Ageas, but it didnt change its view. In its 
final response it says that whilst there was malicious damage present, wear and tear was the 
underlying cause. It says there was beading missing, the old timber surrounds were rotten, 
and the door was old and had been boarded a few times.
Ageas says as the door was already in a poor condition due to wear and tear, Mr Ss claim 
was declined as it was considered more susceptible to damage. It says it isnt satisfied the 
claim was the result of an insured event under its policy terms. 
Mr S referred his complaint to our service. Our investigator upheld his complaint. He thought 
the malicious damage had meant the door couldnt function as it did previously. He didnt 
think this was down to wear and tear and Ageas should cover the claim ensuring an effective 
and lasting repair is carried out. 
Ageas didnt agree. It says a lot of the damage is pre-existing and maintained its view that 
the claim should be declined. It asked for an ombudsman to consider this complaint. 
It has been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Its for the customer to prove they have suffered an insured loss under their policy. If they 
can do so then, generally speaking, the insurer must accept the claim unless it can 
reasonably rely on a policy exclusion not to. 
In this case Mr S claims malicious damage was caused to his property. This is something his 
policy covers. I note Ageas accepts this to be the case. However, it has relied on the 
exclusion for damage caused by wear and tear, in order to decline the claim.
I have thought about whether Ageas treated Mr S fairly when declining his claim for this 
reason. 
Ageass records show Mr S explained he had been contacted by his tenant to say the front 
door wouldnt open. When he visited the property, he found that the glass had also been 
smashed.
In his complaint Mr S explains a bracket had to be moved from inside of the door frame to 
open it, because the door had been bent inwards. I have seen the photos Mr S supplied 
showing the door and the damage. This includes an image of a new bracket that was 
installed. I can see from the images that there was existing damage to the lower glass panel 
on the left-hand door. Ageas has supplied photos of the doorway taken at an earlier date  
this shows the pre-existing damage to the glass on the left-hand door as well as pre-existing 
damage to the glass on the right-hand door. 
Mr S doesnt dispute this damage was pre-existing. He says he wasnt looking for pre-
existing damage to be covered under his policy. But the door has been bent as a result of 
the malicious damage and this should be covered. 
Its clear from the photos that there was pre-existing damage to the glass panels in both 
doors. Ageass contractor highlights old timber surrounds that are rotten and, may cause 
damage when removing. Its report says, old door which has been boarded a few times and 
messed around with. We cannot do anything with this job other than to repudiate it. There is 
beading missing.   
In response to this report, Mr S says the door trims arent missing they were stored inside 
the property by the door. He points to where this is shown in his photos. He maintains that 
the door and the frame are bent, and the door now has to be pulled hard to close it. He says 
this is the result of the malicious damage. 
I accept there was pre-existing damage. But I dont think the damage caused to the door and 
frame was a result of wear and tear. Prior to the claim the door functioned  albeit there 
were boarded up and damaged sections of glass. After the incident the door no longer 
functions as it supposed to. In order to indemnify Mr S for his loss, we expect that Ageas 
should place him back in the position he was in, immediately before the damage occurred. 
Ageass contractor has shown that the work required to repair the damaged door and frame 
will cost around £5,000. The contractor Mr S approached provided a quote for a similar 
price. We expect an insurer when indemnifying its customer for an insured loss, to carry out 
a repair that is effective and lasting. I understand that in this case its likely some pre-existing 
damage will be included in the repairs. As a result of replacing the frame and doors. But from 
what I have seen, I dont think this can be avoided to achieve an effective and lasting repair. 
I think Mr S has shown he has suffered an insured loss. Its Ageas responsibility to indemnify 
his loss under his policy. Im not persuaded that the damage caused is the result of wear and 
tear. If the door had been new, I dont think this will have prevented the damage from 
occurring. So, I dont think its fair for Ageas to rely on this exclusion to decline Mr Ss claim.    
Having considered all of this I dont think Ageas treated Mr S fairly in declining his claim for 
the reason it did. It should now cover his claim for malicious damage ensuring an effective 
and lasting repair is carried out.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint. Ageas Insurance Limited should:- cover Mrs E and Mr Ss claim, without relying on the wear and tear exclusion, to carry 
out an effective and lasting repair.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs E and Mr S to 
accept or reject my decision before 17 August 2022.
 
Mike Waldron
Ombudsman