DRN-2530203
The complaint
Mrs E complains that Great Lakes Insurance SE has refused to refund her premium in 
relation to her travel insurance policy. Reference to Great Lakes includes reference to its 
agents. 
What happened
In September 2019, Mrs E took out an annual, multi-trip travel insurance policy with        
Great Lakes. The policy provided cover for up to a total of 183 days of travel with a 
maximum of 50 days in one trip. Mrs E paid a total premium of £239.33, which included a 
medical premium in relation to declared medical conditions.   
Mrs E says that she travelled over the Christmas period. She planned a trip for March 2020, 
but that trip was cancelled due to Covid-19. I understand that the trip provider gave Mrs E a 
full refund. 
In March 2020, Mrs E contacted Great Lakes and cancelled the policy as she was unable to 
travel because of restrictions due to Covid-19. Mrs E asked Great Lakes for a refund of the 
premium she had paid. Great Lakes didnt agree to refund Mrs Es premium, but it has 
offered a pro rata credit  - amounting to £107.17 - for one of the following options:
a 15-month annual policy for the price of 12, at current market rates (this offer could 
be withdrawn at any time);
a 12 month, deferred annual policy, at current market rates, so cover could start  
within 12 months of purchasing the policy (this offer could be withdrawn at any time);
a  UK only, annual, multi trip policy - the destination area may be upgraded later, 
subject to the policy terms and conditions.
Mrs E wasnt happy with Great Lakes offer and pursued her complaint. 
One of our investigators looked at what had happened. He set out the details of the relevant 
cancellation rights and how they applied in the circumstances of this case. The investigator 
also explained that its a fundamental principle of insurance law that if the insurer had started 
to bear risk  for however short a time  the premium paid is not returnable. That means its 
not unreasonable for an insurer to keep any premiums relating to the risk it covered during 
that time. The investigator also explained that Covid-19 didnt make it impossible for the 
contract of insurance to be performed because cover under the policy started in     
September 2019 and the policy covered various risks during that time. 
The investigator acknowledged the unique and unprecedented circumstances of Covid-19. 
He thought that Great Lakes offer of a pro rata credit for one of the three options it offered 
was a fair and reasonable outcome in all the circumstances of this complaint.
Mrs E didnt agree with the investigator. She said that she took out the policy to cover six or 
seven holidays during the period of cover, but Great Lakes only covered one two-week 
holiday over the Christmas period. Mrs E said that her trip in March 2020 was cancelled and 
the provider refunded all shed paid, so that was no risk to Great Lakes. She said that if she 
hadnt booked the March 2020 trip, she would have asked for a refund from January 2020, 
when her earlier trip ended. 
Mrs E said that she wasnt inclined to take a trip abroad for several years and that she didnt 
have any use for the voucher offered by Great Lakes. She asked that an ombudsman 
consider her complaint, so it was passed to me to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Our investigator identified, and set out, the relevant rules, regulations and law. I agree those 
are the relevant considerations which apply to the specific circumstances of this case. 
The policy terms and conditions say: 
Cancellation provisions
Your right to cancel this policy
Date of effect of cancellation made by you
If you ask us to cancel your policy in writing or by telephone, such cancellation shall take 
effect on the date the notice is received, or on the date specified in the notice, whichever is 
later. 
You have the right to cancel your policy within 14 days of the date of issue or receipt of 
your documents, whichever is later. We will only refund to you any premium you have paid, 
less any fees and charges if you have not travelled, or have made, or intend to make a 
claim.
If the notice of cancellation is received outside the 14 day cooling off period, no premium 
will be refunded, however discretion may be exercised in exceptional circumstances such as 
bereavement or a change to the policy resulting in us declining to cover your medical 
conditions.
Im not upholding this complaint because: 
The policy was cancelled outside the cooling off period, so theres no requirement 
under the relevant industry rules and guidelines for the insurer to offer a refund.
As Ive outlined above, the contract of insurance says that where cancellation is more 
than 14 days after the cooling off period, Great Lakes isnt obliged to give a refund of 
the premium but has a discretion to do so in exceptional circumstances. Looking at 
how the policy is worded, I dont think its fair to ask Great Lakes to consider 
exercising its discretion in this case. Thats because I dont think this type of situation 
is one which the discretion in the policy terms is designed to cover  it specifically 
mentions bereavement or a change in its willingness to cover medical conditions and 
thats not what happened here. 
Ive taken into account what is fair and reasonable in the circumstances of the 
complaint including the unique and unprecedented circumstances surrounding  
Covid-19. In the circumstances of this case, I think Great Lakes offer of a pro rata 
credit towards one of the three options Ive set out above is fair. Thats because    
Mrs E had the benefit of the policy up to the cancellation date in March 2020, but 
Great Lakes risk ended when the policy was cancelled. I appreciate that Mrs E would prefer a cash refund, but Great Lakes isnt obliged to 
offer that. I think a voucher is a fair alternative to a cash refund in the circumstances 
of this case because Mrs E entered into a contract with Great Lakes then, for 
reasons I quite understand, chose the cancel the policy. The offer Great Lakes has 
made is more than its obliged to make, and it means that the risk it agreed to take on 
at the outset of Mrs Es policy is potentially moved to a future date, should Mrs E take 
up the offer. I think that the offer of a pro rata credit is fair and as it includes a UK 
only policy, its appropriate even though Mrs E says that she may not wish to travel 
abroad in the near future. 
In all the circumstances, there are no grounds on which to direct Great Lakes to give 
Mrs E a cash refund. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold Mrs Es complaint. 
If Mrs E wishes to take up Great Lakes offer, she should contact it direct. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs E to accept or 
reject my decision before 29 March 2021.
 
Louise Povey
Ombudsman