DRN-2952380
The complaint
Mr N and Mr R complain that Royal & Sun Alliance Insurance Plc (RSA) did not deal with 
their claim as per the terms of their home emergency cover policy, which is part of their 
overall home insurance policy.
References to Mr N or Mr R will include the other.
What happened
Mr N noticed that there was water coming through the gravel on the drive of his house. The 
water was also entering his house, so he contacted RSA to make a claim on his home 
emergency cover policy.  
An engineer attended on the same day - in the late evening. The engineer said that the leak 
appeared to be coming from under a concrete floor and the source of the leak would need to 
be located before a repair could be completed.
The engineer called RSA to explain the situation. Mr N also spoke to RSA on the same call 
and logged a complaint about the length of time it had taken for an engineer to attend and 
that he was unable to do anything with the leak when he attended. 
RSA confirmed to Mr N that locating the source of the water escape, known as trace and 
access, was not covered by his home emergency cover, it told him it was something that his 
buildings insurance may potentially cover and advised him to contact them in the morning. It 
also suggested that the water supply to the house was turned off. 
The engineer left without resolving the leak or turning off the water supply to the house as Mr 
N said he did not want it turning off. 
The next day Mr N bought a service key and turned the water supply to his house off and, as 
suggested by RSA, progressed a claim on his home buildings insurance policy. He was still 
unhappy that trace and access was not covered on his home emergency cover and felt that 
the policy document was misleading.
RSA agreed that that time taken to attend by its engineers was outside its service level 
agreement and made a compensation payment of £50. But it said that it had acted in 
accordance with the policy terms and conditions and that trace and access was not covered 
under their home emergency cover policy.
As Mr N was not happy with RSA, he brought their complaint to our service. Mr N also said 
that he wanted RSA to pay for a service key that he had bought to turn off the water supply 
to the house as he would not have had to pay for this should the engineer have turned the 
water supply off when he attended. 
Our investigator looked into the case and he decided that RSA had applied the terms about 
trace and access fairly and did not expect a service key to be provided to them by RSA, and 
therefore did not uphold Mr Ns complaint. 
As Mr N was unhappy with our investigators view the case has been brought to me for a final 
decision to be made.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr N has accepted the £50 compensation payment that was paid for the delay in the 
engineer attending the emergency and stated to our investigator that he was not seeking 
further compensation for the delay but wants paying the cost of the service key (£11.25)  that 
he bought to turn off the water supply himself. 
Ive looked at the details that caused Mr N to have to buy the service key himself.
The water could be seen coming up through the gravel on the driveway, but to find the actual 
source of the leak would require digging through concrete. The engineer did not have the 
digging equipment to do this and so offered to isolate the incoming cold mains water supply 
from the road. Mr N spoke to RSA and it also suggested isolating the water supply and it told 
him that he was not covered for trace and access. At this time Mr N decided not to have the 
engineer turn the water supply off . 
Given the circumstances, the late time in the evening, and that turning the water supply 
supply off would mean there would be no water supply to their house l can understand that 
Mr N was likely to have been feeling stressed when he made this decision.
Mr N decided after the engineer had left that he needed to be able to turn the water supply to 
the house on and off until the issue was resolved, so he bought a service key to do this. 
Although I can see why he would want to be able to do this to prevent further damage, I 
would not expect the engineer to have left a tool for him to do this. 
So I dont agree that RSA are responsible for the cost of the key that Mr N bought and do not 
require it to pay Mr N the cost of it.
Mr N also complains that trace and access should have been covered. He says that that the 
terms detailed in the policy document are misleading.
I have reviewed Mr and Mr Rs home insurance schedule and within this it clearly states 
that trace and access is an optional cover as follows
Optional cover you may have chosen
Legal Services.
Home Emergency Cover up to 1,000.
Upgraded Buildings cover includes;
Trace and access (the cost of removing and replacing any part of the buildings 
necessary to repair a heating or water system that has caused an escape of water or oil) 
up to 5,000.
Alternative accommodation cover is increased to 100,000.
Full Accidental Damage cover
In this case, under optional cover Mr N and Mr R had chosen to take Home Emergency 
Cover but had not taken Upgraded Buildings cover which includes trace and access cover. 
The optional cover taken is listed clearly on the first page of their renewal summary and Upgraded Buildings cover is not shown. I cannot agree that this is misleading as the policy 
schedule is clear that this is optional cover and they had not taken it out. 
Within his complaint Mr N refers to Track and Trace not being clear in the policy. I am 
presuming that he means Trace and access and the above information clearly defines what 
this is in relation to this policy.
 
My role is to decide, after considering all the evidence provided to me, if RSA have acted 
fairly under the terms and conditions of the insurance cover. It is not our role, or within our 
power, to ask an insurer to change or amend the wording that it uses it in its policies, so I am 
unable to consider Mr Rs request to ask it to do this. 
I can see that under their home insurance buildings cover, RSA did send out a drainage 
engineer. This resulted in a claim being progressed and I hope that this has now been 
completed.
Although I know it will be disappointing for Mr N and Mr R, I dont uphold their complaint and 
feel that RSA acted fairly under the terms and conditions of their policy.
My final decision
For the reasons I have given I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr N and Mr R to 
accept or reject my decision before 12 October 2021.
 
Sally-Ann Harding
Ombudsman