DRN-2030239
The complaint
Mr S complains Gain Credit LLC (Lending Stream) lent him money he couldnt afford to 
repay.
What happened
Mr S took out an instalment loan with Lending Stream. The details for this loan are:
Date amount instalments monthly 
repaymentRepayment date
12 January 2012 £295 6 up to £147.50 09 February 2012
When Mr S complained to Lending Stream that the loan wasnt affordable it didnt agree. It 
says it was entitled to rely on the information Mr S gave about his income and outgoings, 
and when it did so, along with carrying out a credit check, it saw that the loan was affordable 
for him. 
The adjudicator recommended that Mr Ss complaint should not be upheld. He says Lending 
Stream carried out proportionate checks for the loan and so it didnt do anything wrong. 
Mr S disagreed with the adjudicators view and said he had 50 other payday loans at the 
time this one was granted and that he had defaulted on many of them. He said he also had a 
serious gambling problem at the time and was unemployed. As both parties are still not in 
agreement, the complaint has come to me, an ombudsman, to make a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about short-term lending - including all of 
the relevant rules, guidance and good industry practice - on our website. 
Lending Stream needed to take reasonable steps to ensure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. 
In practice this means that it should have carried out proportionate checks to make sure that 
Mr S could repay the loan in a sustainable manner. These checks could take into account a 
number of different things, such as how much was being lent, the repayment amounts and 
Mr Ss income and expenditure. With this in mind, in the early stages of a lending 
relationship, I think less thorough checks might be reasonable and proportionate.  
But certain factors might point to the fact that Lending Stream should fairly and reasonably 
have done more to establish that any lending was sustainable for a consumer. These factors 
include:
the lower a customers income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make 
any loan repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income);
the higher the amount due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income); 
the greater the number and frequency of loans, and the longer the period of time 
during which a customer has been given loans (reflecting the risk that repeated 
refinancing may signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, 
unsustainable).
There may even come a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly 
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable.
Lending Stream did a number of checks before it lent to Mr S. It asked him for details of his 
income and his normal expenditure. And it then used this information to calculate how much 
disposable income Mr S had left over each month. Lending Steam also used a credit 
reference agency to gather some more information about Mr Ss financial situation at that 
time.
Mr Ss loan was for £295 to be repaid in 6 instalments with the highest repayment amount 
being £147.50. Lending Stream says he told it he was earning £4000 and declared 
expenditure of £1500. Lending Stream also says it carried out a credit agency check that it 
says was satisfactory although I havent been able to see what it says it saw at the time. 
I can see the monthly repayment was a small proportion of Mr Ss declared disposable 
income, the instalment amount was low, and this was his first loan. So, for those reasons, I 
am satisfied that the checks carried out by Lending Stream for this loan were proportionate.
Mr S has said that Lending Stream should have seen he was in financial difficulty at the time 
with many other short-term loans and not lent to him as a result. Lending Stream has 
confirmed that it used Credit Reference Agencies as part of its affordability assessment but 
has not given much detail about this. There wasnt any requirement for it to carry out detailed 
credit checks  just that it needed to conduct proportionate checks. And as Ive said above, I 
think that proportionate checks would have shown that the loan was affordable for Mr S 
based on what he told them for the reasons I have already given.
Mr S says that Lending Stream should have looked into his financial circumstances further 
and not agreed to lend to him. He also says he was unemployed at the time. But Lending 
Stream was entitled to rely on the information Mr S gave them about his employment as well 
as the level of his income and expenditure. And overall, Im not satisfied that there was 
anything which should have made it think that he wouldnt be able to afford to repay the loan, 
or which ought to have prompted them to carry out more detailed checks.
In conclusion, I consider the affordability checks that Lending Stream made on Mr Ss loan 
were proportionate and sufficient. So, I cant say now that it was wrong for Lending Stream 
to give this loan to Mr S. And so, I cant require it to do anything further.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 10 September 2020.
 
Mark Richardson
Ombudsman