DRN-4245678
The complaint
Mr and Mrs D complain that Bank of Scotland plc trading as Halifax wont refund money they 
say they lost to a scam.
In making this complaint Mr and Mrs D are represented by a third-party, but for the ease of 
reading Ill refer to Mr and Mrs D throughout this decision.
What happened
Mr and Mrs D invested in an unregulated property scheme (that Ill call W). They made two 
payments - £10,000 and £50, by way of faster payments, from their Halifax account to W in 
July 2018. 
Mr and Mrs D complained to Halifax in November 2022. They argued that Halifax had 
breached its duty of care by failing to question the payment and, had it done so, they 
wouldnt have gone ahead, and the loss would have been prevented. 
Halifax looked into the matter but didnt uphold the complaint. It said that, when                  
Mr and Mrs D made the payments, W was a genuine company but had later gone into 
administration. And it didnt agree to refund the money Mr and Mrs D had lost. 
Mr and Mrs D didnt agree and referred the complaint to this service. One of our 
investigators looked into it. But our Investigator didnt uphold the complaint. She thought that 
the payments didnt stand out as being particularly unusual or concerning - when compared 
to Mr and Mrs Ds normal account usage, so Halifax would have had no cause to question 
them. 
Mr and Mrs D disagreed. They reiterated that Halifax should have intervened when they 
instructed the payment as they think all high value payments should be flagged irrespective 
of the general account usage. 
As no agreement could be reached, the case was passed to me for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, while Im sorry to hear Mr and Mrs D have lost a considerable amount of 
money, Im not upholding this complaint for largely the same reasons as our investigator 
explained. I realise this will come as a disappointment to Mr and Mrs D, but I dont find that 
Halifax has acted unfairly or unreasonably. Ill explain why.
The starting position in law is that Mr and Mrs D are responsible for transactions they carry 
out themselves. Theres no dispute about that here. Rather, Mr and Mrs D say Halifax 
should have intervened with the larger payment before allowing it to be processed.
Taking into account regulators rules and guidance, relevant codes of practice and what I 
consider to have been good industry practice at the time, Halifax should, fairly and 
reasonably, have been on the lookout for out of character and unusual transactions, as well 
as other indications that its customer might be at risk of financial harm from fraud.
But it would clearly be an onerous requirement for Halifax to question every payment and I 
consider it to be appropriate for a customers previous account activity, among other factors, 
to be taken into account when deciding whether a payment does, or does not, present 
heightened risk.
Having reviewed Mr and Mrs Ds account statements, I can see that they made a number of 
payments which were significantly higher in value in the year before the larger payment in 
dispute was made. And the payment didnt reduce the balance of their account significantly 
(when compared to other significant payments made) and didnt form part of a concerning 
pattern of payments  both of which might be indicators of fraud.
Overall, I dont find that Halifax ought to have been concerned about the payments and, 
therefore, it follows that I dont find it made a mistake by failing to intervene. 
Ive thought about whether Halifax had the opportunity to recover the funds for                     
Mr and Mrs D. But I think its unlikely any attempts to recover the money would have been 
successful given the time that has elapsed since the payment was made and when they 
raised his complaint with Halifax - particularly as W went into liquidation in the interim period. 
So, Im not persuaded that Halifax did anything wrong when it didnt attempt to recover the 
funds.  
In summary, I have a great deal of sympathy with Mr and Mrs D, they have lost a 
considerable amount of money. But it would only be fair for me to direct Halifax to refund 
their loss if I thought it was responsible  and I dont find this to be the case. As such, I 
cannot fairly and reasonably hold Halifax liable in these circumstances. It follows that I will 
not be asking Halifax to take any further action in respect of this complaint.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, I dont uphold this complaint. Under the rules of the Financial 
Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr D and Mrs D to accept or reject my decision 
before 31 October 2023.
 
Sandra Greene
Ombudsman