DRN-3561061
The complaint
Mr N has complained that Bank of Ireland (UK) Plc wont refund two withdrawals where he 
says the cash did not dispense.
What happened
In June 2021, Mr N used a cashpoint. He explained he tried to withdraw £500, but the 
machine made no noises and didnt do anything, and the screen was blank. He said he 
pressed cancel, but neither his card nor the cash came out. He said he waited there about 
half an hour to make sure nothing came out and to make sure no one else used the 
machine.
Later, Mr N said he tried to withdraw £500 twice. The first time, the machine made noises 
but nothing else happened and his card didnt come back. Then he asked for £500 again, it 
made noises again, then the screen showed an error telling him to refer to his provider. He 
again said he waited about half an hour. He said other people were having trouble with other 
ATMs in the area, and that thered previously been a suspicious man, though the man did 
not return. Mr N said he suspected this was fraud.
Mr Ns account was debited for both withdrawals, totalling £1,000. Bank of Ireland got in 
touch with the bank who owned the cash machine. The other bank sent the electronic logs 
showing the two £500 withdrawals went through OK, and explained that when they balanced 
the machine there was no extra cash in it. So Bank of Ireland didnt give Mr N a refund.
Our investigator looked into things independently and didnt uphold the complaint. Mr N 
didnt agree, so the complaints been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
According to the ATMs electronic records, Mr N put in his card and PIN and asked to 
withdraw £500. The withdrawal was approved, the £500 was dispensed in exactly correct 
notes, and the machines cash balance reduced by £500. Its recorded that Mr N then re-
entered his card, and tried to enter his PIN again but got it wrong. He then entered his PIN 
correctly and asked for another £500. Again, its recorded that this was approved and was 
dispensed in the right notes, and that the machines balance reduced by £500. Theres no 
record of any attempt to cancel any of the transactions. Then three minutes later, someone 
else used the machine for another successful withdrawal. According to the records, it does 
not look like the machine experienced any malfunctions or shut down.
The customers before and after Mr N were also able to use the machine without any issues, 
and the next customer was only three minutes afterwards, rather than half an hour 
afterwards. The cash machine does not appear to have had any problems at the time.
If the ATM had not actually dispensed the two lots of £500, then Id expect it to have had 
£1,000 or so of extra cash in it afterwards. But when the cash machine was checked for 
balancing shortly afterwards, the staff member confirmed that it balanced with no extra 
money in it at all. The machines records also show that its cash reserves decreased by 
exactly £500 both times. This also suggests that the cash was dispensed properly.
I have considered the possibility of a fraudster attaching a card capture device to the 
machine. But I do not find this to be a likely or plausible possibility. I can see that Mr Ns card 
was returned on at least his first withdrawal attempt, as he had to put it back in and re-enter 
his PIN in order to make the second withdrawal attempt. And a card capture device would 
have withheld his card that first time. Further, other customers used this machine only a few 
minutes before and after Mr N, so there wasnt much time for anyone to fit or remove such a 
device  and Mr N confirmed he stayed there afterwards and didnt see any such thing. And 
the machines logs do not say that the card or cash was blocked or withheld.
So the evidence I have strongly supports that Mr N asked for £500 twice, and that the cash 
machine gave it out both times. Having listened to Mr Ns calls, I also note that his testimony 
has at times been inconsistent and contradictory. And Ive not seen anything which shows or 
substantiates that the cash did not get dispensed. So I dont have a fair basis on which to tell 
Bank of Ireland to refund the withdrawal. This is a difficult message for me to give, and 
I know its a difficult message for Mr N to receive. But given the evidence I have and the 
balance of probabilities, Im unable to reasonably reach any other conclusion.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, I dont uphold Mr Ns complaint in this case.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr N to accept or 
reject my decision before 15 August 2022.
 
Adam Charles
Ombudsman