DRN-1442503
 
The complaint
Mr H says MBNA Limited (MBNA) mis-sold him a payment protection insurance (PPI) 
policy.  
What happened
This complaint is about a credit card PPI policy taken out in June 2001. The policy was 
added to Mr Hs credit card account when he applied for the card by post. Mr H says he 
wasnt asked about PPI, it was just added to his account.
Our adjudicator did not uphold the complaint. Mr H disagreed with the adjudicators opinion 
so the complaint has been passed to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. I think the relevant issues to take into 
account are the same as those set out in the note on our website. And having done so, Ive 
decided to reject Mr Hs complaint.
Im satisfied that Mr H chose to protect his credit card repayments, knowing there would be a 
cost to do so. The application form he filled out broadly describes the purpose of the cover 
and sets out its cost, right next to where it appears Mr H ticked a box saying Yes to the 
cover. There was the option to say No so I think Mr H would have known he didnt have to 
have the policy.
MBNA didnt recommend the policy to Mr H  but it still had to give him enough information 
so that he could decide if it was suitable for his needs. And from what Ive seen of his at the 
time, it doesnt look as if it was unsuitable for him. I say this because he wasnt caught by 
any of the exclusions or limitations which would have made the policy less useful for him  
he was employed and he told us he was in good health. And Mr H told us he had no savings 
and would only have received very limited sick pay if he wasnt working  so I think the policy 
provided him with a sufficient benefit, which outweighed its cost.
I dont think MBNA properly explained the cost (68p per £100 of the statement balance). It 
mentioned this on the application form but it didnt explain that the premium would be added 
to Mr Hs credit card balance and could attract interest. It also failed to explain the level of 
benefit (3% of the statement balance) or the fact that Mr H has to continue paying the 
premium if he is receiving this benefit. But I think Mr H wouldve bought the policy anyway 
even if better information had been provided.
I say this because Mr H had no significant means such as other insurance policies with 
which to meet his repayments in the event he had to stop working unexpectedly. And his 
employers occupational sick pay scheme was limited to statutory sick pay only. The cost of 
the policy was relatively low (compared to others in the market). And the policy provided Mr H with a safety net, even at such a low level of benefit, which in his circumstances he might 
have considered useful.
This means it is not appropriate for me to uphold this complaint, as Mr H hasnt lost out as a 
result of the problems with the sale.
Ive taken into account all of Mr Hs comments, but these do not alter my decision on the 
matter.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I do not uphold Mr Hs complaint against MBNA Limited. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 21 March 2020.
Andrew Macnamara
Ombudsman