The complaint
Mr and Mrs B complain about MPA Financial Management Limited delaying the transfer of 
their Individual Savings Accounts (ISA). 
What happened
Mr and Mrs B say they were expecting their ISAs to be transferred to a new platform as well 
as their self-invested personal pensions (SIPP) on an execution-only basis. The SIPP 
transfer was completed in December 2018. 
In February 2019, Mr and Mrs B completed the ISA transfer forms as they were told by MPA 
that the ISAs needed to be transferred separately. In April 2019 they contacted MPA to 
enquire about their ISAs and later found out from the new platform provider that the ISAs 
hadnt yet transferred. This was because they needed to complete account opening forms 
too which they say MPA didnt inform them about. Mr and Mrs B completed account opening 
forms in around the end of April 2019 and the transfer of their ISAs was completed around 
mid-May 2019.
Mr and Mrs B complained to MPA about the delay in the transfer and the loss of opportunity 
to invest with the money they held in their ISAs for those two months. They say they lost out 
by around £8,000 between February 2019 to April 2019.
MPA accepted responsibility for the delay in the transfer of the ISAs and initially offered £150 
for the inconvenience. MPA later increased its offer to £570 as Mr and Mrs B had considered 
this amount to be more acceptable. MPA says Mr and Mrs B didnt suffer any financial loss 
as a result of the delay, this was because the ISAs were held in cash before they were 
transferred and remained in cash following the transfer. It says Mr and Mrs B couldve 
invested more with the money they held in cash from their SIPP transfer, but they only 
invested in two small equities. MPA says Mr and Mrs B has no history of purchasing the 
FTSE100 tracker with their investments.
Mr and Mrs B were unhappy with MPAs response, so they brought their complaint to us. 
One of our investigators looked into the complaint, she thought the offer of £570 was fair 
compensation in recognition of the delay in the ISA transfers. She didnt think MPA should 
make any payment for missed opportunity to invest as its difficult to establish which trades 
Mr and Mrs B wouldve made. 
Mr and Mrs B disagreed they say they didnt invest more with their SIPP money as they were 
waiting on the money from their ISAs to be transferred too so they could invest both funds 
together. They say by the time the ISA transfers were completed the market had moved and 
was less favourable so thats why their money remained in cash. 
DRN-1901714As no agreement could be reached, the matter has been referred to me to decide.
 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided not to uphold Mr and Mrs Bs complaint. I understand this will 
come as a disappointment to them, but Ill explain my reasons why.
MPA accepts that Mr and Mrs Bs ISA transfers were delayed as a result of it. MPA initially 
offered £150 for the inconvenience caused as a result of the delay. Mr and Mrs B were 
unhappy with this offer as they said they spent a considerable amount of time chasing their 
ISA transfers and said an offer of £570 was more acceptable. MPA increased their offer to 
£570. When Mr and Mrs B brought their complaint to our service, they asked for their 
compensation award to be increased to £1,000. 
Taking everything into account, I feel £570 is a fair amount when considering the impact this 
has had on Mr and MrsB. I say this because Mr and Mrs B completed ISA transfer forms in 
February 2019. Its clear to me they were upset when they contacted MPA in April 2019 to 
enquire about their ISA transfers and were told that MPA was no longer their serving agent, 
so they needed to contact their new platform directly. 
They were further upset to find out from the new platform provider that their ISAs hadnt yet 
transferred as they still needed to complete account opening forms which MPA did not 
inform them about. This meant Mr and Mrs Bs ISAs did not successfully transfer until 
around mid-May 2019 following completion of the account opening forms in around the end 
of April 2019. So, there was around a two-month delay from when they first completed their 
transfers forms to when they completed their account opening forms. Im satisfied that £570 
fairly recognises the inconvenience caused to Mr and Mrs B as a result of the delay.
Mr and Mrs Bs main cause for concern seems to be their loss of opportunity to invest with 
their ISA money during the time the transfer was delayed between February 2019         
April 2019. MPA disagreed, and it says they made no financial loss. 
MPA says Mr and Mrs Bs ISAs were held in cash prior to the transfer and remained in cash 
after the transfer was completed. MPA says Mr and Mrs B would not have invested all their 
ISA money into a FTSE100 tracker which they have used to calculate their loss of around 
£8,000 as they have no history of purchasing FTSE100 tracker with their investments. 
MPA referred to Mr and Mrs Bs SIPP which were also held in cash. It says this showed that 
they had purchased a share in April 2019 and another share in May 2019, so it says if they 
were going to invest their ISA money, they wouldve invested it in the share they purchased 
in April 2019 but that made a loss. MPA also says if Mr and Mrs B were going to invest like 
they say, they couldve used more of their SIPP money, but they didnt other than the two 
small equities they purchased. 
Mr and Mrs B say they moved their ISAs and SIPP to the new platform on an execution-only 
basis so they could self-invest when the market is good and then return it to cash when the 
market becomes less favourable. Mr and Mrs B say their ISA money remained in cash after 
the transfer completed because by that point the market had moved. They say the reason 
they didnt invest their SIPP money was because both the ISAs and SIPP were part of their 
retirement plan and so they wanted to invest both funds together. Taking everything into consideration, I dont agree that Mr and Mrs B should be 
compensated for loss of opportunity here. I say this because if Mr and Mrs B were intending 
to invest their money during the period of February 2019  April 2019, I wouldve expected 
them to actively chase MPA during this period. Whilst I do acknowledge and accept that it is 
MPAs responsibility to keep Mr and Mrs B updated with the progress of their ISA transfers, if 
they were monitoring the market and wanted to invest their money during that period they 
wouldve notified MPA of their intention to do so, but I havent seen any evidence of this. 
Mr and Mrs Bs money was held in cash prior to the ISAs transferring and remained in cash 
following the transfer. Its impossible to know, without the benefit of hindsight, what trades 
they may have made if they had access to their ISAs during the delays. There isnt a record 
of Mr and Mrs B asking whether they can make trades and, as explained above, none were 
made once the transfer was completed. For these reasons, Im not persuaded it would be 
fair to ask MPA to compensate for hypothetical losses.
In addition, Mr and Mrs B couldve used more of their SIPP money to invest. I understand  
Mr and Mrs B says they wanted to invest both funds together but if they had invested more 
of their SIPP money it wouldve supported their intention to do the same with their ISA 
money. 
Overall, Im not persuaded Mr and Mrs B has lost out on the opportunity to invest their ISA 
money between February 2019  April 2019. So, I wont be asking MPA to compensate them 
for loss. 
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, my final decision is that I uphold this complaint in part. MPA 
Financial Management Limited should pay Mr and Mrs B £570 compensation, if it hasnt 
already. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr and Mrs B to 
accept or reject my decision before 30 July 2020.
Asia Khanam
Ombudsman