DRN-3421530
The complaint
Mr and Mrs H complain about the way BHSF Limited have administered a private Health 
Cash Plan policy.
What happened
In July 2015, Mr and Mrs H took out a private Health Cash Plan. The policy renewed each 
year. In 2017, BHSF, the policy underwriter, also began to administer the policy. The policy 
provided Mr and Mrs H with cash benefits if they had to make claims for dental and optical 
treatment; specified therapies and in-patient and out-patient hospital treatment, amongst 
other things.
On 11 March 2020, the World Health Organisation declared Covid-19 to be a pandemic. 
Subsequently, on 16 March 2020, the UK government advised citizens to stop all 
nonessential travel and social contact. And on 23 March 2020, national lockdown was 
imposed by the UK government. As a result of lockdown, many dental practices and 
opticians, along with therapists, were unable to provide appointments during this period.
In 2021, Mr and Mrs H made claims for dental treatment theyd undergone. BHSF paid the 
claims up to the applicable policy limit of £230. However, it declined to pay for further 
treatment over the maximum policy limit.
Mr and Mrs H were unhappy with BHSFs administration of their policy. They felt theyd been 
unable to access services because of Covid-19 and that theyd been paying for a policy they 
couldnt use. They considered that BHSF should extend its award limits to take account of 
the impact of Covid-19 and consider refunding premiums paid during that period.
BHSF didnt agree to extend the policy limits. It said three-month payment holidays had been 
available to its policyholders during the pandemic and so it paid Mr and Mrs H a refund equal 
to three months of premium payments. It also said that if Mr and Mrs H could demonstrate 
that theyd had treatment booked in the 2019-20 policy year, which wouldve taken place 
during the previous year and which had been delayed due to Covid-19, it would consider 
those claims in line with the previous policy year limits.
Mr and Mrs H remained unhappy with BHSFs position and so they asked us to look into 
their complaint. BHSF subsequently let Mr and Mrs H know that as part of its response to 
Covid-19, it would waive one months premium.
Our investigator didnt think Mr and Mrs Hs complaint should be upheld. She didnt think 
there was any evidence that Mr and Mrs H had had treatment booked during the 2019-20 
policy year which had been delayed due to Covid-19. And she felt its offer to refund three 
months of premiums had been fair. She also didnt think BHSF had been responsible for the 
effect Covid-19 had had on the availability of dentists or other service providers. She thought 
Mr and Mrs H couldve still made use of some of their policy benefits. So she didnt think 
BHSF needed to do anything more.
Mr and Mrs H disagreed. They said that access to dental care had been impossible at the 
time  including to emergency treatment. And they said that BHSF had done nothing to 
reassure policyholders during lockdown that they would receive premium refunds.
The complaints been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, whilst Im sorry to disappoint Mr and Mrs H, I think BHSF has treated them 
fairly and Ill explain why. 
First, its important that I explain this decision will only consider whether BHSF responded 
fairly to the complaint Mr and Mrs H made to it in May 2021. While it seems Mr and Mrs H 
are unhappy about the lack of communications during lockdown regarding the premium 
waiver theyve since received, BHSF hasnt had a chance to look into any concerns about 
that particular point. So Mr and Mrs H will firstly need to get in touch with BHSF to make a 
new complaint about that point should they wish to do so before were potentially able to look 
into that issue alone. 
When making my decision about what I think is fair and reasonable in the circumstances of 
Mr and Mrs Hs complaint, Ive taken into account the terms and conditions of their contract 
with BHSF, as well as other relevant considerations such as the law and industry guidance.
The terms and conditions of Mr and Mrs Hs policy say their plan is for one year and that 
monthly premiums must be paid for BHSF to provide cover during that year. If a policyholder 
decides not to pay their premium each month, the insurance cover will end.
Insurance policies are intended to cover the risk of an uncertain event happening over the 
duration of the contract. An insurer is entitled to retain the benefit of the premium paid to 
cover the risk during that time, even if no successful claim has been made under the policy. 
BHSF provided cover under Mr and Mrs Hs private medical insurance policy from July 2019 
until July 2020 and from July 2020 until July 2021. BHSFs records indicate that Mr and Mrs 
H didnt make any claims during the 2019-20 policy year. But BHSF is entitled to retain the 
premium it charged to cover the risk of them making a claim while the policy was in force. 
And the terms of Mr and Mrs Hs plan set out their cancellation rights under the contract. 
These say that if they cancelled their policy within 14 days of the policy documents being 
issued, theyd be entitled to a full refund of their premiums (unless any claims had been 
made). If Mr and Mrs H chose to cancel their policy at any point after 14 days, they could do 
so without any premium refund, but with no further monthly premium due. Theres no term in 
the contract which entitles Mr and Mrs H to a premium refund if theyre unable to make use 
of externally provided medical services which they expected to be available. 
However, BHSF did offer its customers a three month premium freeze. Whilst Mr and Mrs H 
may not have been aware of this option in June 2020 when the option was introduced, BHSF 
has now refunded the value of three months premiums to reflect an effective payment 
holiday. In my view, this was a fair and reasonable response from BHSF.I also dont think its accurate to say Mr and Mrs Hs policy was unusable. I acknowledge that 
dental and optical services were hugely impacted by lockdown, as was the ability to access 
therapeutic treatment. But between July 2019 and 23 March 2020 (the majority of the 2019-
20 policy year), most services could be accessed as usual. And people were able to arrange 
emergency dental appointments during lockdown, for example. Mr and Mrs H could also 
have still claimed in and out-patient cash benefits if theyd been hospitalised or recuperation 
benefit. I wouldnt ordinarily expect an insurer to refund premiums if medical services were 
unavailable due to circumstances outside of its control. BHSF isnt responsible for providing 
medical services to its policyholders  it provides a cash benefit following a policyholder 
undergoing treatment.
And I note too that BHSF said that if Mr and Mrs H could show that theyd had treatment 
booked during the 2019-20 policy year which had been delayed due to Covid-19, it would 
consider claims using the 2019-20 policy year entitlements. This would mean Mr and Mrs H 
wouldnt have lost out on their previous years entitlements simply because theyd had to 
undergo treatment during the 2020-21 policy year. I think this was an appropriate and fair 
response from BHSF which took into account the unprecedented circumstances surrounding 
Covid-19. However, I havent seen any evidence to suggest that Mr and Mrs H had 
treatment booked to take place before July 2020 which was delayed due to Covid-19. So I 
cant fairly direct BHSF to consider their 2021 claims under the 2019-20 policy limits.
Overall, I think it was down to each individual insurer to make a commercial decision as to 
how to respond to the Covid-19 pandemic and what, if any, action to take. I sympathise with 
Mr and Mrs Hs position, but Im satisfied in these circumstances that BHSF treated them 
fairly.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H and Mrs H to 
accept or reject my decision before 15 June 2022.
 
Lisa Barham
Ombudsman