DRN-3634561
The complaint
Mr M complains about the inconsistent information he was given by Scottish Widows Limited 
(SW) previously trading as Clerical Medical Investment Group, regarding the contributions 
he made into his policy.
What happened
Mr M said he started a policy in 1988 and paid around £60 per month. This was invested 
50:50 between with profits and a UK equity fund. He made numerous complaints about the 
policy since it was opened. His current complaint related to ongoing conflicting information 
received regarding the start date of the premiums paid into the policy. SW said it was 1991 
when it was actually 1988. SW said he hadnt paid anything into his pension between 1988 
and 1991. He couldnt get old bank statements so couldnt prove that he had done so. He 
thought he had lost £2,460 which was why his pension was lower. He said he had paid in 
£20,700 since the start of the policy (that was £60 per month). SW replied to say that their 
figures showed £18,240 paid in and the start date was in 1991. SW still didnt agree and said 
confirmations of a 1988 start date given in 2005 and 2018 were incorrect. He was concerned 
that the missing premiums had affected the overall value of the policy. In early 2022 SW 
finally said they had fixed an error on his policy as a sum of £1,800.09 in units had been 
added to his policy because of an error regarding fees.
SW said it accepted it made an error and contributions started in 1988 and that the total 
contributions were around £20,700 since the start date. The error didnt affect the overall 
value of the policy. SW offered £400 for distress and inconvenience caused due to 
conflicting information (this was a further £250 in addition to the £150 already paid).. 
It said the information about his policy was held on a computer system that was updated in 
1991 and 2020 and more recently administration of the policy was transferred to another of 
its offices. This meant that staff had to refer back to the old system to check his total 
contributions. It provided screenshots from the old system to show the contributions up to 
the time of transfer to the new system in 1991 were around £2,460. Mr Ms policy had not 
suffered any financial disadvantage because despite the contribution history not migrating 
when the system changed in 1991 his fund had always included all of his contributions paid 
since 1988.
The investigator said that this decision related only to the most recent mistake and not 
complaints made in the past from 2005 onwards. The current mistake related to confusion 
around the start date of the policy and the distress this had caused. 
The mistake had not caused any financial loss as the premiums were correctly allocated and 
invested in his chosen funds. The investigator appreciated that the confusion around the 
issue caused distress and inconvenience but thought the apology and increased offer of 
£400 in total was reasonable. This was in line with what the investigator would have 
recommended in cases similar to this where incorrect information had been given to a 
policyholder. 
Mr M didnt agree. He said the offer of £400 was the same as he had already declined on 
numerous occasions for the mistake they had made. He didnt think this addressed the main 
issue which is why this kept happening and the affect it was having on his mental health. 
The mistakes were unacceptable and the offer didnt take into account the suffering he had 
to endure and the lasting affect it had on his mental and physical health especially when 
seeing their adverts promising to take on the future together but doing the opposite. 
He said that in relation to the current complaint they had given him false information about 
the policy start date, and amount of premiums paid since the start. While they said it did not 
affect the value of his policy it had a bad effect on him and he no longer had any trust in their 
decisions.  He also said around £1,800 had suddenly appeared with no explanation and he 
had repeatedly asked for dates when and why this error occurred and had not had a 
satisfactory answer or proof this has not impacted his pension. He said every day he worried 
about the future of his pension and consequences that would stay with him for the rest of his 
life.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The investigator was clear that this complaint relates only to the most recent complaint about 
the start date of contributions to Mr Ms policy. Neither party objected to this and I have not 
therefore considered the earlier complaints in this decision. In any event it is unlikely I would 
be able to do so as they would most likely be outside the six month time period within which 
to refer matters to the service following SW issuing its final response letters.
SW has accepted it gave incorrect information about the start date of contributions to the 
policy and to the total amount paid in and has since corrected it. I have seen a copy of the 
personal pension account pension plan certificate confirming a contribution date of 15 April 
1988 with monthly contributions of £60 and a selected retirement date of 2016. This confirms 
what has been said about the 1988 start date.
Where there is a mistake I can consider an award for distress and inconvenience and any 
financial loss.
SW has confirmed that the error in the information about the contribution history has not 
affected the value of the policy as all contributions have been invested since the start. It 
does not therefore seem that Mr M Has suffered any financial loss and he has not disputed 
this.
I note that Mr M feels there has been no explanation for the error. But I note in the reply from 
SW they go into some detail about their different computer systems and change in offer and 
say this resulted in the error. So I dont agree. I think it has explained the reasons. I think in 
future if Mr M asks the questions about start date and contributions again he might like to 
refer the staff to what has been said about the old computer system. This might avoid a 
future recurrence. While we hope there wont be a recurrence of the error, if there is it might 
reduce his distress.
I have however considered an award for distress and inconvenience. This is intended to 
reflect the impact on Mr M and not to punish SW. For that reason the impact of a similar 
issue can be different due to the impact it has on the person that is subject to the issue. I 
have therefore focused on the impact on Mr M and how SW responded to him.
He says it has affected his physical and mental health. I was very sorry to hear that he says 
that at times he has felt suicidal and he felt his experiences had contributed to him suffering a stroke in 2012. It is clear that Mr M has been very worried about his pension and he has 
suffered some serious health issues.
I note that Mr M says he has lost confidence in SW due to the recurrent nature of this error. I 
can understand that this would happen and that he could be fearful about the value of his 
policy notwithstanding the confirmation received. 
We all experience inconvenience in our day-to-day life but I think this goes beyond that 
which would be expected. I say that in part because the error has recurred and Mr M has 
had conflicting information over time. 
He said he did not take his pension in 2016 as the amount it generated was so poor he 
decided to wait and let it grow further. But it had not improved and this had caused him 
hardship as he was having to rely on the basic state pension. While any lack of growth is not 
the subject of this complaint I can understand it has added to his frustration.
It does seem that Mr M has suffered stress over a long period of time. But this complaint 
relates to poor information regarding the start date of the policy in the period since 2021 and 
not back prior to 2012. So I have not directly taken into account what he said happened in 
2012, in this case. But the history of issues with SW does mean that Mr M is more likely to 
be distressed and stressed by the impact of any new issues. I have therefore taken into 
account Mr Ms increased sensitivity to errors due to the history of issues meaning the 
impact on him is greater because of what has happened in the past. 
On balance I think the impact has been considerable. I note however SW has apologised 
and explained why the error has recurred and that staff need to check the old system. Also 
the error didnt disrupt Mr Ms day to day life as he had not taken his pension as yet. Further 
it did not affect the value of his policy. On balance and having reflected on the considerable 
impact of Mr Ms health, I think an award of £400 is fair and reasonable in the 
circumstances. As this is what SW has already paid or offered to pay I am not going to make 
any further direction. 
Finally I should mention that I have seen a letter issued on 25 January 2022 which is headed 
we have fixed an error on your policy and telling Mr M it has made an addition of around 
£1800. There was no further explanation in the letter so I asked SW to explain,  just in case 
it related to the historic contributions made to the policy and the issues in this complaint. 
SW explained that this was an error they made in incorrectly charging a policy fee. The fee 
had been removed as part of a re-price in May 2001 but had continued to be deducted in 
error. The error lasted from 2001 until it was corrected in 2022. It therefore corrected the 
policy value. It had done this by adding back the fee and the lost investment growth. Mr M 
has been supplied with a copy of the explanation. It is clear that this correction does not 
relate to the matters I was considering in this complaint, so I have not considered it any 
further. 
My final decision
I think that Scottish Widows Limited has acted in a fair and reasonable manner so I am not 
making any further direction in this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 22 March 2023.
 
Colette BewleyOmbudsman