DRN-3387919
The complaint
Mr Es complaint is about the handling of his claim under his legal expenses insurance policy 
with certain underwriters at Society of Lloyds.
What happened
I issued a provisional decision on this matter in January 2021, the main part of which is 
copied below: 
Mr E was involved in a family court case in 2013. He was unhappy with the legal 
representation provided to him and so made a claim in 2013 under his policy with the 
underwriters for cover to take a professional negligence claim against his solicitors and the
barrister.
The underwriters arranged for one of their panel solicitors to assess the claim. They did not 
consider there were reasonable prospects of his legal cases succeeding, which is a
pre-requisite of cover under the policy, so the underwriters refused the claims.
In 2018, Mr E made another claim to take action against the solicitors and barrister that 
acted for him in 2013. Again, panel solicitors said there were no reasonable prospects of
success for either case.
In September 2019, Mr E sent in a legal opinion from a barrister about his potential claim 
against the barrister who had acted for him in 2013 for the underwriters to consider. The 
barrister also provided some addendums to his advice, and ultimately concluded that Mr E 
had reasonable prospects of success, subject to a number of caveats about the evidence.
The underwriters arranged for its panel solicitors to review this advice. They disagreed that 
there were reasonable prospects and so the underwriters again refused funding. In addition,
the potential claim against the barrister became time-barred on 17 October 2019, so no 
claim could be made anyway.
There was apparently no further communication about this claim until November 2020 when 
Mr E sent in the same opinions again. The underwriters thought these were new opinions 
and so set up a claim and passed it to its panel solicitors again and also obtained another 
barristers opinion following a conference with Mr E. However, it was then realised the claim 
against the barrister was already time-barred and so the underwriters refused the claim 
again. I understand the underwriters reimbursed the cost of Mr Es barrister in November 
2020.
Mr E is very unhappy about the refusal of the claim. He says the underwriters have 
deliberately tried to avoid his claim since 2013. Mr E says that if it were not for negligence on 
the part of the barrister in 2013, he would have been granted a joint or sole residence order 
for his child and more contact, instead of only having once a week contact. 
He wants £50,000 from the underwriters to settle this complaint, which is what he says he 
spent on legal fees to safeguard his daughter as a result of the court case in 2013 going 
against him; and a finding that the underwriters deliberately avoided his claim.
One of our Investigators looked into the matter. He recommended the complaint be upheld. 
The investigator said that Mr E had established he had a valid claim under the policy on       
9 October 2019, before the legal claim was time-barred on 17 October 2019. The 
underwriters should have accepted the claim, rather than have it assessed for prospects 
again by its own solicitors. However, the Investigator also said that there would still have 
only been eight days to instruct a solicitor and issue proceedings. The Investigator didnt 
think this was likely to have been possible. He therefore didnt think that there was enough 
evidence to make the underwriters pay compensation for the lost opportunity to issue 
proceedings against the barrister. However, he thought that some compensation was 
appropriate for raising Mr Es expectations in November 2020 and proceeding with the claim 
when it had been time-barred a year earlier. The Investigator recommended compensation 
of £800 for this.
Mr E does not accept the Investigators assessment. Mr E has made a number of complaints 
with the underwriters and there are multiple issues raised. I have summarised as far as 
possible the points made by Mr E in support of his complaint (including those made to the 
underwriters direct and to us via his MP):
Since 2013, the panel solicitors have deliberately avoided dealing with his claim by 
misrepresenting the facts and lying about his prospects of success and about the 
contents of court transcripts.
The panel solicitors fraudulently fabricated their opinion on the merits of his case.
The underwriters had a duty to challenge their solicitors when they know they are 
being dishonest.
The panel solicitors have lied to say he is time-barred and are maliciously refusing 
the claim.
The underwriters should have provided £10,000 funding in October 2019, so he 
could issue proceedings before the limitation date and protect his claim but they 
deliberately withheld this.
Alternatively, the underwriters could have had a clerk or secretary go and pay the 
court fee, so his claim against the barrister was protected.
His barristers first opinion, dated 5 September 2019, did not change and the 
underwriters should have passed the matter to solicitors on receipt of his first advice.
In November 2020 the underwriters accepted the same opinions proved prospects of 
success but didnt comment on the fact it had refused to accept that opinion for 14 
months beforehand.
If the underwriters were wrong to refer the matter to be assessed by a solicitor again 
in October 2019, then he should be awarded his damages.
Had they allowed his barrister to act at a reduced fee, allowed his own solicitors to 
act or agreed to repay him the issue fee, he could have protected his claim and it 
would have been settled out of court.
The underwriters took a year to reimburse his barristers fees and he needed that 
money to pay for further legal costs. Because of this delay, he was unable to get 
other legal opinions on his other cases, which are now also time-barred.
He doesnt understand why the underwriters refused to deal with his claim for cover 
to take proceedings against the solicitors and barrister as one case as both parties 
were involved in the 2013 family court case.
The panel solicitors said he had a good case against the solicitors who acted for him 
in 2013.The Investigator is covering for the underwriters and this is misconduct in public 
office.
The Investigator ignored his barristers opinion that the underwriters have breached 
his insurance contract with him by refusing his claim.
The underwriters have ignored his requests for correspondence to be sent to him by 
post and also by email, which is required due to his disabilities and assist him 
maintaining a structured file of his case.
The underwriters have also ignored his request to be provided with the contact 
names, email addresses and telephone numbers of all solicitors, firms and internal 
staff who have dealt with his claims.
The underwriters have victimized him by changing claims-handlers.
He has provided a call recording of a conversation with a complaints handler at 
Society of Lloyds in which he told
Mr E he would look into all the breaches of contract by the underwriters and their 
deliberate avoidance of his claim for the previous five years but he failed to do so and 
removed this from his complaint dishonestly, which meant the investigator wouldnt 
look into it either.
He feels he is being exploited because of his disabilities.
As stated, I have summarised Mr Es main complaint points and the main evidence. I have 
not included every point he has made but the crux of the matter is that Mr E is adamant his 
claim for cover to pursue a legal case against his barrister has been wrongly refused and 
should have been met before it was time-barred.
As the Investigator was unable to resolve the complaint, it has been passed to me.
Mr E has asked for me to contact him by phone to discuss the case before issuing my final 
decision. Deciding ombudsmen dont routinely talk to either party to the complaint, as 
fairness would usually require that both parties be involved in any discussion at the same 
time. 
We may decide it is necessary to do so, if there is information that is unclear or a dispute 
about the facts of the case that we consider can only be clarified by discussing it with the 
parties. 
Mr E has made his case clearly both in writing to the investigator, including how stressful the 
situation has been for him, and I have been provided with all the correspondence and 
communications between Mr E and the underwriters. I have considered all the evidence 
provided, including all the call recordings Mr E has provided to us. While there is a lot of 
information and a long history to this matter, the evidence and positions of both parties is 
sufficiently clear and so I dont consider it is necessary to discuss this case with the parties 
in order to fairly determine the matter.
What Ive provisionally decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr E has made a number of claims and complaints with the underwriters, some of which 
have been ongoing for a considerable time and have some overlap. For the avoidance of
doubt, I am only considering the complaint about the handling of his potential claim against 
the barrister who acted for Mr E in 2013.
Handling of the claim in September/October 2019Mr Es policy provides cover for professional negligence claims. However, like other legal 
expenses insurance policies, this is subject to a requirement that any legal case have a 
reasonable chance of succeeding in court in order to be covered under the policy. We would 
consider this to mean it has to be more likely than not (i.e. more than 50%, so it would have 
to be at least 51%) chance of the legal case succeeding. This is not unusual or unfair.
The underwriters arranged for panel solicitors to consider the claim but they didnt think there 
were sufficient prospects of success. They provided an assessment in March 2018 which 
seems to me to have provided full reasons why they reached the conclusion they did. I note 
the solicitors also warned of the limitation date of 17 October 2019 for any proceedings to be
issued against the barrister.
The claim was refused on the basis of this opinion. I do not think the decision made then 
was unfair or unreasonable, given the legal opinion about the prospects of the case. The 
underwriters are entitled to rely on that opinion, unless there is something patently flawed 
about it. I do not consider there was anything that would mean the underwriters should have 
considered that the legal advice in 2018 was patently flawed.
Mr E had the option of providing a legal opinion of his own to counter this, which he did but 
not until September 2019. The first opinion from his own barrister, dated 5 September 2019, 
did not however support Mr E. The barrister said the prospects of succeeding in a claim 
against the trial barrister were below 51%: For the reasons given above, Im afraid I cannot 
conclude that the prospects of establishing causation or of obtaining damages are 51% or 
more. Indeed, I am bound to say that the chances are low.
The barrister also wrote four addendums to this advice, two of which were received on 5 
September 2019 (the same day as the initial opinion), the third on 20 September 2019 and
the fourth on 9 October 2019.
The addendums were written after receiving further information from Mr E, including sound 
recordings which he says were available for use at the court hearing in 2013 but which the
trial barrister had failed to use. In his second addendum the barrister said that if these had 
been presented to the court at the time, he thinks it is likely (i.e. more than 51%) that a 
different decision would have been made in 2013. 
The barrister couldnt say what the outcome might have been and only goes as far as saying 
it is possible Mr E might recover the costs he expended in principle. The barrister also listed 
eight caveats to his advice on the chances of success, including that there is an assumption 
the barrister had the recordings referred to before the hearing; he had not seen the 
instructions to the barrister; it is difficult to assess what difference this evidence would have 
made to the outcome of the family proceedings, he is not a family practitioner and while the 
courts decision may have been different, it is impossible to say what the result would have 
been.
The fourth addendum, dated 9 October 2019, made clear that he thought there were 
reasonable prospects of the case succeeding but this was still subject to the same caveats. 
The underwriters queried the initial opinion and the first three addendums, as they were not 
satisfied these changed the position on the claim. I do not think its responses were 
unreasonable, given these documents did not establish that its previous decision to refuse 
the claim was wrong and the caveats listed by the barrister meant there was more to assess.
I also note the underwriters responded promptly  in the main on the same day  to all       
Mr Es communications in September 2019. There were sometimes several communications 
between the parties on the same day, all responded to promptly. I am not therefore persuaded there was any delay on its part in progressing the matter at that point, deliberate 
or otherwise.
It is clear from his email of 1 October 2019 to the underwriters that Mr E was aware that the 
time limit was approaching and he asked if it would pay him £10,000 (which is what he said 
the court issue fee would be) in order to issue protective proceedings.
The underwriters responded on 2 October 2019 to say if he needed to protect your legal 
position then this is something you will need to do at your own expense.
In Mr Es response he said he had been threatened with cancellation of his policy previously 
if he issued proceedings himself. However, Ive not seen anything to support that. 
The policy says that a policyholder should not take legal action without the underwriters 
knowledge but that is not the case here.
At this stage there was no valid claim under the policy and therefore no reason for the 
underwriters to take any action. 
The risk of the claim being time-barred was clear. Mr E said the underwriters were 
deliberately delaying matters. He wrote an email on 5 October 2019, accusing the claims-
hander of deliberately delaying responding to him, as they know time barred soon and Im 
out of country so I cant make protective application at court to save my claim.
Again, I am not persuaded there was any delay on the underwriters part in dealing with the 
matter.
I agree with the Investigator that it was only the fourth addendum from Mr Es barrister that 
made the position on his advice clear enough for the underwriters to act. This addendum 
was sent to the underwriters on 9 October 2019.
It is what happened next that is critical. At this stage there were eight days to go before the 
limitation period in which to issue proceedings against the barrister would expire. The 
underwriters sent the file to panel solicitors the same day (9 October 2019) to ask them to 
act under the terms of the policy, saying in the letter of instruction:
I attach all the correspondence received from the insured and would be grateful if you could 
now act on their behalf under the terms of their legal expenses cover Cover will continue
for so long as you believe that there are reasonable prospects of success, and that the claim 
is otherwise covered by the policy.
Mr E however, told the underwriters he was not happy with panel solicitors acting. He said 
he would probably like the barrister who had given him the written opinions to act for him but 
the underwriters said there would still need to be a solicitor with day to day responsibility for 
the case.
On 11 October 2019, the underwriters asked for details of solicitors Mr E wanted to use and 
told him he would need to protect his legal position if necessary and it would not be
forwarding funds to pay for this.
On 14 October 2019 the underwriters wrote to say the first panel solicitors were unable to 
take the case and they were trying another firm however, if they couldnt take the instruction
either you will need to provide details of your own solicitors who are able to take on the 
case.The second firm of solicitors replied on 14 October 2019 to ask for the documents and 
instructions but said they would not be in a position to prepare an application and issue it by 
the limitation date. The solicitors said Mr E would have to take responsibility for issuing the 
application with the court. The underwriters replied the same day, sending the solicitors the 
documents they needed.
On 15 October 2019, underwriters say they are able to get panel solicitors to look at case 
but only on the proviso that Mr E issues protective proceedings in the meantime.
The solicitors did look into the matter and concluded that they didnt agree there were 
prospects of success. By then the claim was time-barred. I do not think the underwriters 
acted unfairly or unreasonably in the way they handled the claim at this point. They also 
acted as promptly as reasonably possible to each communication and referred it to panel 
solicitors as soon as it could. 
Even if it should have referred the matter to a barrister instead for another merits 
assessment (which I dont agree was appropriate) I do not think the outcome would have 
been any different, as that would have taken time for them to assess and would not have 
progressed the legal claim any quicker. There would still have been the same issues with 
getting a solicitor to issue and so it would still have been time barred. And I am not 
persuaded there is any evidence that the underwriters deliberately delayed matters in order 
to prevent Mr E from pursuing his legal claim.
It has been suggested that the solicitors shouldnt have reviewed the merits of the legal 
claim again (having had Mr Es barristers opinion) but they will always do so as there is a 
requirement that any claim has reasonable prospects throughout its life (and this can change 
depending on the evidence that comes out etc). And I do not think it reasonable to expect 
solicitors to simply issue proceedings without doing their own assessment of the case.
Overall, I do not consider that the underwriters could have done anything more in 
October/November 2019.
Should the underwriters have paid Mr E so he could issue proceedings himself? And, did the 
underwriters prevent Mr E from having the opportunity to take proceedings against his
former barrister?
For the reasons set out above, it is my opinion the underwriters progressed the claim as 
soon as reasonably possible after receiving the opinion on 9 October 2019 (and before that I
do not consider it needed to accept the claim). Two panel solicitors said they could not act in 
time to issue before the expiry of the limitation date. The underwriters also offered to fund
Mr Es own choice of solicitors but he wrote to the underwriters on 15 October 2019 to say it 
was unfair to give him such short notice to find a solicitor to issue the claim and several 
firms have said there is not time suggesting he had tried to get his own firm to do so. And as 
far as I understand it, the barrister would not have been able to do it on Mr Es behalf.
Mr E is also adamant that the underwriters could have simply issued the proceedings, or 
should have either provided him with £10,000 or an assurance that it would reimburse him 
the £10,000 issue fee if he borrowed it.
There is no independent evidence to support that this is what the court issue fee would have 
been. The underwriters have said the court issue fee would be based on the value of the 
legal claim being made and as far as I am aware, there has been no legal assessment of the 
value of the claim. But in any event, I am not persuaded that the underwriters acted 
incorrectly in not providing the money or the assurance Mr E asked for. While the policydoes cover disbursements, this is only when incurred by an authorised representative. There 
is no provision in the policy, and I do not think it would be a reasonable expectation,
that the underwriters should pay up front (or provide an assurance it would reimburse) a sum 
for unconfirmed disbursements for a litigant in person to issue proceedings.
Mr E says the underwriters ignored his request about the issue fee but this is not correct. In 
my opinion, far from ignoring it they made to clear that they would not pay it upfront and 
warned Mr E he would need to protect his position. While I can understand the cost of the 
issue fee might have been prohibitive, Mr E does suggest he would have been able to 
borrow the money (which is why he wanted assurance from the underwriters they would pay 
him back) so might have been possible. And as mentioned above, he had also written on 5 
October 2019 that he was out of country so I cant make protective application at court to 
save my claim.
It seems to me that the underwriters acted as quickly as they reasonably could once the 
opinion had been received on 9 October 2019 and, having considered everything, I am not
persuaded it has been established that the claim became time-barred due to anything the 
underwriters did wrong. I am not therefore persuaded that it would be reasonable to make
any financial award to compensate him for this lost opportunity.
Breach of contract
Mr E has also provided a copy of a legal advice on a potential action against the 
underwriters for breach of contract by not meeting this claim. It says Mr E was aware of the 
limitation date but could not afford to issue proceedings, as he could not afford the court 
issue fee, without the cover applied for under the policy. The advice says he would have to 
prove this to show he mitigated any loss. And there would also have to be proof that the 
barrister who acted in 2013 had known the existence of evidence Mr E says he should have 
used.
The advice suggests there might be grounds for a claim against the underwriters but does 
not seem to reach any conclusion about this.
I do not think this adds anything to the complaint.
Advice provided by the underwriters panel solicitors
Mr E has said that the fact he obtained a favourable barristers opinion proves that the 
underwriters solicitors who provided advice on the same potential claim lied when they said
he did not have reasonable prospects. He says this applies to the panel solicitors who were 
involved previously as well as those involved in 2019 and 2020 and this is proof that the 
underwriters have tried to avoid his claim from the outset. I do not agree.
Lawyers, like most other professionals will on occasion reach different conclusions based on 
the same information and evidence. This is why the underwriters gave Mr E the opportunity 
to obtain his own advice and agreed to consider it if it was different from the advice it had 
received in 2013/4 and 2018, on the potential claim he wanted to bring against the barrister.
There is no evidence that the panel solicitors were not suitably qualified and experienced to 
advise on the matter or that they did not consider this matter in accordance with their 
professional obligations.
Where we are presented with conflicting legal opinions, it is not within our remit to decide 
which one is correct, only to assess if the underwriters acted fairly and reasonably in the handling of the insurance claim. There is nothing obviously flawed with any of the legal 
assessments I have seen from the panel solicitors. The fact they reached a different 
conclusion on the merits of his legal claim does not mean the underwriters were deliberately 
trying to avoid his claim. And it does not mean that they should have accepted the claim any 
sooner than 9 October 2019.
Is the case time-barred?
Mr E has also said he thinks it is incorrect his claim is time-barred. I am assuming this is 
because the note of conference with the barrister instructed in 2020 says he was aware the 
limitation dates could be disregarded, if there were fraud or concealment. 
There is no evidence to support that the limitation dates would be extended in this case and 
the barrister was certain that they couldnt: because we cannot overcome this Limitation Act 
hurdle then any claim will fail and therefore any discussion of negligence or causation (being 
the merits test) or quantum is academic because this is [a] claim that will not get off the 
ground because it is time barred.
I have not seen any other legal opinion which would mean this advice should be disregarded 
as incorrect. As the claim was time-barred with effect from October 2019, I do not consider 
the underwriters need to provide any further legal funds.
The underwriters actions in 2020
In late 2020 Mr E sent the underwriters the same legal opinions that he had sent in 
September and October 2019. The claims-handler didnt realise they had already been seen 
or that the claim had been time-barred the year before.
The claim was passed to a panel solicitor and advice was sought from barrister, who saw  
Mr E in conference (as mentioned above). He stated the time-bar could not be overcome 
and so any other investigation into the merits of the case, causation or quantum was not 
warranted.
This should clearly not have happened. It also led to confusion about the complaint Mr E 
subsequently brought. While I have no reason to think the underwriters acted in anything 
other than good faith, this error meant there was inconvenience caused, as Mr E attended a 
conference with the barrister and undoubtedly spent some considerable time dealing with 
the matter. It also raised Mr Es expectations that his legal case might be progressable. I 
agree with the Investigator that some compensation is warranted for this and agree that the 
sum of £800 is not unreasonable.
Claim against solicitors who acted for Mr E in 2013
Mr E has also said the underwriters should have permitted him to join together his potential 
claims against the solicitors and the barrister that acted for him in 2013, and the solicitors 
that advised in 2019 confirmed he had a good case against the solicitors.
I am not persuaded this is a reasonable request and it would be entitled to consider these as 
separate claims.
I am also not persuaded that the solicitors advice Mr E refers to says what he asserts. The 
solicitor didnt say the solicitors that acted in 2013 were negligent but that they would be 
responsible for deciding which witnesses should be called. (Part of Mr Es claim with the 
barrister being that he did not cross-examine witnesses he thought would have made a 
difference to the outcome of his case.) That is not the same as saying they were negligent in deciding to not call witnesses he thought should have been called, only that it was their 
responsibility and not the barristers. The solicitors might have had good reason to not call 
certain witnesses. (I know Mr E will dispute this and say these witnesses were critical but I 
must make clear I am not making a determination whether this is right or not. I am only 
determining whether this established that the underwriters should have provided cover for a 
claim against the 2013 solicitors and for the reasons given, I do not.) In any event, the 
solicitor also states that any claim against the 2013 solicitors is already out of time.
Payment of Mr Es barristers fees
Mr E is unhappy that the underwriters took over a year to reimburse the fees he paid his 
barrister and he needed that money to pay for further legal costs. He says that because of 
this delay, he was unable to get other legal opinions on his other cases which are now also 
time-barred.
The fees should have been reimbursed sooner than they were. The underwriters have 
offered to pay interest if Mr E is able to provide evidence he submitted the invoices earlier 
than November 2020. I think it would be reasonable for interest to be paid from the date     
Mr E paid for the invoices to the date of reimbursement. I have not seen any evidence of any 
other loss arising solely from this delay, so do not propose to make any further award in 
relation to this.
Other matters
Mr E has raised a number of other points, including that the complaints handler deliberately 
left out of his final response to the complaint details around the underwriters deliberate 
attempts to avoid his claim by way of various breaches of contract, even though he 
confirmed in a telephone call to Mr E that he would include that in his consideration of the 
complaint.
I am not persuaded there has been any attempt to manipulate the complaint procedure in 
this way. I am not able to consider some of the historic aspects of Mr Es matter, going back 
to 2013/2014, but have considered generally his allegation that the underwriters have tried to 
avoid his claim and that it has breached his contract. For the reasons given above, I do not 
intend to uphold these aspects of Mr Es complaint.
Mr E also complained to the underwriters that they were not providing written 
communications by post and email as he had requested. I understand they have more 
recently been doing so and I do not therefore consider anything more needs to be done in 
this regard.
While individual names were provided to Mr E on any written communication and individuals 
would ordinarily identity themselves when talking to Mr E on the phone, I understand he
wanted a list of all contact details. He mentioned it will make it easier for him to track his 
claims and chase up responses. 
The underwriters were not prepared to do this. I do not think this was necessary for them to 
do and do not propose to make any direction in relation to this.
My provisional decision
I uphold this complaint in part and require Society of Lloyds to pay Mr E:
1.  the sum of £800 compensation for the distress andinconvenience caused by its handling of his claim; and
2.  interest at 8% simple per annum on the barristers fees from 2019, from the date    
Mr E paid the fees to the date of reimbursement, subject to appropriate proof of 
payment.
Responses to my provisional decision
I invited both parties to respond to my provisional decision with any further arguments or 
information they want considered. 
Society of Lloyds has confirmed it accepts my provisional decision, except with regard to the 
interest I proposed it should pay on Mr Es barristers fees. It says the underwriters paid the 
invoice promptly after receiving it and could not have paid this any earlier than they did, so it 
is unfair to add interest for any period of time before it received the invoice.
Mr E does not accept my provisional decision. He has sent over 40 emails in response, 
together with several documents (including copies of court transcripts, witness statements 
and transcripts of calls between him and others involved in this matter; medical evidence 
relating to his daughter and a recording of a call between him and his daughter). Mr Es MP 
has also written to us on his behalf again. I have summarised the points made by Mr E and 
his MP below. However, as many of the points have already been raised previously I have 
not repeated them all. Mr E states that: 
a) I have said his barristers first opinion was dated 5 September 2019 but it was dated 
11 August 2019, which meant the underwriters had 40 days and not eight days to 
pay the court fee and issue his claim. The underwriters lied about the date it was 
received.
b) I also concealed the strength of the second addendum from his barrister dated 5 
September 2019, which confirmed his case had reasonable prospects. So his claim 
should have been progressed on 5 September 2019, not 9 October 2019.
c) I said there was no evidence of how much the court fee would be. He was advised to 
pay the maximum fee due to the value of his claim (£50,000), which would be 5% of 
his claim for a claim worth £10,000 to £200,000. We should contact his adviser and 
ask if that was what he was told and also about his advice about the negligence of 
his barrister and the Children and Family Court Advisory and Support Service 
(CAFCASS, which he says lied to the court in 2013). 
d) The solicitors gave verbal confirmation that the solicitors and barrister had been 
negligent but retracted that after the underwriters knew about the £10,000 court fee. 
He has provided a transcript of that call. 
e) In 2020 based on the same barristers opinions, the underwriters were going to pay 
the £10,000 court fee. He has provided a copy of that recording. 
f) He had the claim forms completed already, they just needed to be filed at court and 
the fee paid, which anyone from the underwriters could have done. 
g) The policy says that once there is a legal opinion confirming he had reasonable 
prospects, the underwriters should pay all necessary disbursements. I have covered 
up this breach of his policy. 
h) I said there is no evidence of negligence or that the underwriters have breached the 
policy terms to claim avoid and conceal negligence. There is tons of evidence but 
all his evidence has been ignored. 
i) I have misrepresented the panel solicitors opinion regarding the solicitors that acted 
for him in the family proceedings. It is clear the solicitor said they were negligent in 
not making sure certain witnesses were called to give evidence in court, so his 
barrister could cross-examine them. j) He has complained several times since 2014 that only one paralegal was willing to 
talk to him in person about his case. How can a solicitor do a report without talking to 
the client?
k) I have not mentioned the evidence of the barrister covering up and removing 
evidence.
l) I have concealed the underwriters excuse for not reimbursing his barrister fees in 
2019; and have lied by saying that he needed to send proof he had submitted the 
invoices sooner than 2020 in order to get the interest on his fees. 
m) The only reason the underwriters refused to reimburse the barristers fees and the 
court issue fee was to cause his claim to be time-barred. 
n) The panel solicitors have lied about his case being time-barred, as the clock starts 
from the most recent act of fraud, which was in 2019 when altered court documents 
were reproduced. 
o) I have deliberately not named in my provisional decision the solicitors involved in 
order to be confusing.
p) I ignored the solicitors advice supporting his claim, which he provided to the 
underwriters in 2018.
q) The Investigator said the underwriters should not have had the barristers opinion 
reviewed by solicitors in October 2019 and I have tried to conceal this in order to 
deliberately prevent him getting compensation, which is misconduct in a public office. 
r) Why did the underwriters refer the case to its panel solicitors when the solicitors said 
they couldnt issue the claim? He was never told they would not have time to issue 
the proceedings. He was being set up to be time-barred. 
s) It was a claims-handler that refused to allow his claim, not the underwriters. 
t) It is not right that a solicitor should be able to overturn the evidence from his barrister. 
According to the policy terms it should have gone to arbitration. 
u) His barrister stated that the fact it didnt go to arbitration is a breach of his contract 
and I have concealed that. 
v) Why have I not pasted copies of his barristers opinion in my decision?
w) I have ignored the evidence and concealed the truth and acted dishonestly. 
x) I have also refused to consider what happened in 2013/2014
Mr E has also asked that we provide him with an indexed copy of all the evidence Ive relied 
on and provided by the underwriters. 
It is my understanding that Mr E has received all the emails I relied on in my provisional 
decision (he was a party to most of them) as well as the other evidence relied on, such as 
the barristers opinions. The Investigator asked him to specify if there was any 
communication or other evidence I had referred to that he had not already seen and he has 
not done so. I am therefore reasonably satisfied Mr E has already seen all the evidence 
relied on in my provisional decision. We are not required to provide it again indexed for him. 
Mr E also asked for another meeting to discuss the case. He says this is needed to go 
through all the papers and evidence, as I have omitted so much evidence from my 
provisional decision. Mr E says not meeting or talking with him will prevent a fair assessment 
of his complaint. 
Mr E has provided a substantial amount of evidence in support of his complaint and has 
expressed his position clearly. He would like a meeting with me to go through the evidence 
which he thinks I have not considered properly and to ensure I consider the points he thinks 
are relevant. 
Mr E does not agree with my interpretation of the evidence which is why he wants to discuss 
it. In my opinion, this is not necessary in order for me to fairly determine this matter.  Mr E has also indicated through his MP that if the case is not upheld then he intends to 
pursue a prosecution against me for misconduct in public office. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
However, I have not read all the papers from the family court case in 2013/14 recently 
submitted and I have not listened to the phone call between Mr E and his daughter, as these 
are not relevant to my consideration of this complaint. Mr E is adamant that the negligence 
of the barrister in 2013 and the strength of his case against him is self-evident from those 
documents. However, it is not for me to assess whether the outcome of the 2013 case 
should have been different, or if his allegations against his daughters mother and her family 
are correct, only whether the underwriters acted fairly and reasonably in the consideration of 
his insurance claim. In so doing, I am not required to determine if different evidence should 
have been presented to the courts in 2013, whether the social services, CAFCASS, the court 
or the barrister and solicitors acting for him then should have done anything differently. 
Most of Mr Es points are also the same as previously made and set out and addressed in 
my provisional decision. However, I have considered again all the relevant evidence. I 
explained in my provisional decision that I had summarised some of Mr Es points and could 
not address everything Mr E had raised, this does not mean that I have concealed aspects 
of his case or important evidence. I have focussed on the evidence that I consider relevant 
to the consideration of his complaint about the refusal of his insurance claim. 
Solicitors opinion in 2018 
Mr E says I have ignored the opinion he provided from a solicitor in June 2018 in support of 
his case. I have seen a letter written by a solicitor to the Legal Ombudsman stating there had 
been failings on the part of the barrister that acted in 2013. 
The underwriters didnt accept this as evidence that the claim under the policy should be met 
as it was not a formal opinion on the prospects of the case. The underwriters had already 
received the opinion from panel solicitors that the claim did not have reasonable prospects of 
success and I concluded in my provisional decision that it did not act unreasonably in relying 
on that opinion to refuse Mr Es claim in 2018 and there was no evidence that the panel 
solicitors opinion was flawed. The underwriters told Mr E it would consider the matter again, 
if he was able to provide a barristers opinion that his case did have reasonable prospects. 
Mr E provided a barristers opinion in September 2019. I remain of the opinion that the 
decision on the claim made in 2018 was not unfair or unreasonable, including not accepting 
the solicitors letter dated June 2018.
Dates of Mr Es barristers opinions
Mr E says that the first advice received from his barrister was dated 18 August 2019, which 
gave the underwriter plenty of time to issue proceedings on his behalf. 
The advices and addendums are not in fact dated, so it is not clear when they were written 
or provided to Mr E. The dates relied on in my provisional decision are the dates that the 
opinion and addendums were received by the underwriters. 
The first advice was received by the underwriters on 5 September 2019. Though Mr E says 
the underwriters lied about this being the date, other correspondence around the same time 
supports that it was received on this date.  However, even if it had been received in August 2019, it was not supportive of Mr Es claim. 
The barrister said: Im afraid I cannot conclude that the prospects of establishing causation 
or of obtaining damages are 51% or more. Indeed, I am bound to say that the chances are 
low. Therefore, even if it had been received on 18 August 2019 (which is not proven) it 
would not have meant Mr Es claim would have been progressed then as the barrister said 
the chances of the claim succeeding were low. 
Mr E also says the underwriters claims-handlers were not legally qualified and so should not 
have sat on his barristers opinions and should have instructed solicitors to deal with the 
matter straight away. I do not agree that this is a reasonable expectation. The claims-
handlers are qualified to determine if evidence has been provided to establish a valid claim 
under the policy and they are acting on behalf of the underwriters in doing so. 
Mr E also says the second addendum (which he does not seem to dispute was received by 
the underwriters on 5 September 2019) confirmed he had reasonable chance of succeeding 
and the underwriters should therefore have instructed solicitors on that date, which would 
also have given plenty of time to issue proceedings. He says I have concealed the strength 
of that addendum in support of his case. 
The second addendum said that the case in 2013 might have had a different outcome if the 
evidence Mr E wanted presented to the court had been considered. As the underwriters 
pointed out, this is not the same as saying that there is a more than 51% chance of 
succeeding against the barrister that represented him in 2013. There were also several 
caveats to his advice, which could affect the prospects of the case significantly. This might 
be what the barrister meant but it is not clearly stated in this addendum and so I do not 
agree that this addendum was enough to have required the underwriters to progress his 
claim. 
For the reasons set out in my provisional decision, I remain of the opinion that it was not until 
the fourth addendum was received on 9 October 2019, that the underwriters were in a 
position to confirm potential cover under the policy. And by then there were only eight days 
before the claim became time-barred. 
Mr E says the panel solicitors and the underwriters had proof of the abuse of his daughter 
but sought to conceal it and cover it up in order to refuse his claim. There is simply no 
evidence to support such an allegation. The underwriters were not considering the evidence 
that he wanted put to the family court in 2013, only whether he had a valid claim under the 
policy. 
Mr E also says he was not told the panel solicitors would not have time to issue the 
proceedings. I do not agree this is correct. 
As set out in my provisional decision, the underwriters made clear to Mr E the risk of his 
claim being time-barred. But in any case, for the reasons set out, I consider they did all they 
could to progress the claim as quickly as they reasonably could in September and October 
2019. Having considered everything, I am not persuaded the claim became time-barred due 
to anything the underwriters did wrong. 
I therefore consider that it would not be reasonable to make any financial award to 
compensate Mr E for this lost opportunity.
Court issue feeMr E also says the policy provides that any disbursements (including court fees) should be 
paid as soon as he provided the favourable barristers opinion and that the underwriters 
agreed to cover his claim until they heard he needed a £10,000 issue fee.
 
I provisionally determined that it was not reasonable to expect the underwriters to have paid 
Mr E £10,000 to issue proceedings himself (or for it to have done so) without an authorised 
representative involved. In part, this was because that there was no convincing evidence 
that the fee would have been £10,000.
Mr E has provided reference to a government website, which says that the court issue fee 
would normally be 5% of the value of the claim being made, which he has said is £50,000. 
Even if I accept that is the value of Mr Es potential claim against the barrister (though it has 
not been evidenced), 5% of this figure would be £2,500, not £10,000. However, the guidance 
is that if the claim amount is left blank in the court application, then the fee is £10,000. So I 
remain of the opinion that the correct fee was not clear. And, while the policy does cover 
disbursements, this is only when incurred by an authorised representative.
I therefore am still of the opinion that the refusal to pay Mr E £10,000 (or provide an 
assurance it would reimburse this sum) for unconfirmed disbursements for a litigant in 
person to issue proceedings was not unreasonable.
Mr Es submission that his cover was only withdrawn when the underwriters found out they 
would have to pay £10,000 in court fees in not borne out by the evidence. He also says the 
only reason the underwriters refused to pay this cost was to deliberately make his claim out 
of time. I do not agree that there is any evidence to support this. As set out in my provisional 
decision, the underwriters had no obligation to provide him with this payment in October 
2019 and while the claim was on the face of it accepted again in 2020, this was because of a 
misunderstanding and the handlers didnt realise that it was already time-barred. 
Opinion from panel solicitors
Mr E is also still adamant that the panel solicitor that provided advice in October 2019 
dishonestly changed his opinion. I am not persuaded the call between Mr E and the solicitor 
confirms that the solicitor was expressing a formal opinion that Mr Es case had reasonable 
prospects. It is clear in that call that the solicitor had not read everything at that point and 
was in effect saying that if the evidence confirmed what Mr E was alleging then that would 
be negligence. However, even if I am wrong about this, and the solicitor did change his mind 
when he came to write his opinion for whatever the reason, he was entitled to do so as this 
was his written opinion and there is no reason I can see why this should be disregarded. And 
the fact remains that the claim was already time-barred by then, so even if the solicitor did 
change his mind about the prospects of the legal case, it does not make a difference to the 
outcome of this claim or complaint. 
Claim against solicitors who acted for Mr E in 2013
Mr E says I have misrepresented the panel solicitors opinion regarding the solicitors that 
acted for him in the family proceedings. Mr E is adamant that the solicitor said they were 
negligent in not making sure certain witnesses were called to court to give evidence, so his 
barrister could cross-examine them. Mr E also says he has complained several times since 
2014 that only one paralegal was willing to talk to him in person about his case; and it is not 
possible for a solicitor to report on the case, without talking to him. 
I do not think it is necessary for me to establish which panel solicitors or their employees    
Mr E did or did not discuss his potential cases with. If they had felt the need to clarify any matters in the paperwork with Mr E, then it seems to me they would have done so. Not 
speaking to him does not mean their opinions should not be relied on. 
The panel solicitors advice regarding the potential claim against the barrister, made 
reference to the fact that he would only have been able to cross-examine witnesses that had 
been called to give evidence to the court and it was the solicitors that were acting for Mr E at 
the time that were responsible for deciding which witnesses to call. He did not state that the 
solicitors were wrong not to call the witnesses Mr E now says should have been there. And 
in any event, the solicitor notes that any claim against the solicitor is also time-barred. 
Therefore even if I am wrong in my reading of his advice, that does not change Mr Es 
position.  
Is his claim time-barred?
Mr E says an act of fraud on the part of the barrister that acted for him in 2013 and 
CAFCASS in 2019 (he alleges they removed and covered up evidence) starts the clock 
running again, so his claim is not time-barred. 
As stated in my provisional decision, the barrister that advised Mr E in a conference in 2020 
was certain the limitation date could not be extended, or re-wound: because we cannot 
overcome this Limitation Act hurdle then any claim will fail and therefore any discussion of 
negligence or causation (being the merits test) or quantum is academic because this is [a] 
claim that will not get off the ground because it is time barred.
While Mr E is convinced this is wrong, without any legal expert opinion to establish this is 
incorrect, I remain of the opinion that I do not consider the underwriters should provide any 
further legal funds for this potential claim, as it was time-barred with effect from October 
2019.  
Mr E is also adamant that the underwriters deliberately made sure his claim was time-
barred. For the reasons set out in my provisional decision and above, I do not agree. The 
underwriters acted as promptly as they reasonably could once they had received the opinion 
from Mr Es barrister that his claim had reasonable prospects of success. It also made clear 
to him that there would be issues with getting a solicitor to be able to issue proceedings in 
time and that he would therefore need to do this to protect his claim. Mr E was also well 
aware of this, having sought his own legal advice on this and been told it would be difficult to 
do. He also mentioned that he was out of the country and couldnt issue the proceedings 
himself.  
Should panel solicitors have reviewed the merits of his potential case against the 2013 
barrister?
Mr E says that having provided a favourable opinion from his barrister, the underwriters 
should have referred the claim for arbitration instead of asking its panel solicitors to review 
the merits again. 
The underwriters confirmed it accepted the claim in October 2019 and so referred it to panel 
solicitors to act for Mr E. They could not get a panel solicitor that could issue proceedings in 
time (and neither it seems could Mr E). 
The underwriters were not specifically referring the claim for further assessment at that 
stage, but any solicitor will carry out their own assessment on a case before proceedings 
with it and I am not therefore persuaded it was wrong for the solicitors to reach their own 
opinion on this case.  It would not be reasonable to expect solicitors to simply issue 
proceedings without doing their own assessment of the case.I also do not consider the underwriters should have referred the insurance claim to 
arbitration or obtained another barristers opinion at that stage. And, even if it should have 
done, I do not think it would have made any difference to the outcome of the claim or 
complaint, as it seems to me unlikely that either of these options would have reached a 
conclusion before the claim was time-barred. Overall, I do not consider that the underwriters 
could have done anything more in October and November 2019. 
Handling of the claim since 2013/2014 
Mr E says the underwriters have deliberately tried to avoid his claim since 2013/2014 and I 
have refused to consider this. 
As stated in my provisional decision, Mr E raised a number of specific issues in 2013 and 
2014, which I do not think are necessary for me to consider in order to fairly determine his 
complaint that the underwriters have wrongfully refused his claim since then. For the 
reasons set out above, I remain of the opinion that there is no evidence that the underwriters 
wrongfully refused his claim and have not considered his claim fairly and reasonably 
according to the terms of the policy throughout. 
Barristers fees
I agreed with Mr E in my provisional decision that the underwriters should have reimbursed 
his barristers fees sooner than it did. It had said in October 2019 that they would not 
reimburse the fees because they didnt think they had established Mr E had a valid claim. 
I do not agree this was fair. I said that the underwriters had explained that if he could provide 
proof he had submitted the invoice earlier than 2020, then it would agree to pay interest. I 
did not agree this was reasonable. To the contrary, I concluded that they should pay interest 
from the date Mr E paid his barristers fees for those opinions. The underwriters are entitled 
to proof of when they were paid but I agreed and accepted that it should have reimbursed    
Mr E for this sooner.
 
The underwriters do not agree that interest should be paid, as it says it paid the invoice as 
soon as it was received in 2020. However, it was aware of the fees in 2019 and the refusal 
to pay them then was not reasonable. I therefore remain of the opinion that interest should 
be paid on the fees from the date Mr E paid them to the date of reimbursement.  
Other matters
Mr E has also said I have not used the names of the solicitors firms involved in order to 
deliberately be confusing. This is not true. As all our decisions are published we anonymise 
the details of any other party involved, other than the name of the respondent firm and the 
deciding ombudsman. I have tried to set out my decision as clearly as possible, which has 
been challenging given the long history and the large amount of information that needed to 
be considered. 
Mr E has also repeatedly said it was not the underwriters that refused the claim and were not 
making the decisions on his case but an individual claims-handler. I set out at the outset of 
my provisional decision that the claims handlers act on behalf of the underwriters. 
Mr E also says again that the underwriters refused to provide him with a list of contact 
names and email addresses which has prevented him from creating a file for himself. I did 
not think it was unreasonable for it to decline to do this and am still of this opinion. Mr E also said the underwriters had not made reasonable adjustments in the way it wrote to 
him (by email and hard copy) and have victimised him by changing claims-handlers. I am not 
persuaded by this. It is almost inevitable that there will be a change of personnel during the 
course of a claim and I cannot see any evidence that the underwriters have treated him 
unfairly in this regard. They accepted they had not always written to him in the way he had 
asked but it has now put those adjustments in place, so I do not consider I need to take this 
point any further.  
My final decision
I uphold this complaint in part and require certain underwriters at Society of Lloyds to pay   
Mr E:
1. the sum of £800 compensation for the distress and inconvenience caused by its 
handling of his claim; and
2. interest at 8% simple per annum on the barristers fees from 2019, from the date 
Mr E paid the fees to the date of reimbursement, subject to appropriate proof of 
payment.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr E to accept or 
reject my decision before 19 April 2022.
 
Harriet McCarthy
Ombudsman