DRN-2918403
The complaint
Mr R complains about the advice given by CST Wealth Management Limited (CST) to 
transfer out of the British Steel Pension Scheme (BSPS) and invest the funds in a personal 
pension. He says the advice was unsuitable for him which has resulted in him suffering a 
financial loss.
What happened
In March 2016, Mr Rs employer announced that it would be examining options to restructure 
its business including decoupling the BSPS from the company. The consultation with 
members referred to possible outcomes regarding their preserved benefits, which included 
transferring the scheme to the Pension Protection Fund (PPF), or a new defined-benefit 
scheme (BSPS2). Alternatively, members were informed they could transfer their benefits 
to a private pension arrangement.
Mr R was concerned about what the announcement by his employer meant for the security 
of the defined benefits he held in the BSPS. As Mr R was unsure about what to do with his 
pension he approached CST for advice in September 2017, having already met with another 
firm previously.
In November 2017 CST advised Mr R to transfer out of the BSPS to a self-invested personal 
pension (SIPP). It recommended he invest the funds with a discretionary fund manager 
(DFM). £474,713.20 was transferred to Mr Rs SIPP in March 2018 and after the initial 
adviser fee was taken, the remainder was invested by the DFM.
Mr R complained, via a representative, in 2019. He thought the advice to transfer out of the 
BSPS was unsuitable for him as he would be worse off in retirement and the new 
arrangement was expensive. 
CST didnt uphold the complaint. It thought the advice was suitable for Mr R as hed said he 
wanted to retire at 55 and it believed he couldve only met this objectives by transferring out 
of the BSPS. Transferring out wouldve meant he could take higher tax-free cash (TFC) at 
55 to clear some of his debts and he would be able to take a higher income until age 67, 
when his state pension became payable. CST says Mr R couldnt have achieved this 
through the BSPS2 or the PPF.
Mr R referred his complaint to our service. He disputed that he had a genuine plan to retire 
early.
Our investigator agreed that Mr Rs objectives could only have been met by transferring out 
of the BSPS. But he didnt think the advice about how to invest Mr Rs funds was suitable as 
the SIPP and the DFMs charges were excessive and he wasnt persuaded that Mr R 
needed the expertise or complexity of a DFM. The investigator recommended that Mr R 
should be compensated by comparing his actual position with a benchmark in line with his 
attitude to risk, and paying him the difference.
CST didnt agree. It said the SIPP wasnt expensive and it thought Mr R couldve benefited  
from the use of a DFM. It pointed to Mr Rs ongoing correspondence with it in 2018 and 
2019, showing Mr R took an active role in managing his investments. It said he wouldnt 
have been able to have this kind of say in his investments if his funds had been invested in 
mainstream funds as suggested by the investigator. The investigator didnt change his 
opinion so the complaint was referred to me to make a final decision.
After reviewing the file, I informed CST that I was intending to depart from the investigators 
findings. On balance, I didnt think the advice to transfer out of the BSPS was suitable for 
Mr R. I thought Mr R probably intended to retire at 55. So, I thought he shouldve been 
advised to remain in the scheme and move with it to the PPF. This was because I thought 
Mr R would be able to clear his residential mortgage and meet his ongoing income 
requirements through his PPF entitlement, until his state pension became payable. I thought 
Mr R should be compensated using the regulator's defined benefits pension transfer redress 
methodology, explaining it was the benefits offered by the PPF which should be used for 
comparison purposes. I later informed both parties of a change to the redress calculation, 
which takes account of the impact of the BSPS trustees buying an insurance policy as part 
of the process of the pension scheme exiting its PPF assessment and completing a buy-out.
CST didnt agree with my provisional findings. It said Mr R had a number of debts that 
needed to be repaid, and the TFC available under the PPF wasnt enough to clear them all. 
So, it said some of these debts would be ongoing in retirement and Mr and Mrs Rs 
combined pension income wouldnt be sufficient to meet their household expenses and 
service their debts. It reiterated that Mr Rs needs could only be met by transferring out of 
the BSPS and it thought he would be better off by doing so. CST also thought that not 
enough consideration had been given to Mr Rs clear need for flexibility. It said Mr R wanted 
as much money available to him in the early years of his retirement so that he and his wife 
could enjoy it, before Mrs Rs health condition deteriorated. Finally CST added that Mr R 
should be required to purchase an annuity to replace the benefits he lost  and if he didnt 
want to do this, it would demonstrate that his complaint was simply an attempt to enhance 
his pension fund.
As CST did not agree to settle the complaint, Im now providing my final decision on the 
matter.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im upholding this complaint. I have taken CSTs detailed objections into 
consideration, but overall, I still dont think the advice to transfer out of the BSPS was 
suitable for Mr R. Ill explain why.
The regulator, the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA), states in its Conduct of Business 
Sourcebook (COBS) that the starting assumption for a transfer from a defined-benefit 
scheme is that it is unsuitable. So, CST should have only considered a transfer if they could 
clearly demonstrate that the transfer was in Mr Rs best interests (COBS 19.1.6). And having 
looked at all the evidence available, Im not satisfied the transfer was in his best interest. Ill 
explain why.Financial viability
Mr R was aged 49 at the time of CSTs advice, which was given based on his stated desire 
to retire at age 55. Mr R argues that he didn't actually intend to retire at 55, instead he says 
he hoped to retire from his role at the steel works at 55 and continue working until 60 or 65 
as a property developer. But based on what I've seen, I think Mr R probably did want to 
retire fully at 55. There was a lot of emphasis in the fact-finds completed at the time on his 
wife's deteriorating health, which meant she was likely to retire when she reached age 55 (in 
April 2024). Mr R said he wanted to retire at the same time as Mrs R so they could enjoy the 
early years of their retirement together before her health condition got worse. There isnt any 
mention of Mr R becoming a property developer or working in any other capacity after he 
retired from the steel works. So, when considering whether the transfer of benefits was 
financially viable, its the benefits available to Mr R at 55 under the BSPS2 and the PPF that 
should be used for comparison purposes.
The advice was given during the period when the Financial Ombudsman Service was 
publishing 'discount rates' on our website for use in loss assessments where a complaint 
about a past pension transfer was being upheld. Whilst businesses weren't required to refer 
to these rates when giving advice on pension transfers, I consider they provide a useful 
indication of what growth rates would have been considered reasonably achievable when 
the advice was given in this case.
CST carried out a transfer value analysis report (TVAS) showing the growth Mr Rs fund 
would need to achieve in order to match the benefits he could obtain through the BSPS2. 
The investment return (critical yield) required to match the BSPS2 pension at age 55 was 
quoted as 11.41% per year if no TFC was taken. The critical yield required if Mr R took TFC 
and a reduced pension was 8.7%. The critical yield to match the benefits available if Mr R 
remained with the BSPS and moved with it to the PPF was 8.26%% without taking TFC, and 
7.65% with TFC and a reduced pension.
The relevant discount rate published by the Financial Ombudsman Service at the time the 
advice was given was 3.3% per year for 6 years to retirement. For further comparison, the 
FCA's upper projection rate at the time was 8%, the middle projection rate 5%, and the lower 
projection rate 2% per year.
Even taking the lowest critical yield here (7.65%), which was a comparison to the PPF at age 
55 if Mr R took TFC and a reduced pension, its highly unlikely Mr R couldve matched, let 
alone exceeded the benefits available to him through his SIPP if he was invested in line with 
the cautious strategy as suggested by CST. Although I appreciate that Mr Rs attitude to risk 
was assessed as being highest-medium, CST noted Mr Rs capacity for loss was lower, so 
it recommended a cautious approach with his BSPS benefits. I agree that it would be fair to 
categorise Mr Rs attitude to risk was medium at most. So, taking Mr Rs attitude to risk into 
account, I think a return of 7.65% was very unlikely. So, I still dont think he wouldve likely 
been able to match or exceed the benefits available to him through the PPF if he transferred 
out of the BSPS.
However, CST has said that the portfolio it recommended with D had an average return (net 
of fees) of 7%. So, it doesnt think it is necessarily true that Mr R would be worse off 
financially by transferring out of the BSPS. And in any event, CST says that analysis of the 
critical yield should not be the primary focus of advising on defined-benefit pension 
schemes. It says the cash flow models demonstrate that Mr R could meet his income needs 
by transferring to a personal pension, and a net return of 3% would see him be able to match 
the income the BSPS2 would provide him with.Ive considered CSTs cash flow model but this was based on Mr R taking a much reduced 
pension from the SIPP at age 67, so it wasnt a like for like comparison with the total income 
hed receive through either the BSPS2 or the PPF. It was also based on assumed growth 
rates that had been achieved in the past. And as CST will know, past performance is no 
guarantee for future performance and so I consider the discount rates and the regulators 
standard projections to be more realistic in this regard in the long term rather than projecting 
historic returns forward, particularly over such a long period of time.
With regard to the model showing that only a 3% net return would be sufficient to produce a 
fund big enough to provide the same escalating income to Mr R from age 55, I note that this 
was based on the BSPS2 benefits. I think this ought to have been based on the PPF 
benefits instead because the early retirement reductions were far more favourable at 55  
Mr R wouldve been entitled to higher TFC and a higher starting pension. So, I think returns 
of more than 3% wouldve been needed. Also, this was a net figure, so higher growth also 
wouldve been needed to cover the cost of fees and ongoing advice charges. 
Furthermore, this fund was only based on providing Mr R with an income. But the guidance 
under COBS 19.1.3 states that the comparison undertaken by CST should:
1) take into account all of the retail client's relevant circumstances;
2) have regard to the benefits and options available under the ceding scheme and the 
effect of replacing them with the benefits and options under the proposed scheme;
3) explain the assumptions on which it is based and the rates of return that would have 
to be achieved to replicate the benefits being given up; and
4) be illustrated on rates of return which take into account the likely expected returns of 
the assets in which the retail client's funds will be invested
This model didnt replicate the cost of the benefits Mr R was giving up  it didnt provide for 
an escalating spouses pension  which it was the regulator required. So, I think this 
undermined the comparison the regulator asked it to give Mr R (the critical yields) and I think 
it wouldve made it harder for Mr R to understand whether or not hed be better off remaining 
in the BSPS. 
Overall, Im satisfied that by transferring his pension it was very unlikely Mr Rs benefits 
would match, let alone exceed his existing benefits in the BSPS. Instead there was a real 
risk he would be worse off in retirement, particularly if investment returns were poor. So 
based on the above alone, a transfer wasnt in Mr Rs best interest. 
Nevertheless, financial viability isnt the only consideration when giving transfer advice. 
There might be other considerations which mean a transfer is suitable, as CST has argued 
here, despite providing overall lower benefits. Ive considered these below.
Access to TFC
CST says Mr R needed flexibility in his pension as at 55 he needed the maximum TFC 
available so he could pay off his residential mortgage, and pay down as much of the 
remaining buy-to-let (BTL) mortgages he and his wife had. CST says Mr R couldve only 
achieved this by transferring his BSPS funds to a SIPP as the TFC available through the 
BSPS2 or the PPF wasnt sufficient.
But Mr R says that the BTL mortgages were not a financial burden  the rent received on 
property A was sufficient to repay the interest-only BTL mortgages on property A and 
property B (where Mrs Rs parents resided rent-free). Furthermore, Mr R said they wanted to 
downsize so were open to selling their residential property. In fact, they had bought a 
cottage (property C) and attempted to sell their residential home before taking advice from CST  but as this didnt sell, they intended to sell property C instead. The sale went through 
in 2018. So, Mr R says that CST was aware that Mr and Mrs R were looking to downsize in 
future if possible, and Mr R says they were also open to selling property A if they needed the 
money. 
Ive considered the information provided by CST from the time, including the fact-finds and 
suitability report, as well as the final response letter, which includes additional details from 
the time that doesnt appear in the other evidence provided.
Mr Rs residential mortgage had a balance of around £147,000 at the time of the advice, 
which (based on the calculations provided by CST) would have a balance of around 
£101,648 when Mr R reached age 55. However, I think that it's important to note here that 
Mr R's motivation was to retire at the same time as Mrs R. At the time, it seems Mr R 
thought it likely that she would retire at age 55 - in April 2024 - however, I think we must also 
bear in mind the possibility that Mrs R would continue working beyond that age, after all, it 
was dependent on her state of health. So, the earliest I think Mr R wanted to retire was in 
April 2024, by which time the balance of the mortgage would have reduced to £98,512.68, 
according to the loan calculator provided by CST. And, if Mrs R had continued working 
beyond then, it would have been less.
As I think Mr R probably did hope to retire fully around age 55, I agree that he wouldve 
needed access to TFC to repay his residential mortgage  this was Mr and Mrs Rs largest 
monthly commitment. However, Im not persuaded that Mr R needed to repay or part-repay 
the two BTLs that they still expected to have in 2024  property A and property B.
Mr R provided evidence showing that he received £500 per month in rent for property A in 
2017. Having considered the figures CST provided in relation to the mortgages for property 
A and property B, Im satisfied that the rent received was enough to cover both interest-only 
mortgages, which had annual repayments of £2,119.66 and £1,536 respectively in 2018. 
And Im satisfied that the mortgage on property B was of no concern because it was not 
repayable until 2033 and the plan was to sell this when Mrs Rs parents died.
However, CST says that Mr and Mrs R incurred significant additional costs in respect of 
property A in the financial years ending 2018 (£3,430) and 2019 (£4,838), which had to be 
borne in mind at the time of the advice. It said the rental income alone wasnt sufficient to 
cover both mortgage repayments and the extra costs associated with maintaining the 
property.
But I think Mr R was always open to selling Property A if it no longer made financial sense to 
keep it. It is noted in CSTs final response letter that if his pension lump sum was not 
sufficient to clear all of his loans ahead of retirement then he would consider selling one of 
his BTLs (which could only have been property A). This wouldve made some extra capital 
available to continue funding the mortgage for property B. Furthermore, it seems likely to me 
that if he still owned property A in 2024 when he sought to retire, the rent would have been 
increased over time. Indeed, that option was always available to Mr R to help cover the 
ongoing costs. So, Im still not persuaded that repaying the mortgages on property A or 
property B at age 55 were objectives which had to be met and which justified Mr R risking 
lower retirement benefits.
So, Ive considered what funds couldve been available to Mr R to meet his need to repay his 
residential mortgage. Mr R wouldve been entitled to the following benefits at age 55:
PPF entitlement: TFC of £84,138.94 and an annual pension of £12,651.36
BSPS2 entitlement: TFC of £76,409.23 and an annual pension of £11,461.38Mr R was also paying into his employers new defined contribution scheme (DCS)  CST 
forecasted that Mr R could have a fund of around £53,700 at age 55, meaning hed have 
access to TFC of £13,425. Mrs R was also entitled to TFC of £32,740 from her occupational 
pension scheme (OPS).
It is evident that the PPF provided Mr R with higher benefits at 55 than the BSPS2, so I think 
it is these benefits that I should use to determine whether Mr R needed to transfer to a 
personal arrangement to meet his needs. Mr and Mrs R wouldve had a total of at least 
£130,303.94 available to them in April 2024 when they both thought they would retire. I say 
at least, because the retirement date for each of them was dependent on Mrs Rs health so 
its possible they wouldve continued to work beyond this. So, I think Mr and Mrs R had 
ample cash available to them to repay their residential mortgage if they still needed to and 
hadnt downsized by then. For this reason, I dont think Mr R needed to transfer out to meet 
his need for TFC. After repaying the mortgage, Mr and Mrs R would have had around 
£30,000 remaining.
Income requirements
One of CSTs main arguments in support of its recommendation to transfer was that Mr R 
could not have met his income needs between the ages of 55 and 67 (when his state 
pension became payable) if he remained with the scheme and moved with it to the PPF. And 
there has been much dispute over how much income Mr and Mrs R actually required during 
this time. Mr R says he thought they would need around £20,000 to £25,000 per year if their 
mortgage was cleared. Whereas CST says that in fact they told CST they required £21,600 
(net) for lifestyle needs alone, which would mean around £23,000 (net) in 2023/2024. This 
didnt include servicing the debts that would remain at the time. So, CST says that in reality, 
at age 55 Mr and Mrs R would need access to at least £26,000 (net) per year. CST 
maintains that this would not have been achievable if Mr R allowed his pension to move to 
the PPF.
Based on the information provided, at the time of the advice, Mr and Mrs R had the following 
debts:
Capital remaining Monthly repayment Repayment date
Residential mortgage £147,000 £743 2036
Property A mortgage £64,000 £138.13 2035
Property B mortgage £63,347 £126.17 2033
Car finance £13,000 (estimated) £269.50 2021
Loan with Bank T £14,000 £187.34 May 2024
Loan with Bank T (Mrs R) £15,000 £149.98 August 2025
Loan with Bank S £10,000 £237.38 May 2021
When Mr R was likely to retire in April 2024, his residential mortgage would be repaid using 
his and Mrs Rs TFC entitlement. The mortgage on property A was covered by the rental 
income, and I think this wouldve likely covered the mortgage on property B, as Ive said 
above.
I also note that by April 2024 most of the loans would have been repaid. This would leave 
only one repayment on Mr R's loan with Bank T and around £2,400 left to repay on Mrs R's 
loan with Bank T. Mr R tells us that this loan was taken for the benefit of his daughter and 
was repaid early. Although repaying any of the above loans before their end dates was a 
possibility, I dont think it is reasonable to expect CST have made an allowance for this at the 
time of the advice. So, I think its fair to say that CST would have needed to factor in the 
£149.98 repayment into their income needs. For the sake of argument, allowing for the possibility of property A having been sold, or the rental income not being sufficient to cover 
the mortgage on property B, I think CST couldve reasonably factored in the mortgage 
repayments on property B to their income needs as well.
However, I dont think it is fair or reasonable for CST to assume that Mr and Mrs R would 
have an ongoing repayment towards car finance throughout their retirement. Mr R has told 
us that when his car finance ended in 2021, they traded in their car for a new one, with the 
finance repayments due until October 2023. Mr R says he has no intention to take any car 
finance beyond this. And this is reflected in CSTs data capture form  car finance was not 
an anticipated monthly expense in retirement.
While I agree with CST that Mr and Mrs Rs new car was unlikely to last for the remainder of 
their lives, I wouldnt expect anyone in retirement to take on unnecessary debt, particularly 
as they were no longer working and so no longer commuted. If Mr and Mrs R did need a new 
car, I think this was likely to be much further in the future, and most likely when their state 
pensions had become payable. At this point, they wouldve had capacity to take on 
additional debt if they wanted to given their increased incomes.
So, based on all of the above, I think Mr and Mrs R would need additional income of £276.15 
per month until August 2025, and then £126.17 per month thereafter. But given that the 
repayment for the loan with Bank T would only have around 16 months left, and may have 
been cleared by then, for the purpose of this decision, I think its fair to only include the 
mortgage repayment for property B as an ongoing expense.
I am prepared to accept CSTs belief that Mr and Mrs R required £1,800 per month for their 
other expenses, so this takes their income needs in retirement to around £1,930 per month 
or £23,160 (net). Adjusted for inflation, this would equal £26,900.
Mr Rs PPF entitlement at 55 was £12,651 and Mrs R was entitled to £10,913 from her OPS. 
So, between them they had guaranteed escalating income of £23,564 per year. This left a 
shortfall of around £3,400 per year. As Ive said above, Mr and Mrs R wouldve also had 
around £30,000 remaining from their combined TFC entitlements (including the TFC 
available to Mr R through his DCS) after the residential mortgage had been cleared. So, 
I think this could've been used to supplement any income needs they had above their 
guaranteed income streams until they were in receipt of their state pensions. Mr R could've 
also drawn down the remaining funds in his DCS during this time (around £32,000 after tax) 
if required.
There is also some dispute as to whether Mr and Mrs R wouldve been able to save between 
the time of the advice and their retirement. CST says that this wasnt likely, because Mr and 
Mrs R hadnt been able to save up to that point. But this directly contradicts the cash flow 
report it produced, which factored in Mr R saving £10,000 per year. And based on what Ive 
seen, I think Mr and Mrs R did have the capacity to save. Their combined income was 
around £4,400 (net), compared to monthly expenses of around £3,200. Some of the loans 
would also be repaid during this time, freeing up additional income. So, I think Mr and Mrs R 
had capacity to save and so also wouldve been able to count on these funds to supplement 
their income in the early years of their retirement. 
CST says that the income Mr and Mrs R would have if Mr R moved with the scheme to the 
PPF wouldnt leave them with much to enjoy the early years of their retirement, which is 
what Mr R wanted. But Im satisfied that this was factored into their anticipated retirement 
income in CSTs data capture form. This included increased spending on holidays, 
socialising/entertainment and meals out.So, on balance, I think Mr and Mrs M couldve met their income needs in retirement between 
them if Mr R had remained in the BSPS and moved with it to the PPF. My key concern here 
is this wasnt explored with Mr R in any meaningful way. Instead, he was led to believe that 
he could only meet his income and capital requirements by transferring to a SIPP.
Concerns about financial stability of BSPS
Mr R approached CST as he was concerned about his BSPS pension. CSTs fact-find states 
that Mr R was concerned about the PPF and he wanted to have control of his pension. 
CSTs suitability report further stated that Mr R wanted to break ties with his employer.
I accept that Mr R came to CST leaning towards the decision to transfer. However, it was 
CSTs obligation to give Mr R an objective picture and recommend what was in his best 
interests. Mr R, like many of his colleagues, was concerned about the BSPS moving to the 
PPF. But the PPF provided guaranteed benefits that were still very valuable and difficult to 
replicate elsewhere. From what Ive seen, CST didnt challenge Mr Rs preconceived ideas 
about the PPF. And I dont think CST provided Mr R with an objective picture about the PPF 
and what this might mean for him specifically.
Mr R was clearly interested in retiring early and this was still possible in the PPF. In fact, the 
early retirement reductions were lower in the PPF than in the BSPS. I dont think this was 
shared with Mr R in an objective way, instead, CST focused on the reduction of benefits for 
retiring early and emphasised that Mr R would not need to take reduced benefits from a 
personal pension. However, as the figures above show, even if Mr R retired early as 
planned, Mr R was still likely to be better off overall by not transferring and he would be able 
to meet his income needs without having to give up the associated guarantees. I cant see 
that this was properly explained to him.
Mr R also had some concerns about his employer generally. And I dont think CST explained 
that his scheme benefits entering the PPF removed his pension from his employers control. 
It seems to me that an explanation along those lines wouldve gone some way to reassuring 
Mr R about his concerns. 
Overall, I dont think CST did much to alleviate Mr Rs concerns and fears. Instead, it 
appears to have used these concerns to justify the transfer.
Death Benefits
CST says Mr R wanted to ensure he could pass on whatever was remaining of his pension 
to his wife and daughter upon his death. 
Death benefits are an emotive subject and of course when asked, most people would like 
their loved ones to be taken care of when they die. And Im sure that the idea of leaving a 
large sum to his children in the event of his death sounded attractive to Mr R. But whilst 
I appreciate death benefits are important to consumers, and Mr R might have thought it was 
a good idea to transfer his BSPS benefits because of this, the priority here was to advise 
Mr R about what was best for his retirement provisions. A pension is primarily designed to 
provide income in retirement. And I dont think CST explored to what extent Mr R was 
prepared to accept a lower retirement income in exchange for higher death benefits.
I also think the existing death benefits with PPF were underplayed. Mrs R was entitled to 
50% spouses pension for life which would have been very valuable if Mr R predeceased 
her. Also, Mr R had generous death in service cover if he died before retirement and he had 
extra life insurance covering his mortgage. I cant see that the value of these benefits were 
explained to Mr R in a balanced way.Furthermore, if Mr R genuinely wanted to leave a legacy for his wife or daughter, which 
didnt depend on investment returns or how much of his pension fund remained on his death, 
I think CST couldve explored extra life insurance. Alternatively, Mr and Mrs R couldve made 
provisions for this by reinvesting any excess income that wasnt needed after their state 
pension became payable. This couldve been placed in trust to mitigate, as far as possible, 
any inheritance tax liability they would have on their death.
Overall, I dont think different death benefits available through a transfer to a personal 
pension justified the likely decrease of retirement benefits for Mr R. And I dont think that 
insurance or alternative investments were properly explored as an alternative.
Summary
I accept that Mr R was attracted by the idea of transferring. And I dont doubt that flexibility, 
control and higher death benefits would have sounded like attractive features. But CST 
wasnt there to just transact what Mr R might have thought he wanted. The advisers role 
was to really understand what Mr R needed and recommend what was in his best interests.
Ultimately, I dont think the advice given to Mr R was suitable. He was giving up a 
guaranteed, risk-free and increasing income. By transferring, he was risking obtaining lower 
retirement benefits and in my view, there were no other particular reasons which would 
justify a transfer and outweigh this. And I dont think his options with regards to his BSPS 
benefits were properly explored.
I appreciate that at the time the advice was given there was a lot of uncertainty around the 
pension scheme and Ive fully taken into account that Mr R was likely keen to transfer out as 
he was worried about his pension and colleagues were telling him this was a good idea. 
However, it was the advisers responsibility to objectively weigh up the options for Mr R. He 
should have advised him what was best for his circumstances and explained what he was 
giving up in the BSPS and that moving to the PPF was not as concerning as he thought. For 
the reasons given above I think this advice should have been to remain in the BSPS and 
move with the scheme to the PPF. I say this because Mr R needed to take TFC and income 
at 55, and his entitlement through the PPF was higher than through the BSPS2.
Of course, I have to consider whether Mr R would've gone ahead anyway, against CST's 
advice. CST suggested that Mr R had already been advised not to transfer out of the BSPS, 
but Mr R chose not to follow this advice and engaged the services of CST. It says this 
supports that Mr R was determined to transfer out of the BSPS regardless of the advice 
provided. I can't see any evidence to support this and Mr R has said although he did speak 
to another IFA, he didn't receive advice from them. But even if Mr R had received advice 
from another firm not to transfer before meeting with CST, if CST had also advised him 
against transferring, he would have had two independent parties telling him not to proceed. 
And I think its likely he would have accepted this.
I've also considered the content of the emails Mr R sent to CST in 2017. CST says this 
shows Mr R was intent on transferring away from the BSPS regardless  he wanted to sign 
papers before the advice was given. I accept that these emails show Mr R was motivated to 
transfer away from the BSPS. But in my view, that was based on the general fear about the 
alternatives going around at his workplace and the short time members had to make their 
choices. It was the role of CST's adviser to 'bust the myths' surrounding the scheme and his 
options. At that point, Mr R didn't know that he would still be better off financially in the PPF 
than if he transferred to a SIPP. He was of the impression that the scheme entering the PPF 
was the worst possible scenario. And I don't think CST did anything to dispel those myths. In 
my view, it ought to have emphasised that this would still be a good outcome for Mr R and it should've emphasised the value of defined benefits over any other type of pension, which 
subjected the funds to investment risk.
Ultimately I haven't seen any evidence to persuade me that Mr R would've gone against 
CST's advice. I accept he had serious concerns about the situation he faced. But Mr R was 
an inexperienced investor and he was concerned about the security of his pension; this 
pension made up a significant part of his retirement provision. So, I think clear advice 
against transferring out, explaining that Mr R would be worse off in retirement if he did so 
and that he could still meet his needs through the PPF without any of the risk, would've 
persuaded him against this course of action. And had he been given reassurance about the 
reality of the options he had, I think he would've accepted the advice, remained in the 
scheme and moved with it to the PPF instead.
So, overall, I think CST should compensate Mr R for the unsuitable advice, using the 
regulator's defined benefits pension transfer redress methodology. And as per the above, it 
is the benefits available to him through the PPF that should be used for comparison 
purposes.
CST argues that Mr R should be compelled to purchase an annuity  it believes he would 
turn this down, thereby demonstrating his desire for flexibility. It is evident that Mr R will 
benefit from flexibility by virtue of the position hes in now, but that has only arisen because 
of the unsuitable advice. And ultimately the regulator has set out what it deems to be 
appropriate redress to put right instances of unsuitable defined benefit pension transfer 
advice. And I see no reason to depart from this in the circumstances of this complaint.
CST has also said that since the advice, Mr R has deviated from its investment advice. It 
says that if Mr R had continued to follow its investment recommendations his fund would 
have grown significantly, such that it believes there wouldnt be any financial loss.
I've taken this on board, but the redress calculation cannot be based on CST's projections of 
what Mr Rs fund could be worth now. The regulators redress requires CST to compare the 
actual position. I appreciate that Mr R has made different investment decisions since CST's 
advice and that may have reduced the value of his pension. But Mr R is only in this position 
because of the unsuitable advice. If he had been advised to remain in the BSPS and move 
with the scheme to the PPF, he wouldn't have been in a position to make those decisions.
Putting things right
A fair and reasonable outcome would be for CST to put Mr R, as far as possible, into the 
position he would now be in but for the unsuitable advice. I consider Mr R would have 
remained a member of the BSPS and subsequently moved with it to the PPF. So 
calculations should be undertaken on this assumption.
CST must undertake a redress calculation in line with the regulators pension review 
guidance as updated by the Financial Conduct Authority in its Finalised Guidance 17/9: 
Guidance for firms on how to calculate redress for unsuitable DB pension transfers.
For clarity, although Mr R thought he would retire early, he is still working now and has no 
plans to retire at present. So, compensation should be based on his normal retirement age 
of 65, as per the usual assumptions in the FCA's guidance.
This calculation should be carried out as at the date of my final decision, and using the most 
recent financial assumptions at the date of that decision. In accordance with the regulators 
expectations, this should be undertaken or submitted to an appropriate provider promptly 
following receipt of notification of Mr R's acceptance of the decision.CST may wish to contact the Department for Work and Pensions (DWP) to obtain Mr Rs 
contribution history to the State Earnings Related Pension Scheme (SERPS or S2P). These 
details should then be used to include a SERPS adjustment in the calculation, which will 
take into account the impact of leaving the occupational scheme on Mr R's SERPS/S2P 
entitlement.
If the redress calculation demonstrates a loss, the compensation should if possible be paid 
into Mr Rs pension plan. The payment should allow for the effect of charges and any 
available tax relief. The compensation shouldnt be paid into the pension plan if it would 
conflict with any existing protection or allowance.
If a payment into the pension isnt possible or has protection or allowance implications, it 
should be paid directly to Mr R as a lump sum after making a notional deduction to allow for 
income tax that would otherwise have been paid. Typically, 25% of the loss could have been 
taken as tax-free cash and 75% would have been taxed according to his likely income tax 
rate in retirement  presumed to be 20%. So making a notional deduction of 15% overall 
from the loss adequately reflects this.
The compensation amount must where possible be paid to Mr R within 90 days of the date 
CST receives notification of his acceptance of my final decision. Further interest must be 
added to the compensation amount at the rate of 8% per year simple from the date of my 
final decision to the date of settlement for any time, in excess of 90 days, that it takes CST to 
pay Mr R.
Its possible that data gathering for a SERPS adjustment may mean that the actual time 
taken to settle goes beyond the 90 day period allowed for settlement above  and so any 
period of time where the only outstanding item required to undertake the calculation is data 
from DWP may be added to the 90 day period in which interest wont apply. 
Additional compensation
In October 2020, due to an improved funding position, the BSPS trustees bought an 
insurance policy as part of the process of the pension scheme exiting its PPF assessment 
and completing a buy-out. Pension Insurance Corporation plc (PIC) will become responsible 
for paying benefits directly to members. The process of the buy-out is currently expected to 
be complete by late summer 2022. 
 
It's been announced that:
 
When the buy-out happens all members whose PPF benefits are less than their full Scheme 
benefits (i.e. the amount they would be if the Scheme were not in a PPF assessment period) 
will see an increase to their benefits. All other members will see no change as a result of the 
buy-out. 
 
For most members, PPF level benefits are less than full Scheme benefits. When the buyout 
happens, these members will see an increase to their current level of benefits so they will 
receive more than PPF levels. All other members will see no change to their current level of 
benefits as a result of the buy-out.
 
The amounts of possible increases are yet unknown. The scheme expects to be able to 
have information on this by late summer 2022.  Mr R would possibly have been entitled to an 
increase in benefits after the buy-out if he had been in the PPF. So, I think its fair any such 
increases are taken into account when compensating Mr R.I dont think its reasonable for CST to delay the compensation calculation in its entirety until 
the buy-out is completed. Although it is expected to happen in late summer 2022, Im 
conscious that this could be delayed further due to its complexity. To give some certainty to 
the parties, I think its fair CST calculates and pays Mr R compensation now as set out 
above comparing his existing benefits with the PPF. Once the buy-out is completed and 
more detailed information is available how exactly PPF benefits will increase, CST should do 
a second calculation in line with the latest FCA guidance on DB transfer redress applicable 
at the time. They should base their calculations on the benefits Mr R would have been 
entitled to after the buy-out. 
This calculation should be done as soon as possible after the new buy-out benefits are 
known. CST should keep up to date with developments on this matter, for example any 
information published on www.oldbritishsteelpension.co.uk. Equally, if Mr R becomes 
aware further information is available, he should let CST know. If the second calculation 
results in a higher redress amount than the first calculation, CST must pay Mr R the 
difference. If the second calculation results in the same or a lower redress amount than the 
first calculation, no further action should be taken.
The compensation amount of the second calculation must where possible be paid to Mr 
R within 90 days of the date a public announcement is made that the buy-out has completed. 
Further interest must be added to the compensation amount at the rate of 8% per year 
simple from the announcement to the date of settlement for any time, in excess of 90 days, 
that it takes CST to pay Mr R.
Where I uphold a complaint, I can award fair compensation of up to £160,000, plus any
interest and/or costs that I consider are appropriate. Where I consider that fair compensation
requires payment of an amount that might exceed £160,000, I may recommend that the
business pays the balance.
My final decision
Determination and money award: I uphold this complaint and require CST Wealth 
Management Limited to pay Mr R the compensation amount as set out in the steps above, 
up to a maximum of £160,000.
Where the compensation amount does not exceed £160,000, I would additionally require
CST Wealth Management Limited to pay Mr R any interest on that amount in full, as set out 
above.
Where the compensation amount already exceeds £160,000, I would only require CST 
Wealth Management Limited to pay Mr R any interest as set out above on the sum of 
£160,000.
Recommendation: If the compensation amount exceeds £160,000, I also recommend that
CST Wealth Management Limited pays Mr R the balance. I would additionally recommend 
any interest calculated as set out above on this balance to be paid to Mr R.
If Mr R accepts this decision, the money award becomes binding on CST Wealth 
Management Limited. My recommendation would not be binding. Further, its unlikely that
Mr R can accept my decision and go to court to ask for the balance. Mr R may want to
consider getting independent legal advice before deciding whether to accept any final
decision.
CST Wealth Management Limited should provide details of its calculations to Mr R and his representative in a clear, simple format.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision before 22 April 2022.
 
Hannah Wise
Ombudsman