DRN-4225599
The complaint
Mr and Mrs R are represented by K, a law firm. They complain that Allianz Insurance Plc has
declined their claim for water damage to their commercial let property. The claim was dealt
with by loss adjusters although for convenience I shall refer to Allianz throughout, unless I 
say otherwise.
What happened
In June 2016 Mr and Mrs Rs broker reported a claim to Allianz in respect of water damage
to their property. The property was insured under a perils based policy i.e. the property was
insured against the perils (e.g. storm, accidental damage etc) listed under the Property
Damage section of the policy. There were two separate areas of damage, caused by water
coming into the property from different places. These were to the first and second floors, and
to the basement and lift shaft/machinery. Its unclear exactly when each incident of damage
took place. Mr R says both took place in early April 2016.
Allianz sent loss adjusters out to inspect the damage in late July 2016. Following that visit
further information was sought from Mr R. Following receipt of that, and a further site visit
Allianz declined the claim for both areas of damage in July 2017. This was because it said
that there had been gradual damage in both areas  the tenants in the adjoining property
said there had been a problem with the roof for a couple of years. There was an exclusion in
the policy for gradual loss and there was no indication that the damage in either case was
caused by a one-off incident. Allianz further said that it wasnt satisfied from the information
produced that the premises were occupied by tenants at the time of the loss.
On referral to the Financial Ombudsman Service, in April 2022, our Investigator said that the
damage had been going on for a long time, in respect of both areas of damage. This was
evident from the photos and the extent of damage. She also said that she was not
persuaded that the claim could be dealt with under the storm peril as it was not a one-off
event.
K responded that the claims were not presented under the storm peril, rather as claims for
water damage/ingress after heavy rain. It further pointed out that the exclusion for damage
caused by gradual deterioration only applied to accidental damage (AD), not claims under
the Storm tempest or flood peril. It argued that both areas of damage were caused by flood 
and as the exclusion didnt apply, a build-up of water can be a flood. K further submitted that 
evidence from the lift engineer that there were tenants in occupation when he visited and 
Mr Rs accountants concerning cash payments supported the fact that the premises were 
occupied.
Allianz responded that the claim was not considered under AD. It said that gradually
operating causes and wear and tear are a general exclusion in the policy.
Our Investigator pointed out that the flood peril had not been asserted before so it couldnt
be addressed. K disputed this.
I issued a provisional decision. In it I said that Allianz should reconsider the claim concerning 
the damage to the lift shaft/machinery and basement. But I said that Allianz acted 
reasonably in declining the claim for damage to the first and second floors. I further 
proposed to award £100 compensation.
Allianz agreed with my provisional findings.
K responded on behalf of Mr and Mrs R. It said, in respect of my findings about the damage 
to the first and second floors:
I had assumed that the leak to the neighbours roof that had been previously repaired 
was what caused the water damage to the first and second floors of the clients 
premises. This is categorically not the case. This was a completely separate incident.
The photographs to which I referred were taken in June 2016, two months after the 
incident . Therefore, it is not surprising that in those photos it looked as though the 
damage had been there a long time.
The broker saying to Allianzs claims handler she thought that the loss happened a 
month prior to the estimate dated April 2016 is not Mr and Mrs Rs recollection. The 
broker was not categorical in her recollection.
It submits that there was a flood in respect of the first and second floor damage. And
that for there to have been water ingress on the scale that occurred here, it is more than
likely that there was a build-up of water on the roof, which eventually caused the
defective sealant to fail.
Theres a previous decision by an Ombudsman colleague which involved very similar 
facts, where damage was caused by a build-up of water which was felt to be a flood.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
My relevant provisional findings are set out below in italics:
occupation of property
Ill consider this first, as if the property was unoccupied at the time of the loss, storm, flood,
escape of water and accidental damage perils are not insured.
It is vague as to when exactly the damage occurred. Mr R says in April 2016, although the
evidence points to it having started earlier. The evidence about occupation of the property is:
copies of nine leases for different periods, the only one showing rent payable was for the
lease which covers the loss date and it is the only registered lease.
bank statements showing cash payments into the account from July 2015 until April
2016.
A letter from Mr Rs accountants dated May 2017 confirming that the cash payments into
the account were rent for the property.
A letter from the lift engineer in November 2022 saying that tenants were in occupationof the premises when he visited in April 2016.
Allianz hasnt alleged fraud or that the documents were false. It has said that there was a
wide variation in rental payments so it did not accept they were rental payments.
Mr R has said that he offered concessions on the rent for the January to March trading
periods, including for 2016.
I cant consider the lift engineers statement. My decision has to be based on the information
available to Allianz when it declined the claim. Having said that if I accept the documents as
accurate, in particular the accountants statement about the cash payments being rent, then
they would appear to show rent being paid from July 2015 through to April 2016. I cant see
that any attempt was made to contact the accountants or to take a statement from Mr R. 
I think on the face of there is evidence of occupation so Im not persuaded the premises 
were unoccupied at the time of the loss.
the claim
All parties accept that there were two separate and distinct areas of damage although there 
was just one claim. These were to the first and second floors, caused by a leak through the
neighbours roof, and to the basement/lift shaft/machinery caused by a faulty gutter on a
single storey lean-to which allowed water to leak into the lift shaft and build up. As there
were two separate causes Ill look at them separately.
damage to the first and second floors
On the face of it Mr R says that this damage was caused suddenly by heavy rainfall in 
April 2016. He asserts that there was previously a small leak in the roof which was repaired.
However the evidence from the loss adjuster who visited in July 2016 is that the
neighbouring tenants indicated the problem with the roof had been ongoing, on and off, for
two years or so. The problem was only solved by that entire part of the roof being replaced.
K have confirmed that it is not asserted that this is storm damage.
In any event Im not satisfied that the damage only started occurring in April 2016. The
discussion with the broker who lodged the claim indicated that although an estimate was
dated April 2016 the damage occurred about a month before that.
In his letter to the broker in June 2016 Mr R said he had contacted [..], the neighbours
property manager, and informed him of the problem some time ago. Whilst K has sought to
explain that this referred to a smaller leak in the roof reported in January 2016, it still seems
to me to indicate the problem had been ongoing for some time both prior to and after that.
Further, the cost of repair (over £30,000 for both areas, the bulk being this part of the claim)
and the photos taken by Mr R also indicate to me that this had been going on for a long time,
not just since April 2016.
Allianz said that the damage wasnt considered as AD (contrary to the heading in the final
loss adjusters report). In any event the AD cover does have an exclusion for Damage
caused by or consisting of inherent vice, latent defect, gradual deterioration, wear and
tear. And in respect of AD cover we say that exclusion is fair and the fact of not knowing
about the loss occurring is irrelevant.
As K rightly points out this exclusion applies only to AD, not, as Allianz assert, as a general
exclusion to the whole policy. But there still has to be a viable claim. Its been established
that storm doesnt apply. And although K asserts that flood applied here, since floodconsists of a build-up of water, and there was no such build up here, I dont think that the
flood peril applies. I dont think the damage comes under any other part of the policy.
I think Allianz acted reasonably in declining this part of the claim.
damage to the lift shaft/machinery and basement
Again I think this was a gradual loss caused, in respect of the lift shaft by a build-up of water
over time. K asserts that this was a flood. And while that is certainly arguable, I think it
comes under the Escape of water from any tank, apparatus or pipe peril. And our position 
in that respect is that since this is from a gutter/pipe (described as rainwater goods in the 
loss adjusters report), it is an escape of water. And again the exclusion for gradual loss 
does not apply to this peril. All the information was there when the loss adjuster visited, they 
just thought the exclusion applied to the whole policy, and the damage only became 
apparent when the level of water reached the electrics. I think Allianz should reconsider this 
part of the claim. I wont make any directions about payment for the claim as the damage 
(and any subsequent repairs) need to be investigated.
In respect of Ks comments I have not assumed that the damage to he first and second 
floor was caused by the leak to the neighbours roof that had been previously repaired. What 
I said was, taking into account the available evidence it was likely that the leak had been 
going on for some time. In his letter of complaint to the Financial Ombudsman Mr R said :
Part of their roof was completely replaced, however I presume the flashing /sealant adjacent 
to my side wall was done at a later date because the workmen returned when I complained 
due to a huge downpour of rainwater entering my building causing extensive damage to the 
1st and 2nd floors of my property.
I am satisfied this indicates that the damage was still occurring after the replacement of the 
neighbours roof.
The problem in this case is the lack of evidence from the time Mr R says the incident took 
place. But I think the surrounding evidence indicates that this was a problem that had been 
going on for some time exacerbated by rainfall. His photos were taken more than two 
months after the incident. Whilst K says this explains why the damage was said to have 
been there a long time, Mr and Mrs R didnt make their claim until late June 2016, and no 
photos were taken at the time of the loss.
In respect of the brokers recollection that the loss happened a month prior to the April 2016 
estimate I accept that this was not categorical. But I note it was said in June 2016, rather 
than Mr and Mrs Rs recollection some seven years later, so is more persuasive. 
K has confirmed the claim was not brought under the storm peril. And as I think this was a 
gradual loss for the reasons set out in my provisional findings I dont think that AD applied 
either. And while the damage to the lift shaft/machinery and basement should be considered 
under the escape of water peril, there was no escape of water from any tank, apparatus, or 
pipe causing damage to the first and second floors.
K says there was a flood on the roof, and the water ingress came from this flood. In support 
of this it has referred me to a decision by my Ombudsman colleague involving water ingress 
causing a flood on the roof. My view is that decision involved a flood all parties had agreed 
happened. It concerned whether the flood had caused the damage rather than whether it 
had occurred in the first place. 
Here, the first intimation that there was a flood was in Ks response to our Investigators view, in February 2023. Ive seen no contemporaneous evidence e.g. photos or other 
witnesses, to show there was a flood, build-up of water on the roof. Indeed Mr and Mrs Rs 
evidence at the time didnt reflect what K now says about the water ingress. If evidence is 
put forward long after the event then I think in order to find that the damage should be 
covered under the policy, it would have had to have been obvious in the first place, as with 
the damage to the lift/basement. But, unlike the circumstances outlined in my ombudsman 
colleagues decision, I dont think there is evidence to show that at Mr and Mrs Rs property 
there was a flood on the roof.
I stand by my provisional findings, as set out above. Those findings are now final and form 
part of this final decision. 
Putting things right
Allianz should reconsider the claim in respect of the lift shaft/machinery and basement areas
subject to the remaining terms and conditions of the policy.
Mr and Mrs R didnt choose to pursue a complaint about this matter for several years. For
any inconvenience caused by turning down the original claim, I will award
compensation of £100.
My final decision
I uphold the complaint in part and require Allianz Insurance Plc to provide the remedy set out 
under Putting things right above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr and Mrs R to 
accept or reject my decision before 2 August 2023.
 
Ray Lawley
Ombudsman