DRN-2278592
The complaint
Mr M is unhappy that Legal and General Assurance Society Limited (L&G) has stopped 
paying out on his income protection policy.
What happened
In 2016, Mr M went off sick from work. He was able to claim on his work group income 
protection policy in 2017, after being off for the required deferred period and meeting 
the policy definition of incapacity at that time.
In 2018, L&G contacted Mr M to perform a review of his health. It told him that, as hed 
been claiming for two years, the requirements to meet the definition of incapacity would 
be changing as of May 2019. So they needed to review him under the new terms.
L&G struggled to contact Mr M, but when it was able to perform the review it concluded 
that he didnt meet the definition of incapacity now required of him. So it ceased to make 
payments to him. Mr M complained as he said he was still unable to work and he 
provided medical evidence in order to show this was the case.
L&G reviewed Mr Ms case a number of times, but determined he was no longer eligible 
for benefit. Mr M raised a formal complaint about the claim outcome, but L&G didnt 
change its position, so he brought his case to our service.
Mr M was made redundant in June 2019. However his policy had a clause that meant if 
he was eligible for cover at this date, L&G could continue making payments to him 
direct.
However if he ceased to be eligible for cover at his May 2019 review, he would no longer 
receive any cover from this date onwards. L&G agreed to pay Mr M up until his 
redundancy date of 30 June 2019.
I issued a provisional decision on this complaint in August 2020. I set out that I didnt 
intend to uphold Mr Ms complaint. I explained my role wasnt to assess whether or not 
Mr M was fit to work. It was to review L&Gs handling of his claim and to determine, 
based on the evidence, whether itd been fairly handled. And I said neither this service 
nor L&G was responsible for specifically determining what job, if any, Mr M could do  
the claim was assessed on the policy terms and whether Mr M met these.
Mr M went off sick in 2016 and was able to start claiming on his cover in 2017. His 
policy set out that after two years he would move from being assessed under the own 
occupation incapacity definition to the suited occupation definition. The policy terms 
set out that:
Suited occupation means the insured member is incapacitated by an illness or 
injury so that he is unable to undertake any occupation appropriate to his 
experience, training or education.
I read in full the submissions provided by both parties and fully accepted that Mr M was 
suffering from a number of difficult health conditions. However, L&Gs testing showed he 
could carry out a suited occupation. And I was satisfied with L&Gs conclusion that there 
was evidence which suggested Mr M hadnt accurately reported the impact his conditions 
had on his abilities.
Mr M carried out medical assessments for L&G in November and December 2019. And 
as part of these, he was asked to complete a number of tasks to test his physical 
abilities.
When not completing formal testing for a particular task, Mr Ms ability for that task was 
reported to increase. For example, he reported next to no reading on the grip test 
(showing no/very poor ability to grip at all). But then in the same assessment, when 
asked to write, he was able to hold a pen and complete paperwork with legible 
handwriting. He was also able to use his Zimmer frame to walk. L&G also reviewed his 
social media profiles. In one of these he reported training with kettle bells in summer 
2019, which would also require the ability to grip.
In November 2019, Mr M set out to L&G that he couldnt drive for more than five minutes 
and he told his doctor he couldnt walk unaided. And when he contacted L&G on 23 
January 2020, he stated that he was in bed for 16hrs+ a day and awake for 3-4hrs whilst 
Im up. He then went on to say he has lost the agility to walk without a stick or a zimmer 
at all. However some of the surveillance L&G carried out took place only two weeks 
before Mr M sent this email, at the beginning of January 2020. This showed Mr Ms agility 
and routine to be considerably different to what he described.
In the surveillance, Mr M was seen leaving his partners home at around 9:20am and he 
hadnt returned by around 6:45pm. However his car was there the following morning 
before 7am, so it was assumed he returned later that evening. Mr M was observed driving 
his partner to hospital, then they visited a shopping outlet. At both locations he was 
observed walking without any aids. They left the outlet several hours after arriving and 
went on to visit what appeared to be a friends property. The distance between the 
locations Mr M visited was at several points over 20 miles, so he was driving for far more 
than five minutes at a time. And it seemed reasonable to assume he was awake for more 
than 3-4 hours considering he was away from home for over nine hours, the majority of 
his time spent in public places.
I acknowledged that Mr M has severe medical conditions which cause him varying levels 
of difficulty depending on if, for example, hes experiencing a flare-up. And that there may 
be days where he could do much more, but then following this he was exhausted. I also 
accepted he had been hospitalised on a number of occasions due to the severity of his 
physical symptoms. But I explained that his abilities had to be considered, as best 
possible, as they were in early to mid 2019. And the evidence I had suggested that he 
hadnt accurately and fully reported his abilities to medical professionals when asked.
None of Mr Ms doctors reports described him having the level of ability he 
demonstrated when he was observed  even on occasion. Instead they all described a 
consistent, limited and restricted level of ability  with these physical symptoms being 
the main blocker of his return to work. I noted that the doctors letters provided are very 
heavily based on Mr Ms reporting of his illness, as symptoms such as fatigue and pain 
cannot be accurately tested. And Mr Ms ability to walk (for example) also seemed to be 
assessed by his doctor purely on what he reported. So I couldnt safely say that the 
usual level of weight could be placed on these medical reports or their conclusions. Or 
that I could rely on Mr Ms reporting of his condition alone.L&G found a social media profile for a small business run by Mr M that was active 
around the time he shouldve been assessed. This suggested that he was working 
between April and June 2019, advertising personal training and selling supplements. 
L&G provided us with the link to this page. On review of this, I could appreciate why 
L&G concluded that it was likely Mr M was working, at least to some degree, around the 
time his assessment was due to take place.
I carefully considered the medical evidence Mr M provided. And I accepted he suffers 
from a number of medical conditions that have an impact on him daily. But, I didnt think 
L&G had acted unfairly in declining his claim. The testing and surveillance it carried out 
cast some doubt on whether we could rely on the medical evidence supplied by Mr Ms 
doctors  due to the self-reporting nature of key elements of his condition, and shown 
inconsistencies. And L&Gs formal medical assessment did determine Mr M would be fit 
to work in a suited occupation, with his business page indicating he was working to 
some degree. On the basis of the evidence Id seen, I couldnt safely say L&G had acted 
unfairly in saying Mr M didnt meet the definition of incapacity required to continue 
claiming on his policy beyond June 2019.
L&G accepted my provisional decision. Mr M disagreed and provide further evidence. 
Whilst I am only going to summarise the further evidence here, I can confirm to Mr M I 
have reviewed all the further correspondence hes had with our service. This includes, 
the emails, photographs, images, medical information and benefit letters. And the 
detailed notes our investigator has provided of the calls shes had with Mr M. 
Mr M explained that he was unable to work. He set out the way his conditions affect his 
cognitive abilities. He said this meant he isnt able to carry out the job roles he 
previously has, as he struggles with memory, time keeping and can be late and/or 
unreliable due to the unpredictable nature of his illness and the additional time the 
symptoms of his condition can add to his daily life. He provided some explanation for the 
business social media page and for the inconsistencies between his doctors reports 
and L&Gs testing and surveilance. So the case has been returned to me for review.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr M has provided us with further information including photographs, videos and medical 
reports of his current condition. Hes also stated that his personal independence payments 
are basically assessed on the same criteria as L&G assessed him. And hes provided some 
redacted evidence from October 2020 to show that hes qualified for these payments. 
However, as I have already explained to Mr M, my role is to assess whether or not L&G has 
fairly assessed him. And this assessment by L&G took place in 2019, as close as possible to 
the time his policy terms changed. Im not carrying out my own assessment of his condition 
and it wouldnt be appropriate for me to take into account evidence of his condition now, 
when reviewing if L&G correctly assessed him last year. Not only has L&G not seen this 
evidence, but as Mr M has set out to us, his condition changes. So the relevant evidence for 
me to consider is what L&G had available to it in 2019.
Ive then considered Mr Ms explanations for his social media page and the inconsistencies 
between the testing and surveillance  and the medical reports from Mr Ms doctors.
In relation to his social media, Mr M has told us that a review on his page was actually 
written by his fianc, pretending to be a customer. Due to this, I reviewed the post that 
contained the review from April 2019; and looked into the account the review came from. This is because L&G determined this page showed Mr M was and could work around the 
time the assessment shouldve taken place.
Looking back at his social media, I cant accept Mr Ms explanation for the review. I accept 
its possible hes referring to a different review, but Im satisfied the one from April 2019 is 
from a genuine persons account and so does suggest he was working. And the fact Mr M 
knew about the posting of a false review on his account does call into question his credibility 
to provide honest information. So this means I am still satisfied L&Gs conclusions around 
Mr Ms social media page were fair and that it does suggest he was working during the 
assessment period.
In relation to the testing and surveillance, Ive reviewed the explanations Mr M has provided, 
but these also havent changed my view. For example Mr M has said that he doesnt grip his 
Zimmer frame, but holds it with an open palm (supporting the medical report he has no grip 
reflex). But as I previously set out, he also completed legible, handwritten paperwork  and 
hes provided no explanation for how he did this without any ability to grip the pen. So it 
doesnt seem this medical evidence, for example, can safely be relied upon.
Mr M has also said that when he was observed walking without his supports, this was 
because he used his fiancs wheelchair as a support. But the observations show a number 
of times he was walking without this either, such as when he went to get/return a wheelchair 
for his fianc and when he visited his friends home. I accept an explanation for this could be 
that Mr M can go short distances without a walking aid  and this doesnt show that he can 
confidently walk a long period of time without one. But the issue is he reported to L&G he 
had lost the ability to walk at all without an aid. So the explanation Mr M has provided 
doesnt change my view that L&G has reasonably concluded he hasnt accurately or fully 
reported his abilities.
Mr M has set out that neither I nor L&G are medically trained, which is correct. So Im not 
making a diagnosis or commenting on his condition. Im simply required to determine if L&G 
has acted fairly in declining his claim from the time the terms of his policy changed. And, 
while I appreciate this will be a great disappointment to Mr M, I cant say that his further 
comments or evidence have changed my outcome.
Mr M has argued that more weight has been placed on the surveillance than the medical 
evidence. But the surveillance L&G carried out wasnt only to obtain a better understanding 
of Mr Ms condition and how it affected him, but to ensure his reporting of it was accurate.
Mr M has told me he has good days and can at times do certain activities. I appreciate hes 
explained that this is then followed by days or even weeks of poor health and fatigue. And I 
do understand that this is often the case with his condition. But the issue is that his reporting 
to doctors doesnt seem to detail any good days. And when he contacted L&G about his 
condition, his description also suggested that he only had very bad days, such as in the 
email of January 2020 when he said he was only awake 3 to 4 hours a day. I have, of 
course, placed weight on the medical evidence, but this, as with all evidence, has to be 
tested to ensure accuracy. And this is why L&G has said it cant place full weight on the 
doctors reports, as when tested against the observations of Mr M, there are inconsistencies. 
I cant disagree with its approach here, as the aspects of Mr Ms condition that are noted to 
prevent him working, such as fatigue, are self-reported. So L&G is entitled to weigh up the 
evidence, rather than just accept it at face value.
In response to my provisional decision Mr M has asked a what job I expect him to do. And 
listed reasons why the two previous job roles he has undertaken are unsuitable because of 
his health. But again, I must remind him that my role  and L&Gs  is to review if he meets 
the policy term of being unable to undertake any occupation appropriate to his experience, training or education. So the test is whether or not Mr M could do any suitable role, not 
whether he could do either of the jobs hes previously carried out  or to find him an actual 
job role he can do.
L&G concluded that Mr M no longer met the definition of incapacity under his policy, when 
the terms changed to suited occupation. Based on the evidence Ive seen, I cant say L&G 
was unfair in reaching this conclusion. I havent seen persuasive evidence Mr M did meet 
the definition at the required time, as whilst I accept what his doctors have reported, there 
are inconsistencies in the evidence which Mr M hasnt been able to explain. 
I accept Mr M has a number of serious health conditions and that he is very unwell, 
especially now. But that doesnt change my decision that L&G fairly stopped making 
payments to him in 2019, when his policy terms changed. Im satisfied that L&G has fully 
assessed his claim, but that there isnt clear evidence Mr M did meet the definition of suited 
occupation, so his claim stopped being payable from June 2019. 
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I dont uphold Mr Ms complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 22 November 2020.
 
Amy Osborne
Ombudsman