DRN-4015869
The complaint
Mr C complains that Highway Insurance Company Limited (HICL) unfairly declined a claim 
he made under his motor insurance policy.
HICL is the underwriter of this policy i.e. the insurer. Part of this complaint concerns the 
actions of its agents. As HICL has accepted it is accountable for the actions of the agents, in 
my decision, any reference to HICL includes the actions of the agents. 
What happened
In early 2022, Mr C made a claim under his motor insurance policy with HICL. He says he 
had a puncture and hit a kerb causing him to swerve across the main road and hit an 
oncoming vehicle. The driver of the other vehicle happened to be his daughter.
 
HICL declined Mr Cs claim. It said it didnt believe it had been provided with a report of a 
genuine collision. 
Mr C raised a complaint, but HICL maintained its position. So, Mr C asked our service to 
consider the matter.
 
Our investigator looked into Mr Cs concerns, but she didnt think his complaint should be 
upheld. She thought HICL had reached a fair decision based on its investigation and the 
evidence available to it. 
Mr C disagreed with our investigators outcome and asked for his complaint to be referred to 
an ombudsman. He said the incident was a freak accident. So, the complaint has been 
passed to me to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided not to uphold Mr Cs complaint. Ill explain why.
The policys terms and conditions say that if Mr C makes a claim or part of any claim that is 
fraudulent, false or exaggerated it may reject the claim or reduce the amount of payment 
(it) make(s)
Its important to explain it isnt for me to decide whether Mr C acted fraudulently. Instead, Ive 
needed to consider if HICLs decision to invoke the fraud condition in this case was 
reasonable.
In order for an insurer to fairly invoke the fraud condition in an insurance policy, the insurer 
needs to show it is more likely than not that the condition was breached. 
HICL says it declined Mr Cs claim because it was unable to accept that it had been 
presented with a report of a genuine collision. It doesnt dispute there being a collision 
between Mr C and his daughters cars, but it believes that the accident was staged. Its 
provided a number of reports and documents to support its position. 
As part of its investigation, HICL arranged for Mr C, the third party driver (Ms C) and the 
person who was said to be a passenger in Ms Cs car (Mr L) to be interviewed. A 
discrepancy in the testimonies of Ms C and Mr L is noted in the investigation report. Further 
questioning of Ms C resulted in further inconsistencies.
HICL arranged for a forensic engineer to examine both vehicles and compile a report. The 
engineer concluded that the passenger seatbelt in Ms Cs car wasnt in use at the time of the 
collision. 
HICL says that, given the reported circumstances of a head on collision with both vehicles 
travelling at 30 mph, it would have expected an unrestrained passenger to have suffered 
catastrophic injuries. 
According to Ms Cs witness statement the severity of the collision felt quite hard. Both 
drivers say they were travelling around 30 mph and report being thrown forward in their 
witness statements. 
Mr Ls witness statement says: nobody was suggesting they were injured in any way. Ms 
Cs witness statements says: Fortunately, it was apparent that neither I, (Mr L) nor my dad 
had any injuries. Although she later contradicted this in an email, saying that Mr L had hurt 
his leg and his mother came to pick him up because she was concerned because of his 
injury.
Given the above, I think it was reasonable for HICL to have concluded that Mr L wasnt a 
passenger in Ms Cs vehicle at the time of the collision. As Mr C had stated that Mr L was 
present in his daughters car, I cant say it was unreasonable for HICL to have concerns 
about the credibility of Mr Cs account of what happened. 
HICL also raised concerns that the airbag in Mr Cs vehicle didnt deploy, despite him 
allegedly travelling at a speed above the activation threshold. This is supported by the 
forensic engineers report. 
There were no independent witnesses to the incident and both vehicles were recovered by 
someone who was known by Mr C and Ms C.
Having reviewed the information provided in this case, Im satisfied HICL conducted a fair 
and reasonable review of the claim and didnt act unreasonably in saying the fraud condition 
was breached  in light of the evidence it received. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, I dont uphold Mr Cs complaint.
 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 2 June 2023.
 
Anne Muscroft
Ombudsman