DRN-2447410
The complaint
 Mrs B complains that Santander UK Plc blocked her bank account. And wont release 
money held in the account to her. She also complains about poor service.
What happened
 Mrs B opened an account with Santander in July 2019. 
In August 2019, two credits of just over £10,000 and just under £4,000 were paid into 
Mrs Bs account. Santander took the view that it needed to look into the payments and how 
Mrs B was operating her account. Whilst it completed a review Santander blocked Mrs Bs 
access to her account. Santander asked her to provide information about the source of the 
funds and to show that she was entitled to the money.
Mrs B told the bank that the payments were for work shed done. And she gave the bank 
paperwork to support what shed said which included a letter and emails from her employer, 
invoices and an employment contract. Santander reviewed the paperwork Mrs B provided 
and wasnt happy it showed Mrs B was entitled to the money. So, on 28 August 2019 it 
contacted the sending banks about the two payments made into Mrs Bs account. The 
sending banks didnt respond to Santanders requests. Following this, Santander decided to 
close Mrs Bs account.
In February 2020, Santander sent chasers to both sending banks. At this point, Santander 
realised it had made a mistake when it sent its first request to the sending bank of the larger 
payment. And that it had included incorrect information about an unrelated payment, which 
was why the bank hadnt responded. After receiving Santanders chaser, on 26 February 
2020, the sending bank of the larger payment confirmed that the payment was genuine, and 
that their customer had no concerns about it. However, Santander didnt react to this 
information and the response wasnt passed onto its review team. And it wasnt until Mrs B 
complained in August 2020 that Santander realised its mistake.  
In August 2020 Santander released the larger payment to Mrs B. But said it hadnt seen 
enough information to be satisfied that Mrs B was entitled to the smaller payment. So, it 
didnt release these funds to Mrs B. 
Mrs B complained to Santander about the review, she said shed provided enough 
information to show she was entitled to all money paid into her account and she needed 
access to the funds to pay for medication for her son. And that the bank hadnt returned 
phone calls to her or let her know what was happening, which had caused her a good deal of 
frustration and inconvenience.  
In response, Santander apologised to Mrs B. The bank accepted it should have provided 
better service and rung Mrs B when arranged. Santander paid Mrs B £100 compensation for 
any trouble and upset this had caused her. Mrs B didnt accept Santanders offer. She said 
Santander had taken too long to complete its review and being without her money for so 
long had seriously affected her sons health and made paying her living expenses including 
her rent difficult. She wants the bank to release the remaining money.
Mrs B brought her complaint to our service where an investigator considered it. The 
investigator said Santander had done enough to put things right. And hadnt done anything 
wrong when it had blocked Mrs Bs account and asked her for information. Mrs B didnt 
accept the investigators view and said she wanted the bank to release her money which she 
said shed earnt. She also provided more information regarding the smaller payment which 
included a personal bank statement from the person whod sent the money. 
As no agreement could be reached the matter was passed to me to review. Prior to issuing 
my decision I asked the bank for an explanation regarding the delay in releasing the larger 
payment to Mrs B. In response, Santander accepted it had made a mistake and should have 
released some of Mrs Bs money in late February 2020. The bank offered Mrs B £250 
compensation and interest at 8% for loss of use of the £10,074.58 which was paid into her 
account in August 2019. Mrs B accepted this offer. But still wants the bank to release the 
remaining £3,959.03.
 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
 account block
Firstly, the investigator was right to point out that Santander has important legal and 
regulatory obligations it must meet when providing accounts to customers. These obligations 
are ongoing, so do not only pertain to when an account is opened. To comply with its 
obligations Santander may need to review an account and/or restrict its customers access. 
In order to meet these requirements Santander is entitled to ask a customer for more 
information about how they use their account, including payments which are made into an 
account. And its not for this service to interfere with the banks processes. Our role is to see 
if the bank has made any mistakes and then put the customer back in the position theyd 
have been in if the mistake hadnt happened.
Having looked at all the evidence, I dont believe it was unreasonable in the circumstances 
for Santander to block Mrs Bs account and ask her for information about the two payments 
which had been paid into her account in August 2019. Santander has explained that this was 
its standard procedure, and I accept that it was. Having looked at the activity on Mrs Bs 
account I can see that the two payments were unusually large and out of character. 
According to the banks records, Mrs B had also told the bank that she wasnt working. So, I 
can understand why Santander had concerns and wanted to find out more about the 
payments. Whilst I accept this caused Mrs B inconvenience, I cant say Santander treated 
her unfairly when it blocked her account and asked her to provide information. Santander 
were within its rights to review the operation of Mrs Bs account. 
release of money
Since Mrs B brought her complaint to our service Santander has released the payment for 
just over £10,000 to her. The bank has it accepted it made a mistake when it asked the 
sending bank for information about this payment and should have released the money to 
Mrs B much sooner than it did  six months sooner to be exact. Santander says it put the 
wrong information on the request it sent to the sending bank. And didnt send the information it received from the sending bank onto its review team. This meant Mrs B had to wait longer 
for the bank to release her money. 
When a business makes an error that affects a customer, it would be expected that the 
business puts their customer back in the position that they would be in had the error not 
occurred. Santander released Mrs Bs frozen balance to her, so shes not lost out financially. 
Santander has also made Mrs B an offer of compensation of a total of £250 for the trouble 
and upset shes been caused along with 8% interest for loss of use of the money. I think 
thats fair and its a reasonable reflection of what went wrong, and the impact Santanders 
mistake and delays had on Mrs B. 
The crux of Mrs Bs complaint is that she also wants the remaining £3,959.03 that was paid 
into her account released to her. Mrs B has said that the payment is for work that shed 
done.  And shes worked hard for the money. From the information Ive seen, the payment 
appears to be linked to the company who made the first payment, which was an international 
payment from a company in the UAE.  
Mrs B has provided paperwork to support what shes said which is a copy of a personal bank 
statement from the individual she says paid the money into her account. Santander didnt 
think the information Mrs B provided was sufficient, and I can understand the banks 
concerns. I say this because the money isnt coming from a business account or company, 
like the first payment, which Id expect if Mrs B was being paid for work, shed done. Ive also 
kept in mind that the individual who sent Mrs B the money is linked to the company who 
made the first payment. And there doesnt appear to be a reasonable explanation for why 
Mrs B is being paid from a personal account. 
It maybe that Mrs B can now provide more information about the remaining funds.  But, in 
the circumstances, I can understand why Santander wanted to know more about the funds. I 
can understand too why it didnt consider Mrs B had adequately explained her entitlement to 
the money. So, I cant say the bank has treated Mrs B unfairly when it decided not to release 
the money to her. And I wont be asking the bank to do so. 
response to calls from Mrs B
Mrs B says she had to chase Santander to try and find out what was happening with the 
money in her account and move things along. Shes said that the bank promised on more 
than one occasion that a manager would call her back about her concerns. But this never 
happened. Santander has accepted its service fell short and didnt call Mrs B when it said it 
would. It has apologised to Mrs B and offered her £100 compensation. Ive no doubt that not 
receiving calls and having to chase the bank repeatedly caused Mrs B a good deal of 
frustration and inconvenience. But  I think the banks offer is a reasonable reflection of what 
went wrong and the impact on Mrs B. So, Im not going to ask Santander to do anything 
more regarding this aspect of Mrs Bs complaint.
  
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained my final decision is that I partly uphold Mrs Bs complaint. To 
put things right Santander Bank UK Plc should:
If it hasnt already done so, pay Mrs B £100 compensation for its poor service caused 
by not returning her telephone calls;
pay Mrs B £250 compensation for the trouble and upset caused by its delays in returning £10,074.58 to her and
add 8% simple interest per annum on that amount (£10,074.58) from the point it 
completed its review, 26 February 2020 to 24 August 2020.
 Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs B to accept or 
reject my decision before 22 June 2021.
 
Sharon Kerrison
Ombudsman