DRN-2030044
The complaint
Mr B complains about the advice he was given by Brewin Dolphin Limited (BDL) to set 
up a self-invested personal pension scheme (SIPP) and invest £160,000 into it. He 
says that having accepted Brewin Dolphins advice, he is now left with a large 
unexpected tax liability.
What happened
In August 2018, Mr B contacted BDL for advice on his investment options. His family 
run company had an amount of cash on deposit following the sale of some land 
associated with that business. Mr B wanted to invest some of this money in a personal 
capacity.
BDL carried out a fact find exercise with Mr B on 25 September 2018. The adviser 
completed a Client Information Form (CIF). BDL produced a Financial Planning 
Report for Mr B following this meeting, the final version was sent to him in October 
2018. 
According to the notes made by the adviser at the time of advice, Mr Bs objective was 
to have a tax efficient investment vehicle in his own name. He didnt want to invest in 
his existing pension, which was a small self-administered pension scheme (SSAS), as 
he was a member of this alongside other members of his family. 
Mr Bs BDL adviser collected information about his income and outgoings. Taking his 
circumstances into account, BDL recommended that Mr B invest £160,000 into a SIPP 
through a third-party provider. This was on the basis that Mr B had not contributed to a 
pension in the last three years and so had built up his annual allowance. Based on four 
years worth of contributions, he was told he could pay £160,000 into the SIPP. 
Mr B followed this advice and transferred £160,000 into a SIPP in October 2018. BDL 
charged a fee of 1.5% for its services.
In February 2019, Mr B was contacted by his accountant, who advised him that he had 
incurred a tax liability of approximately £60,000. This was because Mr B had previously 
taken a withdrawal from a personal pension in 2015, which had triggered the Money 
Purchase Annual Allowance (MPAA). What this meant was that Mr B only qualified for tax 
relief on £4,000 of the money he placed in his SIPP and was liable for income tax on the 
residual amount of £156,000.
Mr B complained to BDL. He said the adviser did not ask him whether he had made a 
withdrawal from any pension funds in the last four years. He says if he had been asked 
this, he would have informed the adviser that he had cashed in his pension in 2015.
BDL didnt uphold Mr Bs complaint. It said: 
its recommendation was based on the advisers understanding of Mr Bs 
circumstances at the time, taken from the information Mr B had provided the 
adviser with. 
the notes on file showed that Mr B had discussed the recommendation with his 
accountant, who had confirmed that he could make the pension contribution of 
£160,000 into the SIPP.
Mr B provided BDL with a letter from the company dealing with the payment 
from his pension scheme in May 2015. BDL said this was provided after he 
raised his complaint about the tax liability. This was despite the letter saying he 
was subject to the MPAA rules and he should give a copy of the letter to his 
other pension providers to notify them of this.
at the time of advice, Mr B had signed a declaration accepting that he understood 
that he had only been provided with generic tax advice by BDL, and that he 
should seek clarification from a tax adviser or accountant.
Mr B didnt accept BDLs response and referred his complaint to our service.
Our investigator looked into Mr Bs case and was of the view that it should be upheld
and BDL should meet the tax liability Mr B incurred because of the unsuitable advice it 
had given him. BDL didnt accept our investigators view and said, in summary:
Although the CIF doesnt record a discussion with Mr B about his personal 
pensions, it doesnt mean these questions werent asked. The form doesnt set 
out the specific questions to be asked. What it does show however, is that Mr B 
didnt provide details of his existing pensions.
Brewin Dolphin gained acknowledgement from Mr Bs accountant that the 
contribution would not place the client in a worse position.
 BDL was not provided with a copy of the 2015 letter regarding Mr Bs pension. If 
Mr Bs accountant didnt know the position, BDL was unlikely to know the 
position, as Mr B didnt give BDL this information.
The recommendation was based on the details Mr B gave about his income. 
Mr B attested to the information in the report being accurate and did not produce 
the 2015 letter until after the tax bill became apparent.
BDL agreed that Mr B had been put in worse position by making this investment, but it 
didnt consider this was because BDL had failed to establish Mr Bs full background 
information at the time of advice.
As agreement couldnt be reached, Mr Bs case comes to me for a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I am going to uphold Mr Bs complaint. Ill explain why. My reasons are 
largely the same as our investigators.
Mr B contacted BDL for financial advice. As his financial advisers, BDL were responsible 
for providing Mr B with advice, which was suitable for his needs. BDL also had to give 
Mr B enough clear information for him to make an informed choice about whether the 
recommendation it was making was suitable for him, and he wanted to follow the advice 
given.  BDL had to collect information about Mr Bs circumstances to enable it to determine the 
most suitable recommendation to make, and to provide him with information relevant to 
his circumstances. As I see it, that was the purpose of the fact find meeting that BDL 
had with   Mr B in September 2018.
BDL said it completed a fact find based on the information Mr B provided it with, and that 
Mr B didnt challenge the contents of that fact find. 
Essentially, what I need to decide here is if this situation arose because Mr B didnt provide 
BDL with all the information that he reasonably should have. Or, alternatively, whether BDL 
didnt properly obtain all the information required to be able to give Mr B suitable advice. Or 
if, there was some other reason why Mr B, as accepted, has been left in this worse 
position. 
September 2018 meeting
The CIF completed in September 2018 by the adviser was a proforma form intended to 
capture all relevant details about the client, to enable the adviser to provide suitable and 
informed advice. Forms like this are used by many businesses. They usually serve two 
purposes. The first as a prompt to the adviser to obtain all relevant information. And the 
second to record the responses, so there is a clear record and audit trail of what the client 
said about their circumstances. Looking at the proforma BDLs adviser completed, there 
was a section titled Personal Pensions. Under that there was a section about Benefit 
Crystallisation. Both of these sections were blank.
Did BDL ask Mr B about his existing personal pensions or any benefit crystallisation 
events?
I cant say for sure whether the adviser asked Mr B questions about whether he had any 
pensions other than the SSAS mentioned, or whether he had crystallised any pensions. 
But, I dont need to be satisfied for sure, instead I must look at what more likely than not 
occurred, having regard to what both parties have said and the wider circumstances.
Looking at the paperwork, I agree with our investigator, I think it unlikely that the adviser 
did ask Mr B about any other pensions or crystallisation events. Theres nothing recorded 
in the proforma either way. I think had the adviser asked these questions, something 
wouldve been recorded. I think Mr B wouldve probably told the adviser that he had drawn 
down his pension in 2015. I say this because he wanted to make a tax efficient investment. 
So, had Mr B been asked, and known this information was relevant, I think he wouldve told 
the adviser about this. The fact there is nothing recorded in the CIF, leads me to believe 
that the topics, the proforma expected the adviser to ask about, werent asked about. In 
reaching this conclusion, I have taken into account that an adviser ought to have 
understood that forms like this provide a contemporaneous record of issues discussed 
between the adviser and the client and a record going forward.
should Mr B pro-actively have told BDL about the 2015 letter and that he had drawn down 
his pension in 2015?
Its not in dispute that Mr B didnt show BDL a copy of the letter regarding his 2015 draw 
down, until after he was told he was liable to pay tax on his investment. Nor, is it in dispute 
that Mr B didnt tell BDL that he had taken a payment from his pension three years before.
So, Ive gone on to consider whether Mr B has done anything wrong by not offering up this 
information.Ive looked carefully at the letter Mr B was sent in 2015, when he crystallised his pension, 
In summary, this said that as Mr B had drawn income from his flexi-access drawdown 
fund, he had triggered the MPAA. He was advised to send a copy of the notification letter 
to his other pension providers. 
This letter was sent to Mr B three years before he took advice from BDL, so I agree with 
our investigator, that I think Mr B may not have known that this information was still 
relevant and pertinent three years later. Ive thought about whether he shouldve realised 
that because he was planning to use his annual allowances from the three previous years, 
this shouldve alerted him to the fact that drawing down his pension three years ago, was 
relevant then, because of the time period concerned. 
But, I cant see that this wouldve been obvious to Mr B. And given that Ive concluded that 
the adviser didnt ask him about any earlier benefit crystallization events, I cant see that 
he wouldve known it was relevant from what the adviser said to him. So, in the absence 
of any questions prompting a response, I cant see that Mr B has done anything wrong by 
not giving BDL a copy of the letter from 2015, or volunteering that he had taken a 
drawdown payment three years before.
Has BDL done anything wrong?
BDL said it checked with Mr Bs accountant that he could make the investment concerned. 
Mr Bs accountant told our investigator that it didnt discuss his personal pension with him. 
So, I think it unlikely on that basis, the accountants wouldve known about the earlier 
benefit crystallization event. However in any event,, as BDL was acting as Mr Bs financial 
adviser, I think it was incumbent on it to take its own view and make a suitable 
recommendation about whether Mr B could use his annual allowances for the preceding 
three years when investing in a pension. It doesnt change my view that BDL said it could 
only provide generic advice on the tax situation. The basis of the recommendation to set up 
a SIPP and invest £160,000, was based on the fact that Mr B could utilise four years worth 
of annual allowances. So, BDL ought to have collected relevant information to ensure that 
was correct. 
Given that Mr B wanted to set up a new pension scheme, and make a sizeable lump sum 
investment in it, I think it wouldve been incumbent on BDL to have fully established what 
other pensions Mr B had, or had crystallised, over the relevant period, to establish whether 
he could use these annual allowances.
So, I think that BDL has done something wrong.
Has Mr B lost out because of what BDL did wrong?
I think Mr B has lost out because of what BDL did wrong because if he had been asked, 
and made aware it was relevant, I think he wouldve told BDL about his earlier drawdown. 
In these circumstances, I dont think BDL wouldve made the recommendation it did, 
because it accepts that Mr B is financially worse off having followed that advice. I therefore 
dont consider that Mr B was provided with suitable advice and so it follows that I uphold 
his complaint.
 Putting things right
To resolve this complaint BDL should cover the additional tax liability Mr B has incurred 
as a result of paying £160,000 into his newly formed SIPP. BDL has already been 
provided with details of the charges levied by HMRC. If payment has not already been made to HMRC, BDL should pay HMRC direct. The payment made to HMRC should 
include any additional interest and charges imposed for late payment. 
If Mr B has already paid HMRC the shortfall in unpaid tax (plus interest & charges) arising 
from this, BDL should refund the amount of money Mr B has paid HMRC in respect of 
this, to Mr B direct. BDL should pay Mr B interest on the sum paid. The rate of interest is 
8% a year from the date he paid HMRC to the date BDL refunds the money to Mr B *.
If Mr B has paid HMRC the tax due (plus interest and charges) through his pension fund, 
BDL should refund the amount paid by paying it into Mr Bs pension fund. It should also pay 
him interest on that amount at the rate of 8% a year from the date payment was made from 
the pension fund to HMRC, to the date BDL pays the compensation into Mr Bs pension 
fund*. The compensation shouldnt be paid into the pension plan if it would conflict with any 
existing protection or allowance. If the tax, charges and interest has been paid through Mr 
Bs pension fund and a payment into Mr Bs pension plan isnt possible, or has protection or 
allowance implications, it should be paid directly to Mr B as a lump sum after making a 
notional deduction to allow for income tax that would otherwise have been paid. If 25% of the 
loss could have been taken as tax-free cash and 75% would have been taxed according to 
his likely income tax rate in retirement (presumed to be 20%, unless Mr B can show that his 
tax rate in retirement is likely to be higher). So making a notional deduction of 15% (if a 20% 
tax rate payer) overall from the loss adequately reflects this.
* If HM Revenue & Customs requires BDL to take off tax from this interest.
it must give Mr B a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if he asks for
one.
My final decision
For the reasons explained, I uphold Mr Bs complaint and order Brewin Dolphin Limited to 
put things right as set out.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 29 December 2020.
 
Kim Parsons
Ombudsman