 The complaint  
Mr G complains that Invesco Fund Managers Limited mismanaged the funds he first 
invested in between 2009 and 2013, resulting in very poor investment performance ever 
since  notably in the past few years.  
What happened  
An investigator at this service did  not feel Mr Gs complaint should be upheld.  
She said it was not this services role to investigate the success rate, or otherwise, of a 
business  investment strategy or specific returns i.e. performance. Further, that poor 
performance did not, in itself, indicate mismanagement or inadequate investment decision - 
making. So while Mr G was very disappointed with the performance of his funds, this was 
not a sufficient ground for complaint.  
She had not seen any persuasive evidence that Invesco had mismanaged the two key funds  
-Invesco Equity High Income Fund (UK) and Invesco Equity Income Fund (UK) portfolio.
She also didnt consider it unreasonable f or Invesco to no longer have the details of these
funds at the time Mr G first invested given this was around 20 years  ago.
However, shed looked at the fact sheets that are available today, noting that both funds aim 
to achieve a high level of income and  capital growth over the longer term with at least 80% 
of their assets in shares of companies incorporated, domiciled or carrying out the main 
part of their economic activity in the UK.  
Shed not seen any evidence to suggest that Invesco has not invested Mr Gs money as 
described in the key features document. She said the fund manager has the right to make 
discretionary choices when deciding what assets should be held in the fund and these 
decisions will be based on several factors including the fund objec tives, performance and 
risk. 
The investment is linked to the stock market and therefore the value can fluctuate. The fact 
sheet gives warnings about the risks involved in this type of investment and warns investors 
they may not get back the whole of their  investment.  
Mr G did not agree and raised a range of related points about Invescos track record 
including a large fine imposed by the Financial Conduct Authority. The investigator 
responded to these points and was not persuaded to change her view of the  case.  
DRN-2347657Mr G asked for an ombudsman to reassess his complaint, adding:  
 
 At the point he invested, the key factsheet said: The fund invests primarily in s hares 
of UK companies but may include some international investment but this was  later 
 expanded  in 2012 - to include The fund may also invest in private and unlisted 
equities and non -UK companies  
 That change in objective s was made without the signed agreement of investors and 
in his view a material factor in the reduced fund liquidity. It also increased the risk of 
the fund but this was not reflected in the Risk and Reward Profile which remained 
unchanged at  6 
 The strat egy of "value" investing evaporated capital values and has been 
instrumental in reducing formally large and robust funds into a very fragile and 
vulnerable state. Invesco Asset Management should have taken action to protect 
investors  
What Ive decided  and why 
 
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
 
In this case I agree with the investigator and for the same reasons. As such, I will not repeat 
the various points  she made in response to Mr Gs further comments.  
 
In essence, it is for the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA) to regulate businesses and 
investigate, where appropriate, potential issues of mismanagement or regulatory failure. 
Indeed it did this in 2014 an d concluded that Invesco had not acted fairly or properly in 
relation to two other funds it sold and managed.  
 
But it has not issued a similar judgement about the two funds Mr G invested in. Given these 
were being promoted by Invesco at the same time, it s eems unlikely that the FCA was 
unaware of any concerns and potential grounds to investigate these funds. The fact that it 
did not look into these funds  or deem them contrary to regulatory guidance suggests it did 
not believe Invesco was mismanaging or mi srepresenting.  
 
I fully understand Mr Gs disappointment at the performance of these funds and why he 
might believe there must hav e been some mismanagement or strategic (investment) failure 
given how poorly they have performed. But the fact that a fund performs badly in relation to 
other providers, or the overall markets, doesnt indicate or even suggest it has been 
mismanaged. It is  in the nature of risk -based managed funds that some will do significantly 
better than others and all may lose significant value during certain periods.  
 
Mr G may understandably feel that what he calls a Value -led approach is part of the reason 
for the p oor performance but Ive seen no evidence that Invesco stated it would not take 
such an approach, if that is what it did, nor that it was not entitled to do so. There has never 
been a consensus between analysts or advisors as to what combination of Value  and 
Growth investing is appropriate at different points or in different markets. So one cannot say 
a Value -led approach is indicative of  mismanagement.  
 
I acknowledge that Invesco did alter the wording on its prospectus at some point between 
2011 and 20 12 to explicitly state that its non -UK investments could include private and 
unlisted equities, this not being stated previously/when Mr G invested. But for various 
reasons I dont share Mr Gs view that this is sufficient to uphold his complaint.  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Firstly, it is not clear if this was an actual change to its investment strategy as opposed to a 
more explicit statement of the range of non -UK assets it had always invested in. In relation to 
international assets, the previous wording had said: Fund ma nagers may include 
investments that they may consider appropriate (such as) transferable securities, money 
market instruments, warrants, collective investment schemes, deposits and other permitted 
investments and transactions. I am not convinced this word ing excludes private and non - 
listed companies.  
Further, the international investments were limited to 20% with the other 80% invested in 
UK-listed companies  and this has not changed. It was also promoted as a self -declared 
high-risk product (6 out 7 on  its risk scale) designed to try and outperform the UK Stock 
Market, an inherently risky strategy.  
So I dont think a slight change to the potential international asset mix, if that is what 
occurred, involving less than 20% of the overall fund, represents  a sufficient change to the 
funds fundamental purpose to warrant upholding this complaint. In essence, this was always 
a very high -risk fund and I am not persuaded that Invesco needed investor approval for this 
small change in investment strategy, if this  is was what the new wording indicated.  
My final decision  
I do not uphold this complaint.  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, I m required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision before 21 December 2020.  
Tony Moss  
Ombudsman  