DRN-3264194
The complaint
Miss C had a motor insurance policy with AXA Insurance UK Plc when she had an accident. 
She says its service was poor and it hasnt done enough to ensure that liability is resolved.   
What happened
Miss C told AXA on 1 December 2018 that a truck had cut across her as she was entering a 
roundabout, damaging her car. She provided dashcam footage of the incident. After viewing 
it AXA told Miss C on 7 December 2018 that it didnt think she was at fault. AXA waived her 
no claims discount and repairs were carried out at no cost to her. Car hire was provided. 
AXA expected to recoup its outlay from the other insurer, as it had accepted liability. But in 
February 2019, that insurer disputed liability. It said Miss C had tried to undertake the truck. 
AXA chased the other insurer in July 2019. In March 2020 it asked the other insurer again to 
cover the cost of the claim. AXA chased a response a few times between March 2020 and 
March 2021. At that point, it offered Miss C £200 compensation for poor service. It accepted 
that there were long periods in which it hadnt been proactive and that shed had to chase it 
for updates and hadnt received calls back. AXA said it would chase the other insurer again, 
but as there was no progress in the next few months, Miss C complained to us.
One of our investigators asked for an update from AXA. It said it was trying to bring the claim 
to a close. It said it would send Miss C a letter when that happened that she could show to 
her new insurer to see whether she was entitled to a refund of her new premium. The 
investigator thought AXA should pay Miss C a further £100 compensation, which it agreed to 
do. Miss C thought the compensation should be higher, as the claim was still open, and that 
she should get back the extra sum shed paid in premiums due to the open claim. 
As there was no agreement, the complaint was passed to me for review.
   
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I think AXA handled the claim well initially. Miss C didnt have to pay the policy excess, or for 
car hire or repairs. And it passed on the details of the claim to the other insurer quickly. But 
once the claim started to drag on - after liability was disputed - it was always likely that when 
Miss C renewed her policy or sought insurance elsewhere, the open claim would affect the 
sum she paid for her premium. 
It isnt possible to say exactly what effect the open claim has had, but its very likely that part 
of the increase in Miss Cs premium was due to it. Miss C has also had the worry of not 
knowing what will happen with liability  and what the problem is in deciding it  given the 
evidence that she provided at the outset.
 
It seems from the notes on AXAs file that it did little to progress the claim from February 
2019 (when liability was disputed) until March 2020. During the following year, AXA chased 
the other insurer for progress several times, having been chased itself by Miss C. When 
another insurer drags its feet, liability disputes can often take a long time to resolve  and 
the situation is even more difficult when the insurer for both parties is the same, or part of the 
same group, as here. But regardless of that, I think AXA could have been far more proactive 
over the period from February 2019 to March 2021. I dont think the compensation AXA 
offered Miss C at that point was sufficient, given the lack of activity on its part. 
Liability may be decided in Miss Cs favour in due course, but at the moment theres no 
certainty about it, so it isnt possible to deal with the issue of her increased premium yet. Its 
open to Miss C to complain to AXA again (and then to us if necessary) if she isnt happy with 
the outcome of the claim - or with inactivity or delays on AXAs part from March 2021 
onwards. For the poor service AXA provided up to the date it tried to resolve Miss Cs 
complaint, I think £300 compensation in total would be fair and reasonable. In my opinion it 
would reflect the inconvenience and worry caused to Miss C until then. 
 
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint in part. I require AXA Insurance UK Plc to 
pay Miss C a further £100 compensation for distress and inconvenience (as it has already 
agreed to do) making £300 compensation in total.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss C to accept 
or reject my decision before 25 February 2022. 
Susan Ewins
Ombudsman