DRN-1944151
The complaint
Mrs A complains that AXA France IARD mis-sold her a monthly premium payment protection 
insurance (PPI) policy in 2004 in connection with a store card.
What happened
Mrs A says she bought a PPI policy in 2004 to support a store card which started in 1999. 
PPI premiums were added to her store card account. The policy was sold during a telephone 
call. She says the policy was mis-sold.
AXA is the insurance underwriter and has agreed to take responsibility for the sale. So for 
ease, I will refer to AXA as the PPI seller in this decision.
Our adjudicator thought the complaint should be upheld because she thought AXA hadn't 
given Mrs A enough information about the cost and benefits of the policy which was clear, 
fair and not misleading. 
AXA disagreed with our adjudicators view and asked for the matter to be looked at again.
AXA added it wasnt clear that Mrs As employee benefits were that good. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding Mrs As case.
Having done that, Ive decided to uphold Mrs As complaint and Ill explain why.
Im satisfied from the evidence that Mrs A was eligible for the PPI policy and that it was an 
optional product because her store card had been issued around five years before PPI 
started.
AXA said it was a non-advised sale. So AXA needed to make sure it gave Mrs A enough 
information about the policy so she could decide for herself if she wanted to buy it. But I 
dont think AXA gave Mrs A clear enough information about the policy.
I havent seen a telephone call script which would have been used at that time to sell PPI, so 
I dont know exactly what was said to Mrs A during the telephone call when she bought PPI. 
I dont know how AXA explained what percentage of her outstanding balance would be 
covered, that the PPI premium would be added to the store card balance and could attract 
interest or that Mrs A would need to keep paying the PPI if she made a successful claim - 
which in real terms would reduce the level of benefit to less than 15% of the outstanding 
statement balance.I think this would have mattered to Mrs A because she said she would have got the 
equivalent of nine months full pay from her employer if she couldnt work due to illness and 
she had savings worth three months salary. So I think she could have met her store card 
repayments for a while without the policy. I dont think Mrs A would have bought the policy if 
shed known the true cost of it. So, I think Mrs A has lost out because of what AXA did 
wrong.
Ive taken into account AXAs comments including what its said about the likelihood of Mrs 
As sick pay. But I still think I should uphold this complaint. Mrs A has told us she had 
worked for 28 years with the same employer at the time of the PPI sale. So I still think it is 
plausible that Mrs A would receive these benefits and could have managed without the PPI 
for long enough not to need it. 
Taking into account everything Ive read and been told, I think its fair to accept what Mrs A 
has said. I think Mrs A would have had enough sick pay and savings to mean she didnt 
really need the policy. So I dont think Mrs A would have bought it if shed had better 
information about it.
Putting things right
I think AXA - which has taken responsibility for this PPI sale - did something wrong so it 
needs to do something to put things right for Mrs A.
My final decision
AXA France IARD should put Mrs A in the financial position shed be in now if she hadnt 
taken out PPI.
A. AXA France IARD should find out how much Mrs A would have owed when she 
closed her store card account if the policy hadnt been added. So, it should remove 
the PPI premiums added, as well as any interest charged on those premiums. It 
should also remove any charges that were caused by the mis-sale of the PPI  as 
well as any interest added to those charges.
 
AXA France IARD should then refund the difference between what Mrs A owed when she 
closed her account and what she would have owed if she hadnt had PPI.
If Mrs A made a successful claim under the PPI policy, AXA France IARD can take off what 
she got for the claim from the amount it owes her.
B. AXA France IARD should add simple interest on the difference between what Mrs A 
would have owed when she closed her account from when she closed it until she 
gets the refund. The interest rate should be 8% a year. 
C. If  when the AXA France IARD works out what Mrs A would have owed each month 
without PPI  Mrs A paid more than enough to clear her balance, AXA France IARD 
should also pay simple interest on the extra Mrs A paid. And it should carry on paying 
interest until the point when Mrs A wouldve owed AXA France IARD something on 
her store card. The interest rate should be 8% a year. 
D. AXA France IARD should tell Mrs A what its done to work out A, B and C.
 
 HM Revenue & Customs requires AXA France IARD to take off tax from this interest. AXA 
France IARD must give Mrs A a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if she asks 
for one.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs A to accept or 
reject my decision before 25 August 2020.
Amrit Mangra
Ombudsman