DRN-4403249
The complaint
Mr B complains that HSBC UK Bank Plc (HSBC) wont refund money he lost in an 
investment scam.
What happened
What Mr B says:
Mr B was looking for an investment opportunity and came across the website of a bitcoin 
investment company. He says he made checks on the company to ensure they were 
legitimate. They got favourable reviews (80%) on Trustpilot and he was persuaded he 
should invest. 
He was called by an advisor and they got access to his computer  the adviser made the 
payments. The first payment of £10,000 (to another bank  from which he then made 
payments to the bitcoin company) was stopped by HSBC and he was asked to visit a branch 
to discuss it. He answered all questions truthfully and advised HSBC of the name of the 
bitcoin firm. He said that if the intervention was thorough and the right questions were asked, 
he would not have gone through with the first, or subsequent payments. He said the 
payments were consistent with a known fraud trend.
Mr B then made payments to his crypto wallet from his HSBC account as shown:
Date Transaction Amount
2 November 2022 Faster payment to crypto wallet £149.42
2 November 2022 Faster payment to crypto wallet £298.66
29 November 2022 Faster payment to crypto wallet £5,611.55
Total Loss £6,059.63
Further payments were made from another account (which is the subject of another 
complaint to this service). Mr B then asked to withdraw some money. The company said he 
had to pay taxes and fees. He then realised he had been scammed and reported it to HSBC 
on 16 December 2022.
Mr B says a warning about the bitcoin company only appeared on the Financial Conduct 
Authoritys website on 16 December 2022, so he couldnt have known about it. He said 
HSBC shouldve done more to protect him  he told HSBC the name of the company when 
he discussed the first payment. HSBC should then have known about it and warned him, but 
didnt. He says the payments were out of character with the way he used his account  as it 
was to a high-risk investment. He said he is a pensioner, was not an expert in 
cryptocurrency investments and was searching for a reputable company to invest with.
He says HSBC should refund the money hes lost, plus interest at 8% per annum.
What HSBC said:
HSBC didnt refund the money. They said the Contingent Reimbursement Model (CRM) 
Code didnt apply  as the transfers were me to me  to Mr Bs account. The payments had 
been made and authorised by Mr B. When Mr B called HSBC from its branch on 27 October 
2022, he told HSBC he had been doing his research for over a year, he was following his 
friends advice, and had done all his checks on the company, including checking the FCAs 
website. HSBC gave him all the necessary warnings on the call, but he wished to proceed.
HSBC said that on a call with Mr B on 6 January 2023, he said hed given the third-party 
access to his computer.
Our investigation so far:
Mr B brought his complaint to us. Our investigator didnt uphold it. He said:
- The payments for £149.42 and £298.86 werent flagged as suspicious as they were 
low value.
- The payment of £5,611.55 also wasnt considered suspicious as it was consistent 
with the normal activity on Mr Bs account. He said there were other large payments 
of £195,595 (4 July 2022); £191,063.50 (6 July 2022); £6,753 (12 August 2022); 
£10,000 (27 October 2022).
- When Mr B visited the branch of HSBC on 27 October 2022, he was asked all the 
right questions. Mr B confirmed hed done due diligence, had been investing for over 
20 years and wished to go ahead with the payment. So - even if HSBC had 
intervened in the three payments in question, our investigator said Mr B wouldve 
likely gone ahead anyway.
Mr B asked that an ombudsman look at his complaint, and so it has come to me to make 
a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im sorry to hear that Mr B has lost money in a cruel scam. Its not in question that he 
authorised and consented to the payments in this case. So although Mr B didnt intend for 
the money to go to a scammer, he is presumed to be liable for the loss in the first instance. 
So, in broad terms, the starting position at law is that a bank is expected to process 
payments and withdrawals that a customer authorises it to make, in accordance with the 
Payment Services Regulations and the terms and conditions of the customers account. And 
I have taken that into account when deciding what is fair and reasonable in this case.
But that is not the end of the story. Taking into account the law, regulators rules and 
guidance, relevant codes of practice and what I consider to have been good industry 
practice at the time, I consider HSBC should fairly and reasonably:Have been monitoring accounts and any payments made or received to counter 
various risks, including anti-money laundering, countering the financing of terrorism, 
and preventing fraud and scams.
Have had systems in place to look out for unusual transactions or other signs that 
might indicate that its customers were at risk of fraud (among other things). This is 
particularly so given the increase in sophisticated fraud and scams in recent years, 
which banks are generally more familiar with than the average customer.  
In some circumstances, irrespective of the payment channel used, have taken 
additional steps, or make additional checks, before processing a payment, or in some 
cases declined to make a payment altogether, to help protect customers from the 
possibility of financial harm from fraud.
The Lending Standards Board Contingent Reimbursement Model Code (CRM Code) doesnt 
apply in this case. That is because it applies to faster payments made to another UK 
beneficiary and in this case, the payments were made to Mrs Bs own account  his crypto 
wallet. 
I need to decide whether HSBC acted fairly and reasonably in its dealings with Mr B when 
he made the payments, or whether it should have done more than it did. I have considered 
the position carefully.
The important matter here is whether these were payments that HSBC might reasonably 
have considered unusual, and therefore whether they shouldve held or stopped the 
payments and contacted Mr B about them.
 
I looked at Miss Bs account history with HSBC. And I dont think the payments were unusual 
for him. For example, there were large payments made in the previous few months such as: 
£195,595 (4 July 2022); £191,063.50 (6 July 2022); £6,753 (12 August 2022); £10,000 (27 
October 2022). So  in this case, I dont consider HSBC could reasonably have been 
expected to hold the payments and ask Mr B about them. 
Im mindful also that theres a balance to be struck: HSBC has obligations to be alert to fraud 
and scams and to act in their customers best interests, but they cant be involved in every 
transaction as this would cause unnecessary disruption to legitimate payments. In this case, 
I think HSBC acted reasonably in processing the payments.
Call - 27 October 2022: I went on to consider what might have happened had HSBC 
intervened in the larger payment of £5,611.55. I listened to the call between Mr B and 
HSBC which was about the payment to another bank for £10,000. The money was then to 
be moved into Mr Bs crypto wallet. HSBC had already not processed the payment the 
previous day  because of their concerns about it.
Im satisfied that HSBC asked all the necessary, open questions about the payment and 
investment Mr B was making. The questions and answers about the payment lasted just 
over 20 minutes. Mr Bs replies were positive - that he wanted to go ahead. I quote some 
parts of the call:
HSBC: Do you still want to proceed with this payment sir? Mr B: yes I do.
HSBC: Why are you making the payment? Mr B: for investment purposes  crypto.
HSBC: How long have you been investing in crypto? Mr B: only a short while, four weeks.HSBC: Is this a one off or will there be more? Mr B: one off.
HSBC: were you promised higher than normal returns? Mr B: yes, but not significantly more 
than normal.
HSBC: How did you find the bitcoin company? Mr B: have investigated it (crypto 
investments) for over a year, have friends whove used it, done background checks on it, Im 
fully aware of the scams that are going on.
HSBC: Do you know crypto investments are high risk? Mr B: yes, Ive dealt in stocks and 
shares for 20 years. So Im fully aware.
HSBC: What research have you done? Mr B: I have friends whove used them and Ive been 
investing for over 20 years.
HSBC: Did you look at the FCAs website? Mr B: yes, Im happy to proceed.
HSBC: Is the online wallet in your name and only you can access it? Mr B: yes.
HSBC: How did you get bank details? Mr B: I did it.
HSBC: Did the bank and payee details match (when setting up the payment)? Mr B: yes.
HSBC: Did you see our online fraud alert? Mr B: yes.
HSBC: What response did you give why are you making this payment? Mr B: making an 
investment.
HSBC: But you put other  why? Mr B: Just release the funds, Im getting fed up with all 
this, youre dragging it out, youve asked me enough questions, I want to go through with this 
payment.
HSBC then read out (twice) the scam warning  that if the scheme turns out to be fraudulent, 
they may not be able to get Mr Bs money back. 
Mr B said: Im happy, understood. Mr B agreed the payment should be sent, and HSBCs 
call handler released it.
Call - 26 October 2022: I also listened to the call between Mr B and HSBC the previous day.  
The questions and Mr Bs replies were very similar, and HSBC declined to make the 
payment. Mr B then said this is ridiculous, its my money, Im entitled to do what I like with it. 
If this isnt transferred I will withdraw all my money from HSBC.  Mr B was asked to go to a 
branch to discuss the payment.
So  Im satisfied that had HSBC intervened in the payment for £5,611.55  that Mr B 
wouldve gone ahead anyway. He was clearly confident in what he was doing and was 
determined to make the payment.
I note Mr B says he mentioned the name of the bitcoin company on the call  and therefore 
HSBC shouldve known it was a scam company. I didnt hear its name on the call  but even 
if Mr B had mentioned it, I dont think its reasonable to expect HSBC to have known about 
the company or whether it was a scam vehicle.  In any case, I noted that the FCAs register 
was updated with a warning about it on 16 December 2022  after the payments were made.So  I dont think its reasonable that HSBC should refund any of the money paid by Mr B.
Recovery:
We expect firms to quickly attempt to recover funds from recipient banks when a scam takes 
place. I looked at whether HSBC took the necessary steps in contacting the bank that 
received the funds  in an effort to recover the lost money. I couldnt see that theyd 
contacted the provider of Mr Bs crypto wallet  but Im persuaded that had they done so, no 
funds wouldve remained  as hed immediately moved them into the bitcoin trading platform.
My final decision
I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 17 November 2023.
 
Martin Lord
Ombudsman