DRN-3477911
The complaint
Mr E complains that GE Money Consumer Lending Limited (GE Money) unfairly 
turned down his claim under the Consumer Credit Act 1974 (CCA).
What happened
Mr E bought a points-based timeshare from the Supplier in February 2008. The cost 
of the timeshare was £47,499 and that was funded by trading in an existing timeshare 
for £26,939 and by a loan of £20,560 taken with GE Money. The loan was in Mr Es 
sole name and set to run for 182 months (just over 15 years). The proceeds of the 
loan werent paid directly to the Supplier, but to a different business which Ill call 
Business Y. The loan was repaid in November 2012.
As the loan was in Mr Es sole name, it is Mr E who would have the right to raise a 
claim (and subsequent complaint). I will therefore refer to Mr E throughout in this 
decision.
Mr E said that when he bought the points-based timeshare he was told that as a 
platinum member he would have top priority when booking and access to a variety 
of locations worldwide. He was also told that hed have access to exclusive resorts 
and that when he wanted to, he would be able to sell his points back to the 
Supplier. Hes argued the timeshare was therefore sold as an investment.
However, when Mr E tried to use his points, he experienced difficulties as there was 
limited availability. Hes also said that during a holiday in 2013 he found there were 
other non-timeshare owners who had paid less than he had, and this alerted him to 
the fact the resorts werent exclusively for timeshare owners. In addition, Mr E has 
said that he was pressured to sit through an initial sales presentation and that the 
Supplier had no regard for Mr Es needs or financial circumstances when selling him 
the timeshare. In 2015 when Mr E enquired about selling his points, he was told the 
buy back scheme was no longer operating and whilst he could give up his points, he 
wouldnt get any money in return for them.
So Mr E argues that the Supplier misrepresented the points-based timeshare to him at 
the time of sale. And that that these misrepresentations induced him into taking out the 
points- based timeshare. He also feels that the circumstances of the purchase created 
an unfair relationship as set out in s.140A CCA.
In August 2019 Mr E, using a representative, raised his claim with GE Money. After 
some delays, GE Money responded stating it didnt uphold his claim and gave Mr E 
referral rights to bring a complaint to our service. It also argued that as the payment was 
made to Business Y and not the Supplier directly, there wasnt the required Debtor-
Creditor- Supplier (DCS) relationship to allow Mr E to raise a s.75 CCA claim. GE 
Money also argued that because it wasnt present at the sale it couldnt investigate a 
complaint against the Supplier and that Mr E needed to raise his complaint directly to the 
Supplier. After the complaint was referred to our service GE Money also argued that the 
complaint had been brought too late under the relevant provisions contained in the 
Limitation Act 1980 (LA).
One of our investigators looked into the complaint and didnt think GE Money needed 
to do anything further. They agreed that the claim under s.75 and s.140A CCA had 
been brought too late under the relevant provisions of the LA, so they didnt think GE 
Money needed to consider the substance of the claim.
Mr Es representative responded and asked for the complaint to be referred to 
an ombudsman, so the complaint has been passed to me for a decision.
I issued a provisional decision in April 2022 setting out why I didnt think the complaint 
should be upheld. In my provisional decision I said the following:
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair 
and reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I have also taken account the relevant law and regulations, regulators' rules, 
guidance and standards, and codes of practice and good industry practice, 
when making my decision.
Having done so, I currently dont think GE Money needs to do anything further 
to resolve the matter and as such I dont intend to uphold this complaint. Ive 
explained why below.
Does Mr Es claim meet the requirements for a claim under the CCA?
Under s.75 CCA, a DCS arrangement is a precondition to a claim under that provision. 
The same arrangement is needed for the timeshare contract to be considered when 
assessing the fairness of the debtor-creditor relationship under s.140A CCA. GE 
Money has said that there was no such arrangement in this case as the loan proceeds 
went to a different business to the Supplier (Business Y), so no claim could be 
brought.
Having considered all the evidence and law, I dont think the position is as simple 
as GE Money suggests. There is case law that demonstrates it is possible a court 
would conclude that there were the right arrangements in place that gave rise to 
Mr Es claim
under s.75 and s.140A CCA. What is crucial is the relationship between the Supplier 
of the service and the business that took the payment (Business Y). But Ive not gone 
on to make a finding on that point as, even if I did think there were the right 
relationships in place for the claim, I think GE Money would have a total defence 
under the LA.
However, another criteria for a s.75 CCA claim is that the total cost of the goods or 
services in question need to be under certain financial limits. Section 75 (3)(b) CCA 
sets out that the cash price cannot be more that £30,000. As set out above, the total 
cost of the points-based timeshare was £47,499 and this therefore this exceeds the 
financial limit for a s.75 CCA claim. Ive also thought about s.75A CCA which increases 
the financial limit in certain circumstances to claims over £30,000, but not exceeding 
£60,260. However, this only applies in certain circumstances which I dont think apply 
to this case. In particular, it only relates to claims for breach of contract and based on 
everything Mr E has said, I dont think hes making a breach of contract claim.
Mr E has raised a number of points about things hes said he was told about the points- based timeshare which turned out to be untrue. And hes said that that these things 
induced him into entering the contract. These are allegations of misrepresentations and 
arent a breach of contract. A breach of contract would occur for example, if the Supplier 
didnt do something it was contractually required to do under the contract. Ive thought 
about Mr Es comments that he was told there was a buy back scheme for the points 
purchased, but Ive not seen anything to suggest this was a contractual entitlement. And 
for the avoidance of doubt, Mr E has said this was in place when he purchased the 
points, so Im not sure he was told anything untrue at the time. And Ive not seen 
anything to suggest he was told this scheme would run indefinitely.
So taking everything into consideration, I think Mr Es s.75 CCA claim is outside of the 
financial limits that apply. So I dont think GE Money has acted unfairly for not 
upholding this claim (albeit it did so for different reasons).
Ill go on to consider a claim under s.140A CCA.
The claim under s.140A CCA
Under this section a court may make an order under section 140B CCA in 
connection with a credit agreement if it decides that the relationship between the 
lender and the creditor arising out of the agreement is unfair. Only a court has 
the power to make such a determination, but I think this is relevant law and I 
have taken it into account.
As explained above, Mr E has said that the Supplier misrepresented the nature 
and benefits of the timeshare agreement. Hes also made allegations about 
being pressured during the sales presentation, that the points-based timeshare 
was sold as an investment and that the Supplier had no regard for his needs or 
financial circumstances when selling him the timeshare. I think these allegations 
could be considered under a s.140A CCA claim.
In addition, s.56 CCA can make GE Money liable for things said or done by the 
Supplier before Mr E agreed to purchase the timeshare points. As part of 
considering any potential unfairness, I think considering what was said and done 
prior to Mr E purchasing the points-based timeshare is also relevant here. 
Scotland and Reast v. British Credit Trust Limited [2014] EWCA Civ 790 
provides the authority for misrepresentation to be considered under s.140 CCA. 
It also provides the authority that s.56 CCA can be applied when considering the 
fairness of a relationship under
s.140 CCA.
A claim for misrepresentation brought against the Supplier would be brought 
under s.2(1) of the Misrepresentation Act 1967. This type of claim is an action 
founded in tort and covered by s.2 LA or an action brought for a sum recoverable 
by statute under s.9 LA (the authority for this is Laws v. The Society of Lloyds 
[2003] EWCA 1887). In addition, the other points Mr E has raised could also be 
considered under the same
provisions of the LA.
Both provisions of the LA provide the claimant (Mr E) with six years from the date 
on which the cause of action accrued. These provisions are not cumulative, so 
the total time Mr E would have to raise a claim is six years. It was held in Patel v. 
Patel [2009] EWHC 3264 (QB) that when considering s.140A CCA, the time for limitation purposes ran from the date that the relationship arising from the credit 
agreement ended (if it was not still running at the time the claim was made). This 
is because s.140A CCA considers the whole relationship arising from the credit 
agreement. In this case the date the relationship arising out of the credit 
agreement ended was when the loan was repaid in November 2012. So Mr E had 
six years from this to make a s.140A CCA claim. However, Mr E didnt raise his 
claim until August 2019 which was outside of this time period. I therefore think an 
action under s.140A CCA was brought too late and I dont think GE Money acted 
unfairly in declining this claim.
For the avoidance of doubt, I should explain that even if I thought Mr E could make a
s.75 CCA claim (and Ive explained above why I dont think the does) GE Money 
would also have a total defence under the LA. This is because the same 
provisions of the LA would apply (s.2 LA and s.9 LA). In the case of a 
misrepresentation claim under s.75 CCA (which is what I think Mr E is claiming 
under s.75 CCA) the date the cause of action accrued would be when the loss 
occurred. Mr E has said the alleged misrepresentations induced him into entering 
the contract, so this is when the loss occurred. Mr E would therefore have had six 
years from when he entered the contract (in February 2008) to raise his claim. 
And therefore this claim wouldve also been raised too late under the LA.
I appreciate Mr E may say he didnt know about the time limits Ive referred to above 
in the LA and may not have realised some of the issues hes now complaining about 
until much later. However, Im afraid these are not generally accepted as grounds for 
extending the limitation period Im considering. And Ive not been presented with any 
other reason to extend the time period, nor do I think there are any. So it follows that I 
think the s.140A CCA claim was raised outside of the relevant time limits in the LA 
and I dont think Mr E met the requirements for s.75 CCA claim.
I invited both Mr E and GE Money to provide me with anything further before I made a final 
decision. Neither party has provided a response to my provisional decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As neither party has provided anything further for me to consider, I see no reason to depart 
from reasoning or conclusions reached in my provisional decision (a copy of which is 
included above and forms part of this decision). 
So, it follows that I dont uphold this complaint. To summarise, I think that Mr Es claim under 
s.75 CCA is outside the financial limits required to make a claim. And I think that the claim 
under s140A CCA was made too late and outside the relevant time limits set out in the LA.   
My final decision
For the reasons explained above, I dont uphold Mr Es complaint against GE Money 
Consumer Lending Limited.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr E to accept or 
reject my decision before 10 June 2022.
 
Claire Lisle
Ombudsman
