DRN-3714350
The complaint
Mr A is unhappy that Sainsburys Bank Plc placed a block on his credit card account or with 
the service he received from Sainsburys surrounding this matter.
What happened
Mr A opened a credit card account with Sainsburys which had a credit limit of £12,000. 
Shortly afterwards, Mr A undertook a transaction for £11,000. The transaction was 
completed, but Sainsburys then put a block on Mr As account while they reviewed the 
account for potential fraud concerns.
Approximately two weeks later, Mr A contacted Sainsburys to ask why his account was still 
blocked. Mr A believed that Sainsburys hung up on him during one of the calls he made, so 
he raised a complaint about the block on his account and the service hed received, 
including that Sainsburys didnt have an online chat function.
Sainsburys responded to Mr As complaint a few days later and explained that his account 
was restricted while they conducted a review but that they would let him know when the 
investigation was complete and when the block had been removed. Sainsburys also 
confirmed that they dont have a real time online chat function as Mr A would like, but that Mr 
A could correspond with them via secured messaging if he wanted to do so. Mr A wasnt 
satisfied with Sainsburys response, so he referred his complaint to this service.
One of our investigators liaised with Sainsburys about this complaint. Sainsburys 
acknowledged the Mr As account was still blocked and they arranged for this to be resolved. 
Sainsburys also acknowledged that Mr As account had been blocked for longer than it 
reasonably should have been, and they offered to make a payment of £100 to Mr A as 
compensation for the upset and inconvenience this may have caused.
Our investigator felt that a higher amount of compensation was merited because of the long 
time that Mr As account had been blocked and because they felt Sainsburys hadnt fully 
acknowledged or responded to the service issues that Mr A had complained about. Because 
of this, they recommended that this complaint be uphold in Mr As favour and that 
Sainsburys should increase the compensation payable to Mr A to £200.
Sainsburys didnt agree with the view of this complaint put forwards by our investigator, and 
so the matter was escalated to an ombudsman for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Sainsburys dont dispute that Mr As account was blocked as the result of potential fraud 
checks for longer than should reasonably have been the case. However, Sainsburys point 
out that there is no timescale for such checks, and they feel that the £100 they offered Mr A 
for the inconvenience he incurred is a fair compensation amount.
But its difficult to understand why, in these particular circumstances, the checks into Mr As 
account took so long. I say this because the account movements in question here arent 
particular complex  Mr A opened his account and he then made one transaction, which 
Sainsburys allowed to complete but which prompted Sainsburys to undertake further 
checks into Mr As account. And notably, when our investigator asked Sainsburys what 
checks they were undertaking and what the reasons were that these checks were taking so 
long, Sainsburys were unable to provide any specific details.
Additionally, the Sainsburys agent with whom our investigator liaised confirmed that no 
action had been taken by Sainsburys fraud team in regard to the fraud checks from the point 
that the block was applied until the agent himself, in response to Sainsburys being 
contacted by this service, chased the fraud team about the matter  at which time the checks 
appear to have been swiftly undertaken and the block removed.
Taking all these circumstances into consideration, I find it difficult not to conclude that, in all 
likelihood, the delay that Mr A experienced here wasnt the result of any complex checks that 
needed to be undertaken, but most likely was because Sainsburys simply didnt work his 
account. And indeed, Sainsburys have confirmed that they had a backlog of accounts at that 
time that required similar checks.
I can appreciate that Sainsburys can only work to the capacity of their available staff. But 
any resourcing issues Sainsburys may have had arent Mr As concern. And given that Mr 
As complaint arose because of the length of time that Sainsburys were taking to unblock his 
account, and that his account was still blocked over a month after Sainsburys issued their 
response to Mr As complaint about it  and after being contacted by this service  I dont 
feel that the £100 Sainsburys have offered to Mr A does provide fair and reasonable 
compensation for the frustration and trouble that hes incurred here, much if which I feel 
could reasonably have been avoided had Sainsburys addressed Mr As account sooner.
Mr A is also unhappy with the service he received from Sainsburys when he contacted them 
about the block on his account, including that he feels that Sainsburys hung up on him on 
one of the calls. Unfortunately, Sainsburys havent been able to provide recordings of the 
calls in question. However, they have been able to provide call notes as typed by their 
agents, one of which states that the call disconnected before any conversation could begin. 
As such, while I can appreciate why Mr A may believe that Sainsburys hung up on him, it 
seems plausible to me that what happened may have been that the call disconnected and 
that it wasnt through any fault of Sainsburys that the disconnection happened.
Finally, Mr A is unhappy Sainsburys didnt respond to his complaint point about the standard 
of service he received from them. Having reviewed Sainsburys complaint response letter to 
Mr A, its clear that Sainsburys didnt respond to this point, but instead only addressed Mr 
As points about the block on his account and the lack of an online chat facility. 
All of which means that, in consideration of the circumstances of this complaint  including 
the unreasonable time which Mr As account remained restricted and that Sainsburys didnt 
respond to all of Mr As concerns  my final decision here is that Im upholding this complaint 
in Mr As favour and instructing Sainsburys to make a payment of £200 to him, which I feel 
provides a fair level of compensation for the trouble and upset that Mr A has incurred.
Putting things right
Sainsburys must make a payment of £200 to Mr A.My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint against Sainsburys Bank Plc on the basis 
explained above. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision before 7 December 2022.
 
Paul Cooper
Ombudsman