DRN-2671309
The complaint
Mr G complains about delays HSBC UK Bank Plc caused when dealing with debts on his
accounts. 
What happened
Some years ago, Mr G borrowed money with HSBC and this was secured using an
Agricultural Charge. Unfortunately, Mr G began to suffer financial difficulties and in 2009
HSBC closed his account and passed the unpaid debts to a debt collection firm.
In 2019 Mr G approached another bank to obtain an overdraft for his new business but was
told that the Agricultural Charge was still being held by HSBC and therefore couldnt be used
as security for this borrowing. Mr G contacted HSBC who refused to release the charge as
there was still unpaid debt. Mr G told them he had entered into an Individual Voluntary
Arrangement (IVA) several years before and he believed the debt had been repaid. HSBC
said it had no record of an IVA and that the debt collection firm had not informed it the
money had been repaid. It maintained that it couldnt release the charge.
Unhappy with this response Mr G made a complaint to this service. Our investigator
provided to HSBC details of the IVA that Mr G had sent to us. HSBC reviewed this
information and agreed to release the security. Our investigator found HSBC hadnt done
anything wrong by holding on to the security, as it hadnt been informed about the IVA or any
repayments previously. But she did say HSBC delayed giving Mr G the details of the debt
collection firm and by doing so this delayed the process of releasing the security. She
recommended it should pay Mr G £300 compensation in recognition of this.
HSBC accepted that it should have provided this information to Mr G earlier but didnt agree
that £300 was fair. It offered to pay £100 as a gesture of goodwill. And in addition to this it
also offered an additional sum of £100 for an error during the process to release the security
which caused an extra delay of two months.
Mr G refused the offers made by HSBC. He said that he has lost out financially as a result of
the security not being released earlier. He said HSBC shouldnt have held onto the charge
when it sold on the debt. As no agreement could be reached, the complaint was passed to 
me to decide. 
I issued a provisional decision in which I said:
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Were an informal dispute resolution service, set up as a free alternative to the courts for
consumers. In deciding this complaint Ive focused on what I consider to be the heart of the
matter rather than commenting on every issue or point made in turn. This isnt intended as a
discourtesy to Mr G. Rather it reflects the informal nature of our service, its remit and my
role in it.
The crux of this complaint relates to the release of the Agricultural Charge. What I need to
consider is whether HSBCs actions were fair and reasonable.
HSBC has told us that when it passed the debt to a collection agency it retained the
Agricultural Charge. It says this is because this allows it to still use the charge to settle any
outstanding debt, if the payment is not obtained in full by the collection agent. Based on this I
dont think it is unreasonable for HSBC to have held on to this security.
Mr H has said that HSBC should have released the charge following him clearing the debts
after entering the IVA. But HSBC has told us the first time it became aware that Mr G had
entered into an IVA was when he contacted it in 2019. And this does seem to be the case as
Mr G told our investigator at a later stage that the supervisor handling the IVA informed him
they only dealt with the collection agency  not HSBC. So, Im satisfied the earliest HSBC
could have started the process of releasing the Agricultural Charge was following Mr Gs
2019 contact.
When Mr G did contact HSBC about this matter, it started to investigate. Ive seen notes of
contact between different departments within the bank to show this was happening and
approximately one month after Mr Gs first enquiry, I can see that HSBC found that the
accounts had been closed with debt still owed. So, it decided the charge couldnt be
released. Unfortunately, Mr G didnt have any information about his IVA that he could
provide to HSBC and it took some time for this information to be obtained.
The fact Mr G didnt have documentation to support his insistence the debt had been repaid
is unfortunate, but this isnt something I can hold the bank responsible for. But what is clear
is that HSBC did know the name of the debt collectors who it had passed the debt to and the
instruction from one of the departments was that it would be for Mr G to speak with them. As
HSBC knew Mr G didnt have any information about the old debts it isnt clear to me why this
information was not divulged to him at this point. And if he had been given that information I
think its likely the agreement to start the release of the security would have happened
quicker. So, Im not persuaded that HSBC isnt in some part responsible for this delay.
HSBC has agreed that it should have told Mr G this information earlier but thinks the offer of
£300 is too high. It has offered a sum of £100 as a gesture of goodwill. HSBC has also
informed us that the security release was agreed in March but the request to start the
process with the Land Registry didnt get actioned at that time. It wasnt until this was chased
in June that this oversight was noticed, and the process was started at this point. HSBC has
offered to pay an additional sum of £100 for this error and the delay this caused in getting
the security released.
From what I have seen, HSBCs actions by not passing on information about the debt
collectors to Mr G potentially delayed the start of the security release action by around two
months. This was compounded by a further delay of at least another two months when
HSBC failed to start the official process of release with the Land Registry. Mr G is a farmer
and has told us the money he was trying to obtain from another bank was to help him with
his business and this was impacted by this issue. Mr G has also said this matter caused
additional worry and stress for him and his family. He has referred to the knock-on effect of
having to pay higher rates of interest as a result of not being able to get secured borrowing.
Ive thought very carefully about this issue. This matter has clearly caused Mr G additional
stress and inconvenience, especially as it directly related to the funding he needed for his
business. Taking that into account, Im not satisfied HSBCs offer of compensation totalling
of £200 is enough for the ongoing delays that occurred. Based on everything Ive seen and
been told, Im persuaded that a sum of £400 in total in recognition of all the delays in
releasing the Agricultural Charge should be awarded.Both parties responded to the provisional decision and accepted my findings.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As both parties have accepted the provisional decision I see no reason to amend my 
outcome.  
Putting things right
I require HSBC Bank UK Plc to pay Mr G £400 to compensate him for the distress and
inconvenience caused. 
My final decision
As stated above, I uphold this complaint.
HSBC Bank UK Plc need to put things right as outlined. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision before 9 April 2021.
 
Jenny Giles
Ombudsman