DRN-3118310
The complaint
Ms F complains that Acromas Insurance Company Limited undervalued her car and took too 
long to deal with her claim on her car insurance policy.   
What happened
Ms Fs car was stolen so she claimed on her policy. Acromas reviewed the claim and as the 
car wasnt recovered, treated the claim as a total loss and offered Ms F £7,100 for the 
market value of her car. Ms F didnt agree with the value and complained, she said it had 
taken too long to deal with her claim and that had meant her car was worth less now than 
before. She also said there was a personalised number plate on the car which she wished to 
retain. 
Acromas looked into Ms Fs complaint and upheld it. It said Ms F should have been offered 
the average of the two guides it used. Because Acromas hadnt done that it offered Ms F the 
higher of the two guide and increased the offer to £7,475, minus her excess of £100. 
Acromas said in regard to the delays further information was needed, so it didnt think it had 
done anything wrong. Ms F disagreed and referred her complaint here, she said it had taken 
11 months for her settlement to be made. She said this was too long and meant her car 
would have deprecated during this time. 
Our investigator looked into Ms Fs complaint and recommended it was upheld. He found 
Acromas had used the date of loss to value Ms Fs car, and the amount offered was in line 
with three trade guides used here. However, as Acromas had taken 11 months to settle the 
claim our investigator recommended Acromas add 8% simple interest to the settlement 
amount to compensate Ms F for not having the money. He also suggested Acromas pay an 
additional £150 to compensate Ms F for not being kept updated. For the personalised plate 
our investigator explained that Ms F would need to contact the DVLA to arrange the 
retention of it. 
Acromas didnt agree, it said it had been justified in investigating the claim so didnt think it 
was fair to pay 8% interest on the settlement. 
As Acromas didnt agree the complaint has come to me to decide.   
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The terms and conditions of Ms Fs policy say that if Acromas deem her car a total loss, it 
will pay her the market value. It defines market value as The cost of replacing your vehicle 
with a vehicle of the same make, model, specification, age, mileage and condition as
your vehicle was immediately before the loss or damage you are claiming for.
Our service doesnt value cars. Instead we check to see that the insurers valuation is fair
and reasonable and in line with the terms and conditions of the policy. To do this we tend to 
use relevant trade guides. I find these persuasive as theyre based on nationwide research 
of sales prices. 
Ive checked the relevant trade guides for the same make, model and specification as Ms Fs 
car at the time of loss. The valuations given are £7,100, £7,215 & £7,595. As Acromass 
offer of £7,475 is within the range of the guides Im satisfied its a fair and reasonable 
valuation. It follows that Im therefore not going to tell Acromas to increase it. 
Ive also considered the length of time it took Acromas to make this offer and issue the 
settlement to Ms F. The date of loss of her car was 30 August 2020. Acromas made this 
offer in its final response letter dated 2 July 2021 and said Ms F would receive the settlement 
within 7-10 days. 
Acromas said this delay was due to it having concerns over the claim which needed 
investigating. I appreciate each claim needs to be checked and authorised, and where there 
are concerns this can take longer. That being said, Im not persuaded almost 11 months in 
this particular case is dealing with the claim promptly. Im therefore not persuaded Acromas 
treated Ms F fairly in taking almost 11 months to issue her settlement. To compensate Ms F 
for this delay, Acromas should add 8% simple interest to the settlement, calculated from the 
date of loss until the date it made payment. 
Our investigator also recommended Acromas pays Ms F £150 for the lack of communication 
during her claim. Acromas said it kept Ms F updated and I can see there has been some 
communication, however Ms F has still had to chase Acromas on different occasions as 
shed not been kept updated. Im therefore satisfied £150 is a fair and reasonable amount to 
compensate her for this unnecessary distress and inconvenience. 
Finally, in regard to Ms Fs personalised plate, her policy terms say: 
If your vehicle is stolen and not recovered or rendered a total loss, you should 
contact DVLA or DVANI at the earliest opportunity to make the necessary 
arrangements to transfer the plate to a replacement vehicle. Please note that failure 
to do so may result in you losing the right to retain the cherished or personal plate.
It would therefore be up to Ms F to contact the DVLA to look at retaining her personalised 
plate. If there are any issues obtaining it from the DVLA and Ms F thinks Acromas prejudiced 
her retaining it. She would need to raise that as a separate issue with Acromas after shed 
tried to retain her plate from the DVLA. 
  
My final decisionFor the reasons explained above I partially uphold this complaint. I require Acromas 
Insurance Company Limited to pay Ms F:
8% simple interest per year on what it paid to settle her claim, calculated from the 
date of loss until the date it made payment
£150 for distress and inconvenience
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms F to accept or 
reject my decision before 19 November 2021.
 
Alex Newman
Ombudsman