DRN-3973505
The complaint
Mr K complains about the quality of a car he acquired under a hire purchase agreement with 
Volkswagen Financial Services (UK) Limited (VWFS).
What happened
In November 2019, Mr K entered into a hire purchase agreement with VWFS to acquire a 
new car. The cash price of the car was around £62,879. Mr K provided an initial payment of 
around £4,981, and monthly repayments on the agreement were around £759 over a 48-
month period. To exercise the option to purchase the car there was a fee of £10 plus a final 
payment of approximately £33,013.
In summary, Mr K, said that he was experiencing problems with the start stop function on the 
car at the beginning of 2022, so at times after bringing the car to a stop he had to manually 
restart the engine. And later when he was driving on a motorway at a speed above 70 mph 
the engine stalled and due to this he had to pull over and restart the car. He was able to 
restart the car and drive home. He said this experience was very frightening, so he reported 
the fault to the dealership. But he said they didnt fix the car, as shortly after he got it back, 
he was driving about 30 mph and the engine stalled again. The car had travelled 
approximately 16,000 miles at that time. During this second visit in April/May 2022, the 
dealership fixed some parts, but Mr K said that this fault is still present in the car because 
the start stop function is starting to fail again. He believes that this is how the original 
problem started. So, he would like to reject the car and have his deposit and monthly 
payments back. Mr K believes that he should only be charged £0.45 for the miles he has 
travelled in the car.
In June 2022, VWFS wrote to Mr K. In this correspondence they said that in April 2022 Mr K 
took his car back to the dealership for further investigation. And they said that, on this 
occasion, the fault was attributed to the fuel pump sensor and connecting pipe seal. So, after 
the parts arrived, the work was completed on 20 May 2022. VWFS also said that the 
dealership carried out a road test before handing the car back and said that, to date, the fault 
has not re-occurred. So, they said, with regards to his request for car rejection, they are 
unable to uphold this element of his complaint.
In this correspondence VWFS also said that that the dealership, as a gesture of goodwill, 
offered to exchange Mr Ks car like for like, but that he declined this offer because of current 
lead times. So, they offered to exchange for a different model of car that they had in stock, 
but they said this was also declined by Mr K as the car was not a suitable model for him. And 
they said that Mr K also declined when they offered to buy back the car, subject to 
evaluation with full deposit.
VWFS went on to say that, due to the distress and inconvenience this situation has caused 
Mr K, they offered him a goodwill gesture of £300. And they said that, although he was 
provided a courtesy car, when his was being fixed, that car was of a lower specification. So, 
in recognition of that, they said they would refund him 20% of his monthly payments for the 
four-month period during which he was impacted; The total worth of the payments refund 
totalling £607.55. 
Our investigator thought that the car had developed a fault, but he was of the opinion that 
this fault had now been repaired under warranty. So, he thought that a fair resolution has 
been reached and VWFSs offer of redress is fair and reasonable in the circumstances 
provided. He did however ask VWFS to pay 8% simple interest on the 20% refund of 
monthly payments from the date the payments were made to the date of refund.
VWFS agreed with the investigator. But Mr K disagreed so, the complaint has been passed 
to me to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In considering what is fair and reasonable, I need to take into account the relevant rules, 
guidance, the law and, where appropriate, what would be considered to have been good 
industry practice at the relevant time.
Where evidence is unclear or in dispute, I reach my findings on the balance of probabilities  
which is to say, what I consider most likely to have happened based on the evidence 
available and the surrounding circumstances.
Im very aware Ive summarised this complaint very briefly, in less detail than has been 
provided, and largely in my own words. No discourtesy is intended by this. If theres 
something Ive not mentioned, I havent ignored it. Ive not commented on every individual 
detail. But Ive focussed on those that are central to me reaching what I think is the right 
outcome. This reflects the informal nature of our service as a free alternative to the courts.
Mr K acquired the car under a hire purchase agreement, which is a regulated consumer
credit agreement. Our service can look at these sorts of agreements. VWFS is the supplier 
of the goods under this type of agreement and is responsible for dealing with complaints 
about their quality. The Consumer Rights Act 2015 (CRA) covers agreements such as the 
one Mr K entered into. Under the agreement there is an implied term that the goods supplied 
will be of satisfactory quality. The CRA says that goods will be considered to be of 
satisfactory quality where they meet the standard that a reasonable person would consider 
satisfactory  taking into account the description of the goods, the price paid, and other 
relevant circumstances. I think in this case, those relevant circumstances include, but are not 
limited to, the age and mileage of the car and the cash price. The CRA says the quality of 
the goods includes their general state and condition and other things like their fitness for 
purpose, appearance and finish, freedom from minor defects, safety, and durability.
In Mr Ks case the car was new, with a cash price of around £62,879. So, I think a 
reasonable person would expect it to be of a higher quality than a cheaper and/or previously 
used car. I think it would also be reasonable to expect the car to last a considerable period of 
time before significant problems occurred, and it would be reasonable to expect it to be free 
from even minor defects shortly after it was acquired.
Mr K thinks that he should be entitled to reject the car. 
VWFS say Mr K would only be able to reject the car if the repairs had failed. They are of the 
opinion that there is no evidence of this, as in April 2022 Mr K took his car back to the 
dealership for further investigation. And, they said, that on this occasion the fault was 
attributed to the fuel pump sensor and connecting pipe seal, so after the parts arrived the 
work was completed on 20 May 2022. VWFS also said that the dealership carried out a road test before handing the car back and that, to date, the fault has not re-occurred. So, with 
regards to his request for a car rejection, they said they are unable to uphold this element of 
his complaint.
The CRA sets out that Mr K has a short term right to reject the car within the first 30 days if 
the car is of unsatisfactory quality, however, he would need to ask for rejection within that 
time. Mr K would not be able to retrospectively exercise his short term right of rejection at a 
later date.
Mr K purchased the car in November 2019. At the beginning of 2022, more than two years 
after the supply date, he said that he was experiencing problems with the start stop function 
on the car, so, at times, he had to manually restart the car after bringing the car to a stop. 
And later when he was driving on a motorway at a speed above 70 mph, the engine turned 
off and, due to this, he had to pull over and restart the car. And he said that shortly after the 
dealership had a look at the car and returned it to him, he again experienced the same fault. 
He said he was driving about 30 mph and the engine turned off again. The dealership fixed 
some parts, but Mr K said that this fault is still present in the car because the start stop 
function is starting to fail again and that this is how the original problem started. So, he would 
like to reject the car. It appears that Mr K didnt spot this fault within the first 30 days. Even if 
I accept there were faults which made the car of unsatisfactory quality, Mr K could only reject 
the car within the first 30 days, and only if he expressed his wish to do so. As he was 
unaware of the fault within the first 30 days, he couldnt possibly express his wish to reject 
the car within that time. 
The CRA says that, if the car acquired wasnt of satisfactory quality, or not as described, 
then Mr K would be entitled to still return it after 30 days, but Mr K doesnt have the right to 
reject the car until he has exercised his right to repair. So, Mr K doesnt have an automatic 
right to return the car. For me to conclude that Mr K can exercise his right to reject the car, I 
would need to see that the car wasnt of satisfactory quality, because the faults he complains 
about were likely to have been present or developing at the point of sale, and that VWFS 
one attempt at a repair has failed. 
Considering the age and mileage of the car, and the faults Mr K experienced with the engine 
stalling, I think a reasonable person wouldnt consider it reasonable for the car to have a 
fault of such significance  in this case, stalling of the engine while driving. So, I dont think 
the car was sufficiently durable. For this reason, I do not think the car was of satisfactory 
quality.
In February 2022, Mr Ks car was taken to the supplying dealership to get the fault sorted. At 
the time, the dealership attempted to fix the problem but shortly after Mr K got the car back 
from repairs, the issue recurred. This time Mr K was driving about 30 miles per hour when 
the engine stalled again. At this point, I think most likely, Mr K would have a right to reject 
the car because he exercised his right to repair and the fault with the car was still not fixed. 
But he took the car back to the supplying dealership again for repairs in April 2022.
The dealership diagnosed the car and this time the fault was attributed to a fuel sensor, 
which they replaced, and they also fixed an issue with a seal on the agent connecting pipe.   
The car was returned to Mr K in May 2022. But before the car was returned, the dealership 
diagnosed/tested the car and deemed that no faults were present. Mr K also said that the 
stalling of the engine while driving has not reoccurred again, so from the available evidence 
it seems that most likely this fault with the engine stalling has now been fixed. And 
considering that Mr K has accepted another attempt at repair and that repair appears to 
have been successful, I dont think it would be fair and reasonable for him to be able to now 
exercise his right to reject the car. I have also considered that Mr K thinks that the fault is still present in the car because the 
start stop function is starting to fail again and he thinks that this is how the original problem 
started. He has also given our service evidence from other dealerships and statements from 
their experts which, he believes, proves that the engine stalling fault was originally to do with 
the battery of the car. So, Ive considered all this evidence, but Im still of the opinion that 
most likely the fault with the engine stalling while driving has now been fixed. Ill explain why.
Mr K has provided a list of current fault codes which he says are battery related faults  
these are dated November 2022. He has also provided our service with a letter from a 
workshop manager of one of the other dealerships  this too is dated November 2022. The 
workshop managers statement says that Mr K had both the fuel pump control unit and the 
fuel pressure sensor replaced, so he thinks that there would always be some type of engine 
warning light on the dashboard, as the fuel system goes through the ECU. But, he said, that 
based on all the evidence Mr K had shown him, this light never came on. Also, the workshop 
managers statement says that, considering that the car never stopped faulting even when 
the repairs have been carried out, leads him to believe that this was not the fault the car is 
currently experiencing and shouldve been further assessed. The workshop manager 
concludes his statement by saying that, based on the evidence Mr K has provided him, the 
fault has never been fixed and considering that, even though both repairs have been done, 
the car is still dangerously cutting out. 
Ive considered all the above, but Ive also considered that Mr K told our service that the 
stalling of the engine while driving has not reoccurred again and that only the start stop 
function is starting to fail again. I also considered that the workshop manager hasn't fully 
inspected the car and his comments are only based on evidence provided to him by Mr K. 
Furthermore, Ive considered that the fault diagnostics, provided to our service by Mr K are 
from November 2022 and not done shortly after Mr K had the second repair right before the 
car was returned to him in May 2022. And in February, as well as in April and May of 2022, 
the car was diagnosed on both occasions by the supplying dealership with no faults being 
found or reported regard issues with the battery. So, its possible that Mr Ks car maybe 
experiencing faults to do with the battery now but, I think most likely, had the battery been at 
fault previously, this wouldve been evident from the diagnostics done at the time and 
especially during the repairs that were done right before the car was returned to Mr K in May 
2022. Also, batteries are a serviceable item. Considering when Mr K acquired the car 
compared to when the battery fault was first reported, I dont think it would be reasonable to 
say that the car wasnt rectified after the last repairs. 
Mr K also questioned why our investigator was focused on the fault codes in the repair 
history from the supplying dealership, as he said that these can be added or deleted. So, he 
has also alluded to the fact that during the repairs in February, April, and May 2022, codes 
may have been erased before being repaired. But repair shops reset codes once they 
replace a part, which they believe to have been causing the specific fault in the first place. 
And then the usual procedure is to diagnose again to check to see if any codes reappear. 
From the evidence available, I can see that this is what was done on Mr Ks car. From the 
evidence provided, it doesnt seem that any faults reappeared after the second fix had been 
performed. Also, Ive not seen any evidence that faults have been deleted from the history 
without being repaired. 
Mr K has provided a call recording of him talking to the supplying dealership when they are 
offering to buy his car back from him. Mr K believes that what was discussed during that call 
is evidence that the car was still faulty after the second repair in April/May 2022. But there is 
not enough context on this call that would allow me to conclude that most likely the repairs 
done in April/May 2022 have not fixed the fault with the cars engine stalling. And overall, I 
dont think Mr K has demonstrated that the repairs previously completed have now failed, 
therefore giving him the right to reject the car. So, while I sympathise with the situation Mr K finds himself in, I dont think it would be fair or reasonable to allow him to exercise his right to 
reject the car. 
As I said above, most likely, the car was not of satisfactory quality at the time of supply and 
this matter caused Mr K a lot of distress and inconvenience when trying to resolve it. I think it 
was also very stressful for him when the cars engine stalled on the two occasions. And I 
know he had to bring the car to the supplying dealership more than once for repairs and he 
had to correspond extensively with them as well as with VWFS. So, I dont think he wouldve 
needed to do any of those things had VWFS supplied him with a car that was of a 
satisfactory quality at the point of supply. But I think VWFS offer of £300 in compensation 
fairly reflects the distress and inconvenience caused to Mr K.
Furthermore, while the car was being fixed, he was provided a courtesy car, but that car was 
of a lower specification. So, in recognition of that, VWFS have offered to refund Mr K 20% of 
monthly payments for the impacted four-month period; worth a total of £607.55. I think 
considering that Mr Ks use of the car was impaired while the fault was present and the 
courtesy car he had was of a lower specification, VWFSs current offer, which now includes 
8% simple interest added per year to the above refund of 20% from the date of each 
payment to the date of settlement, is fair and reasonable.  
Mr K also mentioned that he was unhappy that VWFS didnt check with him before providing 
a financial statement which detailed what he owed on the agreement at the time. From 
listening to the call that Mr K provided, of him talking to the supplying dealership when they 
are offering to buy his car back from him, I can hear that the dealership does confirm that 
they did tell Mr K that they would be getting the settlement to see how much he owes on the 
car, so that they can tell him how much they could give him back. But I know that Mr K still 
feels that VWFS shouldve checked with him before releasing this information. So, Ive 
considered this, but based on the circumstances presented to me, I think Mr K, most likely, 
wouldve allowed VWFS to release this information to the dealership anyways. This is 
because at that time he wanted to see what all his options were regarding returning of the 
car. Also, Ive not seen that Mr K has lost out financially because of this. So, I dont think 
VWFS has to take any further action regarding this point.
My final decision
For the reasons given above I think Volkswagen Financial Services (UK) Limiteds current 
offer is fair and reasonable. So, I think they should:
- Pay Mr K £300 in compensation for the distress and inconvenience caused if this has 
not yet been paid.
- Refund Mr K 20% of the agreements monthly payments for the four months 
duration, from February to May 2022, if this has not yet been paid. And add 8% 
simple interest per year to this refund, from the date of each payment to the date of 
settlement.
If Volkswagen Financial Services (UK) Limited considers tax should be deducted from the 
interest element of my award, they should provide Mr K with a certificate showing how much 
they have taken off so he can reclaim that amount, if he is eligible to do so.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr K to accept or 
reject my decision before 17 March 2023.
 
Mike Kozbial
Ombudsman