DRN-3400244
The complaint
Mr and Mrs F complain because AXA Insurance UK Plc hasnt paid a claim for the loss of 
money paid for rent under their travel insurance policy. 
What happened
Mr and Mrs F hold a travel insurance policy, provided by AXA, as a benefit of their bank 
account. The policy covers trips of up to 62 days duration as standard. Mr and Mrs F paid for 
a 186-day trip duration extension upgrade, which expired in September 2020. 
In February 2019, Mr and Mrs F signed a rental contract for a property abroad. The rental 
contract began on 1 April 2019 and ended on 31 March 2021. 
Mr and Mrs F returned to the UK from their rental property earlier than planned in March 
2020, because of the circumstances surrounding Covid-19. And, Mr and Mrs F were unable 
to use the rental property from 1 April 2020 to 31 March 2021 due to Covid-19, so they made 
a claim with AXA for the cost of the rent on the property for that year. 
AXA said the claim wasnt covered under the terms and conditions of Mr and Mrs Fs 
insurance policy. Unhappy, Mr and Mrs F brought a complaint to the attention of our service. 
One of our investigators looked into what had happened but she didnt uphold Mr and Mrs 
Fs complaint. Mr and Mrs F didnt agree with our investigators opinion, so the complaint has 
been referred to me to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Industry rules set out by the regulator (the Financial Conduct Authority) say an insurer must 
handle claims fairly and shouldnt unreasonably reject a claim. Ive taken these rules into 
account when making my final decision. 
The terms and conditions of Mr and Mrs Fs policy say that AXA will pay for certain 
irrecoverable and unused costs if a trip is cancelled for one of a list of insured reasons. A 
trip is defined in the policy as:
any holiday, business or pleasure trip or journey within the Geographical Limits, 
during the Period of Insurance, commencing and ending in Your Home Area
I understand Mr and Mrs Fs explanation as to why they couldnt end the rental contract after 
one year. But, regardless of their intentions for 2020/2021 and/or the reasons why they were 
unable to travel in 2020/2021, Mr and Mrs F didnt have any transport, starting and ending in 
the UK, booked to stay at the rental property during the period theyre claiming for. 
So, Mr and Mrs F dont have any trip or trips to claim for under the cancellation or travel 
disruption sections of their policy.
Ive also considered whether I think Mr and Mrs Fs trip which ended on their return to the 
UK in March 2020 could reasonably fall for consideration under the curtailment section of 
their policy. But, based on the information available to me and the 186-day trip limit which 
was applicable to their policy in March 2020, I dont.
Travel insurance isnt generally intended to cover a loss of this nature. Im not aware of any 
travel insurance policy on the market which would cover the circumstances which Mr and 
Mrs F are claiming for. 
This means I dont think Mr and Mrs Fs claim is covered under the terms and conditions of 
their policy with AXA. And, I dont think there are any reasonable grounds upon which I could 
fairly ask AXA to accept either their claim in its entirety, or a proportion of their claim. 
I understand Mr F has said that AXA paid a similar claim under his policy a few years ago. 
But Im only considering the claim which Mr and Mrs F have complained about and, for the 
reasons Ive already explained, I wont be directing AXA to do anything further. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold Mr and Mrs Fs complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs F and Mr F to 
accept or reject my decision before 24 May 2022.
 
Leah Nagle
Ombudsman