DRN-3591706
The complaint
Mr and Mrs S complain that a few days before exchanging on their new property Barclays 
Bank UK PLC changed its lending criteria preventing them getting the mortgage that they 
expected to get to buy the new property. As Mr and Mrs S intended porting their mortgage, 
they couldnt do so and had to go to another lender and pay Barclays an early repayment 
charge (ERC).
What happened
Mr and Mrs S were buying a new house and understood they could get a loan of £568,000 
on a purchase of £825,000. As part of their application they wanted to port the mortgage 
product on their existing borrowing but also borrow more money. Mr and Mrs S submitted 
their mortgage application through a broker on 28 August 2020. But on 4 September 2020 
Barclays reduced its income multiples on mortgage applications which meant that it was 
prepared to lend Mr and Mrs S much less than they originally anticipated. Mr and Mrs S say 
that Barclays shouldnt have applied the new criteria to pipeline applications and this was not 
treating its customer fairly. Mr and Mrs S couldnt complete the purchase on Barclays offer, 
had to get funding elsewhere and had to pay an ERC of £4,496.38.
Barclays accepted that there were some delays in processing the application and 
responding to the complaint and offered compensation of £250 by way of apology. But in 
respect of the main complaint it said that it had processed the application in accordance with 
its lending criteria at the time. As Mr and Mrs S hadnt proceeded with the available offer and 
redeemed the mortgage, this meant that an ERC became payable and this was fairly 
charged.
Our investigator didnt recommend that this complaint should be upheld as he didnt believe 
that Barclays had unfairly applied their new lending criteria to Mr and Mrs Ss application. Mr 
and Mrs S disagreed and asked for a review.
 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr and Mrs Ss application was submitted by their broker in the expectation it would be 
accepted by Barclays as there had been a provisional acceptance on 18 August based on 
Mr Ss July payslip. The evidence indicates that when the provisional acceptance was made 
Barclays was operating a lending criteria that included a maximum income multiple of 5.5x 
income that was reduced as of 4 September to 4.49x income. Effectively this meant that Mr 
and Mrs S could not now buy the new property they wanted to buy with a Barclays 
mortgage. If Mr and Mrs S couldnt use a Barclays mortgage and went ahead and bought the 
new property, they would have to, as they did, pay an ERC.
An ERC - and the amount of it - was payable under Section 7 of the mortgage offer of 1 July 
2019 but could be avoided under Section 8 of that offer if the balance of the loan could be 
transferred to another property subject to the new property and your circumstances meeting 
our lending criteria at that time . So, in order to get the loan Mr and Mrs S circumstances 
would have to meet Barclays lending criteria. It seems that at the time of application - August 
- their circumstances would have met the lending criteria but at the time of decision - 
September - they didnt. That particular year, 2020, was a particularly volatile year in the 
mortgage market. It was a time of payment holidays and concern about affordability and I 
can see why lenders may have become more conservative in their lending policies at this 
time although later in the new year I understand that Barclays again loosened its policy on 
income multiples. So, I can understand the background of Barclays decision.
Mr and Mrs S criticise the implementation of Barclays policy and that it shouldnt have 
applied to pipeline applications. Ive read Barclays new policy and it was quite specific. It 
applied to Applications submitted that had not yet gone to offer as of 4 September 2020 
which would indeed be pipeline applications. From the lenders point of view, it was taking a 
point in time following which all formal mortgage offers would comply with the new criteria. 
The decision of timing and risk are a matter for the commercial judgement of the lender. 
Notably the reduction in the income multiple didnt apply to existing mortgage offers because 
those are formal offers which if accepted bind the lender and borrower. But before the offer 
stage, nothing is binding including provisional decisions and decisions in principle, but wed 
expect the lender to act fairly. In this situation Barclays in its provisional decision gave an 
indication of what it may be able to do if things stayed as they were including its lending 
criteria. But implicit in that is that if things change before a mortgage offer is made, a 
mortgage offer may not issue. Thats what happened here and thats why I dont consider 
that Barclays acted unfairly. 
If the mortgage offer had been produced before 4 September, the situation would be 
different but like our investigator I cant say that Barclays was guilty of any unreasonable 
delay in producing the offer based on the application made on 27 August. So, whilst I 
sympathise with Mr and Mrs S and the position that they found themselves in, I cant fairly 
uphold their complaint. I did note that there were delays in Barclays processes which whilst 
not central to the complaint would have caused Mr and Mrs S a degree of inconvenience 
and I accept that the offer made of £250 by Barclays represents fair compensation for that.
My final decision
My decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs S and Mr S to 
accept or reject my decision before 23 September 2022.
 
Gerard McManus
Ombudsman