DRN-2033410
The complaint
Miss G complains that Barclays Bank UK PLC trading as Barclaycard (Barclaycard) 
reduced her credit limit from £13,400 to £2,550 which she considers to be unfair.
What happened
Our investigators background summary covered all the relevant facts and issues, and is 
known to both Miss G and Barclaycard, so there is no need for me to repeat it here in any 
detail. Instead I will focus on giving the reasons for my decision. So, if Ive not mentioned 
something its not because Ive ignored it, rather its because I dont think its of direct 
relevance to the issues I need to deal with.
On the 27 September 2019 Miss G logged into her Barclaycard App and noted she was 
required to pay just over £38, and so made a payment for £40. Almost a week later she 
noticed she had been charged a late payment fee and so raised a query. Barclaycard told 
her that she had been required to pay £53.03 not the £38, and so she had been recorded as 
making a late payment. Barclaycard refunded the late payment charge. Miss G said she 
checked her app and it showed that there was nothing showing as due for payment at the 
start of November which was in fact incorrect. Miss G also says that when she spoke 
to Barclaycard about her complaint, they confirmed the app should not be relied upon and 
that she should check her statements. She was also assured her credit rating would not be 
adversely affected.
On the 10 December Miss G learned, by letter, that her credit limit had been reduced to 
£2,550. When she rang Barclaycard, she says she was given different reasons for the 
reduction by two separate advisors but told that it would have no effect on her credit rating. 
She says a more senior advisor told her it was because she had a late payment recorded. 
Barclaycard made an offer of £50 as a gesture of goodwill which she didnt accept as she 
was concerned that the lowering of the credit limit and effectively placed her at almost the 
maximum of her new limit, a fact she thought would reflect adversely upon her.
Barclays have said that the credit limit was reduced because of the late payment, and that 
they have apologised and said they offered Miss G a goodwill payment of £100, whilst 
maintaining that they have acted within the terms and conditions of the account which 
provides for such action to be taken.
Miss G was unhappy with Barclaycards final response and so approached this service to 
see if we could assist in resolving the dispute. An investigator looked into the complaint, and 
having done so, concluded that whilst Barclaycard had acted within the terms and conditions 
of the account in reducing the credit limit on Miss Gs account, overall it had treated her 
unfairly. As such she suggested Barclaycard should increase its offer of compensation to 
Miss G by paying her another £100 in addition to that already offered. Barclaycard didnt 
agree with that view and so a second investigator looked at the complaint and came to 
a different conclusion. On this occasion the investigator also thought Barclaycard had acted 
within its terms and conditions but that the £100 offered was sufficient to reflect any upset 
caused.Miss G didnt agree with our investigators view and asked for the complaint to be passed to 
an Ombudsman for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The role of the Financial Ombudsman Service is to mediate individual disputes between 
consumers and businesses, and to award redress where it is appropriate. I have considered 
both sides views in considering whether Barclaycard acted fairly and reasonably. Ive looked 
at the issues raised and considered all the available evidence. Where evidence is not 
complete, I think about what is more likely to have happened in the light of the evidence 
which is available. I must make an independent decision about what I think is right for each 
case, and thats what Ive done here.
Miss G had agreed to receive electronic statements rather than paper ones. It is of course 
incumbent upon her to check her statements, and I doubt she will say otherwise. However, 
she also used the Barclaycard app, which as part of its functionality displays the minimum 
amount a customer has to repay each month. No evidence now exists of what was displayed 
on the app when Miss G viewed it. She claims it was a little over £38 hence her decision to 
repay £40. That chimes with her repayment history which, until this incident, shows no 
previous missed payments. It also chimes with her rounding payments up to even amounts 
as she did on this occasion. Barclaycard have been unable to shed any light on this 
apparent oddity stating they have no information in their records about it, but they do explain 
how their system works, suggesting that it is more likely than not that it was Miss G who 
made an error in calculating what was owed. Barclaycard do however accept and 
acknowledge Miss G has had a spotless repayment record up to this point in time.
I am unable to say with any degree of certainty whether it was an error with Barclays 
systems or a simple mistake by Miss G, and whilst I appreciate the difficulties in proving a 
negative, I am more inclined to accept Miss Gs account. I say that for these reasons, first it 
is supported by her long history of never missing a repayment. Secondly her account of 
repaying £40, because the amount required and displayed was slightly over £38, has the 
ring of truth since had she seen the amount which Barclaycard say would have been 
displayed, £53.03, she would no doubt have rounded up to £54. Thirdly, I cannot see from 
looking at her account management, that Miss G would have deliberately chosen to pay 
£13.03 less than needed, or that she was unable to afford that sum, because when she 
learned of the problem she immediately made up the difference.
But even if I am wrong about that, although I do not think I am, the point might be a little 
academic as the substance of Miss Gs complaint is the reduction in her credit limit. I initially 
thought that the reduction never actually took place as Barclaycard reversed their decision, 
but Barclaycard have, in their response to my provisional decision told me I am wrong about 
that. They say the credit limit did go ahead but did not appear on any subsequent 
statement as Miss G closed her account. My point remains that Miss G would still have had 
the uncertainty of not knowing whether such a reduction would affect her credit rating.
In dealing with this element of her complaint I must accept that Barclaycard are entitled, 
pursuant to their terms and conditions, to review any customers credit limit and are entitled 
at their discretion to reduce it. Barclaycard say that this is what they did here, considering 
that Miss G had missed a payment, and thus they had identified risk. They have given 
further explanation in stating that missing payments can signal a customer is suffering from 
financial hardship, or that there may be other financial circumstances occurring. Barclaycard have given me further explanation as to why the credit limit was reduced, 
arguing that it was not solely based upon the late payment. They say that the late payment 
triggered a review of Miss G's account which involved consideration of other data on her 
credit file. Again I am happy to accept that may be the case, but it does not escape me that 
had there been no missed payment there would in all likelihood have been no review.
As I said in my provisional decision, a closer examination of Miss Gs account, a 
consideration of the lack of any previous missed payments, and a consideration of the level 
of her debt in relation to her limit, would inform that perhaps what she was stating to be true, 
was in fact probably so. And if that was accepted one might consider that the risk, such as it 
was, may have been low and perhaps warranted no reduction in credit limit or perhaps not 
quite such a large reduction as imposed.
Putting all of this into the balance I do consider that Barclaycard have acted within the terms 
and conditions of the account and were entitled to review Miss Gs account and reduce it. I 
find the reduction to have been rather large and much larger than I would have expected to 
see. But I do find that it is more likely than not that the mobile app did show Miss G the 
figures she maintains she saw. So, I do think that by recording that she was late in a 
payment was unfair and this has led to a degree of upset and anxiety that Miss G ought not 
to have experienced.
In my provisional decision I said I thought Barclaycard should offer further compensation to 
Miss G. I accepted they had already refunded the late payment charge and made an offer of 
£100 to settle the complaint, but I thought that insufficient. Barclaycard have responded to 
my provisional decision by accepting it, but I have heard nothing further from Miss G. 
Putting things right
So, I remain of the view, having considered the level of awards this service has made for 
trouble and upset in similar cases and the impact this has had on Miss G, that Barclaycard 
should pay Miss G a further £100, making a total compensation of £200.
My final decision
So, my final decision is that I uphold this complaint and think that Barclays Bank UK PLC 
trading as Barclaycard should pay Miss G a further £100, making a total compensation of 
£200.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss G to accept 
or reject my decision before 18 September 2020.
Jonathan Willis
Ombudsman