DRN-2503151
The complaint
Miss F complains Gain Credit LLC (trading as Lending Stream) lent to her irresponsibly.
What happened
 Miss F took two instalment loans between April 2013 and August 2013. Ive included
some of the information weve received about these loans in the table below.
Loan 
NumberLoan Amount Received Date Actual Repayment Date
1 £320 20/04/2013 *
2 £370 06/08/2013 *
*I understand Lending Stream sold the outstanding balance for both loans to a third party to 
collect and Lending Stream has told us that the loans remain outstanding.  
Our adjudicator didnt think it was wrong to have lent loan 1. The adjudicator considered that 
the checks made by Lending Stream were proportionate and indicated repayment of the loan 
would be affordable for Miss F. But she thought that loan 2 shouldnt have been given. 
Lending Stream has agreed with the adjudicators assessment. So, it has agreed to remove 
the interest and charges applied to loan 2 leaving the principal of £370 for Miss F to repay. I 
understand no repayments had been made by Miss F towards this loan when the offer was 
made. Lending Stream has also agreed to remove loan 2 from Miss Fs credit file. 
Miss F disagrees with the adjudicators assessment of loan 1 and doesnt think the offer 
Lending Stream has made for loan 2 goes far enough. In summary, Miss F has said that:
if Lending Stream made appropriate checks, it would have seen that she had
borrowed repeatedly in an unbroken chain of payday loans over the previous two 
years with other lenders; 
the overall pattern of her borrowing suggested she was persistently reliant on this 
form of borrowing, a clear indication that she had problems managing her money;
the loans were unsustainable and irresponsibly lent;
Lending Stream should clear all the outstanding balance for loan 2; 
as loan 2 has been deemed unaffordable and not appropriate for lending, she is 
unsure why an arrangement should be made to clear the outstanding balance of the 
amount owed.
As no agreement has been reached, the case has been passed to me for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about short-term lending - including all of 
the relevant rules, guidance and good industry practice - on our website.
Ive considered all the arguments, evidence and information provided in this context, and
thought about what this means for Miss Fs complaint.
Lending Stream had to assess Miss Fs applications for borrowing to check if she could 
afford to pay back the amounts shed borrowed without undue difficulty. It needed to do this 
in a way which was proportionate to the circumstances. Lending Streams checks could have 
taken into account a number of different things, such as how much was being lent, the size 
of the repayments and Miss Fs income and expenditure. With this in mind, I think in the 
early stages of a lending relationship, less thorough checks might have been proportionate.
But certain factors might suggest Lending Stream should have done more to establish that 
any lending was sustainable for Miss F. These factors include:
Miss F having a low income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make any 
loan repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income);
The amounts to be repaid being especially high (reflecting that it could be more 
difficult to meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income); 
Miss F having a large number of loans and/or having these loans over a long 
period of time (reflecting the risk that repeated refinancing may signal that the 
borrowing had become, or was becoming, unsustainable);
Miss F coming back for loans shortly after previous borrowing had been repaid 
(also suggestive of the borrowing becoming unsustainable).
There may even come a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly 
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable for Miss F.
At the time of lending, Lending Stream was regulated by the Office of Fair Trading (OFT). 
The OFT required businesses to lend responsibly, this meant Lending Stream needed to 
check that Miss F could afford to repay her loans sustainably. The guidance states that;
creditors should take reasonable steps to assess borrowers likely ability to be able 
to meet repayments under the credit agreement in a sustainable manner. And it 
states that this is likely to involve more than solely assessing the likelihood of the 
borrower being able to repay the credit in question.
 
Ive considered all of the arguments, evidence and information provided in this context, and 
thought about what this means for Miss Fs complaint.
loan 1 
Loan 1 (£320) was due to be repaid through six monthly instalments, with a highest 
repayment of £160. Miss F declared an income of £1,400 and when asked about her 
expenses (including any relating to credit) she declared expenditure of £400. 
Considering the amount lent and it being early in the lending relationship, I think the
checks for this loan went far enough. And based on what Miss F said about her income and 
expenditure, Im satisfied that the loan wouldve seemed affordable and sustainable.
Lending Stream also carried out a credit check and this revealed that Miss F had defaulted 
on one credit account around five months prior to this loan. There was also one active 
account in the credit results with a relatively small balance. Whilst the results show some adverse information, I dont think at this stage in the lending relationship and considering 
what else Lending Stream knew about her circumstances, the information was significant 
enough for Lending Stream not to have lent or for further checks to have been carried out. 
Miss F has said that in the previous two years she had taken payday loans with other 
lenders. The activity that Miss F has told us about isnt shown in Lending Streams credit 
results. The information a consumer might see though, when they request a copy of their 
credit file, might be very different to that seen by a lender at the time of application. A lender 
might only see a small portion of the credit file, or some data might be missing or 
anonymised, or the data might not be up to date. So, this may explain the difference 
between what Miss F says about her circumstances and what Lending Stream could see in 
its own credit check results. 
Im sorry to hear that Miss F was struggling financially and repaying this loan has proved
difficult. And I accept that Miss Fs full financial circumstances may not have been reflected 
in either the information she provided, or the other information Lending Stream may have 
seen in its credit checks. And it might be that Miss Fs actual financial position may well have 
been apparent if further information  such as bank statements  had been obtained.
But I dont think it had yet reached the point either in the lending relationship or based on
what Lending Stream knew about Miss F, that meant it needed to verify the information she 
had provided. So, I dont think that it could or should have known that Miss F was having 
financial difficulties at the time.
So, overall, I dont think it was wrong for Lending Stream to have lent loan 1. 
loan 2
As Lending Stream has already accepted something may have gone wrong when loan 2 was 
provided, I no longer think I need to make a finding on whether it was correct to provide this 
loan to Miss F. But, given what Miss F has said Ive considered what Lending Stream should 
do to put things right. 
It may help if I explain our approach to putting things right for a consumer. If a business has 
made an error  either because it accepts one has been made or we decide something has 
gone wrong  the starting point, for this service, is that a consumer should be put back into 
the position they wouldve been in had the error not been made. However, that is not always 
possible, especially in cases that involve lending money. 
In cases of irresponsible lending, such as here, this service must acknowledge that the 
consumer has received a sum of money and has had the benefit of it. So normally, wed 
expect the consumer to have to repay at least this sum and ask the lender to refund any 
extra that has been repaid by a consumer, for example interest and charges. We also direct 
an additional interest payment to the consumer to reflect the loss of use of the funds. This 
has the effect of providing the consumer with an interest free loan.
 
But sometimes a consumer hasnt repaid the money theyve received by the lender. And so, 
it might be the case that there is still an outstanding balance to pay even when considering 
any payments made. 
 
Now turning to the specifics of this case, as the adjudicator has explained, because Lending 
Stream shouldnt have given Miss F loan 2, she shouldnt have to repay more than the 
principal sum she borrowed (£370) or have the loan affect her credit file in a negative way.Lending Stream has agreed to remove any entries about the loan from Miss Fs credit file  
which I think is reasonable. So, Ive then considered what payments were made by Miss F 
towards loan 2. 
I understand that Miss F hasnt been able to make any repayments towards the loan. But 
Lending Stream has agreed to remove any interest and charges from the loan. I understand 
the debt was sold to a third party to recover the debt. To be clear, Lending Stream should 
buy the debt for loan 2 back and work with Miss F to repay the outstanding principal. I can 
see in response to the adjudicators assessment it has agreed to extend support to Miss F to 
clear the principal through an affordable repayment plan.
 
I think this is a positive and reasonable response in the circumstances. If any repayments 
have been made to loan 2 since it was sold to the third party these should be offset against 
any outstanding principal balance. If there is then a surplus, this should be refunded to     
Miss F together with 8% simple interest. 
 
What this means is that I dont think Lending Stream needs to refund anything to Miss F if 
she hasnt made enough payments to repay the principal for loan 2. For example, if Miss F 
still hasnt paid anything towards loan 2, then she will still owe £370. 
Whilst I appreciate it is several years since the loan was lent, I dont think it would be fair (as 
Miss F has suggested) that any outstanding principal should be written off by Lending 
Stream. That isnt our approach in such cases, and I have been given no reason to change 
from that approach in Miss Fs case.
Considering everything, I dont think I can fairly tell Lending Stream to do any more.    
Putting things right
For clarity, and in line with what Lending Stream has already agreed to do (and if Lending 
Stream is able to buy the debt back);
Remove all interest fees and charges from the current outstanding balance.
Apply any repayments Miss F has paid to either Lending Stream or the third party 
towards the principal sum she borrowed. 
If after doing the above, Miss F still has an outstanding balance due, then Lending 
Stream should try and come to a mutually agreeable repayment plan with Miss F. 
But Id remind Lending Stream of its obligation to treat Miss F fairly. 
Remove the loan from Miss Fs credit file. 
My final decision
My final decision is that the offer made by Gain Credit LLC is a fair resolution to the 
complaint. 
Gain Credit LLC should put things right for Miss F as it has agreed to do.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss F to accept or 
reject my decision before 23 February 2021.
 
Robert WalkerOmbudsman