DRN-3691014
The complaint
Mr P has complained that ITI Capital Limited (ITI) wont provide him with a share certificate 
for a company in liquidation in which he is a shareholder. 
What happened
In July 2020 Mr Ps two accounts, which he held with a previous firm that had gone into 
administration, were transferred over to ITI. Mr P wanted to transfer his accounts  which 
contained two shareholdings  away from ITI to another platform provider where he already 
held an account. One of the shareholdings was transferred but not the other. 
The shareholding was in a company I shall refer to as Company A in my decision and which 
was in the process of being wound up by the court. Mr P wanted the share certificate and 
sent ITI £50  as requested by ITI for the service  in order for the certificate to be provided 
in his own name, and not retained in the nominee name of ITI.
Mr P was then told ITI couldnt provide a share certificate because Company A was in 
liquidation.  It said there was nothing it could do. ITI asked for Mr Ps bank details in order to 
refund the £50 as its own bank didnt issue cheques or process the automatic return of the 
deposit. Mr P was reluctant to share this information as he was very concerned about his 
privacy. However, he did provide this information and the £50 was refunded to him. 
Mr P raised a complaint with ITI, and not being satisfied with the outcome brought it to the 
Financial Ombudsman. Mr P would like a share certificate for his holding in Company A and 
all of the personal information he gave to ITI for the refund to be removed from its servers as 
well as the money he paid out in bringing his complaint. 
Our investigator who considered Mr Ps complaint thought it should be upheld. She said;
ITI should have been more proactive in contacting Mr P and keeping him updated.
It was frustrating for Mr P to have had to contact ITI repeatedly and it should pay him 
£100 for the distress and inconvenience he had been caused.
Mr P wanted ITI to delete any data he had provided about his withdrawal of the £50 
and ITI should contact him if it needed anything further to facilitate this. 
ITI accepted the investigators opinion. 
Mr P responded by saying the investigator hadnt said anything about the resolution he 
wanted for his share certificate in Company A so didnt accept the outcome. ITI confirmed it 
had been in touch with the liquidator of Company A and that no certificate could be provided. 
Mr P confirmed he had been in touch with the liquidator who advised him to refer to the 
registrar of Company A which he did and was told it could issue a share certificate. The 
investigator referred back to ITI about this but didnt receive a response. 
As Mr P didnt accept the outcome the complaint has been passed to me for a decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The share certificate
Company A is in liquidation. Even so, my understanding is that Mr P still remains a 
shareholder. Mr P has said that he would like for a physical certificate in his name because 
even though the company is in liquidation  and he has told us is also subject to regulatory 
and fraud investigations  he needs the certificate in case there is any opportunity for him to 
make a claim as a shareholder.
ITI told us it had been in touch with the liquidator who had advised that a share certificate 
couldnt be produced because Company A was in liquidation.
Mr P doesnt agree with this. He also contacted the liquidator and took the action as advised 
to him about contacting the registrar of Company A. He forwarded on to us the email he 
received in response from the registrar. 
I am aware that email does not specifically refer to Company As shares and accept it may 
be in response to a generic request about share certificates rather than specifically about 
Company A which is in liquidation where I appreciate the response may have been different. 
The email from the registrar said that it would require a letter confirming the details of where 
the shareholding was then currently held and the name and address of Mr P plus a 
statement to the effect that the certificate had been lost or misplaced and it should be signed 
by all named holders of the account  which I assume was ITIs nominee company. Then its 
registration department would issue an indemnity form which may be liable for a fee and that 
it may also need to be countersigned  usually  by a bank or insurance company. 
This refers to how a lost or misplaced physical share certificate would be replaced. However, 
and as Ive said above, I assume the shareholding is currently in the nominee name of ITI, 
so is not lost or misplaced. This complaint is about a request for re-registration. 
It is my understanding that in order for a shareholding to be removed from a nominee name 
such as ITIs and re-registered into Mr Ps own name and address  and a physical 
certificate to be produced  it would be for ITIs nominee to contact the registrar to make 
such a request. 
From what ITI has told us, it has only contacted the liquidator rather than the registrar so far. 
So, in order to resolve Mr Ps request for a share certificate  or ascertain whether one can 
be produced  ITI should contact the registrar in the first instance and request for the 
production of a share certificate for Mr P in his own name and address if possible. 
It might be that ITI or the registrar may have to refer to the liquidator to ensure this can 
proceed. If a certificate cannot be produced ITI should provide written evidence from the 
registrar and/or liquidator for Mr P confirming this is not possible. 
If a certificate can be produced then Mr P will need to bear the cost of that but ITI should let 
him know in advance how much it will cost to make sure he still wants to proceed with the 
action bearing in mind Company A is being liquidated. 
The service provided by ITIIt is clear from Mr Ps submissions that Mr Ps experience with ITI has been a poor one. 
I dont know the size of the client base that ITI took over from the previous provider that went 
into administration. But I think its likely that the new additional accounts and investments will 
inevitably have had an impact on ITIs capacity and ability to deal with new customers and 
increased requests. 
Putting things right
That being said, its clear Mr P feels stressed and inconvenienced by the whole affair and 
hasnt reached a satisfactory outcome regarding his request for a share certificate. The 
information he has been given by the registrar of Company A contradicts what he has been 
told by ITI. 
I have borne in mind our long-standing approach to awards for distress caused. Clearly, it 
must have been very frustrating for the delays Mr P experienced and bearing in mind the 
trouble Mr P has been caused and ITI not being quicker in responding to him, I think an 
award of £100 to be a fair reflection of the distress and inconvenience caused to Mr P. 
The data held by ITI
ITI accepted the investigators opinion that it should delete any data it holds regarding Mr Ps 
withdrawal. I understand that legally it might have to retain information for a set time period 
but as soon as is practicable, ITI should remove any data it does hold.
In conclusion, if possible ITI should arrange for a share certificate in Mr Ps name for his 
shareholding in Company A. Or alternatively provide written evidence for Mr P from the 
registrar and/or liquidator that this is not possible. It should pay Mr P £100 for the upset he 
has been caused and remove any data it holds about Mr Ps withdrawal as soon as possible. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold Mr Ps complaint. ITI Capital Limited should put the matter 
right as outlined above. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision before 11 November 2022.
 
Catherine Langley
Ombudsman