DRN-3324297
The complaint
A company, which Ill refer to as W, complains about the way HSBC UK Bank Plc handled 
its application for a new account.
Mr R is Ws director and brings the complaint on the companys behalf.
What happened
W wanted to open a bank account with HSBC after the account it held elsewhere was 
closed, and with a view to applying to the bank for a Bounce Back Loan. It applied to HSBC 
on or around 2 July 2020.
HSBC contacted Mr R for more information in order to consider the application, including 
identification documents and bank statements to show the companys prior trading. Mr R 
responded to the banks requests, but the application was ultimately unsuccessful. 
HSBC advised Mr R on 26 September that the application had been declined. The bank 
began to consider a further application, but advised Mr R on 27 October 2020 that this 
couldnt continue. This was because his name was spelt differently on the application to that 
on his identification documents  so the bank had run its credit searches against the wrong 
name. HSBC said that a further application would be needed  but that it was now not 
accepting account applications until 14 December.
Mr R raised a number of complaints with HSBC during and after the application process. In 
summary, he was unhappy with the time taken to complete the application and the service 
received during it.
Across several responses, HSBC accepted that the service provided to W wasnt as good as 
it shouldve been. It said that there were delays in assessing account applications and long 
call wait times due to the level of demand the bank was dealing with, but nevertheless 
apologised for the impact the delays had on W and offered it a total of £200 compensation 
along with £128 towards the cost of Mr Rs calls. 
Mr R remained unhappy and referred his concerns to us. He said that HSBC had left W 
without an account and therefore unable to trade.
Ws complaint was reviewed by one of our investigators, who thought it should be upheld. 
He said that HSBC ought to have done more to progress Ws application from 27 October 
2020 and that its failure to do so had caused the company some further inconvenience. So 
he recommended that the bank pay W a further £200 compensation. But he didnt think 
HSBC needed to compensate W for any lost business, as he didnt think it was the banks 
fault that the company didnt have an account.
HSBC accepted our investigators view, but Mr R didnt. He didnt think all the aspects of his 
complaint had been addressed or that the additional compensation proposed was fair. So he 
asked that an ombudsman review the complaint, and it was passed to me to decide.
My provisional decision
I issued a provisional decision on Ws complaint earlier this month. While I also thought that 
a total of £400 compensation was a fair way to resolve the complaint, my reasons were 
slightly different to those of our investigator. So I wanted to give both parties the chance to 
respond with any further information or evidence they wanted me to take into account, 
before I made a final decision. I said:
I should firstly clarify the scope of my investigation and what Ive considered in 
reaching my decision, given Mr Rs concerns as to what was addressed by our 
investigator. While HSBC has issued a number of responses, I have assessed how the 
bank dealt with Ws account application as a whole from early July 2020 onwards. This 
means that Ive taken into consideration the several complaints Mr R raised along the 
way, to which HSBC sent final response letters on 15 September, 16 September, 18 
September, 22 September, 13 October and 11 November 2020. Mr R also raised 
concerns during this time that related to his personal account, which do not form part 
of the complaint brought by W. 
Having looked into how HSBC dealt with Ws account application from start to finish, I 
agree that there were shortcomings and can see that these impacted the company 
during what was an already challenging time. However, I think the total amount of 
compensation that the bank has offered to pay  being £400 plus the £128 towards 
Ws call costs  represents a fair settlement to the complaint. Ill explain why. In doing 
so, I wont address each and every point that has been raised. I hope Mr R doesnt see 
that as discourteous and I can assure him Ive read and considered everything hes 
said and provided to us, but Ill focus on the matters that I consider most relevant to 
how Ive reached my decision  in keeping with the informal nature of our service.
It is clear that Ws application took much longer than it shouldve done. Ws application 
was first made on or around 2 July, but I cant see that any meaningful action was 
taken until 3 August (when HSBC asked Mr R for alternative identification documents). 
HSBCs records indicate that this was received promptly but there was then a further 
delay in progressing the application in any purposeful way. It seems those delays 
meant the bank needed Mr Rs consent to retrigger the application, which was 
confirmed on 16 September. There was then a further delay in requesting the bank 
statements needed to progress the application further, which wasnt made until 11 
October.
It was only after this point that HSBC realised a discrepancy in the spelling of Mr Rs 
name on the application that affected things. HSBC noted on 27 October that the 
application would have to be resubmitted such that Mr Rs name was consistent with 
that of his identification document. I think that was a reasonable requirement  but it 
ought to have been picked up much sooner. By the time this was identified, HSBC had 
paused new account applications and said that W wouldnt be able to reapply until 
mid-December.
I appreciate that at the time of Ws application, HSBC was dealing with the significant 
impact of the pandemic as well as the unprecedented level of demand for borrowing 
under the government-backed loan schemes. But I still think the delays and level of 
service W experienced were unreasonable. The application was ultimately 
unsuccessful due to something that ought to have been identified much sooner  if it 
had been, it couldve been remedied; as it wasnt, the whole application had been 
made in vain.These delays and the way that HSBC handled its further information requests caused 
W some inconvenience. Given the time that was being taken, Mr R understandably 
chased things up on a number of occasions. Doing so was made more difficult by the 
long wait times on the banks phone lines. And no doubt this compounded the 
difficulties W was faced with at the time  during a pandemic, and in urgent need of the 
account. 
Its right that W is compensated for this. But I think the total of £400 that has already 
been offered by the bank is fair and reasonable compensation for the inconvenience it 
was caused. I should highlight that while I appreciate that this matter was stressful for 
Mr R, I cant direct HSBC to pay him any compensation in response to this complaint 
or factor this into the award payable to W. This is because the complainant here is W  
and a limited company cant suffer from distress or upset.
Ive also considered whether W suffered any financial losses as a result of HSBCs 
actions. To that end, Ive taken on board what Mr R has said about being left without 
an account. But I dont think it is fair to say that it was solely down to HSBC that W 
didnt have an account for the period in question, as the company could also have 
obtained one elsewhere. HSBC has already reimbursed Mr R for his call costs, and 
Ive not seen that the company suffered any other losses as a result of delays on the 
banks part. 
I also recognise that without the account, W couldnt apply to HSBC for a Bounce Back 
Loan. But I think HSBC was clear when speaking to Mr R on 27 October as to what 
would be needed to proceed with the application. Ive listened to a recording of Mr Rs 
call with the bank, in which it advised that he would need to resubmit the application 
due to the discrepancies with the spelling of his name. Ive not seen that W reapplied 
when HSBC resumed account applications. W could also have applied for the loan 
elsewhere. So I dont think I can say that it is down to HSBC that W was left without a 
Bounce Back Loan.
Neither party responded with any further comments or evidence for me to consider. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, and with neither party having provided any further information for me to 
take into account, Ive not reached a different conclusion from that set out in my provisional 
decision. So this decision confirms my provisional findings, as set out above.
My final decision
I uphold this complaint and require HSBC UK Bank Plc to pay W compensation of £400, less 
any amounts it has already paid.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask W to accept or 
reject my decision before 21 March 2022.
 
Ben Jennings
Ombudsman