DRN-4330308
The complaint
Mr K complains that Close Brothers Limited trading as Close Brothers Premium Finance 
(CB) requested payments after he cancelled his insurance policy in the cooling off period. 
What happened
Mr K arranged an insurance policy via a broker, who Ill refer to as company M, in early 
2023, and arranged to pay for the policy by way of a running account credit agreement that 
was financed with CB. 
CB received the instruction from company M to finance Mr Ks policy in early February 2023, 
and the first payment was due to be collected on 20 February 2023. 
Mr K said he tried to contact company M on a number of occasions to cancel the policy 
inside the cooling off period but was unable to speak to anyone. 
CB tried to collect Mr Ks first payment on 20 February 2023, and when this failed, they 
wrote to him on 21 February 2023 to inform Mr K that the payment hadnt been made and to 
explain that theyd try to collect this again on 2 March 2023. 
Mr K contacted CB on 22 February 2023 to complain, and explained that hed cancelled the 
policy in the cooling off period with company M. CB said they hadnt received the notice of 
cancellation, and because the cooling off period had now ended, they were unable to cancel 
the agreement without instruction from company M. 
CB reviewed Mr Ks complaint and cancelled the agreement on 3 March 2023 without 
collecting any payments from Mr K. 
CB sent Mr K their final response to his complaint on 9 March 2023. They said they werent 
responsible for the administration of Mr Ks insurance policy, and so wouldnt usually cancel 
the policy or agreement without authorisation from company M. However, on this occasion 
the agreement had been cancelled and nothing was owed to them. They said theyd sent Mr 
Ks complaint on to company M, who should contact him to investigate. 
Unhappy with this response, Mr K brought his complaint to this service for investigation. He 
said company M hadnt acknowledged his complaint, he didnt sign the finance agreement 
and so CB shouldnt have tried to collect funds, and he asked for compensation for the 
stress and anxiety caused. 
Our investigator gave his view that CB had acted fairly by explaining their role in Mr Ks 
insurance policy and ending the agreement when they did. He didnt think Mr K had been 
financially impacted as hed made no payments to CB, and he didnt think CB were 
responsible for the frustration Mr K had experienced when trying to cancel the policy. So, he 
didnt ask CB to do anything more. 
Mr K didnt agree. He said he and his wife spent hours trying to resolve the problem, and 
although no money was taken by CB, they did attempt this and sent threats via letters. Mr K 
said processes were not followed and this caused him and his family harm. 
As an agreement cant be reached, the case has been passed to me for a decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Its important to set out that my decision focuses on CB and their actions in relation to the 
credit agreement set up to fund Mr Ks insurance premiums. It doesnt consider the actions 
of company M. 
CB said that they received the instruction from company M to set up the agreement with Mr 
K to fund an insurance policy. Ive seen the welcome letter and agreement that was sent to 
Mr K.
Mr K said that he cancelled the policy in the cooling off period, but he also didnt sign the 
agreement, so CB shouldnt have requested any payments from him. CB said they dont wait 
for the return of a signed agreement before collecting payments, because this can cause 
problems with the underlying insurance policy. CB said they didnt receive an instruction 
from company M to cancel the policy or agreement, and so they requested the first payment 
from Mr K in line with the terms of the agreement. 
Im satisfied that CB received the instruction to set up the agreement, and that they didnt 
receive an instruction from company M to cancel it. 
I dont have the power to tell CB to change its processes around collection of payments 
without a signed agreement. But I dont think it was unfair for CB to attempt collection of the 
first due payment under the agreement. I say that because CB received no instruction to 
cancel the agreement prior to the payment becoming due, and so they had no reason to 
believe that Mr K didnt want the policy they had agreed to fund. 
When the payment wasnt made and CB wrote to Mr K, he contacted them and told them 
about his attempts to cancel the policy. CB said they couldnt cancel the agreement without 
company M first requesting this, because the cooling off period had passed. Then, after 
investigation they made the decision to cancel the agreement, and no charge was made to 
Mr K. 
Im satisfied that CB acted fairly in cancelling the agreement in the circumstances, and that 
they did this in good time after being made aware of the problems Mr K was having in 
cancelling the policy. 
I appreciate that Mr K feels strongly about the distress and inconvenience hes been put to in 
trying to cancel the policy, and in being asked for a payment. Overall, having considered all 
of the evidence, Im satisfied that CB acted fairly by cancelling the agreement with nothing 
for Mr K to pay, and that they took this action in good time. So, Im not asking them to do 
anything further in respect of Mr Ks complaint. 
If Mr K remains dissatisfied with the actions of company M, he may be able to ask this 
service to investigate that complaint. My final decision
For the reasons outlined above, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr K and Mrs W to 
accept or reject my decision before 22 November 2023.
 
Zoe Merriman
Ombudsman