DRN-3109926
The complaint
Mr Q has complained about advice he received from Portal Financial Services LLP (Portal) 
in relation to a defined benefit occupational pension scheme (OPS). Portal processed the 
transfer of Mr Qs OPS benefits on an insistent client basis to a personal pension. 
Mr Q is being represented by a third party but for ease of reading this decision Ill refer to all 
representations as being made by Mr Q.
What happened
Mr Q was in communication about his pension with Portal in 2015. 
On 20 October 2015 Portal sent Mr Q a letter titled We are ready to complete your pension 
release review
Within the letter Portal stated:
We have all the information we need from your current pension provider, which is great 
news. And we can confirm that the maximum tax-free amount you could now access from 
your pension is £9,322.25.
The letter also stated:
Critical yield: 26.10%
A critical yield applies to this pension plan. This figure represents the growth your new 
pension plan would need to achieve each and every year to match the benefits you could 
have received if you had remained in your existing pension plan.
Mr Q was invited to call Portal to make an appointment to have his review.
On 30 October 2015 Portal conducted a fact find by telephone and the information was 
recorded by one of Portals paraplanners.
The information showed that Mr Q was 56 years old, unemployed and wanted to release tax 
free cash (TFC) from his pension to help pay towards his daughters wedding, home 
improvements, and to pay off other financial commitments. The information gathered also 
included Mr Qs financial commitments which included a credit card balance he was paying 
£65 towards monthly, and a rent payment of £480 each month. It was recorded that Mr and 
Mrs Q had disposable income of around £230 per month.
The paraplanner also completed a risk attitude profiling questionnaire. The information 
recorded helped Portal assess Mr Qs attitude to risk (ATR) which was recorded as 
balanced.
On 3 November 2015 Portal sent Mr Q a letter titled Important information about accessing 
your pension early.
The letter stated:
You currently have a pension with (previous employer) which has a transfer value of 
£37,289, from which you could release a total amount of £9,322 as a tax free lump sum. 
However, as the critical yield (the growth rate required to match your guaranteed benefits) 
with this provider is 26.1% it would be against our recommendation to do this. 
Furthermore, you would be waiving your entitlement to a guaranteed pension of £2,359 per 
annum and tax free cash sum of £6,098 which is payable at retirement age 60.
If you still wish to go-ahead with pension release, we can still help you with this. As this is 
against our recommendation, we now need you to complete and return the insistent client 
form confirming you are aware of the benefits you would be giving up.
The enclosed form had options for Mr Q to select to either stay in the OPS or move his funds 
to income drawdown. The form also required Mr Q to tick several boxes to confirm his 
understanding of the critical yield and the pension he could receive by moving his funds to 
the drawdown as well as confirming he was going against Portals advice.
Mr Q signed the form on 7 November 2015. He chose the option income drawdown and 
ticked the required boxes. He also wrote that his reasons for taking TFC were that he was 
not out of work and to finish off his garden, pay off his credit card and give some money 
towards his daughters wedding. 
On 12 November 2015 Portal produced a suitability report which outlined Portals findings in 
relation to the information that it had gathered. The report confirmed the information found in 
the TVAS. It said the critical yield required for a personal pension to meet the same benefits 
as Mr Qs current OPS was 26.1%. Accompanying this report was a letter titled please read 
 my pension recommendation is enclosed
The letter stated the following:
I am pleased to enclose a copy of your suitability report that includes my recommendation 
as of todays date, if you follow my recommendation you will:
Transfer your pension plan(s) to an (provider) drawdown plan, whereby you will 
receive your tax free cash lump sum of circa £9,322.
Access to further advice when you decide to take an income from these funds.
The letter also included a pre-typed declaration form. In summary the form stated that Mr 
Qs main priority was to release TFC in order to meet his objectives, that the option he had 
taken to move away from his OPS meant that his existing benefits were unlikely to be 
matched, and that this option was not recommended by Portal. The suitability report stated:
My Recommendation
I recommend that you do not transfer your existing pension plan and leave your 
pension funds where they are. However, you have elected to disregard my 
recommendation and you are aware that I will now treat you as an insistent client. As 
an insistent client, you have asked that I make a recommendation on how you may 
utilise your pension funds.
Accordingly, I have provided further information within this report to assist you to transfer the
pensions summarised in the next section to an (Provider) Personal Pension.The report went on to summarise Mr Qs circumstances as previously outlined in the fact find 
document and then briefly looked at alternative ways he could access cash.
The following options were considered:
Taking a loan: this option was disregarded due to Mr Q not wanting to take on any further 
lending, and that he had no way of servicing the agreement.
Re-mortgaging: this option was disregarded as Mr Q was renting and did not own his 
property.
Using disposable income: this option was disregarded as part of the reason Mr Q wanted to 
release TFC was to pay off debts so he could benefit from more disposable income.
Using existing assets: This option was disregarded as Mr Q did not have sufficient assets to 
raise the funds required.
The report went on to summarise the risks of Mr Q transferring his pension before outlining 
its recommendation. In the recommendation section it stated:
Our Recommendation
We recommend that you do not transfer out of your existing pension because of the benefits 
that you will lose. However, you have elected to proceed against my recommendation with 
the pension release. Although we can assist you with this, we will treat you as an insistent 
client.
Whilst I have not recommended that you transfer your current policy, you have confirmed to 
me that you wish to proceed as an Insistent Client as you wish to make home improvements, 
fund your daughters wedding and pay off financial commitments.
As such I have considered a wide range of pension providers and recommend that your 
existing policy with (provider) be transferred to an (provider) Personal Pension.
By following this recommendation, you will:
Meet your stated objectives.
Be able to take up to 25% of your pension as a Tax Free Cash Lump Sum to meet 
your needs, you have selected to take £9,322.
You will also have the ability to take out capital from your fund when required, without 
any limit, until your fund has been depleted.
Portal then recommended funds for Mr Qs pension to be invested into based on his 
balanced ATR. Mr Q signed the pre-printed declaration and returned it to Portal on 17 
November 2015 and the transfer went ahead based on this recommendation. 
Our Investigator considered Mr Qs complaint and thought it should be upheld. She didnt 
think Mr Q had sufficient knowledge and understanding of the risks involved with the 
transaction  because Portal had not made this clear enough. So, she didnt think Mr Q 
shouldve been classed as an insistent client. And she didnt think the recommendation 
made was suitable.
Portal didnt agree so this complaint has been passed to me to decide.What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
When considering what is fair and reasonable, I am required to take into account relevant
law and regulations; regulators rules, guidance and standards; codes of practice; and,
where appropriate, what I consider to have been good industry practice at the time.
Suitability of advice
Portal has said that the advice it gave was suitable because it did not recommend to Mr Q 
that he should transfer his pension. Instead he insisted on doing so. After he insisted, it 
recommended a provider and investments which it felt were right for him. 
But I disagree. I dont think Portals actions were appropriate or fair.
COBS 2.1.1R required Portal to act honestly, fairly and professionally in accordance with 
the best interests of its client. And, as part of that, COBS 9.2 required Portal to take 
reasonable steps to make sure its recommendation was suitable for Mr Q. To achieve this, 
COBS 9.2.2R said Portal had to obtain enough information from Mr Q to ensure its 
recommendation met his objectives, that he could bear the related investment risks 
consistent with these objectives, and that he had the necessary experience and knowledge 
to understand the risks involved in the transaction.
In addition, there were also specific requirements and guidance relating to transfers from 
defined benefit schemes  these were contained in COBS 19.1.
COBS 19.1.2 required the following:
A firm must:
1) compare the benefits likely (on reasonable assumptions) to be paid under a defined
benefits pension scheme or other pension scheme with safeguarded benefits with the
benefits afforded by a personal pension scheme, stakeholder pension scheme or
other pension scheme with flexible benefits, before it advises a retail client to transfer
out of a defined benefits pension scheme;
2) ensure that that comparison includes enough information for the client to be able to
make an informed decision;
3) give the client a copy of the comparison, drawing the clients attention to the factors
that do and do not support the firm's advice, in good time, and in any case no later
than when the key features document is provided; and
4) take reasonable steps to ensure that the client understands the firms comparison
and its advice.
Under the heading Suitability, COBS 19.1.6 set out the following:
When advising a retail client who is, or is eligible to be, a member of a defined benefits
occupational pension scheme or other scheme with safeguarded benefits whether to
transfer, or opt-out, a firm should start by assuming that a transfer or opt-out will not be
suitable. A firm should only then consider a transfer, conversion or opt-out to be suitable if it
can clearly demonstrate, on contemporary evidence, that the transfer or opt-out is in the
client's best interests.
So, Portal needed to begin by assuming a transfer from Mr Qs OPS was not suitable,
then consider Mr Qs specific circumstances and objectives. It needed to assess the optionsavailable and look at what was in his best interests. It needed to provide a comparison of
what the situation would be if he opted to transfer his pension from his OPS and what it
would be if he didnt, making clear the differences and risks. And it needed to make sure that
Mr Q understood all of this information so that he could make an informed decision. All while
ensuring it acted honestly, fairly and professionally.
A letter was sent to Mr Q on 20 October 2015 titled we are ready to complete your pension 
release review. The first paragraph of the letter states: We have all the information we 
need from your current pension provider, which is great news. And we can confirm that the 
maximum tax-free amount you could now access from your pension is £9,322.25.
So, the first thing mentioned was releasing money from the pension. Not a review or more 
general service, but instead making a specific change to the current position of Mr Qs 
pension. This was before a detailed fact find had been completed to understand Mr Qs 
circumstances or needs. 
I accept there had been some contact prior to this letter  with an initial enquiry having been 
registered prior to Portal gathering information about Mr Qs existing pension scheme and Mr 
Q also signed a form that allowed Portal to gather information about his existing OPS. But
I think the letter indicates, before a meaningful fact find had been completed, the discussion 
being skewed towards a particular outcome.
Portal carried out a fact find on 30 October 2015. But there doesnt appear to have been any 
information gathered about Mr Qs income needs in retirement. The question around this on 
the form has simply not been answered. I think it would be difficult, without an attempt 
having been made to understand this, for any recommendation to be entirely suitable for Mr 
Qs circumstances, bearing in mind the primary aim of a pension is to provide income in 
retirement. There is also nothing in the fact find to indicate that Mr Q had any other 
retirement provisions in place  so its likely he had limited capacity for loss with his OPS. 
But this isnt reflected in the risk assessment.
The requirement noted for Mr Q needing TFC was for home improvements, pay some of his 
daughters wedding and pay off other financial commitments. But Mr Q was renting the 
property he was living in so it is unlikely he would have had an urgent need to carry out 
improvements to it. It appears this would have been a nice to have rather than an urgent 
need, as it is explained later that Mr Q wanted to finish off work on his garden. Mr Q also 
only appears to have had one outstanding debt at the time which was a relatively low 
amount on a credit card of around £1,300. But Mr Q was paying a monthly amount of £65 
towards this debt at the time which appears to have been manageable considering Mr and 
Mrs Q still had monthly disposable income. Again, helping towards his daughters wedding, 
Im sure would have been something Mr Q would like to have been able to do, but I dont 
think this shows Mr Q had an urgent need to access TFC.
In my opinion, the discussions around TFC seemed to be about how Mr Q would spend the 
money if it was available, rather than what he needed and whether giving up guaranteed 
lifelong benefits, and opting out his OPS was in his best interests. And again, this followed 
the earlier correspondence that had already been skewed toward the outcome of taking 
TFC.
Portal recorded Mr Qs attitude to risk as balanced, based on the information recorded in the 
fact find. But I dont think some of the answers given support this.
To the statement people who know me would describe me as a cautious person Mr Q 
answered, Strongly agree.To the statement I generally look for safer investments, even if it means lower returns Mr Q 
answered Agree.
To the statement I generally prefer bank deposits to riskier investments Mr Q answered 
Agree.
To the statement Ive little experience of investing in stocks and shares Mr Q answered 
Strongly agree. 
Mr Q is noted as having strongly agreed that he had little experience in investing, people 
would describe him as cautious and that he generally looked for safer investments. He also 
agreed to the statement that he preferred bank deposits to riskier investments. Not to 
mention the limited capacity for loss Ive already noted. 
So, I don think the focus of the initial correspondence and the fact find was what
was in Mr Qs best interests. It seems to have been largely around how much TFC could
potentially be taken and what this might be used for  not whether that was appropriate. And
I think that could very well have misled Mr Q into thinking that releasing TFC was what
Portal thought was best. 
On 3 November 2015, Portal followed up from the fact find with the letter to Mr Q titled 
Important information about accessing your cash early. The letter briefly mentioned the 
critical yield required from a private pension to meet the benefits under his existing scheme 
to be 26.1% and that he would be giving up a guaranteed pension of £2,359 per annum and 
TFC of £6,098, but besides this there were no comparisons in the letter for Mr Q to consider. 
Instead the letter immediately explained Mr Qs option of having Portal help him release 
TFC, albeit as an insistent client.
The document included an insistent client form with boxes for Mr Q to tick to signify he 
understood the critical yield figures and that if he went ahead with the transfer he would be 
giving up a guaranteed pension of £2,359 and TFC at age 60, and that he might expect to 
receive £769 per annum at age 66 after taking immediate TFC.
Mr Q was also required to tick a box confirming that transferring his current scheme was 
against the advice of Portal, and complete a small section explaining why he wanted to 
access TFC early.
Mr Q wrote I am not out of work and want use the money to finish off my garden, pay off my 
credit card, and give some money towards my daughters wedding. He also ticked the 
required boxes before returning the form to Portal.
The letter and attached form gave no consideration to any other ways Mr Q could potentially 
raise the funds to meet his objectives, if indeed he did have a genuine need to do so, other 
than directing him to third party organisations like citizens advice for help with debt 
management. For example, Ive not seen anything to suggest any information was gathered 
about whether Mr Q couldve potentially taken benefits from his OPS scheme early  given 
he was already over the age of 55 at the time of the advice. Portal may argue that Mr Q 
would have declined this option but based on what Ive seen it doesnt appear to have even 
been considered, discussed, or outlined.
I think Portals conclusion that the critical yield made the transfer unsuitable was correct. But 
given the lack of any significant comparison or information for Mr Q to consider, I dont think 
Portal provided full and clear advice to Mr Q, such that it left him in a position to make an 
informed decision about the transfer or about being an insistent client.Immediately after saying that transferring would be against its recommendation, Portal 
promoted the option of still releasing money from Mr Qs pension  the focus being that this 
was something it could help with provided he signed an enclosed form to proceed on an 
insistent client basis. It also encouraged this form to be returned, at which point it said it 
would send out application forms and a suitability report detailing its advice. 
I dont think it was reasonable to ask Mr Q to complete and return this form accepting he was 
to be treated as an insistent client and having made the decision to transfer out of his OPS 
before a suitability report and advice based on the report was even produced. 
At the point Mr Q was required to complete and return the form it appears to be a pre-drawn 
conclusion that Mr Q would be going ahead with the transfer. 
A suitability report was issued on 12 November 2015, just five days after Mr Q signed and 
returned the form agreeing to be treated as an insistent client on 7 November 2015, and just 
two days after it was stamped as being received on 10 November 2015. This is quite a fast 
turnaround time for the insistent client form to be returned and then a full further assessment 
of Mr Qs circumstances to be carried out to determine a suitable investment strategy  
which is what Portal recommended.
The suitability report repeated that the transfer was against Portals recommendations. And it 
included some further risk warnings that, amongst other things, releasing funds early could 
reduce Mr Qs income in retirement, taking TFC at this stage would mean no further TFC 
could be taken later, and by transferring away from the OPS Mr Q would most likely be 
unable to reverse this decision. 
But it didnt give any context to the transfer not being recommended  particularly in relation 
to Mr Qs specific circumstances. There was no additional comparison of the benefits that Mr 
Q would be entitled to under his OPS in comparison to those potentially available under a 
personal pension  indeed other than the value of the OPS pension and the guaranteed 
pension per annum, the OPS benefits were not summarised at all within the suitability report. 
The report also said if Mr Q continued to pay his debt through monthly contributions, rather
than taking TFC he will have a total repayment of £14,962.13 calculated at a market
average rate of 10.55% APR on the debt, with a pension value of £60,664 based on 5%
growth at retirement. But if he took TFC and used that to pay off his debt and paid the
money he wouldve been putting towards the debt into his pension you will have total
contributions into your pension of £17,954.56 (this has been grossed up due to tax relief)
and a pension value of £65,414 based on 5% growth at retirement. This indicated to Mr Q
that hed potentially be better off in broad terms by transferring  which undermined previous
statements by Portal to the contrary. So, I think generally these statements are misleading.
This statement is further misleading as the only debt I can see recorded against Mr Q at the 
time of the advice was a small credit card balance of around £1,300 that he was making 
regular monthly payments towards. So, I am unable to see where these debt figures have 
come from. Even if this debt figure was accurate, Portal has made assumptions about the 
interest rate when it could have requested the actual rates giving a more accurate 
assessment.
I think this further shows that Mr Q was not given clear enough information to enable him to 
make an informed decision.
The report went on to recommend a specific provider and specific funds that Mr Qs pension 
should be invested in. The covering letter sent with the suitability report also stated: Please 
read - my pension recommendation is enclosed, and that following the recommendation would mean Mr Q would have access to TFC. The letter further stated, I believe I have made 
a recommendation suitable for your situation. I think these statements suggest Portal thought it 
was a good idea that Mr Q should transfer his existing pension.
The covering letter included a further declaration for Mr Q to complete which repeated the
acknowledgements in the insistent client declaration that he had previously returned. But this 
document had a pre-typed statement requiring Mr Q to simply sign to show he was fully 
aware of all the risk he would be taking transferring his pension. This statement was not in 
Mr Qs own words and I dont think demonstrates he was fully aware of all the risks involved.
Even with the content of this form in mind I think there was significant enough doubt and 
contradiction in the correspondence Mr Q was sent over a relatively short space of time for 
him to believe that Portal was in fact recommending a transfer.
The suitability report did touch on alternative methods of raising the funds Mr Q needed to 
meet his objectives, namely taking a loan or using his existing disposable income. But the 
explanation around taking out a loan made little sense and the actual cost of such a loan 
was not explored. Mr and Mrs Q did have disposable income and a low amount of debt, so it 
is possible a loan could have been serviced by their disposable income allowing Mr Q to 
keep the benefits offered by his OPS and still reach some, if not all, of the objectives he had 
set. There was also no meaningful comparison between using the alternative methods and 
taking the risk of transferring Mr Qs pension provisions.
I dont think the suitability report was sufficient as a recommendation not to proceed, and I 
dont think Mr Qs objectives were robustly tested by Portal. They did not seem urgent 
considering his manageable and reasonably small credit card debt, and what I consider nice 
to have objectives. I also think it may have been possible to meet Mr Qs objectives in other 
more suitable ways. I think the correspondence in general muddied the waters, which I think 
on balance likely led Mr Q to believe Portal felt the transfer was appropriate.
I dont think the investments recommended to Mr Q were appropriate. As Ive said 
previously, I dont think the answers Mr Q gave in his fact find support the view that he had a 
balanced ATR, which was the basis his investments were selected on.
Taking everything into account I dont think the advice given by Portal was suitable.
Insistent Client
Portal argues that it was correct to class Mr Q as an insistent client. Ive already detailed a
number of flaws with the process that Portal followed. And overall, I have concerns with the 
process used and whether Mr Q was in fact an insistent client.
Portal says the information provided in the letter of 3 November 2015 is in line with the 
guidance provided by the FCA and includes its recommendation. On receiving this letter Mr 
Q decided to go against Portals advice and proceeded on the basis that he would be treated 
as an insistent client. 
But the letter and declaration Portal has referred to was sent to Mr Q before he received 
Portals full suitability report, and it promoted the opportunity for Mr Q to proceed on an 
insistent client basis. The letter included an insistent client form, and while its not in dispute 
that Mr Q signed the form the options Mr Q was asked to agree to only required him to place 
a tick in a box to confirm his understanding. The section Mr Q was asked to write himself 
only asked why he wanted to access funds early against the advice that had been given. I 
dont think enough importance was given to the fact Mr Q was going against professional 
advice despite it not being in his best interests. In any event, Mr Q simply wrote what he would be spending the funds on and that he was currently not out of work which becomes 
clear in other paperwork to be a mistake as Mr Q was unemployed at the time of the advice. 
Although Portal have said the declaration was in Mr Qs own words his response did not 
cover why he wanted to ignore professional advice and proceed with an unsuitable transfer, 
it also contained inaccurate information about his employment status. I cant see that Portal 
asked Mr Q to confirm the reasons behind transferring his pension being so important, and it 
didnt question the information given about his employment after receiving his limited and 
inaccurate response.
So, Mr Q didnt have all of the information he needed to make an informed decision  the 
form did highlight the critical yield figures and that Mr Q would be giving up a guaranteed 
pension. It also gave limited information about what he might achieve should he proceed 
with the transfer. But, I think it was unreasonable to ask Mr Q whether he wanted to be 
treated as an insistent client or not before providing the suitability report.
Only after receiving Mr Qs confirmation that he wished to proceed did Portal send Mr Q the
formal suitability report. And while the report stated that transferring would be against 
Portals recommendation, this was followed by the recommendation to transfer out of the 
OPS to a personal pension in the same report. Which, as Ive said above, I think undermined 
the recommendation not to transfer.
I dont think the process was geared towards Mr Q making an informed, considered
assessment of the reasons why he shouldnt be transferring  as if it was, I feel that would
have involved Portal providing the full recommendation to Mr Q, allowing him to consider this
on his own, and then revert to Portal if he still wished to proceed.
On the contrary, I would go as far as to say that Portals process was designed to facilitate
the transfer, with significant emphasis placed on the release of funds and how this could be
achieved from the outset. I dont think that providing Mr Q with a means of proceeding
against the advice, without establishing why he wanted to go against it, why the apparent
requirements were truly necessary and why alternatives werent truly more appropriate, 
demonstrates that Portal had his best interests in mind.
Overall, I think this shows that Portal made it altogether far too easy for Mr Q to agree that
he was an insistent client rather than allowing him time to think about the advice not to go
ahead with the transfer.
Would Mr Q have acted differently?
Mr Q said he wanted to access TFC to clear a credit card, complete his garden (on a rented 
property) and help pay towards his daughters wedding. But again, I believe the discussions 
were around what he would have liked to use this money for rather than him needing to 
release funds. As mentioned previously, Mr Q had a disposable income and was managing 
his small credit card balance with monthly payments. I dont think Mr Q had a true need for 
the funds, or that he would always have transferred his OPS and taken TFC if Portal had 
used a more appropriate process. 
Taking this into account, I think, as an inexperienced investor, had Mr Q been provided with
more appropriate and robust advice around why the transfer was not suitable, I dont think
hed have gone ahead. I know Portal maintains that it said the transfer was against its
recommendation  which overall was in my view correct. But the process Portal used,
including the suitability report ultimately issued after Mr Q had been directed to the insistent
client route, lacked sufficient clarity, reasoning and rigour  for all the reasons set out above.
And, in my view, meant Mr Q wasnt able to make an informed decision. If he had beenprovided with more appropriate information and reasoning, so that he fully understood the
risks and long-term implications involved in transferring his OPS and investing as he did, and
hadnt been directed towards the insistent client route, I think he would have acted 
differently and retained his deferred benefits. As a result, I think Mr Qs complaint should be
upheld.
On balance, if the transfer hadnt taken place, I think Mr Q wouldve retained his OPS 
benefits until drawing them at age 60 and I think that without Portals failings, Mr Q wouldnt 
have gone ahead with the transfer. So, the funds wouldnt have been invested as they were. 
So, I think it is appropriate to hold Portal responsible for any of the losses Mr Q has incurred.
Our Investigator recommended that Portal put Mr Q, as far as possible, into the position he 
would now be in but for the unsuitable advice. I think the award the Investigator 
recommended is fair.
Putting things right
A fair and reasonable outcome would be for the business to put Mr Q, as far as possible, 
into the position he would now be in but for the unsuitable advice. I consider he would 
have remained in the occupational scheme. Portal must therefore undertake a redress 
calculation in line with the regulators pension review guidance as updated by the 
Financial Conduct Authority in its Finalised Guidance 17/9: Guidance for firms on how to 
calculate redress for unsuitable DB pension transfers. 
This calculation should be carried out as at the date of my final decision, and using the most 
recent financial assumptions at the date of that decision. In accordance with the regulators 
expectations, this should be undertaken or submitted to an appropriate provider promptly 
following receipt of notification of Mr Qs acceptance of the decision.
Portal may wish to contact the Department for Work and Pensions (DWP) to obtain Mr Qs 
contribution history to the State Earnings Related Pension Scheme (SERPS or S2P).
These details should then be used to include a SERPS adjustment in the calculation, which 
will take into account the impact of leaving the occupational scheme on Mr Qs SERPS/S2P 
entitlement.
If the redress calculation demonstrates a loss, the compensation should if possible be paid 
into Mr Qs pension plan. The payment should allow for the effect of charges and any 
available tax relief. The compensation shouldnt be paid into the pension plan if it would 
conflict with any existing protection or allowance.
If a payment into the pension isnt possible or has protection or allowance implications, it 
should be paid directly to Mr Q as a lump sum after making a notional deduction to allow for 
income tax that would otherwise have been paid. Typically, 25% of the loss could have been 
taken as tax-free cash and 75% would have been taxed according to his likely income tax 
rate in retirement  presumed to be 20%. So, making a notional deduction of 15% overall 
from the loss adequately reflects this.
The compensation amount must where possible be paid to Mr Q within 90 days of the date 
Portal receives notification of his acceptance of my final decision. Further interest must be 
added to the compensation amount at the rate of 8% per year simple from the date of my 
final decision to the date of settlement for any time, in excess of 90 days, that it takes Portal 
to pay Mr Q.Income tax may be payable on any interest paid. If Portal deducts income tax from the 
interest, it should tell Mr Q how much has been taken off. Portal should give Mr Q a tax 
deduction certificate in respect of interest if Mr Q asks for one, so he can reclaim the tax on 
interest from HM Revenue & Customs if appropriate.
Its possible that data gathering for a SERPS adjustment may mean that the actual time 
taken to settle goes beyond the 90 day period allowed for settlement above  and so any 
period of time where the only outstanding item required to undertake the calculation is data 
from DWP may be added to the 90 day period in which interest wont apply. 
Where I uphold a complaint, I can award fair compensation of up to £160,000, plus any 
interest and/or costs that I consider are appropriate. Where I consider that fair compensation 
requires payment of an amount that might exceed £160,000, I may recommend that the 
business pays the balance.
My final decision
Determination and money award: I require Portal Financial Services LLP to pay Mr Q the 
compensation amount as set out in the steps above, up to a maximum of £160,000.
Where the compensation amount does not exceed £160,000, I additionally require Portal 
Financial Services LLP to pay Mr Q any interest on that amount in full, as set out above.
Where the compensation amount already exceeds £160,000, I only require Portal Financial 
Services LLP to pay Mr Q any interest as set out above on the sum of £160,000.
Recommendation: If the compensation amount exceeds £160,000, I also recommend that 
Portal Financial Services LLP pays Mr Q the balance. I additionally recommend any interest 
calculated as set out above on this balance to be paid to Mr Q.
If Mr Q accepts my decision, the money award is binding on Portal Financial Services LLP. 
My recommendation is not binding on Portal Financial Services LLP. Further, its unlikely 
that Mr Q can accept my decision and go to court to ask for the balance. Mr Q may want to 
consider getting independent legal advice before deciding whether to accept this decision.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr Q to accept or 
reject my decision before 1 August 2022.
 
Terry Woodham
Ombudsman