DRN-3881300
The complaint
Mr S complains that, following the retirement of his financial adviser, Lighthouse Financial 
Advice Limited transferred him to a different adviser who hasnt provided him with the same 
service. He wants the advisers fees refunded
What happened
Mr S held an ISA and a SIPP on third party platforms. A Lighthouse adviser provided 
on-going advice on his investments. Mr S had the same adviser for more than 40 years. 
When the adviser retired, Lighthouse transferred Mr S to a new adviser. But Mr S said he 
didnt receive any contact or advice from the new adviser and that, when he made contact 
himself, the adviser wouldnt agree to a face-to-face meeting.
Lighthouse said Mr S had enjoyed a lower level of on-going adviser charges than its 
normal range and that there was no obligation on it to provide a face-to-face meeting. If Mr S 
wanted a higher level of service, he would need to pay a higher fee.
Our investigator didnt recommend that the complaint should be upheld. She concluded Mr S 
was entitled to Lighthouses lighter touch level of service and that there was no obligation 
on Lighthouse to provide a face-to-face annual review unless Mr S paid a higher fee.
Mr S didnt agree. He said, in summary, that:
He was never advised he was only entitled to a reduced service.
He paid fees to the new adviser, but he received no communication from him. And fees 
continued to be collected by the new adviser even after Mr S told Lighthouse he didnt 
want that adviser anymore.
Recently, Lighthouse told us the last fee it took was in September 2022, but that it had 
arranged to refund the fees Mr S had paid from June 2022 when Mr S told it he didnt want 
to use its adviser.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr S had clearly built a strong relationship with his financial adviser over a very long period 
of time. And he enjoyed a lower level of fees to the normal range set out by Lighthouse.
Mr S had previously agreed to a classic service. In or around 2020, Lighthouse replaced 
this service with a like for like service which it called Lighter Touch. I cant see that this was 
communicated to Mr S but, as there was no change in the service he received, I dont find 
Lighthouse was obliged to tell him about the change of name.
Mr S agreed the transfer to a new adviser in January 2022. He complains that he wasnt 
contacted by that new adviser. But his annual review wasnt due until July 2022 and his 
adviser had planned to contact him around that time to make the arrangements. Whilst it 
may have been helpful at the outset of the new relationship for the adviser to set out his 
plans for contact, I dont find it unreasonable that he was working his way through a list of 
new clients and would have contacted Mr S before the annual review was due. Mr S was 
free to contact him if he required any help or advice in the meantime.
As part of the advice service, Mr S was entitled to an annual review of his investments. 
Theres nothing to suggest that this review would take place face to face. And, whilst maybe 
from necessity rather than choice, I can see his reviews with his previous adviser, in 2020 
and 2021, took place by video call. So Mr S had experience of reviews taking place online 
and there doesnt seem to be any reason why Mr S couldnt access this going forward.
Im satisfied that Lighthouse offered to meet with Mr S face to face, but that Mr S would need 
to pay a higher fee for this service. I dont find that to be unreasonable.
During our investigation, Lighthouse arranged to refund its fees for the period from 
June 2022 when Mr S told it he didnt want advice. I dont find it needs to refund its fees from 
before this date, as it was still supplying the agreed service.
I appreciate Mr Ss strength of feeling. And I dont doubt it was disappointing for him that the 
relationship with his new adviser didnt work out, having had a long-standing relationship 
with the previous adviser. But I dont find Lighthouse treated him unfairly and Im satisfied it 
continued to offer the agreed service.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, my final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 7 June 2023.
 
Elizabeth Dawes
Ombudsman