DRN-4169721
The complaint
Mrs J is unhappy Lloyds Bank PLC have not agreed to refund a cash machine withdrawal 
she says she didnt make or otherwise authorise.
Mrs J has been helped by a representative, Miss J, in bringing this complaint. But for 
simplicity and ease of reading Ive mostly referred to Mrs J throughout. And any reference to 
her includes the comments and actions of her representative unless otherwise specified.
What happened
The detailed background to this complaint is well known to both parties. So, Ill only provide 
a brief overview of some of the key events here. 
In October 2021, Mrs J says she attempted to make a cash machine withdrawal of £10 
which was unsuccessful. The same day, when she later logged onto her online banking to 
make a transfer, she saw £500 had been debited from her account (cash machine 
withdrawal). She reported this to Lloyds immediately.
  
Lloyds investigated Mrs Js fraud claim. It established that the £500 cash machine 
withdrawal was a separate transaction to the £10 withdrawal Mrs J says she did attempt, 
(which was declined due to the daily cash withdrawal limit being exceeded). It was unable to 
provide a refund as there was no evidence of third-party compromise and the £500 cash 
withdrawal was authenticated using Mrs Js genuine card and corresponding PIN. 
Unhappy with Lloyds response, Mrs J asked our service to consider her complaint. One of 
our Investigators looked into things and didnt uphold Mrs Js complaint. He thought its more 
likely than not that Mrs J carried out the disputed withdrawal herself or provided someone 
with access to her card and PIN. Therefore, he didnt think Lloyds needed to do anything 
further. 
Mrs J disagrees. She thinks the outcome that our Investigator reached is unfair as CCTV 
footage had not been obtained and reviewed. She requested an Ombudsman review her 
complaint.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive reached the same conclusions as the Investigator, and for broadly the 
same reasons. I realise this will come as a disappointment to Mrs J as this isnt the outcome 
shed been hoping for. But Ill explain why. 
Firstly, I recognise Mrs J feels that our service should review the CCTV footage before 
reaching a decision, but often this is not possible nor is it definitive in resolving disputes of 
this nature. Further, given the length of time which has passed, its most likely that it would 
no longer be available as CCTV data is generally only stored for a short period of time. It 
would not be fair of me to speculate on what the CCTV may or may not have shown, and it 
not being provided by Lloyds, isnt on its own a basis upon which I can fairly direct it to 
refund the disputed cash machine withdrawal. In circumstances like these where the 
evidence is incomplete, inconclusive or contradictory, I am required to decide the case on 
the balance of probabilities and what I think is more likely than not to have happened. And 
ultimately whether I think Lloyds decision to decline Mrs Js claim was fair and reasonable.
In short, Lloyds is generally required to refund the amount of an unauthorised transaction. 
The relevant regulations, to this effect, are the Payment Services Regulations 2017 (PSRs). 
But it can hold Mrs J liable for any disputed transaction if the evidence suggests that its 
more likely than not that she made or authorised it. So Ive carefully considered the evidence 
and thought about everything both Mrs J and Lloyds have told us. And from what Ive seen, I 
dont think its unreasonable to conclude Mrs J, or someone with her consent, made the 
disputed cash machine withdrawal. I say this for the following reasons:   
 
- Im satisfied from the technical evidence provided by Lloyds that Mrs Js genuine 
card and corresponding PIN were used to make the disputed cash machine 
withdrawal. The PIN was entered correctly on the first attempt. 
- Mrs J says the card was always in her possession and shed not shared or disclosed 
her PIN to anyone. The last time (before the disputed transaction) shed used her 
card and PIN was the day before. So there doesnt appear to be an obvious point of 
compromise for her PIN.
- Mrs Js testimony about what happened when she attempted to withdraw £10 at the 
cash machine has not been consistent. So, it cant be relied upon as credible 
evidence.
- Ive placed greater weight on the technical evidence, which shows that the disputed 
cash withdrawal was in fact made less than two minutes before Mrs Js attempt to 
withdraw £10. 
Mrs J has provided Lloyds with slightly differing versions of events about what happened on 
the day; there is no identifiable point of compromise for the PIN; the disputed transaction 
was made before the £10 withdrawal Mrs J says she was trying to make; and there was a 
relatively short time between the two transactions  so its unlikely an unknown third party 
could have taken and replaced the card. For these reasons, on balance, I think the 
conclusion Lloyds have reached that the cash machine withdrawal was most likely made by 
Mrs J or by someone with her consent is reasonable. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs J to accept or 
reject my decision before 9 August 2023.
 
Sonal Matharu
Ombudsman