DRN-3355854
The complaint
Miss H is unhappy that Bank of Scotland plc (trading as Halifax) hasnt written-off a loan 
taken out in her name which she says she didnt apply for. Shes also unhappy that its not 
refunded a series of faster payments and cash withdrawals she made after she says she fell 
victim to a scam.
Whats happened?
Miss H says she met a person who Ill refer to as S for the remainder of this decision. S 
asked her if she was able to receive funds from some of his business clients and pay them 
out to his other clients.
Miss H agreed to help. She provided her account details to S and received three payments 
into her account totalling £34,000 during June 2019. Around the same time, Miss H made a 
series of faster payments and cash withdrawals, totalling slightly more than the £34,000 her 
account had received. Miss H says it was her understanding that the money all belonged to 
S.
After Miss H had made the last transactions in the middle of June 2019, shes explained that 
she started to lose contact with S. She also began to receive letters from loan companies, 
and she says this made her realise that the payments she thought had come from S were 
loans which had been taken out in her name. This included one with Halifax. It was at this 
point Miss H says she became aware shed been the victim of a scam.
Miss H contacted Halifax and raised a fraud claim. Halifax reviewed the claim and told her 
that whilst it was sorry to hear about what had happened, it wouldnt be writing-off the loan or 
refunding any of the transactions shed made. 
Unhappy with Halifaxs response, Miss H brought a complaint to our Service. She told us:
She met S in person, and he was extremely charming and persuasive during her 
initial interactions with him. However, he became more intimidating as time went on.
She was told that before she could help S, shed need to improve her own credit 
score. So, she took out a series of mobile phone contracts and handed the phones 
over to S. She was assured the phone contracts would be cancelled as soon as 
possible and that it was all to improve her credit rating so that she could assist S 
further.
When she asked S why money had to be passed through her account, he told her 
that his accountant had advised him to move money around.
S told her that whilst the funds paid into her account may look like loans, they 
actually belonged to him. He also said that she needed to pretend they were actual 
loans when she spoke to financial institutions.
She accepts that Halifax questioned her on some of the transactions she made. 
However, she was coached by S to say the payments/withdrawals were for certain 
purposes  like a wedding.
Halifax told us:
Miss H ought to have known about the Halifax loan taken out in her name because 
her mobile banking was accessed via biometric fingerprint recognition just before the 
loan was applied for. Her mobile banking was also accessed when some of the 
subsequent bank transfers were made.
The faster payments were considered under the Contingent Reimbursement Model 
(CRM Code), but the cash withdrawals arent covered by the CRM Code.
It declined to refund the faster payments because Miss H failed to take a reasonable 
amount of care.
It had no reason to prevent the cash withdrawals as Miss H provided branch staff 
with plausible explanations as to what the cash was for.
What did our investigator say?
In summary, he was satisfied Miss H had a reasonable basis for believing she was making 
legitimate payments. So, he said Halifax should refund any payments which were covered 
by the CRM Code.
He was also persuaded that Halifax ought to have taken further steps to intervene when 
Miss H withdrew cash in its branches  namely, by invoking the Banking Protocol. This 
wouldve meant asking the police to visit the branch and speak to Miss H directly. Our 
investigator was persuaded that if this had happened, the scam wouldve been exposed.
Our investigator recommended that Miss H was put back in the position she wouldve been 
in had it not been for the scam.
Miss H accepted our investigators findings, but Halifax didnt. It said:
Miss H ought to have been aware that a loan had been taken out in her name. She 
logged into mobile banking shortly before and after the loan application was made, 
and a loan confirmation was sent to her personal email address and home address 
respectively.
It couldnt agree that Miss H had a reasonable basis for belief on this occasion.
It didnt feel the Banking Protocol shouldve been invoked. Miss H was questioned 
about the transactions and she provided confident answers which didnt suggest that 
a scam was taking place.
Our investigator still thought this complaint should be upheld. He said Miss H had confirmed 
that S was with her at various points when shed logged into her online banking. This was so 
he could see what money had come into her account. Shed also said that she didnt receive 
any email about the loan, but she did receive Halifaxs letter. She asked S about why this 
money showed as a loan, given hed said it was his money. He told her that he knew 
someone who worked at Halifax and assured her that whilst it appeared to be a loan, it 
wasnt.
Halifax continued to disagree with our investigator and asked for an ombudsmans decision. 
It provided the following further comments for consideration:
A series of messages between Miss H and S show that they were on good terms, 
and theres no indication of duress.
The same messages suggest that Miss H had concerns about what S was telling her 
from the start, and that she was being told she could earn significant amounts of 
money from helping S.Miss H ought to have known about the loan. She wouldve been able to see the loan 
each time she logged into her online banking as it would show on the list of products 
she held.
Miss H chose to be dishonest with the purposes of the transactions when she was 
questioned. The staff questioning Miss H were ultimately satisfied with the plausible 
explanations she provided, so they didnt think it was necessary to invoke the 
Banking Protocol.
My provisional decision
I issued my provisional decision on 3 February 2022. Ill set out my findings below.
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Ive also seen the evidence and 
arguments provided in Miss Hs other complaint which is of a similar nature to this one.
When considering what is fair and reasonable. Im required to take into account: relevant law 
and regulations; regulators rules, guidance and standards; codes of practice; and, where 
appropriate, what I consider to have been good industry practice at the relevant time.
Having done so, Im inclined to reach a different outcome to that of our investigator. Ill 
explain why.
The loan
From the evidence Ive seen, I think its likely that someone aside from Miss H was involved 
with applying for the loan. However, the crucial question is whether Miss H was complicit 
with this activity and, on balance, I think she was. I say this because:
Miss H has provided a copy of a letter she received from Halifax at the beginning of 
June 2019. The letter confirms that a loan has been set-up in her name, provides a 
loan account number which matches the reference on the incoming credit to her bank 
account and sets-out the loan repayment schedule. Miss H says she asked S about 
this letter and was assured that the money was his  whilst it may look like a loan, it 
wasnt. But I dont think this explanation is plausible in light of the other information 
Miss H had available to her, and I dont think its likely Miss H was taken in by it. 
I think its more likely that Miss H knew a loan had been taken out in her name.
Miss H doesnt appear to have raised any concerns with Halifax upon receiving its 
letter in early June 2019 as I might have expected her to do if shed received 
documentation about a loan account in her name which she wasnt aware of.
Halifax has evidenced that Miss Hs mobile banking was accessed on multiple 
occasions shortly before and after both the initial loan application and the loan 
agreement being signed the following day. This access was done via fingerprint 
recognition. The mobile/online banking was then accessed via the same method 
extensively across the next few days. Once the loan had been processed, Miss H 
wouldve been able to see the loan account each time she accessed her 
mobile/online banking. So, I wouldve expected her to have noticed details about the 
loan each time she logged in. However, she didnt report anything for at least a few 
more months.
Whilst Miss H may have been tricked into moving the loan funds on, this isnt enough to say 
she should no longer be responsible for repaying the loan when she was complicit with 
applying for the lending. So, I dont think it would be fair for me to instruct Halifax to write the 
loan off.Faster payments and cash withdrawals
Over the course of two weeks, Miss H made a series of faster payments as well as in-branch 
cash withdrawals. These were predominantly funded by various loans  including the one 
with Halifax.
Whilst I think its most likely that Miss H was complicit in applying for lending  I do also 
accept that she was most likely under the influence of S. As a result, Ive considered the 
transactions made across those two weeks and whether I think Miss H or Halifax shouldve 
done more to fulfil their obligations. Having done so, I think both parties couldve done more 
here.
The transactions were predominantly out of character for Miss H  both in terms of the 
incoming credits and the numerous substantial transactions made across the two-week 
period. Im satisfied that the transactions shouldve alerted Halifax to the possibility that 
Miss H was at risk of financial harm.
Halifax is a signatory of the CRM Code, which requires firms to reimburse customers who 
have been the victims of Authorised Push Payment scams, like the one Miss H says shes 
been the victim of, in all but a limited number of circumstances. So, I wouldve expected 
Halifax to have taken certain steps to verify the faster payments and provide effective 
warnings. From the information available to me, Im not satisfied that Halifax did enough on 
this occasion. For example, I note there are a handful of calls between Miss H and Halifax to 
question certain transactions after her account was blocked. However, having listened to 
these calls, I cant see Miss H was ever made aware of the possibility of scams or what the 
consequences might be if she carried on making further transactions. I also havent seen 
evidence of any warnings Miss H may have been provided with when in the process of 
making the various faster payments.
Ive also thought about the interactions Miss H had in-branch  especially following her 
requests to withdraw substantial amounts in cash. I accept that Halifax did question Miss H 
as to why she was making the withdrawals. But given the very unusual spending pattern that 
was emerging, I dont think it was reasonable for it to have accepted some of the 
explanations at face value  especially when I think some of Miss Hs answers were 
somewhat vague. I agree with our investigator that if further probing questions had been 
asked, it wouldve raised concerns and caused the relevant branch staff to have considered 
needing to take further action  perhaps such as invoking the Banking Protocol. If these 
additional steps had taken place, I think its most likely the scam wouldve started to unravel.
But whilst Im satisfied Halifax ought to have done more, Im also satisfied Miss H has 
contributed to the loss shes incurred. I say this because considering all the evidence Ive 
seen; I dont think it was reasonable for her to have believed what S was telling her 
throughout this scenario.
I think its most likely Miss H knew (or ought reasonably to have known) that loans were 
being taken out in her name  despite S telling her otherwise. That being the case, I have 
concerns as to why Miss H continued to follow S instructions in terms of making the faster 
payments and cash withdrawals. She received multiple letters from the different loan 
providers telling her that these loans existed and were in her name  yet she didnt raise 
concerns with any of the loan providers until a few months later. Ive also listened to a 
recording of a call she had with a third-party loan provider which I believe is relevant in this 
complaint as well. In this call, Miss H goes as far as saying she was expecting a loan with 
the provider and was chasing this up. By the time she had this conversation with the other 
loan provider, she had received the loan confirmation letter from Halifax.I appreciate Miss H has said S told her these werent loans crediting her account, but I dont 
think that this is plausible in the face of all the other evidence Ive seen. And even if 
I accepted Miss Hs explanation here, Im not persuaded it was reasonable for her to believe 
what S was telling her  I think she ought to have known what was really going on. So, 
I think that Miss Hs own actions are partly responsible for the loss thats been incurred.
As Im persuaded that both Miss H and Halifax are at fault, Im inclined to recommend that 
Halifax should calculate the total amount of disputed payments Miss H has paid 
out/withdrawn  before deducting £12,000 from this amount as a result of one of the other 
loan providers choosing to write-off a loan for the same value. Halifax should then refund 
50% of whats left by:
paying £2,500 to Miss H so she can reduce the balance of any outstanding          
non-Halifax loans if she so wishes.
paying the remainder into the Halifax loan to reduce the outstanding balance.
Responses to my provisional decision
Neither party put forward any further evidence for me to consider.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As neither party has provided any new evidence for me to consider, I see no reason to 
depart from the findings and conclusions I set out in my provisional decision.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, my final decision is that Bank of Scotland plc (trading as 
Halifax) should calculate the total amount of disputed payments Miss H has paid 
out/withdrawn, then deduct £12,000 from this amount (as a result of one of the other loan 
providers choosing to write-off a loan for the same value) and refund 50% of whats left by:
paying £2,500 to Miss H so she can reduce the balance of any outstanding          
non-Halifax loans if she so wishes.
paying the remainder into the Halifax loan to reduce the outstanding balance.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss H to accept 
or reject my decision before 7 April 2022.
 
Kyley Hanson
Ombudsman