DRN-3902068
The complaint
Mr C and Mrs C complain that Admiral Insurance (Gibraltar) Limited have declined their 
claim for damage due to an escape of water. 
  
What happened
Mr and Mrs C jointly held a buildings insurance policy with Admiral. 
In 2014 they had a leak in their property from a burst pipe while they were away on holiday. 
The water caused a ceiling to collapse and water to flow down into the childrens playroom. 
However, although they did notify Admiral at the time, they didnt make a claim on their 
insurance as after taking advice from a builder, they thought the only damage was to the 
ceiling and would cost less than their excess to repair, so they paid for the repair 
themselves. 
In January 2022 Mr C and Mrs C noticed the floor had started to sink at one end of the room 
near where the water had leaked down and so they contacted Admiral.
Admiral referred the matter to their surveyors who didnt visit the property, but did view Mr C 
and Mrs Cs photographs of the damage. They advised to decline the claim as they 
considered that the problem was as a result of rising damp which has been caused gradually 
over time.  
Mr C and Mrs C engaged their own surveyor, who provided a report which said that the 
issue had been caused by the water from the previous leak soaking the wall masonry and 
the solum, and it had been aggravated by the lack of ventilation to the sub floor.
Mr C and Mrs C sent this report to Admiral and asked them to reconsider their decision to 
decline the claim. 
 
Admiral then sent out their surveyor in August 2022, who reported that in their view, the rot 
had been caused by a wet concrete sub floor and a lack of ventilation. 
Mr C and Mrs C disagreed with this as they said the only part of the floor which was rotting 
was where it was attached to the wall affected by the leak, and if the problem was due to a 
lack of ventilation, the whole floor would be rotting. So, they complained.
In April 2022 Admiral issued their response, saying that damage from an escape of water 
would show damage consistent with lifting, but the evidence in this case supported damp 
arising from a form of rising damp.  
Mr C and Mrs C were unhappy with this response and so they brought their complaint to us. 
One of our investigators looked into Mr C and Mrs Cs complaint and she thought that 
Admiral had acted fairly and reasonably in declining the claim, but said that Admiral should 
pay Mr C and Mrs C £100 for the trouble and upset caused. 
    
Mr C and Mrs C disagreed with our investigators view, and so the case has come to me to 
review. 
 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I have to decide whether Admiral have acted fairly and reasonably, and properly applied the 
terms of the policy when declining the claim. 
Having considered all the evidence, although I think the claim was fairly declined, I agree 
with the investigator that Mr C and Mrs C should be compensated for the inconvenience 
caused by the delays. I have given my reasoning below. 
The decision to decline the claim
Admiral have declined the claim on the basis of the following exclusion in the terms and 
conditions of the policy: 
10. Gradual causes
Any loss or damage caused by anything that happens gradually, Including wear and
tear, wet and dry rot, or damage due to exposure to sunlight or atmospheric conditions,
settlement, mildew, rust or corrosion.
Admiral have said that the evidence in the report provided by their surveyor following visit 
supports this as he concludes that the rot has occurred as a result of the conditions created 
by the following contributory causes:
Inadequate ventilation of the suspended floor section of the extension - ventilation 
levels should be a 225 x 150mm air brick every 1.5m which isnt the case here
Standing water on the oversite concrete   there was standing water evident and 
100% moisture saturation in the concrete which couldnt be as a result of the leak 8 
years ago, and must be attributable to a construction defect,  
The suspended wooden floor was below external ground level - the external walls 
have render which breaches the damp proof course with no signs of ventilation and  
the right hand side elevation has raised retained earth which is above the internal 
floor area
The damp proof course is above the wall plate  - and the wall plates havent been 
wrapped in DPC, and the DPM isnt tucked into the external wall
Admirals surveyor doesnt consider that the leak is the true cause of the issue, but that the 
rot is due to a combination of possible penetrating damp, possible rising damp, 
condensation, lack of ventilation and presence of water on an unventilated floor. 
Mr C and Mrs C have provided a report from their surveyor which attributes the rot to a 
combination of the previous leak, and poor subfloor ventilation. 
Whilst I acknowledge Mr C and Mrs Cs surveyors opinion on the this, I am persuaded that it 
is more likely that the standing water on the oversite concrete which was seen by Admirals surveyor, and the damp and rot observed is as a result of the combination of factors 
identified by Admirals surveyor than from the original escape of water. 
This is because the I think its likely that whilst the leaked water may have dampened the 
wall and the wooden floorboards at the time of the leak seven years ago, I agree with 
Admiral that the damp should have dried out after a short period if there had been adequate 
ventilation under the floor. 
I note that both surveyors agree that there are high external ground levels to the rear 
elevation and gable and restricted sub floor ventilation. The high external ground levels are 
shown in the photographs to breach the damp proof course, and I note that Mr Cs own 
surveyors have said that in order to complete the work, Mr C will have to first carry out 
preparatory work which includes lowering the external ground levels and installing additional 
sub-floor vents.
Its therefore clear that both surveyors agree that these factors have created the right 
conditions for the rot to occur, and that it has been something which has happened gradually 
over time as a result.   
 
I note that Mr C has raised a query about why the rot identified is concentrated in the area 
where the leak had occurred, and not across all of the subfloor, and so I have queried this  
with Admirals surveyor. He has responded that the walls at the perimeter were not 
inspected and may be better ventilated and subject to fluctuating conditions which are less 
likely to encourage dry rot. This explanation seems reasonable to me as there are some air 
bricks in the perimeter walls, which whilst inadequate to ventilate the whole of the subfloor, 
may allow some airflow around the edges meaning that the areas furthest away from the 
airbricks are likely to be more susceptible to damp. 
I appreciate that it will be distressing for Mr C and Mrs C to have found that there is a 
significant issue in their home which needs costly repairs, but I am satisfied that in this case, 
Admiral have fairly applied the exclusion on the basis of sound evidence. 
The delay in processing the claim
There was some initial delay whilst Admiral located Mr C and Mrs Cs original policy, and 
some further delay in getting the surveyors to provide an opinion. It isnt always necessary to 
send a surveyor, and as Mr C and Mrs C had provided photographs and a report from their 
own surveyor, Admiral were able to undertake a desktop review and determine the claim by 
the end of March, which was reasonable. 
However, I appreciate that following his complaint Mr C and Mrs C had to chase Admiral, 
and there was some delay before Admiral did finally send a surveyor in August, and that this 
delay will have been frustrating for Mr C and Mrs C, although ultimately it didnt change the 
outcome. 
I think that the investigators recommendation that Admiral pay Mr C and Mrs C £100 for the 
inconvenience cause by this delay is fair.    
 
Putting things right
I think that Admiral should pay Mr C and Mrs C £100 for the inconvenience caused by 
delays.  
   My final decision
My decision is that I uphold Mr C and Mrs Cs complaint, and Admiral Insurance (Gibraltar) 
Limited should put things right as above.   
 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C and Mrs C to 
accept or reject my decision before 13 April 2023.
 
Joanne Ward
Ombudsman