DRN-1724285
The complaint
Ms M complains about how Liverpool Victoria Insurance Company Limited (LV) dealt with a 
claim on her car insurance policy. 
For ease of reading any reference to LV includes its agents. 
What happened
Ms Ms car rolled down a hill and was involved in a collision causing damage to her car. She 
contacted LV to claim on her policy to repair the damage. After Ms Ms car was returned to 
her she noticed a juddering when she drove it. Ms M contacted LV to look into the juddering 
as it wasnt there before the accident. 
LV looked into the juddering and thought it may be coming from the transmission but didnt 
think it was caused in the accident. Due to the age and mileage of Ms Ms car LV thought it 
should be covered by the manufacturers warranty. Because of this LV arranged for the car 
to go to a manufacturing garage to look into the fault. 
The manufacturing garage was unable to diagnose the fault and LV had to chase them 
several times for updates. As the manufacturing garage had been unable to diagnose the 
fault LV appointed one of its engineers to inspect the car. This was done around six weeks 
after Ms M had reported the issue to LV. LVs engineer spoke with the main dealer and 
discovered theyd given different reasons for the juddering but hadnt been able to confirm 
exactly what was causing it. At this point LV had been paying the manufacturing garage to 
look into the fault. 
As the manufacturing garage couldnt identify the cause of the juddering LV didnt think it 
was related to the accident. However, as the manufacturing garage hadnt been able to 
identify the cause LV appointed another engineer to inspect the car. As further investigations 
were needed LV returned the car to its approved repairer who discovered faults with two 
sensors. As LV thought this may have been causing the issue and Ms M hadnt had her car 
for some time LV replaced these for her even though it didnt think they were damaged in the 
accident. Unfortunately, this didnt fix the juddering issue, and as LV didnt think the fault was 
accident related the car was returned to Ms M. 
Ms M wasnt happy so she complained to LV, she said she leased the car and because of it 
being with LV she hadnt been able to return the car when she should have. She also said 
this meant shed been delayed in getting her new car. 
LV looked into Ms Ms complaint and didnt think itd done anything wrong. However, LV 
acknowledged there had been delays with the manufacturing garage and the issue had been 
going on for some time. Because of this it agreed to waive Ms Ms £350 excess and also 
refunded her just over four months additional lease payments shed made. The lease 
payments totalled in excess of £1,300. Ms M didnt think this was good enough and brought 
her complaint here. 
Our investigator looked into Ms Ms complaint and didnt recommend it was upheld. He did 
find that there were times LV could have done more to speed things up. He said LV had 
provided a Ms M with a car while the fault on hers was being investigated and thought by 
covering Ms Ms lease payments and refunding her excess LV had done enough to 
compensate her, as there wasnt enough to show the fault was accident related. He also 
found Ms M hadnt been charged by the lease company for the juddering when the car was 
returned.  
Ms M didnt agree she said shed been told the wrong software had been installed on her car 
and she thought this was causing the fault. She also said the courtesy car LV provided her 
was smaller and not as good as hers. Ms M didnt think LV had done enough to compensate 
her for this and asked for more compensation. Our investigator explained there wasnt any 
evidence to show the wrong software had been installed and thought LV had done enough 
to compensate her for the delays. 
As Ms M disagreed the complaint has come to me to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ms M has made a number of detailed points. Were an informal dispute resolution service, 
set up as a free alternative to the courts. In deciding this complaint Ive focused on what I 
consider to be the heart of the matter rather than commenting on every issue in turn. This 
isnt intended as a discourtesy to Ms M. Rather it reflects the informal nature of our service, 
its remit and my role in it. 
Ms Ms policy says in the event her cars damaged it will do one of three things. One of those 
is to repair her car to the condition it was in immediately before the accident. So, Ive looked 
at whether LV has done what its supposed to under the policy. 
LV said its repaired Ms Ms car to the condition it was before the accident, but Ms M says 
its now juddering which it didnt do before. From the evidence provided its not in dispute 
that Ms Ms car is juddering. However, neither LV or the manufacturing garage have been 
able to identify the cause of the fault. Im therefore not persuaded the fault is accident related 
and is something LV should be held responsible for. Ive also noted that as Ms M has now 
returned the car to the lease company its no longer possible to investigate the cause of the 
fault further. And as Ms M hasnt been charged by the lease company for the issue, I dont 
think there is anything else LV needs to do. 
Ive also considered the length of time the investigation into the juddering took. I can see this 
went on for several months which delayed Ms M from returning this car and getting her new 
one. Shes also said the courtesy car she was provided wasnt as good or as big as her car 
which meant it wasnt ideal for her. LV has paid Ms M the additional lease payments she 
shouldnt have paid if her car had been returned in time. In addition, LV has also refunded 
Ms Ms excess as well as making sure she had a car while the fault with hers was being 
investigated. As Im not persuaded the fault is accident related, Im satisfied LV has done 
more than it needs to, so Im not going to instruct LV to do anything else. 
 
My final decision
For the reasons explained above my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms M to accept or 
reject my decision before 13 November 2020.
 
Alex Newman
Ombudsman