DRN-1793907
The complaint
Ms L complains that Barclays Bank UK Plc trading as Barclaycard (Barclays) mis-sold her a 
payment protection insurance (PPI) policy alongside a credit card.
What happened
In 2003 Ms L made a postal application to take out a credit card with Barclays. At the same 
time she took out a PPI policy to protect her repayments. 
Ms L has now complained to Barclays that the policy was mis-sold but it didnt agree that 
was the case. However, Barclays did say some excess commission and profit share that had 
been part of the premiums paid should be refunded. 
As Barclays refused to uphold her complaint that the PPI was mis-sold, Ms L brought her 
concerns to this service. 
Our adjudicator didnt think the complaint should be upheld. Ms L disagreed and asked for 
an ombudsman to look at her complaint.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding Ms Ls complaint.
Ms L has complained she was mis-sold the PPI as she says she would not have willingly 
requested to take out the PPI unless told she needed it. She says she had stable 
employment but was working long hours to meet her financial obligations and she doesnt 
think any information given to her was clear enough for her to make an informed decision 
about the PPI. 
Ms L applied for her credit card in response to a generic mailing sent out to the Occupier of 
the property where she lived. Barclays has been able to provide a copy of the application 
form Ms L completed and sent back to apply for the card and the PPI. It has also provided a 
sample copy of the mailing that was sent out which has the application form as part of the 
full leaflet and also the details that were provided at the time.
Ms L completed this application form herself at home. There is a section on the application 
form within a box which is headed OPTIONAL BENEFITS  Please read the Insurance 
conditions. Below the heading are two different types of insurance product set out and also 
a section on Instant Cash Advance. In the section for the PPI Ms L had a choice to tick a 
yes or no box, and she has ticked the yes box. She has then left the card cover insurance 
section empty and then ticked the no box for the Instant Cash Advance. 
Looking at how Ms L completed this section I think it indicates she read all the options, 
considered the choices and made a decision about what she did and did not want. It is clear from the way she completed the application form that at the time she said she wanted the 
PPI. So I think she knew she had a choice and at the time she chose to take out the 
insurance cover. 
The application form was part of a leaflet and on that leaflet are the Barclaycard Conditions. 
This contained information about the terms and conditions of the credit card account and 
also there is a section headed Barclaycard Payment Protection  Guide to Insurance. This 
is the section referred to in the Optional Benefits section. 
This insurance guide starts by saying it provides the most important information before 
buying the insurance so the customer can make an informed choice. It goes on to give 
information about the cost (which it also states will appear on each months statement), sets 
out eligibility for the cover and what is and isnt covered.
The information provided was a summary and as in small print may not have been fully clear 
to Ms L. It did not provide the full details about the terms and conditions of the policy, 
although it highlighted the main terms and restrictions. So, I have considered if I think she 
would still have chosen to take out the PPI at the time if she had known all the details.
The cost of the cover was stated as 79p for every £100 of the balance on the account and it 
was indicated that this would be added to the statement each month, as with any purchases 
Ms L made. So she should have been aware that interest would have been caused because 
the cost was added to her account. 
The benefits included repayment of 10% of the outstanding balance each month for up to 12 
months in any one claim and also life cover. So the cost was reasonable when taking 
account of the benefits that could be paid for a successful claim.
I note Ms L says she had a lot of financial obligations at the time and would not have chosen 
any additional debts. But I have seen nothing to indicate the policy wasnt affordable and as 
the premium appeared on the monthly statements, Ms L could have cancelled the policy at 
any time if unhappy with the cost. In view of what she says about her circumstances it also 
seems likely she would have found the benefit of the policy very useful if she hadnt been 
able to work for any length of time and needed to claim.
Ive not seen any information or evidence to suggest Ms L would have been affected by any 
of the exclusions to or limits on the PPI cover. I note Ms L now says she would not have 
taken out the policy if she had been given full information. But at the time, the fact she 
independently selected to have the cover indicates it was something she thought may be 
useful to her. And as she wouldnt have been affected by any restrictions on claims, for 
example relating to pre-existing medical conditions, I cannot see that further information at 
the time would have affected her decision that she wanted the policy. 
Overall, based on the evidence I have seen, I think Ms L chose to take out the insurance and 
it would have provided a useful benefit if she had needed to claim. It follows that I dont think 
the policy was mis-sold and Im not upholding this complaint.
Ms L has also indicated she wasnt told about high levels of commission and she indicates 
as this information wasnt clear it would have affected her choice to take out the PPI and this 
made the policy mis-sold. 
It is only following a Supreme Court decision and new rules made by the Financial Conduct 
Authority for financial businesses in 2017 relating to levels of commission, that businesses 
have to consider disclosure of the level of commission. The new rules indicate that high commission is excess commission and profit share at levels 
over 50 % of the premium costs and anything above this is excessive. Since 2017 such 
levels of excess commission have to be disclosed in advance. Non-disclosure before this 
date does not make a policy mis-sold. But businesses have been required to review if any 
excess commission was paid in certain circumstances, and where necessary refund that 
excess amount, plus pay some compensatory interest because the consumer was out of 
pocket. 
Barclays has in this case reviewed Ms Ls account and said some excess commission or 
profit share is due to be refunded. It has paid to her a total of £93.55 for this, which includes 
some compensatory interest. I think what Barclays has calculated and paid for the excess 
commission is fair. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive set out Im not upholding this complaint as I dont think the PPI policy 
was mis-sold by Barclays Bank UK Plc trading as Barclaycard to Ms L and I think fair 
compensation for any excess commission has been paid.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms L to accept or 
reject my decision before 7July2020.
Chris Fraser
Ombudsman