DRN-1555247
 
The complaint
Miss L has complained that Lloyds Bank Insurance Services Limited (Lloyds) removed 
accidental damage cover from her home insurance policy without telling her. She says 
Lloyds misled her into believing a claim she made in November 2017 would be covered. 
What happened
Miss L says shed insured her property through the broker, Lloyds since approximately 1991. 
Miss L said she believed she always had accidental damage cover under her home 
insurance policy. 
In October 2017 Miss L called Lloyds to report her concerns about works being carried out to 
next doors property. She said the outside adjoining wall was exposed. Miss L was 
concerned that the state next doors property had been left in meant her property would 
sustain water damage coming in under her home the next time it rained. At this stage, Miss L 
said there wasnt any damage to her property. Lloyds said it would log her enquiry.
A month later Miss L called to make a claim. She was unhappy that material from her roof 
had been removed by the builder working on next doors property and caused damage. 
Lloyds said the incident wasnt an insured peril that Miss L could claim against under her 
home insurance policy. So it directed Miss L to claim for her losses under the legal expenses 
part of her policy. In November 2017 Lloyds confirmed to the legal expenses provider that 
the reason why it wouldnt consider her claim was because she didnt have accidental 
damage cover under her policy. 
Miss L was unhappy with the way her claim under her legal expenses cover was dealt with. 
Miss L has made a separate complaint to this service about that. So it doesnt form part of 
this decision.
In May 2019 Miss L complained to Lloyds. Her complaints were that Lloyds removed 
accidental damage cover from her policy without telling her. When she discovered this in 
November 2017, she added accidental damage cover immediately. She said that Lloyds had 
assured her in October 2017 that she was covered for the damage caused by the 
neighbours builder to her roof and property. She felt Lloyds had misled her. 
In July 2019 Lloyds apologised for the delay in replying to her complaint. It paid Miss L £50 
compensation. Lloyds said when Miss L contacted it in October 2017 it explained that as no 
damage had occurred; no insurance peril had taken place. It emailed her to say that even 
though the neighbour was having work carried out, it wouldnt prejudice any future claim 
Miss L may wish to make. 
In November 2017 when Miss L reported damage she said was caused by next doors 
builder, Lloyds told her that no insurable event had occurred. Miss Ls policy excluded cover 
for water ingress or poor workmanship. In October and November 2017 Lloyds provided 
details of the legal expenses provider for Miss L to contact. Lloyds said that Miss L set up the home insurance policy during a meeting at a branch in 
2012. Due to the time that has passed, its unable to confirm details of what was discussed. 
But a copy of the Welcome Pack and subsequent renewal documents show that accidental 
damage cover was not included on the policy. And at each renewal since then, her policy 
documents confirmed the same. So Lloyds said it hadnt made any errors as it made Miss L 
aware of the cover she had. 
Miss L remained unhappy and asked us to look at her complaint. 
Our investigator explained that there are time limits which restrict us from looking at certain 
complaints. She explained why we are unable to consider Miss Ls complaint that Lloyds 
mis-sold a policy to her in 2012. 
The investigator didnt think Lloyds had acted unreasonably when Miss L contacted it in 
October 2017. At that stage, no claim was made as no damage had occurred to Miss Ls 
property. She thought it would have been unreasonable for Lloyds to tell Miss L whether her 
claim would be covered or not at that point. 
As Miss Ls policy at renewal in May 2017 clearly set out that accidental damage was 
excluded, the investigator thought Lloyds had dealt with her complaint fairly.
Miss L didnt agree. She says she asked Lloyds in October 2017 if she needed to take out 
extra cover and was told no. Miss L says she clearly stated the work was being carried out 
by the next door builder, but at no time did Lloyds either tell her or lead her to believe that 
works of this nature performed by a builder would come under accidental damage cover - 
and she didnt have that.
Miss L believes it was negligent of Lloyds not to offer her the option to add accidental 
damage cover in October 2017. 
So the case has been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Miss L has raised additional concerns which are being dealt with under a separate complaint 
against the insurer of the policy. My decision is in relation to the complaints that the broker 
mis-sold Miss Ls home insurance policy to her in 2012 and misled Miss L into believing her 
claim would be covered in October 2017. For ease, Ive set out the complaints under 
headings below.
Miss Ls policy was mis-sold to her in 2012
There are three time limits which apply to our power to consider complaints. These rules can 
be found in the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA) handbook under section DISP 2.8.
The rules say we can't look at a complaint if it was made more than: 
Six years after the event complained of; or if later
Three years from when the customer was aware, or ought reasonably to have been aware, 
of cause for complaint.Lloyds didnt agree to us considering Miss Ls complaint that the policy was mis-sold to her 
in 2012 as it was out of time. It was over six years since the event when Miss L complained. 
And as Lloyds had sent Miss L renewal documents each year highlighting that accidental 
damage was not included, I think Miss L was made reasonably aware of the problem more 
than three years before her complaint in May 2019. So for these reasons I cannot consider 
this complaint.
Lloyds misled Miss L in October 2017
We asked Lloyds to provide recordings of key calls with Miss L in October and November 
2017. Lloyds has been able to provide a recording of one call between it and Miss L on 16 
October 2017. However, Miss L has provided proof by way of her phone records to show 
that she made two calls to Lloyds that day. And in the call Ive listened to, Miss L begins by 
saying shed called earlier. 
Where there isnt evidence of what was said by way of a call recording or notes, I need to 
make a finding on balance of what I think most likely happened. 
I understand Miss L believes Lloyds assured her that an impending claim would be met. In 
the second call on 16 October 2017 theres no evidence of this. Miss L described what had 
happened to next doors property and that shed taken photos and contacted the council. At 
this stage, Miss L said she wanted to document everything and for it to be recorded. 
In the call, Miss L said when she spoke to the person (at Lloyds) earlier, she was advised 
that Lloyds wouldnt send a surveyor out but Miss L was free to appoint her own surveyor. 
Miss L asked if she had cover for legal costs. The agent gave Miss L contact details for the 
legal expenses provider under her policy. The agent said she would make a note of the 
information Miss L reported as an enquiry as there was no damage.
On the same day, Lloyds sent Miss L an email. It apologised for not being able to assist her. 
It said;
In the interim I have spoken to our Underwriters, they have advised, the fact your 
neighbours have carried out this work would not prejudice any claims you may need to make 
in the future on the provision that they meet the terms and conditions of the policy.
From the information available to me, I dont think Lloyds misled Miss L into believing it 
would cover the claim. Buildings insurance covers the cost of repairing or rebuilding a home 
if its damaged or destroyed due to a type of unforeseen event - often known as an insured 
event or insured peril.
As no damage had occurred to Miss Ls property in October 2017, I dont think it was 
reasonable for Lloyds to be able to say whether any future claim would be met or not. I think 
the email it sent explained that the work being carried out wouldnt prejudice Miss Ls right to 
make a claim but subject to the terms and conditions of the policy. 
Under Miss Ls renewal documents in May 2017, Lloyds highlighted on the policy schedule 
that optional accidental damage was not included. In the cover letter, Lloyds asked Miss L to 
check her documents and wrote:
Policy schedule - This forms part of your contract with us and shows your chosen cover, 
your premium, policy limits and any special conditions. Please read this to check that your 
cover and policy limits are right for you and keep it safe. If you have any questions or wish to 
add or remove any optional sections of your cover, please call us.The same level of cover was highlighted to Miss L in her policy documents since 2012. So 
Im satisfied that Lloyds made Miss L reasonably aware that she didnt have accidental 
damage cover under her policy in May 2017. Lloyds didnt provide advice as to the suitability 
of the policy  and so it doesnt have to recommend insurance cover to the customer. So it 
was for Miss L to ensure that the cover she was paying for met her needs.
I appreciate that Miss L says she has been left with an expensive bill to repair her roof in 
addition to the trouble and upset of dealing with the matter overall. As Ive said, I havent 
been able to listen to the earlier call on 16 October 2017. But I think the other available 
information from that day is enough to say on balance that I dont think Lloyds misled Miss L 
in October 2017. 
I understand Miss L will be very disappointed with my decision. But overall I dont think 
Lloyds acted unreasonably. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss L to accept or 
reject my decision before 14 July 2020.
Geraldine Newbold
Ombudsman