DRN-3631920
The complaint
Mr and Mrs C complain that the storm damage claim they made on their insurance policy 
was unfairly rejected by QIC Europe Ltd.
What happened
Mr and Mrs C have a home insurance policy with QIC. And when their property was 
damaged during a storm, they made a claim for the repairs. The main damage was the 
destruction of a summerhouse, but there were some roof tiles removed from the main home 
as well as damage to some fencing.
QIC arranged for a surveyor to inspect the property. By that time repairs had been 
completed to the main home. The surveyor felt the damage caused had highlighted existing 
issues, such as rot, and wouldnt have been caused otherwise. The claim was declined, but 
£100 was offered as compensation for failings in the claim process.
Mr and Mrs C said the surveyor couldnt properly comment on the roof tiles because theyd 
had them repaired as an emergency already  and that he didnt really inspect them anyway. 
Mr and Mrs C also said the summerhouse wasnt inspected for a while after the storm and 
that is why rot could be seen, similar to the fences.
An investigator here looked into the matter and felt QIC had been reasonable in relying on 
their surveyors report. They also felt the £100 compensation for claim handling was fair.
Agreement couldnt be reached, so the case was passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im sorry to disappoint Mr and Mrs C, but Im not upholding their complaint to the extent 
theyd like, because I think the amount of compensation already offered is fair. Ill explain 
why.
Insurance companies will rely on surveyor reports in circumstances such as this. Theyre 
deemed to be appropriate people to assess how damage has been caused. Of course, if 
there is a flaw in the report or if counter evidence is provided then they may be called into 
question.
In this case, theres no dispute there was a storm around the time of the damage, nor that it 
wasnt a significant one. But insurers will consider whether theres any wear and tear to the 
damaged areas, on the basis that properties should be well maintained.
Im aware people will sometimes take offence at any suggestion that they havent maintained 
their property  that is not my intention here. Particularly as I note that Mr and Mrs C had 
only very recently purchased the property, and say that no concerns were highlighted in their 
home buyers report.
I very much appreciate that may be the case, although we havent been provided with a copy 
of the report. But a surveyor has explained his findings and I dont think its unreasonable for 
QIC to rely on the surveyors opinion in the absence of anything thats persuasive otherwise.
I have taken account of what Mr and Mrs C have said, about the delay in the surveyor 
attending. And I acknowledge that  particularly the summerhouse and fencing  will have 
deteriorated further while theyd been waiting. The survey was carried out approximately six 
weeks after the storm.
Id expect a surveyor to take any such delays into account, and note that their report 
acknowledges is was a named storm in November 2021 that caused damage. So, I think its 
unlikely that wasnt factored into their thinking.
The report says i looked at the summerhouse debris and noted the base was fitted on top of 
the lawn and had no hardstanding and wasnt fixed down, the base was decayed badly and 
the wood crumbles between my fingers, the roof had been replaced by the previous owners 
with metal corrugated sheets and rot was also noted to the joints at the corners and to the 
doors . in my opinion the structure has been weakened by the rot and was easily torn apart 
and no cover should be considered due to the decay. the fencing around the hot tub has 
fallen due to rotten fence posts and should not be considered.
I appreciate Mr and Mrs Cs arguments that rot wasnt present in all areas of the 
summerhouse, which might have been expected if it had happened over an extended period 
of time. But I dont believe a structure will necessarily be rotten all over if that was the case. 
Different parts of it will be exposed to the elements in different ways and directions, so I dont 
find it unusual that certain parts will have remained in better condition than others.
In the absence of any persuasive counter evidence, Im not convinced the surveyors findings 
 or QICs reliance on them  are unfair. So, Im satisfied the conclusion in relation to the 
summerhouse and fencing was reasonable. Because the policy says it wont cover loss or 
damage as a result of gradual causes including wear and tear, gradual deterioration along 
with wet or dry rot.
It appears the surveyor initially felt the roof tiles might be covered, although they were 
subsequently declined too. But I dont consider it to be necessary to make a finding in that 
respect. Mr and Mrs C said their main concern was the summerhouse, because it would be 
expensive to replace. And the repairs to the roof tiles on their own appear to be around the 
same as the excess.
Overall, I think QIC reached a reasonable claim outcome based on the evidence they had to 
consider. That said, I agree that the claim could have been handled better than it was. There 
were communication issues and things couldve been dealt with quicker than they were. Its 
fair to say this caused frustration to Mr and Mrs C, but I think the £100 offered for that is fair.
My final decision
It is my final decision that I uphold Mr and Mrs Cs complaint. I require QIC Europe Ltd to 
pay them the £100 compensation offered, unless they have already done so.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C and Mrs C to accept or reject my decision before 1 September 2022.
 
Will Weston
Ombudsman