DRN-2323960
The complaint
Mr and Mrs D complain that Nationwide Building Society acted unreasonably in returning a 
cheque made payable to Mrs D.
What happened
Mr and Mrs D have a joint account with Nationwide so this complaint has been brought in 
both of their names but for ease of reference Ill refer only to Mrs D in my decision.
In April 2020 Mrs D received a cheque from an insurance company. The cheque was made 
payable to Mrs D using her preferred first name. Mrs D used the postal deposit service to 
pay it in, but Nationwide returned the cheque to her saying that the name on the cheque 
didnt match the name on the account.
Mrs D says the name on the cheque is the one shes always been known by. Its also the 
one that she uses when contacting Nationwide and the one Nationwides used in its 
responses to her. She says shes paid in other cheques using this preferred name in branch 
without problem and feels Nationwide is being unreasonable.
Nationwide said the name on the cheque didnt match the one on the account and under The 
Cheques Act 1992 it wasnt able to accept it.It said Mrs D could call it or go in to her local 
branch or ask for it to be re-issued. While it was possible that a branch could use its 
discretion at times and accept a cheque like this, that wasnt possible with the postal deposit 
service. 
Our investigator didnt uphold the complaint. She accepted that the name on the cheque was 
the one Mrs D was known by but this wasnt the name on the account so she couldnt agree 
Nationwide had made a mistake in returning it.
Mrs D disagreed and said she felt Nationwide should have used some common sense in the 
way it had dealt with this. There was no question of any illegality and the name on the 
cheque was the one shed used for many years. She felt Nationwide hadnt taken sufficient 
account of her interests in the current circumstances. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I know this isnt the decision Mrs D was hoping for but, having considered the information, I 
dont consider Nationwide has made a mistake as Ill now explain.
Section 1 of The Cheques Act 1992 says Where a cheque is crossed and bears across its 
face the words account payee or a/c payee, either with or without the word only, the 
cheque shall not be transferable but shall only be valid as between the parties thereto. In 
other words the cheque can only be paid to the person named on the cheque.
I can understand why Mrs D was so frustrated to have this cheque returned. As she says, its 
the name shes been known by for many years and the one used by Nationwide when it 
contacted her online. She considers it is her legal name. However, despite that, the name on 
the account was different and, for that reason, I cant reasonably say Nationwide made a 
mistake in deciding it couldnt accept it.
Ive seen that on occasions Nationwide has accepted similar cheques in branch without a 
problem. It seems that on those occasions, the staff in branch used their discretion to verify 
the ownership of the cheque. However, this cheque was paid in using the postal deposit 
service and taking into account the number of cheques that get processed in this way, I dont 
think it would be reasonable to expect Nationwide to monitor each individual cheque and to 
use its discretion in the same way.
There are a number of options for Mrs D, including to change the name on her account, to 
set up a preferred name on the account or to have the cheque reissued in the name on her 
account. I realise that some of these may be difficult in the current circumstances but Id 
hope that if Mrs D contacts Nationwide on the number provided that it will try to assist to 
avoid any similar problems going forward.
I realise Mrs D may be disappointed by my decision but, for the reasons given, I dont 
consider Nationwide has made a mistake and I wont, therefore, be asking it to do anything 
more to resolve this complaint.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold Mr and Mrs Ds complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr D and Mrs D to 
accept or reject my decision before 28 December 2020.
 
Cerys Jones
Ombudsman