DRN-2201802
The complaint
 Mr A complains that Barclays Partner Finance trading as Clydesdale Financial Services 
Limited (Clydesdale) retained nine months worth of repayments when it allowed him to 
reject his car. He would like the payments refunded along with the cars running costs..
 
What happened
The circumstances of this complaint are well known to both parties so  wont repeat them 
again here. Instead I will focus on giving the reasons for my decision .
  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
 Having done so I agree with the conclusion reached by our investigator for the following 
reasons:-
The problem with Mr. As car that led to its rejection related to the car not being ultra-
low emission compliant not to any fault with the car. Mr. A had full use of the car so I 
think its reasonable that Clydesdale charged for Mr. As use of the car. I dont accept 
Clydesdale was being punitive in doing so. And I think its, calculation of retaining 
nine months of payments based on 9,000 miles driven is fair. 
I dont accept other points Mr. T has made in relation to this  we do look at usage 
when cars are rejected. I dont feel Clydesdale has profited from Mr. T in retaining 
some payments as his use of the car will have affected its value. And given there 
was no fault with the car, I dont think it was unreasonable that he was advised to 
keep it whilst Clydesdale investigated his complaint.
I dont think its fair that Clydesdale should refund the running costs associated with 
the car. Petrol, insurance and car washes are expenses Mr. A would expect to incur 
with using the car.
Clydesdale has agreed, subject to proof of cost, to refund as a gesture of goodwill 
the cost of work carried out on Mr. As car in June/July 2019. This includes replacing 
a battery (£149.40), clutch (£564) and the radiator, anti-freeze, cap and water pump 
(£679.80). I think this is reasonable as Mr. A might not have invested so much in the 
car if he knew the car would be rejected.
 My final decision
  My final decision is that I uphold this complaint. In full and final settlement Barclays Partner 
Finance trading as Clydesdale Financial Services should, on proof of the work being carried 
out , refund the cost of :-
- A replacement battery in June 2019 (£149.40)
- A replacement radiator, anti-freeze, caps and water pump in June 2019 £679.80
- A replacement clutch in July 2019 (£564)
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision before 24 March 2021.
 
Bridget Makins
Ombudsman