DRN-3047737
The complaint
Mr C said his new card from American Express Services Europe Limited (AESEL) (AmEx)
wasnt delivered to him. He wanted AmEx to pay him for the two days he took off work. And
when he complained, he was passed from AmEx to the delivery company, and back again.
What happened
Mr C said that AmEx sent his card to the wrong address, and wouldnt compensate him for
loss of wages on the days he wasted, waiting in for the delivery.
Mr C said that the first delivery, which wasnt signed for, didnt turn up, so he asked AmEx to
send his new card signed for. And he waited in for it, taking a day off work. He said the
courier firm AmEx had hired didnt deliver, then recorded this as recipient not home in its
system. But he was at home. So he had to take a second day off. Mr C said that this time,
the courier firm recorded his credit card as delivered, and signed for by him. He didnt get it,
and had to contact his neighbours to get hold of the card. It hadnt been signed for, it had
just been handed to someone at a different address nearby.
Mr C wanted AmEx to pay him £140, the amount he said hed lost taking two days off work.
But AmEx told him to get in touch with the courier. Mr C did so, but the courier wouldnt
uphold his complaint. When Mr C went back to AmEx, he said that he had to raise his
complaint again, and then it was turned down.
Mr C said hed been inconvenienced, and he was very unhappy with how AmEx responded
to his complaint. He said this is AmExs choice of courier, it should do something about this.
AmEx said it was sorry it had taken so long to call Mr C back about his complaint. It paid him
£25 to make up for that. But it said that it had sent his new card to the right address. AmEx
said it doesnt have control over the post it sends, once it has left, and so it couldnt raise a
formal complaint with its courier on Mr Cs behalf.
Our investigator didnt think that Mr Cs complaint should be upheld. He said this complaint
was about AmEx, not the courier. And he didnt think AmEx had done anything wrong. It had
given the item to the courier with the correct address, and done so promptly. Our investigator
said Mr C had complained to the courier, and our investigator didnt think that AmEx then
had to raise another complaint for Mr C. He did, however, ask AmEx to note the feedback
that Mr Cs card appeared to have been wrongly delivered.
Mr C didnt agree. He felt that AmEx should be responsible for contacting the courier on his
behalf, and he said consumer rights law said sellers should chase up a courier, if something
doesnt arrive. Mr C also said we hadnt looked at the delay in recording his complaint.
Our investigator didnt change his mind. Mr C wanted his complaint to be considered by an
ombudsman. He wrote setting out his complaint.
Mr C said he wanted me to consider that AmEx delivered his credit card to a wrong
address by courier, and the courier wrongly marked the item as signed for by him, in its
internal system. That courier then turned down his complaint and asked AmEx to raise the
complaint on his behalf. But AmEx wouldnt.
Mr C said he wanted AmEx to take the sellers responsibility for the couriers problem under
the relevant law, and he sent me a link to guidance about purchasing items by mail order.
Mr C also said he wanted me to look at AmExs service failures in complaints handling. He
spoke to AmEx on 23 August 2020, but on 14 September its agent said that had not been
recorded as a complaint and asked him to raise it again. Mr C said that was a waste of time.
Mr C said wed looked at an incorrect hyperlink in the letter AmEx sent as a separate
complaint, but it was part of resolving this issue.
Finally, Mr C said that the courier hadnt left a recipient not home card when it failed to
deliver on 20 July. It recorded that Mr C wasnt at home on its system, but left no card. Mr C
repeated that he was at home.
This case was then passed to me for a final decision.
My provisional decision
I issued a provisional decision on this complaint and explained why I did not propose to 
uphold it. This is what I said then: 
I agree with our investigator, that what went wrong with the delivery of Mr Cs credit 
card isnt AmExs responsibility. It posted a card to Mr C, which wasnt signed for. He 
didnt get it, so AmEx arranged for another to be sent signed for. Mr C still didnt get 
it, so it was sent again. I know Mr C said he had to collect this from neighbours, but 
he did receive his card.
So I dont think that AmEx made a mistake here. It sent cards out to Mr C promptly, 
and to the right address. When the first one didnt arrive, it organised a delivery that it 
reasonably considered would be more secure, and again it did so promptly. I dont 
think its AmExs fault if the courier it used for this signed delivery, didnt do what 
AmEx had asked it to do.
Mr C has now argued that what AmEx does, in sending him a replacement credit 
card, is covered by the law on purchasing goods by mail order, or at least ought to be 
treated in the same way. I think there are two problems with that.
Firstly, Mr C isnt buying goods from AmEx, which he says the seller would be 
required to ensure reaches him. AmEx is providing him with a card, as part of a 
financial service that it offers him.
Secondly, even if I thought the situations were comparable (and Ive explained that I 
dont) the guidance Mr C has sent us suggests a seller is responsible for making sure 
anything bought by mail order reaches the seller. Mr C got his card. The guidance 
doesnt suggest the sender would be responsible for paying lost wages to the buyer, 
if the item takes some time to arrive and the buyer has to wait in for delivery.
For both these reasons, the arguments Mr C makes dont change my view on this. I 
still think that what has gone wrong with this delivery isnt AmExs fault.
Mr C also wanted to know why AmEx wouldnt raise a complaint on his behalf with 
the courier. He said that the courier had told him this is what AmEx should do. But I cant see, in the email exchange that Mr C has sent us, that this is what the courier 
said. I can see that it has repeatedly suggested that Mr C take this up with the 
sender, and it appeared to be under the impression for at least part of the time that 
Mr C had ordered goods he hadnt received. But it doesnt seem to me to have 
suggested that AmEx could raise a complaint with it, on behalf of Mr C. I dont think 
AmEx had to do that.
Mr C also said that our service hadnt taken into consideration that he had difficulties 
raising his complaint. I think AmEx has taken account of this, and it paid him £25 to 
say sorry for this. I think that provides a fair and reasonable response to this part of 
Mr Cs complaint.
Mr C also said that our service had wrongly separated out the issue of whether a 
hyperlink in a complaint response letter sent by AmEx worked properly. He said it 
didnt, he argued that this had delayed his complaint coming to us, and caused him 
several days of effort in trying to figure out why it didnt work.
Our service responded to Mr Cs complaint about this issue separately, and our 
investigator sent Mr C his view on 7 January 2021. This complaint was subsequently 
closed.
Our service is impartial, and has a responsibility to be fair to both sides. I dont think 
that it would be fair to AmEx if I were to reopen this other, separate complaint now, 
as part of my considerations in this case. So I wont consider this point here. Mr C 
can ask us, separately, to reopen the other case if he would like, and our service 
would consider that request.
I invited the parties to make any final points, if they wanted, before issuing my final decision. 
Both parties replied. AmEx just accepted my decision, but Mr C sent a substantive reply. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr C said he agreed that AmEx was providing him with a financial service, not goods. But he 
said he was charged an annual fee for holding the card, and he couldnt use it until it finally 
arrived. He said hed told our service about this, and AmEx was supposed to get in touch 
with him, but it hadnt done so. And when he asked it directly to respond, Amexs customer 
service said its complaint team declined to do so.
Our service cant add this issue in here without causing considerable delay to the resolution 
of Mr Cs existing complaint. So Ill leave Mr C to decide whether he wishes to ask us 
separately to look into whether he has been charged unfairly. 
Mr C also said the guidance hed seen on online sales said that If the seller used a courier, 
they should chase the courier to find out whats happened to your order - its not your 
responsibility. He said thats why he asked AmEx to look into this for him. But Ive already 
explained why I dont agree that this guidance covers Mr Cs situation. 
Mr C also said that the courier had told him that The sender has a dedicated team at 
[courier] who handle all their queries, may I advise you to contact the sender directly so they 
can raise an investigation and look into this further for you. He said that was another reason 
why he asked Amex to look into this for him. I can see that on 23 July, the courier said this -
I am sorry to hear you have not yet received your shipment. 
The sender has a dedicated team at [courier] who handle all their queries, may I 
advise you to contact the sender directly so they can raise an investigation and look 
into this further for you.
I dont think that the courier was suggesting that AmEx would look into Mr Cs complaint 
about the item being delivered elsewhere, or that it would raise this with the courier for him. I 
think it was suggesting that if he hadnt received his item (which we know he had by then) 
that he should contact the consignor to find out what had happened, and AmEx would do 
something about that. So I still dont think that AmEx had to raise a separate complaint with 
the courier on Mr Cs behalf. 
Ive considered the case again in the light of Mr Cs further arguments, but I havent changed 
my mind. I still dont think this complaint should be upheld.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 14 October 2021.
 
Esther Absalom-Gough
Ombudsman