DRN-3203038
The complaint
M has complained through a representative about Legal and General Assurance Society 
Limiteds (L&G) decision to reduce the amount payable under a life insurance policy.
What happened
Mrs M took out a life insurance policy with L&G, which started on 23 May 2010. The policy 
was put in trust in 2018 with Mr M being the beneficiary. The name of the trust is M. Mr M 
applied for a single life policy at the same time, although Ive focused on the policy Mrs M 
took out, as its a reduced payment on a claim under her policy that has led to this 
complaint.
Sadly, Mrs M died in 2019, and M submitted a claim on the policy. L&G found out that Mrs 
M had provided the wrong date of birth when she took out the policy. She put her year of 
birth as 1947, when it was actually 1946. L&G relied on a policy term, which it has said 
allowed it to reduce the amount due under the policy from £99,000 to £78,603. M 
complained about this through its representative. It said that Mr M particularly took issue 
with the fact that L&G already had information from Mrs Ms GP that her correct year of 
birth was 1946. And it suggested L&G was therefore in a position to check this with Mrs 
M, but instead went ahead with the policy anyway.
L&G wouldnt alter its position, so Ms representative asked us to consider a complaint 
against L&G. The case was reviewed by one of our investigators. He said Mrs M had 
made a careless misrepresentation when she took out the policy and L&G was entitled 
to reduce the sum insured and pay this amount in settlement of Ms claim.
Ms representative didnt accept the investigators assessment and asked for an 
ombudsmans decision.
Our investigator asked Ms representative to get Mr M to comment on why Mrs M would 
have put her year of birth as 1947, when she had obtained a copy of her birth certificate 
in 2005 showing it as 1946. Mr M said - via Ms representative - he believed that it was 
due to an error by the financial adviser Mrs M used to take out the policy, who was a tied 
agent of L&G. He said his understanding was that the financial adviser who completed 
the application form had an obligation to check the documents for clarification of 
information on Mrs Ms behalf. And Mr M added that all the documents were completed 
electronically. And he said he didnt know why Mrs M had obtained a copy of her birth 
certificate, but it may have been for another document, such as a passport.
I issued a provisional decision on 22 November 2021 in which I set out what Id provisionally 
decided and why as follows:
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair 
and reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
When M claimed under the policy, L&G noticed Mrs Ms year of birth was incorrectly 
recorded as 1947. And it relied on the following policy condition to reduce the amount due 
in settlement of Ms claim.
A3 If the Life Assureds or either of the Lives Assureds if Joint Life, Date of Birth as set 
out in the Policy Schedule is incorrect, subject always to Legal and Generals right to 
void the policy if there has been a failure to disclose a material fact, the terms of the 
policy shall be adjusted to those which would have applied had the correct Date of Birth 
been stated at the outset.
L&G has said that if the correct year of birth had been provided for Mrs M, the premium 
she paid of £125.10 would have provided a sum insured of £78,603. And its adjusted 
the policy terms to this sum insured. And this is why it paid out this amount in settlement 
of Ms claim, as opposed to the original sum insured of £99,000.
This means I need to decide whether it is fair and reasonable for me to allow L&G to rely 
on the above mentioned term based on the evidence available.
The policy was taken out by Mrs M through a tied agent of L&G. And hes said that hed 
made two mortgage applications for Mrs M and a previous insurance application to L&G 
and all these applications had her year of birth as 1947. And hes provided evidence to 
support this. Hes said he has no idea why this happened. However, he recalled Mrs Ms 
son, who is also one of his clients, had said that he believed she was born in 1947, as Mrs 
M had always told him this. And Mrs Ms son has provided a letter confirming this. So the 
agent believes Mrs M, for some reason, thought she was born in 1947.
As Ive said, it seems Mrs Ms application was submitted electronically by the agent. Ive 
seen a copy of the Protection Application Details document provided to the agent after he 
made the application and this shows Mrs Ms year of birth as 1947. Ive also seen a copy 
of the letter dated 1 March 2010 sent to Mrs M referring to the details L&G were using to 
offer her cover. And this asked her to check the answers on the Personal Details 
Document (PDD), which was enclosed, were correct. And Ive seen a copy of the PDD 
and this shows Mrs Ms year of birth as 1947. This carried a warning that the details 
needed to be checked carefully and there could be serious consequences if they were 
incorrect. The letter also asked Mrs M to sign and return a Checking Your Details (CYD) 
form to confirm the details on the PDD were correct.
L&G has said Mrs M never returned the CYD form to confirm the details provided were 
correct. But its provided copies of two reminder letters sent to Mrs M and one to its agent 
asking Mrs M to check the details the policy was to be based on and return the CYD form. 
These said that if she didnt return this form, the policy would be set up on the details L&G 
held. As Mrs M didnt return the CYD form, the policy went ahead with a start date of 23 
May 2010 on the basis of the information that had been supplied to L&G by the agent. 
And this showed Mrs Ms year of birth as 1947.
L&G also sent Mrs M another letter dated 1 March 2010 offering her the policy at a premium 
of £133.83. And L&G sent Mrs M a further offer letter dated 22 March with a revised 
premium of £125.10, following negotiations with its agent. The letters said a pre-paid 
envelope was enclosed and Mrs M needed to tell L&G if she wanted to go ahead with the 
policy and if she wanted a revised start date. These letters also said if there were any 
changes to the information provided on the application Mrs M needed to tell L&G straight 
away. And details of the policy and offer were included after both these letters and Mrs Ms 
year of birth was shown as 1947. There were boxes to tick at the end of the details after the 
letter so Mrs M could let L&G know what she wanted to do. I assume from this letter Mrs M 
had to complete the boxes at the end and sign and return this section in the pre-paid 
envelope provided, possibly with the CYD form. And theres no evidence to suggest Mrs M 
told L&G her date of birth was wrong, although it seems she never returned the letters and it 
was the agent who told L&G to proceed with the policy at a premium of £125.10 per month.Mrs M also completed a medical consent form and she entered her year of birth on this 
as 1947 as well.
In addition, the trust document, which was completed by hand in 2018, shows Mrs Ms 
year of birth as 1947. In fact, the year was amended by hand from 1946 to 1947. And the 
full date of birth including the year as 1947 has been written in full underneath this. And 
Mrs M signed the trust document. So L&G had no reason to query Mrs Ms date of birth at 
this point in time. The agent has said Mrs Ms daughter told him her year of birth was 1946 
and this is why he wrote this date on the trust document. Hes gone on to explain when he 
spoke to Mrs M she told him that her year of birth was 1947 and so he changed the form. I 
think this is more likely than not to be what happened in view of all the other documents 
and the fact Mrs M never suggested her year of birth should be shown as 1946.
In view of what Ive said, I think its more likely than not that Mrs M provided the wrong 
date of birth when the policy application was submitted and never corrected it. And, as a 
result of this, Mrs Ms date of birth was incorrect on the policy schedule. And, I dont think 
theres any compelling evidence to suggest it was wrong due to an error by L&G or its 
agent.
And Im satisfied from what L&G has provided that if the correct year of birth had been 
given it would have set the policy up with a sum insured of £78,603 at the monthly 
premium of £125.10 per month. And this means Im satisfied what L&G has paid out in 
respect of Ms claim is correct according to the policy terms.
Ive considered Ms representatives point that L&G should have realised from the 
information provided by Mrs Ms GP, prior to the policy going ahead, that her year of birth 
was 1946. I queried this with L&G and it accepts the GP noted in their report that Mrs Ms 
medical records began in 1946. And it also accepts its underwriter may have missed the 
GPs reference to the year 1946. But it doesnt think this oversight means it waived its 
rights under the policy, especially as the stated date of birth at the top of the report 
showing the year of birth as 1947 was the one provided by Mrs M. It has said that if the 
underwriter had noticed this, it would have been reasonable for them to assume the year 
of birth provided by Mrs M was correct and that the GP made a typographical error when 
completing their report.
It is obviously too long after the event for me to know whether the underwriter noticed the 
discrepancy between the date of birth on the GP report and the start date of Mrs Ms 
medical records. But, I dont think the fact the GP referred to a different year in their report, 
and the underwriter either missed this or assumed the GP had made an error, is enough 
for me to say it isnt fair and reasonable for L&G to rely on the above mentioned policy 
term. This is because it was Mrs Ms responsibility to provide the correct date of birth and 
L&Gs underwriter had no reason to doubt what she had said. After all, it would be very 
unlikely that someone would get their date of birth wrong when completing a policy 
application. It would be far more likely that the persons GP had made an error in their 
report and referred to the wrong date for the start of the persons medical records.
Therefore, in summary, I think L&G was entitled to rely on the above mentioned policy 
term to reduce the amount payable to M. Therefore, I dont think it would be fair and 
reasonable for me to make L&G pay M more than the £78,603, plus interest, it has 
already paid.
And I said that Id provisionally decided not to uphold Ms complaint. 
I gave L&G and Ms representative until 6 December to provide further comments and evidence. L&G has responded to say that it agrees with my provisional decision and has 
nothing to add. Ms representative has not provided any further comments or evidence.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As L&G has agreed with my provisional decision and Ms representative has not 
provided any further comments or evidence, I see no reason to alter my conclusions. 
Therefore, it remains my view that it would not be fair and reasonable for me to make 
L&G pay M more than the £78,603, plus interest, it has already paid. 
My final decision
For the reasons set out in my provisional decision, as reproduced above, my final decision is 
that I dont uphold Ms complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask M to accept or 
reject my decision before 5 January 2022.
 
Robert Short
Ombudsman