DRN-4034028
Complaint
Mr P has complained about personal loans Everyday Lending Limited (trading as Everyday 
Loans) provided to him. He says the loans were irresponsibly lent to him.
Background
Everyday Loans initially provided Mr P with a first loan for £1,000.00 in February 2019. The 
total amount to be repaid of £2,528.40, including interest, fees and charges of £1,528.40, 
was due to be repaid in 24 monthly instalments of just over £105. 
Everyday Loans then provided Mr P with a second loan for £1,788.00 in September 2019. 
£787.55 of these funds went towards settling the amount remaining on loan 1. The total 
amount to be repaid of £4,032.24, including interest, fees and charges of £2,244.24, was 
due to be repaid in 24 monthly instalments of just over £168. 
Mr P was then provided with a third loan for £2,500.00 in August 2020. £1,093.30 of these 
funds went towards settling the amount remaining on loan 2. The total amount to be repaid 
of £6,693.30, including interest, fees and charges of £4,193.30, was due to be repaid in 30 
monthly instalments of just over £223. 
Finally Everyday Loans provided Mr P with a fourth loan for £2,500.00 in October 2021. 
£1,547.87 of these funds went towards settling the amount remaining on loan 3. The total 
amount to be repaid of £5,016.24, including interest, fees and charges of £2,556.24, was 
due to be repaid in 24 monthly instalments of just under £210. 
When it reviewed Mr Ps complaint, Everyday Loans agreed that it shouldnt have provided 
loan 4 to Mr P and it agreed to refund all interest, fees and charges Mr P paid on loan 4. As 
this is what wed normally ask a firm to do if we were to uphold a complaint on this basis, 
weve not looked into Mr Ps complaint about loan 4.
One of our adjudicators subsequently reviewed Mr Ps complaint and he thought Everyday 
Loans ought to have realised that it also shouldnt have provided Mr P with loans 2 and 3 (as 
well as loan 4). So he thought that Mr Ps complaint should be partially upheld. 
Mr P didnt disagree with our adjudicators conclusions. But Everyday Loans didnt respond 
to the assessment. So the case was passed to an ombudsman for a final decision as per the 
next stage our of dispute resolution process. As the parties appear to be in agreement on 
the outcome reached for loans 1 and 4, this decision on only looking at whether Everyday 
Loans should have provided Mr P with loans 2 and 3.
My findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve explained how we handle complaints about unaffordable and irresponsible lending on
our website. And Ive used this approach to help me decide Mr Ps complaint. Having 
carefully considered everything Ive decided to uphold Mr Ps complaint. Ill explain why in a 
little more detail.
Everyday Loans needed to make sure it didnt lend irresponsibly. In practice, what this 
means is Everyday Loans needed to carry out proportionate checks to be able to understand 
whether Mr P could afford to repay any credit it provided. 
Our website sets out what we typically think about when deciding whether a lenders checks 
were proportionate. Generally, we think its reasonable for a lenders checks to be less 
thorough  in terms of how much information it gathers and what it does to verify it  in the 
early stages of a lending relationship.
But we might think it needed to do more if, for example, a borrowers income was low or the
amount lent was high. And the longer the lending relationship goes on, the greater the risk of
it becoming unsustainable and the borrower experiencing financial difficulty. So wed expect
a lender to be able to show that it didnt continue to lend to a customer irresponsibly.
There may also be other factors which could influence how detailed a proportionate check
shouldve been for a given loan application  including (but not limited to) any indications of
borrower vulnerability and any foreseeable changes in future circumstances. Ive carefully 
thought about all of the relevant factors in this case.
The information Everyday Loans has provided suggests it provided loans 2 and 3 to Mr P 
after it contacted him to conduct an account review. I think its fair to say Mr P wasnt 
seeking further funds and it is as a result of these calls, where Mr P was encouraged to 
borrow further funds from Everyday Loans, that he ends up taking further loans. 
Im particularly concerned by the call prior to loan 3 being provided as Mr P not only receives 
an unsolicited call from Everyday Loans, he actually says on more than one occasion that he 
doesnt want any further borrowing and he simply wants to repay loan 2. Its extremely 
concerning that Everyday Loans agent ignores this request and continues to arrange an 
appointment to discuss further borrowing, notwithstanding Mr Ps wishes. 
Having listened to the content of the calls, it is evident to me that Mr P has difficulty 
appreciating the purpose of the calls and its clear that the agents have some appreciation of 
this. Furthermore, while I accept that Everyday Loans may not have been made directly 
aware of Mr Ps vulnerability at this stage, I think the content of the calls, the existing lending 
relationship that had built-up and the make-up of Mr Ps income ought to have alerted 
Everyday Loans to the possibility of this.
Im also mindful that the regulations in place state that a lender should not encourage a 
customer to refinance a loan if the result would be the customers commitments are not 
sustainable and/or it must not refinance a customers existing credit unless it reasonably 
believes that it is not against the customers best interests to do so.
Everyday Loans would have been aware Mr P was on a fixed income that was unlikely to 
increase. While this in itself isnt a reason to refuse to lend a prospective borrower 
irrespective of the circumstances. I think that Everyday Loans ought to have recognised why 
someone in Mr Ps position could ill-afford to develop a dependence on an increasing 
amount of high cost debt  after all his capacity to come into an increased sum of money to 
clear any indebtedness  in the same way that an employed person might be able to through 
say overtime  was significantly less.Equally, having listened to the content of the calls, particularly the call before loan 3, I cant 
see how Everyday Loans could reasonably have believed that it was not against Mr Ps best 
interests to refinance loan 2 in the way that in did. I say this while particularly mindful that 
some of the amount that ended up being capitalised into loans 2 and 3 was unpaid interest 
due to the early settlement of loans 1 and 2. 
All of this leaves me persuaded that Everyday Lending shouldnt have provided Mr P with 
loans 2 and 3 (as well as loan 4 as it has already agreed is the case). As Everyday Loans 
provided Mr P with loan 2 and 3 in the circumstances, Im satisfied it failed to act fairly and 
reasonably towards him. 
Mr P ended up paying interest, fees and charges on loans he shouldnt have been provided 
with. So Im satisfied that Mr P lost out because of what Everyday Loans did wrong and that 
it should put things right.
Fair compensation  what Everyday Loans needs to do to put things right for Mr P
Having thought about everything, Everyday Loans should put things right for Mr P by:
refunding all interest, fees and charges Mr P paid on loan 2 and 3 (as well as loan 4 
as it has already agreed to do);
adding interest at 8% per year simple on any refunded payments from the date they 
were made by Mr P to the date of settlement;
removing all adverse information it recorded on Mr Ps credit file as a result of loan 2 
and 3 (and loan 4 as it has already agreed to do). 
 HM Revenue & Customs requires Everyday Loans to take off tax from this interest. 
Everyday Loans must give Mr P a certificate showing how much tax it has taken off if he 
asks for one.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, Im upholding Mr Ps complaint. Everyday Lending Limited 
should put things right in the way Ive set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision before 21 April 2023.
 
Jeshen Narayanan
Ombudsman