DRN-4202897
The complaint
Mrs G has complained that she was given incorrect information by Computershare Investor 
Services Plc, which led her to believe that she could exercise a share option and then sell 
the shares simultaneously. 
What happened
Mrs G has explained that she had six options available to her through her leavers form, 
under her Save As You Earn SAYE scheme. One of the options had fully matured and she 
had until 18 June 2022 to elect what to do. Mrs G had until November to decide with the 
other five options. 
Mrs G contacted Computershare on 1 June 2022. She says she made it clear that she 
wanted to buy and sell the shares and did not want to hold on to them. She says her call was 
cut off and nobody got back to her. She says that when they did, she was told that after 
exercising the option, she would be able to go in and sell the shares. 
Mrs G says she waited until 9 June 2022 to exercise the option, when the share price was 
higher than all her option prices. However, she says the option to sell the shares wasnt 
available. She says she called Computershare and was told that it could take 5 days for the 
purchase to settle and the option to sell the shares from her share plan account to be 
available. 
Mrs G says the option finally became available on 17 June 2022, but the share price had 
fallen and she had purchased the shares at a higher price. Mrs G complained to 
Computershare. She said she wouldnt have purchased the shares at that time if she had 
been given the correct information. She wanted to be compensated for the distress and 
inconvenience caused. 
Computershare responded and acknowledged that Mrs G had not been advised correctly 
over the phone. They offered £75 for the service falling short of expectations, including     
Mrs G not being called back as promised. However, they didnt believe there had been any 
financial loss. 
Our investigator looked into it. Ultimately, she said that she agreed there hadnt been any 
financial loss. But thought Computershare should increase their offer for the distress caused, 
to a total of £175, which they accepted.
Mrs G remained unhappy. As no agreement was reached, the case has been passed to me 
for a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I think the outcome reached by the investigator and accepted and offered 
by Computershare, is fair. Ill explain why. 
Computershare acknowledge that the service they gave Mrs G during phone calls on           
1 June 2022, fell below the level they would like. Mrs G had expressed her intention to 
exercise the share option and simultaneously sell the shares. She had made it clear that she 
did not wish to keep the shares. 
If Mrs G had been properly informed on that day, she would have been told that she would 
need to wait for the buys to settle and appear in her share plan account, before selling them. 
Mrs G has said that if she was informed correctly, she would have only taken up one of the 
options (the first one which matured and had a lower option price).
I cant be sure what Mrs G would have done. However, she wasnt to know the price was to 
fall after she took the options and at the time she took them, the share price was at a 
premium to all her option prices, meaning she was facing a profit if it didnt fall before she 
could sell. 
On a balance, I think Mrs G would still have exercised all options at the time, even if she was 
aware of the true process. Rather than having the uncertainty of waiting until nearer the 
November deadline. Further to this, Mrs G has not suffered any financial loss. I am aware 
she sold the shares at the end of July for a profit. 
However, Mrs G has definitely suffered both distress and inconvenience from 
Computershares errors. She had the worry of wondering if she had bought the shares at a 
premium and faced a loss. She also had the inconvenience of having to check the price 
regularly for a time to sell, something she had made clear at the beginning that she didnt 
want to do. Computershare have now offered a total of £175 compensation for this (a further 
£100 to the £75 already paid). Considering the impact this had on Mrs G and that it went on 
for approximately 6 weeks until the shares were sold, I think the offer is fair. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I think the offer made by Computershare Investor Services Plc is 
fair. To put things right, Computershare Investor Services Plc should pay Mrs G a further 
£100 compensation (total of £175), if they havent already done so. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs G to accept or 
reject my decision before 27 July 2023.
 
Yoni Smith
Ombudsman