DRN-4444400
The complaint
A business (L) complains about its insurer, Society of Lloyds (Lloyds) declining a claim for 
damage caused by fire to a tractor.
Any reference to Lloyds in this decision includes their agents.
In bringing its complaint, L was supported by a representative (its broker). References to L 
include the representative.
What happened
In July 2022 one of Ls tractors caught fire whilst being driven down a road, the driver 
noticing smoke coming from the middle of the tractor. The fire was put out by the fire service 
but caused significant damage, with repair costs estimated at £16,468 (excluding VAT) by a 
repairer (T). L contacted Lloyds to tell them about the fire and lodge a claim for the damage.
Lloyds appointed an engineer (B) to inspect the tractor, assess the damage and the cause of 
the fire. Bs report (August 2022) found the damage was underneath the frame of the tractor 
and cab assembly. The report concluded there had been a low-level thermal incident (fire) 
causing damage to various electrical wiring looms and associated components. The seat of 
the fire was determined as the handbrake calliper and disc at the rear of the transmission, 
acting on the rear driveshaft. Organic material (chaff) had compressed around the calliper 
and disc and then ignited because of friction between the chaff and brake components (it 
wasnt a specific mechanical failure).
The report also said review of the tractors service and maintenance documentation 
indicated routine cleaning down of the vehicle was an important preventative maintenance 
procedure. The tractor operating manual indicated daily cleaning, but L said the tractor had 
last been cleaned ten days before the incident. Specifically, clearing chaff and other 
combustible organic materials to prevent accidental fire damage. Without this, dry organic 
materials could become trapped (or settle) around parts of the tractor that became hot 
(including exposed brake discs). B concluded there had been a lack of preventative 
maintenance on the tractor.
Based on Bs report, Lloyds declined Ls claim in an email in September 2022, referring to 
the policy General Conditions. These included a requirement to protect an insured vehicle 
from loss or damage. Lloyds said L hadnt met this condition because of the lack of 
preventative maintenance (cleaning down of the vehicle from chaff and other combustible 
organic materials). 
L challenged Lloyds decline, saying a cleaning regime was in place where vehicles 
(including the tractor) were cleaned when dirty. The vehicle was under three years old and 
under a service contract with the manufacturer, with maintenance in accordance with the 
contract. The nature of tractors operating meant mud and chaff built up rapidly, and they 
were designed to operate (safely) in such conditions. L said additional factors contributed to 
the incident, including the unprecedented dry conditions at the time. And the tractor having 
an external brake mechanism (most tractors had internal brake mechanisms) would appear 
to have ignited the chaff, due to the extreme heat. L also referred to views they obtained 
from two loss adjusters, who didnt think Ls decline was reasonable.
Unhappy at Lloyds decision, L complained. But Lloyds didnt uphold it. In their stage one 
complaint response (October 2022), they said review of the case wouldnt lead to their 
changing the decision not to cover the damage (for the reasons set out in the email).
Lloyds also considered the complaint under stage two of their complaint procedure. In their 
stage two final response (November 2022) they didnt uphold the complaint, confirming the 
decline of the claim. They noted the claim was for fire damage, believed to have arisen from 
a mechanical failure (something not covered by the policy). The final response also referred 
to Bs conclusions about the lack of preventative maintenance and the general condition 
about taking steps to protect a vehicle from loss or damage. Lloyds concluded the claim had 
been declined correctly in accordance with the terms and conditions of the policy.
L didnt agree with Lloyds final response. They obtained a view from T, who said the fire 
was caused by a handbrake calliper that had failed, causing a heat source well beyond the 
manufacturers design parameters. The failure caused ignition of the wiring loom and 
operational debris on the tractor (combined with the heat on the day of the incident and the 
normal daily build-up of debris). But the failure only became clear when the tractor was 
stripped down and the faulty calliper removed. T also said the debris inside the chassis 
couldnt be removed by routine cleaning, only accessible during servicing. 
Lloyds considered Ls points but didnt change their decision to decline the claim. They cited 
Bs review of the points raised, having inspected the brake components in question. B said 
the calliper hadnt seized (and he hadnt observed any physical damage) and both brake 
pads hadnt worn evenly, such that the outer brake pad had been in contact with the brake 
disc (metal to metal). This shouldnt have been possible and would cause friction and heat 
when the brakes were applied (though B couldnt state with certainty this was associated 
with the fire). B also thought organic material had collected between the calliper and disc 
due to lack of routine cleaning. Based on the findings, B didnt change its view there was a 
lack of application of preventative maintenance (cleaning).
Unhappy with Lloyds response, L complained to this Service. It said it had been affected 
financially by the cost of repairs (£16,468) as well as the cost of hiring an alternative vehicle 
(£1,250 a week) that would be covered under the Increased Cost of Working section of the 
policy. But this would only be invoked on acceptance of the claim for damage from the fire 
under the motor section of the policy. L wanted Lloyds to accept liability under the terms of 
the policy and cover the cost of repairs to the vehicle (less the applicable policy excess).
Our investigator didnt uphold the complaint, concluding Lloyds handled the claim fairly and 
reasonably in line with the terms and conditions of the policy. He considered the evidence 
provided by Lloyds (including Bs report) and L (including Ts opinion) but was more 
persuaded by the evidence from Lloyds. The photographs in Bs report showed chaff build-up 
and the evidence didnt indicate cleaning in line with the manufacturers recommendations. 
And there wasnt evidence to support the brake calliper being faulty.
L didnt agree with the investigators view and asked that an ombudsman review the 
complaint. It said theyd taken legal advice which said a reasonable care condition of the 
kind referred to by Lloyds (the general condition on preventing loss or damage) required 
recklessness on the part of L to engage (to actively appreciate a risk in not taking a 
particular step and then disregard the risk) rather than carelessness. L said there was no 
evidence of recklessness in the circumstances of the case. Nor did L accept its maintenance 
and cleaning programme was deficient. The evidence indicated L directed their minds 
towards maintenance, so met the required standard under the policy. In my findings, I noted L provided evidence of the tractor being serviced in the year 
leading up to the incident, indicating the tractor was serviced in the period before the 
incident. I also noted what L said about  their cleaning programme.
I concluded L had a reasonable approach to maintenance, including servicing in 
accordance with the manufacturers recommended intervals and daily checks of the 
tractor for obvious defects. I didnt think this constituted reckless behaviour by L.
That being the case, I concluded Lloyds hadnt acted reasonably in citing a lack of 
preventative maintenance (not taking reasonable care to avoid loss or damage) as 
grounds for declining the claim.
I also considered Ts opinion the fire was caused by a faulty brake calliper which led 
to a heat build-up beyond the design parameters. Which caused the chaff and debris 
present to ignite. So, the proximate cause of the fire was the failure of the brake 
calliper. While a mechanical defect or breakage itself wouldnt be covered, I didnt 
think it reasonable to conclude a fire caused by a mechanical defect or breakage 
wouldnt be covered. For example, a fire arising from an electrical fault. 
So, in either of the two scenarios on the cause of the fire, I didnt think Lloyds acted 
reasonably, in line with the policy terms and conditions, in declining Ls claim.
To put things right, as I concluded Lloyds unfairly declined the claim, I thought they should 
reassess the claim in line with the remaining terms and conditions of the policy (including any 
applicable excess). 
Because I reached different conclusions to our investigator, I issued a provisional decision to 
give both parties the opportunity to consider matters further. This is set out below. 
What Ive provisionally decided  and why
My role here is to decide whether Lloyds has acted fairly towards L.
The key issue in the complaint is that Lloyds didnt act fairly in declining its claim on 
the grounds of a lack of preventative maintenance (cleaning) causing chaff and other 
debris to ignite from contact with (between) the brake calliper and disc. So, this was in 
breach of the general condition of the policy to prevent loss or damage. L disagrees, 
saying the fire was due to a failure of a component (brake calliper) causing a heat 
build-up outside normal operating parameters, igniting the chaff and other debris.
As the decline was based on a policy general condition, Ive looked at the relevant 
wording referred to by Lloyds. In the section headed General Conditions and a sub-
heading Your responsibilities it states:
you must:
Take all reasonable steps to protect your vehicle from loss or 
damage
If the above requirement(s} are not met, we may reject or reduce your 
claim
Ive then considered whether (as Lloyds contend) L didnt take reasonable steps to 
protect the tractor from loss or damage (by not following the manufacturers 
recommended cleaning procedures). Or, as L contends, they acted reasonably in 
their maintenance and cleaning regime.Bs report includes extracts from the manufacturers instruction manual for the tractor. 
Theres a reference (Table 61) to maintenance intervals, one of which is 10 hours 
(calendar equivalent to daily). Table 62 includes a component headed General 
machine condition/debris against which theres a task check and clean. The task is 
included under the 10 column, indicating it should be carried out daily. The evidence 
indicates L cleaned the tractor when they considered it sufficiently dirty, and it was 
last cleaned ten days before the incident. So, that wouldnt follow the manufacturers 
recommended frequency.
Ive also considered Ls view (based on legal advice) they had taken reasonable care  
(and hadnt acted recklessly) in their maintenance and cleaning programme. And that 
L directed their minds towards maintenance, so met the required standard (to take 
reasonable care) under the policy.
In considering this point, I asked L for further evidence and information about their 
maintenance of the tractor and the cleaning programme. Theyve provided evidence 
of the tractor being serviced in the year leading up to the incident (a service at 2,000 
hours in July 2021 and a service at 2,500 hours in February 2022).While I havent 
seen evidence of services before July 2021 (the tractor was new in 2019), it does 
indicate the tractor was serviced in the immediate period before the incident.
On the issue of the cleaning programme, L say their operators check their machines 
every day, looking for breakages, mirrors, tyres, wheel nuts and any other defects. 
Lubrication of machines is undertaken on moving parts and fuel and oil levels are 
checked (and filled or topped up as necessary). Operators are also very keen to 
ensure machinery is kept clean and in good working order. 
Ive considered this further information and evidence alongside the other evidence 
and information on the preventative maintenance point. In disputing Lloyds decline of 
the claim, L said machines are cleaned when dirty. They also said the nature of the 
conditions the tractor works in means mud and chaff build up extremely rapidly 
(though the tractor is designed to operate in such conditions). The photographs show 
a significant amount of chaff (debris) in the tractor, which would be consistent with Ls 
comments about rapid build up.  also pointed to the unprecedented dry conditions at 
the time of the incident. 
Ive then considered whether this then led to, or contributed to, the fire that occurred. 
Here the evidence differs between B and T. B concludes the presence of chaff and 
debris came between the brake calliper and disc (which B says involved metal on 
metal contact) causing ignition of the debris. Bs report states:
Organic materials (chaff) have become compressed around the calliper and 
disc.
This material has ignited because of friction between the chaff and brake 
components.
As can be seen in the following images, there is a significant amount of chaff 
build-up underneath the vehicle.
The correspondence received would indicate in my opinion that there was a 
lack of application of preventative maintenance.
T disagrees with B, stating in their opinion:In our opinion the fire was caused by a faulty handbrake calliper that failed 
and bound and caused a heat source well beyond designed parameters of the 
manufacturer. 
The component failure only became obvious when the machine was stripped, 
and the faulty calliper removed.
The operational debris on the machine inside the chassis would not be 
possible to clean during the routine cleaning and would only be possible to 
clean during the routine cleaning and would only be possible to gain access to 
this area when servicing in accordance with the manufacturers stipulations.
Looking at these comments and the other evidence and information, it seems clear 
there would have been (and was) a build up of chaff and debris around the brake. 
And while the tractor would have been cleaned, the last point above made by T would 
indicate the daily cleaning routine wouldnt have involved clearing the chaff from 
around the brake (as it wouldnt have been accessible other than in a service). Which 
means it would have built up and provided the material ignited in the incident.
Thinking about all these points, Ive concluded L did have a reasonable approach to 
maintenance, including servicing in accordance with the manufacturers 
recommended intervals, and daily checks of the tractor for obvious defects. I dont 
think this constitutes reckless behaviour on the part of L.
That being the case, then Ive concluded Lloyds havent acted reasonably in citing a 
lack of preventative maintenance (not taking reasonable care to avoid loss or 
damage) as grounds for declining the claim.
While B concluded there wasnt a mechanical failure, Ive also considered Ts opinion 
the fire was caused by a faulty brake calliper which led to a heat build-up beyond the 
design parameters. Which caused the chaff and debris present to ignite. So, the 
proximate cause of the fire was the failure of the brake calliper. 
Lloyds state in their stage two final response that the policy doesnt cover mechanical 
failure. The relevant section of the policy is a sub-heading Exceptions to Section 2 
(Loss of or damage to your vehicle) which includes the following statement: 
This section of your insurance does not cover the following:
4. Failures, breakdowns or breakages of mechanical, electrical, electronic or 
computer equipment
However, while a mechanical defect or breakage itself wouldnt be covered, I dont think its 
reasonable to conclude that a fire caused by a mechanical defect or breakage wouldnt be 
covered. For example, a fire arising from an electrical fault. 
So, in either of the two scenarios on the cause of the fire presented, respectively, by Lloyds 
(based on Bs report and opinions) and by L (including Ts opinion) I dont think Lloyds have 
acted reasonably, in line with the policy terms and conditions, in declining Ls claim.
Having reached this conclusion, Ive considered what I think Lloyds should do to put things 
right. As I think theyve unfairly declined the claim on the grounds of a lack of preventative 
maintenance (not taking reasonable care to avoid loss or damage) then they should reassess the claim in line with the remaining terms and conditions of the policy (including any 
applicable excess). 
My provisional decision
For the reasons set out above, my provisional decision is that I uphold Ls complaint. I intend 
to require Society of Lloyds to:
reassess the claim in line with the remaining terms and conditions of the policy 
(including any applicable excess). 
L responded to say they had nothing further to add.
Lloyds responded to say theyd passed the provisional decision to their underwriter, and it 
was being considered by their engineer and would be in touch by the deadline for 
responses. However, the deadline passed without a response.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
My role here is to decide whether Lloyds have acted fairly towards L.
L responded to say they had nothing further to add. While Lloyds said they would consider 
the provisional decision and be in touch by the deadline requested, the deadline passed 
without a response. Having had four weeks to respond, or requested an extension, I think 
Lloyds have had a reasonable opportunity to respond. 
As neither L or Lloyds have provided any further evidence, information and representations, 
then my final decision remains the same as my provisional decision, for the reasons set out 
in my provisional decision.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, my final decision is that I uphold Ls complaint. I require 
Society of Lloyds to:
reassess the claim in line with the remaining terms and conditions of the policy 
(including any applicable excess). 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask L to accept or 
reject my decision before 7 December 2023.
 
Paul King
Ombudsman