DRN-4206227
The complaint
Mr U has complained that U K Insurance Limited (UKI) have avoided his motor insurance
policy (treated it as if it never existed) and refused to pay his claim following the theft of his
vehicle because of this.
Mr U is represented on this complaint but, for the sake of ease, Ive just referred to Mr U
throughout this decision.
What happened
Mr U took out a policy with UKI to cover his pick-up truck in August 2020. When he took out
his policy via a comparison site through an insurance broker, who Ill refer to as D, he was
asked a number of questions. One of these was whether his vehicle had been modified in
any way. He answered no to this question.
Mr U has said he added alloy wheels and larger wheel arches to his vehicle in March 2021
and that he added stickers to the bodywork in April 2021. He has said he then added a new
steering wheel in November 2021.
From the evidence provided by UKI I can see that D provided Mr U with a letter confirming
hed renewed his policy in August 2021. This letter may have been sent to Mr U by email,
although it was addressed to his home address. This was sent the day after his policy
renewed and thanked him for renewing it. In the second paragraph it said that it was
important the information Mr U provided throughout the quote and duration of the policy was
accurate. And that failure to disclose correct and complete information may result in
increased premiums, refusal of a claim or not being fully paid or his policy being cancelled or
being made null and void and treated as if it never existed. There were a number of 
documents with this letter, which made the total number of pages 48. On page 11 there was 
a document entitled Statement of Insurance.
At the start of the Statement of Insurance it said Please read the following information
carefully. You must have answered truthfully all questions relating to your details; those of
the vehicle and of all named drivers on your policy that we asked when the policy started. If
any details are incorrect please ring us WITHIN 7 DAYS of receipt of this document.If we
become aware of any changes to the information stated in this Statement of Insurance then
we will update your policy and advise you of any change to your premium or to the terms
that the insurer requires and send you a new Statement of Insurance. Failure to disclose
correct and complete information to the best of your knowledge and belief may result in
increased premiums, refusal of a claim or not being fully paid, your policy being cancelled or
being made null and void and treated as if it never existed. 
The Statement of Insurance had a section entitled About the vehicle. In this section it had 
the following statement Any modification to the manufacturers (sic) original specification 
e.g. alloy wheels, suspension, bodywork or engine  no.
As I understand it, Mr U finds it difficult to read in English. And hes said that he did not read 
the letter or accompanying documentation or ask someone to read it for him or ask for a 
translation into his first language. And that he didnt contact D to tell them about the addition 
of the wheels, wheel arches and stickers to his vehicle at this time.
Mr Us vehicle was stolen in May 2022 and he made a claim under his policy. UKI made a
number of enquiries about his claim, which went on for several months and included a claim
investigator interviewing Mr U with a translator. Mr U complained to UKI about the delay in
them dealing with his claim and the impact this was having on him financially on 22 August
2022. On 20 September 2022, while UKI were still investigating his complaint, Mr U asked
us to consider it. We then asked UKI for their file of papers on Mr Us case. They wrote to us
to say that they were still investigating it and had not issued their final response on Mr Us
complaint and were still within the eight weeks they were allowed to investigate it.
Then on 22 September 2022 UKI wrote to Mr U to say that theyd decided to avoid his policy
from its start date in August 2020 because he had failed to declare modifications to his
vehicle at this time. They explained that because of this they would not be paying his claim.
UKI then issued a final response letter to Mr U which addressed the issue of them avoiding
his policy. They did not address his complaint about the delay on their part in dealing with his
claim. They explained they were satisfied their decision to avoid the policy was correct and
told Mr U he could refer his complaint to us if he wanted to.
On 13 October 2022 UKI then issued a final response to Mr U on his original complaint
about the delay in them dealing with his claim. In this they said they should have avoided his
policy much earlier and they offered him £200 for the distress and inconvenience hed
experienced as a result of the delay in them doing so.
Mr U told us he wasnt happy with UKIs decision to avoid his policy. On 21 October we told
UKI this and asked them to provide the information we needed to investigate this complaint.
UKI sent us the information they thought we needed to consider both Mr Us complaints and
explained theyd issued a separate final response letter on each complaint.
One of our investigators considered both Mr Us complaints as one complaint and issued an
opinion. In this she said UKI were wrong to avoid Mr Us policy from inception, as his vehicle
was not modified at this time. She said UKI should reinstate his policy and reconsider his
claim. She also said the £200 UKI had paid in compensation for the delay in dealing with Mr
Us claim and letting him know they were avoiding his policy was fair.
UKI disagreed with the investigators opinion. They said it was a condition of Mr Us policy
that he should have let them know about any changes to the information they held about him
and his vehicle, including modifications, when he made the modifications. They didnt
actually say that they thought this meant they were still entitled to decline his claim, but I
presume this is what they meant. They did not address the point the investigator made about
them not being entitled to avoid Mr Us policy from inception or her view that they should
reinstate it.
The investigator wrote to UKI to point out that she didnt think they were entitled to avoid    
Mr Us policy from inception, but that they may be entitled to do so from its renewal in August
2021. UKI replied to say they had not seen any evidence of when the modifications to Mr Us
vehicle were completed and reiterated their point that he should have told them about these
at the time they were made. They added that theyd look to avoid his policy back to the date
of the modifications, although they didnt actually say which particular modifications they
were referring to.
Our investigator wrote back to UKI to explain that she did not think they could rely on the
condition in Mr Us policy requiring him to declare changes to the information it held about
him and his vehicle, as the modifications hed made to his vehicle were not a fundamental
change in the risk they were insuring. And she explained that  in view of this - we would notconsider it appropriate for them to avoid Mr Us policy from the date he made them. And she
mentioned again the possibility of UKI being entitled to avoid Mr Us policy from renewal.
Our investigator also asked UKI to confirm the underwriting criteria theyd provided to show
they wouldnt have insured Mr Us vehicle when they incepted his policy also applied in
August 2021 when Mr U renewed his policy. UKI replied to say the underwriting criteria did
apply in August 2021. But they didnt comment on the investigators opinion that they were
not entitled to avoid Mr Us policy from inception or from when he modified his vehicle. And
they didnt comment at all on whether they were entitled to do this from renewal in August
2021.
As UKI wouldnt agree with her recommendations, our investigator put the case forward for
an ombudsmans decision. And it was passed to me.
I issued a provisional decision on 8 June in which I set out what Id provisionally decided as 
follows:
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As I see it UKI have made a number of errors in this case, making decisions without fully
investigating and properly considering matters or properly taking the legal position into
account. In view of this, Ive provisionally decided to uphold Mr Us complaint and make UKI
deal with his claim in accordance with the terms of the policy he held with them.
Mr U told me that he bought his vehicle for work and used it mainly for this purpose. This
means he is a commercial customer of UKIs, as opposed to a consumer. And his policies
were commercial contracts as opposed to consumer contracts. Ive referred to two policies
as Mr U took out a policy originally for his vehicle in August 2020 and then when he renewed
this in August 2021 he took out a second policy.
Mr Us obligations when taking out his policies with UKI and their rights if he failed to meet
these obligations are covered by the Insurance Act 2015. Under this legislation Mr U had a
duty to make a fair presentation of the risk he was asking - through D - UKI to insure. And if
Mr U breached his duty to make a fair presentation when he took out the two policies he had
with UKI, they had certain remedies depending on whether his breach was deliberate or
reckless and on whether UKI would have offered the policy on different terms or not at all.
The first error UKI made was to continue investigating Mr Us claim after becoming aware
that his vehicle had been modified and these modifications hadnt been declared by Mr U.
They failed to refer the matter to their underwriters to decide what action was needed in this
regard as soon as they were aware the vehicle had been modified and did so very late on in
their claim investigation. This caused Mr U unnecessary distress and inconvenience. UKI
have acknowledged this error and offered Mr U £200 in compensation for the distress and
inconvenience he experienced as a result of it. And I think this level of compensation is fair
for this particular error.
The second error UKI made was that they didnt check when Mr U had modified his vehicle
and assumed it had been modified when he took out his first policy in August 2020. And that
he had failed to declare the modifications at this time. Had they asked Mr U when he
modified his vehicle, as our investigator did, he would have told them he added alloy wheels
and new wheel arches in March 2021, stickers to the bodywork in April 2021 and a new
steering wheel in November 2021. Ive got no reason to doubt Mr Us testimony that these
were the dates he made these modifications and I cant see any reason why UKI couldnt
have checked this before deciding to avoiding Mr Us policy. If theyd done so UKI should or
would have realised they could not show it was more likely than not that Mr U breached hisduty to make a fair presentation when he took out his policy in August 2020 and that this
meant they had no right to avoid this policy.
The third error UKI made was to think that by avoiding the policy Mr U took out in August
2020 they had a right to refuse his claim. In my opinion, avoiding this policy did not give
them the right to refuse Mr Us claim. This is because his claim was not made under this
policy (contract) it was made under the new policy (contract) he took out in August 2021.
The fourth error UKI made was to suggest they were entitled to rely on Mr Us failure to
comply with the condition in his policy to tell them about any changes to his circumstances or
to his vehicle to avoid his policy. There was a condition in Mr Us policy that required him to
do this, but UKI should know our well established position is that it is not fair and reasonable
for an insurer to rely on this sort of condition when the changes are not fundamental to the
risk insured. This is because an insurance contract is an annual contract with obligations
placed on the customer when they take it out to make a fair presentation of a particular risk.
And  unless this risk changes fundamentally  they should not be expected to have to
inform their insurer during this year. Insurers should understand risks can change slightly as
the contract year progresses and have the option to price to reflect this at the outset.
The fifth error UKI made was not to consider and reserve the right that they might have had
to avoid the second policy Mr U took out in August 2021 for a potential breach of his duty to
make a fair presentation of the risk. I say potential breach because UKI havent provided us
with any of the documentation Mr U was sent before renewing the policy. So I cannot be
sure whether it would have been clear to him that he needed to tell UKI about the
modifications to his vehicle at this point.
So as things stand, in my opinion, UKI have made five errors and this has resulted in Mr U
not having been given a valid reason for his claim not being paid for over a year. And it has
resulted in him being left without a vehicle to use for his business for this whole period. And
he has had to continue to pay the finance on the vehicle that was stolen. Bearing this in mind
and the fact that UKI has not actually ever stated it wants to avoid the policy Mr U made his
claim under. And - in view of their failure to provide sufficient evidence that they would be
entitled to - I think the fair and reasonable outcome to Mr Us complaint is for UKI to be
required deal with his claim in accordance with the terms and conditions of the policy he took
out in August 2021.
I should make it clear that I do not consider it would be fair and reasonable for UKI to avoid
this policy, even if they could show they would have had a right to do so. This is because I
think its too late at this late stage for this to be fair. And I think it would be totally
inappropriate bearing in mind the number of errors UKI have made.
I also think UKI should remove any record of the avoidance of the first policy Mr U took out
from their records and from any central databases they placed a record of it on. This is a
because  in my opinion  they had no legal right to avoid this policy.
I also think UKI should pay Mr U the £200 they offered him for distress and inconvenience as
a result of their late decision to avoid his policy if they havent paid him this already. I do not
intend to make a further award for distress and inconvenience, as it does seem possible Mr
U should have told UKI about the modifications to his vehicle in August 2021 when he
renewed his policy. So, I think making UKI deal with his claim in accordance the policy terms
goes far enough, along with the £200 in compensation UKI have already offered, to be the
fair and reasonable outcome to Mr Us complaint.
I gave both parties until 22 June 2023 to provide further comments and evidence in 
response to my provisional decision.UKI have come back to say they accept my provisional decision and have nothing further to 
add. 
Mr U has come back to say that he agrees with my provisional decision. However, hes 
pointed out that contrary to what I said in it, he did not renew or take out his policy in August 
2021 through a comparison site. He renewed his policy by speaking with an agent on the 
telephone. And that the agent didnt ask him whether his vehicle had been modified. He has 
admitted he didnt read the documents sent to him after he renewed, as English is not his 
first language. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As both parties agree with my provisional decision, I see no reason to reach a different 
outcome to the one I set out in it for the same reasons.
Ive noted Mr Us comment about how he renewed his policy in August 2021 and realised 
there was a typographical error in the first paragraph of the What happened section of my 
provisional decision. This should have read August 2020 and not August 2021. I apologise 
for this and Mr U will note the first paragraph of this section in this decision refers to him 
taking out his policy via a comparison site in August 2020.
Putting things right
For the reasons explained in my provisional decision and repeated above, I consider the fair 
and reasonable outcome to Mr Us complaint is for UKI to be required to deal with his claim 
in accordance with the terms and conditions of the policy he took out in August 2021.
I should make it clear that I do not consider it would be fair and reasonable for UKI to avoid
this policy, even if they could show they would have had a right to do so. 
UKI should also remove any record of the avoidance of the first policy Mr U took out
from their records and from any central databases they placed a record of it on. 
UKI should also pay Mr U the £200 they offered him for distress and inconvenience as
a result of their late decision to avoid his policy if they havent paid him this already. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold Mr Us complaint about U K Insurance Limited and order 
them to do what Ive set out above in the Putting things right section. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr U to accept or 
reject my decision before 20 July 2023.
 
Robert Short
Ombudsman