DRN-2490155
The complaint
Mr A brings this complaint of behalf of the estate of his late wife, Mrs A. He says Phoenix 
Life Assurance Limited has unreasonably refused to pay annual and terminal bonuses that 
should apply to all three of Mrs As with profits whole of life policies.  
What happened
Mrs A took out her first two policies with Phoenix in March 1996. She then took out a further 
policy in February 1997.  
The first two policies had sums assured of £7,537.98 and £10,000 respectively. The later 
policy also had a sum assured of £10,000. The first two policies had annual premiums of 
£112.80 and the second policy had a higher annual premium of £246.96.  
In October 2018, Mrs A sadly passed away. Mr A contacted Phoenix the following month. It 
sent Mr A claim forms to complete. These were sent back to Phoenix in March 2019.  
That same month, Phoenix paid the three sums assured for the late Mrs As policies as well 
as £8.98 interest for the lower policy, and £11.93 interest each for the higher two as the 
payments had been delayed slightly. .
In April 2019, Mr A wrote to Phoenix to ask about the annual bonuses for the earlier two 
policies, as these had March anniversaries. He also felt it was unfair that Phoenix was able 
to retain all of the bonuses earned in previous years. He supplied an example set of policy 
wording from a different company, showing how terminal bonuses should be calculated.    
Phoenix noted that the annual bonuses can either be withdrawn as cash sums or left within 
the policy to accumulate compound interest. Mrs A had in fact taken her annual bonuses as 
yearly withdrawals. 
It explained it had paid a bonus for the 1997 policy of £380.32, but this should not have 
happened after Mrs A had passed away and it had asked for this to be repaid. However, 
since Phoenix had made a mistake in not stopping the payment after notification of Mrs As 
death, it said it would not seek to recover the overpayment.  
Phoenix therefore set out that it would not be paying the annual bonuses on the other two 
policies because the entitlement to bonuses stops if a policyholder passes away. The last 
bonuses Mrs A had received for the two older policies was in March 2018, which had been 
paid to Mrs A as withdrawals. 
Mr A first brought the matter to this service in early 2020, and Phoenix therefore treated it as 
a complaint. 
 
Phoenix rejected the complaint. It said that when a policyholder passes away the annual 
bonuses payable each policy anniversary (in February and March in Mrs As case) cease. 
Mrs A received annual bonuses for all three policies in February and March 2018. They were 
not applicable in February and March 2019, but it allowed Mr A to retain the £380.32 paid in 
error in February 2019. 
Additionally it said that it no longer paid terminal bonuses on these types of policies, and 
these were not guaranteed. It had therefore acted fairly in not making any such payments for 
all three policies.     
Mr A remained unhappy with that outcome. He explained that Phoenixs product literature 
had not set out that bonuses wouldnt be payable if a policyholder was to pass away. 
Further, he said that the way bonuses were calculated and paid meant that the bonusses for 
the two 1976 policies were outstanding.  
Mr A explained that he understood bonuses are valued at the end of the calendar year (in 
this case December 2017), declared the following July (in this case July 2018) and then 
added to the policy on the next anniversary (in this case, March 2019). Therefore, the 
bonuses for the two 1976 policies remained outstanding as these had been valued and 
calculated before Mrs A passed away.  
Our investigator disagreed with Mr As reasoning on the payment of bonuses. She said that 
she was satisfied that no further bonuses were owing on the two older policies because Mrs 
A had passed away before the next policy anniversary. 
She also did not think Phoenix had behaved unfairly in not applying terminal bonuses to the 
three policies. The policy wording was clear that these are discretionary and the current 
terminal bonus rate for Phoenixs whole of life policies as at October 2018 was 0%. She felt 
that Phoenixs explanation for its decision not to pay terminal bonuses was reasonable.  
Mr A said he still disagreed as he felt that Phoenix had failed to evidence how it operated 
and to decide as a business not to pay out on some policies was discriminatory. He also said 
that our investigators conclusions were reached in the absence of any evidence such as 
policy terms. 
Mr A confirmed he wanted the matter to be passed to an ombudsman. Phoenix had no 
further comments to make. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I was sorry to learn that Mr A had been poorly during the course of this complaint and wish 
him well. 
Whilst I realise he feels strongly about this matter, I agree with the outcome reached by our 
investigator. In my view, I dont believe Phoenix has acted unfairly in the circumstances.  
I recognise why Mr A looks at the payment of the annual bonuses on these policies as 
arrears payments. Phoenix views it conversely, and it says it decides in advance on 1 July 
each year what it will pay on a policyholders next policy anniversary using a measure of the 
profits fund taken at 31 December in the previous calendar year. 
Either way, the agreement to make these annual bonuses (which Mrs A received on all of 
her policies from the 8th year onwards) is provided for in the policy terms. Those terms set 
out that on each anniversary the Assurance shall participate in the profits of the Association 
by way of a sum equivalent to that percentage of the renewal premium which shall be declared by the Directors the sum so allocated shall be credited to the Assurance on the 
same dates as the (instalments of) premiums are payable. 
In the case of Mrs As policies, the annual premiums were paid in February and March each 
year. That the calculation for what is paid to Mrs A each year happens in the previous July 
does not alter the contractual arrangement to pay on the relevant policy anniversaries. 
Mrs As policies received bonuses up until March 2018. They were not eligible for payments 
of annual bonuses in March 2019 because sadly Mrs A passed away before the next policy 
anniversary. Each policy ceases on the date the policyholder passes away, because 
thereafter another policy term requires payment of the sum assured instead. 
Phoenix should not have therefore paid a bonus to Mr A or Mrs As estate for the February 
policy, but it has been reasonable in confirming as it made a mistake that Mr A is not 
required to repay that sum.  
Phoenix has explained that any terminal bonuses payable on Mrs As policies were 
discretionary and could be removed at any time. That is commonplace for with profits whole 
of life policies such as these. I have not seen evidence that persuades me Mrs A had been 
misled about this from the outset or otherwise whilst the policies were in force.
Phoenix took a decision to stop paying terminal bonuses for policies of this nature including 
the ones being considered here. Decisions about changes in bonus rates are within its 
discretion, taking into account the performance of the fund and any other relevant factors. 
Phoenix has explained that it took the view that these policies had a sufficient profit share in 
annual bonuses, which since 2000 (its records only go back that far) had seen bonuses on 
all three of Mrs As policies significantly exceeding the value of her annual premiums. In 
doing so, Phoenix was using its legitimate commercial judgement and Ive seen no clear 
reason to conclude it has unfairly applied that judgement.
This service isnt the regulator  that role falls to the Financial Conduct Authority. Our role is 
to decide what is fair and reasonable in all of the circumstances of a complaint. In this case, 
the policy terms do not require Phoenix to make a payment of any terminal bonus. That it 
may have made a commercial decision to do so in previous years doesnt bind Phoenix to 
paying any such bonus now. Though I realise Mr A is disappointed about that, I cannot 
agree that Phoenix has acted outside of the agreed terms for any of the late Mrs As policies.  
My final decision
I do not uphold this complaint nor do I make any award.  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask the estate of Mrs A 
to accept or reject my decision before 6 May 2021.
 
Jo Storey
Ombudsman