DRN-2610211
The complaint
Mr L complains about his mortgage with Landmark Mortgages Limited. He says that the 
standard variable rate (SVR) has been too high compared to Bank of England base rate 
since 2008. And he says Landmark and its predecessor have failed to apply the loyalty 
discount of 0.25% which should have been applied to his mortgage since 2011.
What happened
Mr L took out his mortgage with Northern Rock in 2004. When Northern Rock collapsed his 
mortgage moved to NRAM plc, and then on to Landmark in 2016. Landmark as the current 
owner of the mortgage is responsible for everything that has happened and for ease Ill refer 
to the lender as Landmark throughout.
Mr L took a two year fixed rate, which expired in 2008. He says that when he took the fixed 
rate out in 2006, the SVR was 2.09% higher than the then Bank of England base rate. And 
so he says that the SVR should have remained at base rate plus 2.09% throughout. But by 
the time he reverted to SVR in 2008, the gap between base rate and the SVR was more 
than 2.09% - meaning the SVR was unfairly high.
Mr Ls mortgage included a loyalty discount of 0.25%, which came into effect after seven 
years. Mr L says that he didnt receive the discount from 2011, seven years after the 
mortgage was taken out.
Our investigator didnt recommend upholding the complaint, so Mr L asked for it to be looked 
at by an ombudsman. He explained that he felt trapped with Landmark and that he thought 
the SVR he was being charged was unfair and too high  and it was unfair that hed never 
been able to take a new interest rate.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
When Mr L took out his fixed rate in 2006, the terms of the offer made clear that at the end of 
the fixed rate the mortgage would revert to the then Northern Rock SVR in 2008. Thats what 
happened.
Mr L says that by 2008 the SVR was unfairly high  because it was more than 2.09% above 
the Bank of England base rate, the level of the difference between the two when he took the 
fixed rate in 2006.
Im afraid I dont agree that this makes the SVR unfair. There wasnt a direct link between 
the base rate and the SVR. The SVR wasnt a tracker rate. Bank of England base rate was 
one of the things  but only one of the things  that Northern Rock and NRAM and then 
Landmark could take into account in setting the level of the SVR.
So while there was a bigger difference between base rate and the SVR when Mr L reverted 
to the SVR in 2008  and since  that doesnt mean that the SVR was wrongly set or unfair. 
There was no direct relationship between the two. And nothing in the mortgage offer, the 
terms and conditions, or any other documentation from Northern Rock suggested that there 
was. If Mr L expected the SVR to track base rate by a fixed margin of 2.09%, nothing that 
Northern Rock said or did would have given him that expectation.
So from 2008 onwards, Mr L was on the SVR, and the SVR wasnt unfair. Im satisfied Mr Ls 
mortgage has worked as it should and he hasnt been overcharged interest.
In 2011, the 0.25% discount was applied. Im satisfied that from then on NRAM and 
Landmark have charged Mr L 0.25% less than the SVR each month, and that the mortgage 
has operated in line with the terms and conditions.
Its true that Landmark and its predecessors havent offered Mr L any new fixed interest rate 
products since his previous one expired in 2008. And I do understand why Mr L wishes new 
rates were available, reducing his monthly payments.
As our investigator explained, theres no requirement for any mortgage lender to offer new 
interest rates. Nothing in the 2006 interest rate offer guaranteed a new rate would be 
available after 2008, and neither did anything in the mortgage terms and conditions. Nor is 
there any regulatory requirement for a lender to offer new interest rates.
Im aware that many lenders do offer new interest rates. NRAM wasnt allowed to do so by 
the terms of its government bailout, and Landmark has chosen not to. All its customers  not 
just Mr L  are in the same position, and so Mr L isnt being treated unfairly compared to any 
other customer of Landmark. 
Theres been no early repayment charge on Mr Ls mortgage since 2008, and so theres 
been no barrier in place stopping him moving his mortgage to another lender to access a 
lower interest rate. Im aware mortgage lending rules are much stricter since 2014, so Mr L 
might have found it difficult to find another lender which will offer him a new mortgage. Thats 
unfortunate, but its not something either Mr L or Northern Rock could have foreseen when 
he took the mortgage out.
More recently, just over a year ago, the mortgage rules changed again to make it easier for 
customers of closed book lenders  such as Landmark  to move to a new lender to access 
lower interest rates. I dont know if Mr L has explored this yet, but it might be something he 
wants to consider. If he does, Landmark should arrange for him to receive free independent 
mortgage advice to assist him in looking for alternatives. Or, if he prefers, the investigator 
could direct him to the list of mortgage brokers who have agreed with the regulator to help 
borrowers explore moving elsewhere.
In conclusion, while I appreciate Mr Ls frustration, and his desire to reduce the interest rate 
on his mortgage, I dont think Landmark or its predecessors have treated him unfairly. Hes 
not been offered a new interest rate  but Landmark isnt obliged to offer them, and the 
same is true for all its other customers. His mortgage has remained on the SVR, but the 
SVR is comparable to the SVRs of other lenders, and the mortgage has operated fairly in 
line with the terms and conditions throughout. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr L to accept or 
reject my decision before 2 June 2021.
 
Simon Pugh
Ombudsman