DRN-4370497
The complaint
Mr E has complained that JAJA FINANCE LTD (trading as ASDA Money) pursued him for a 
debt which was taken out fraudulently in his name.
What happened
Mr E discovered that someone had opened an ASDA-branded credit card in his name with 
JAJA. He reported the matter to JAJA in November 2022.
JAJA blocked the card and began an investigation straight away. In December 2022, JAJA 
concluded that the account had been taken out fraudulently, so they applied to have it 
removed from Mr Es credit file. However, they didnt update him at the time.
Mr E complained. He was still receiving letters pursuing him for the debt. In January 2023, 
JAJA apologised, confirmed they werent holding him liable for the debt and it was coming 
off his credit file, and recorded the incident on CIFAS to help protect Mr E in future.
Mr E came to our service. Our investigator looked into things independently and proposed 
that JAJA pay him £150 compensation. JAJA agreed to this, but Mr E didnt. He wanted to 
be paid over £1,000 based on his hourly rate. The complaints been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
First, I understand that Mr E was the victim of fraud here, for which he has my sympathy. 
I appreciate that the fraudster caused him a good deal of stress.
Ive carefully considered what happened here and what JAJA should do to put things right. 
I do need to bear in mind that it was the fraudster, rather than JAJA, who committed the 
fraud and so who is primarily responsible for the resulting effect on Mr Es credit file and the 
need for Mr E to spend time securing his identity and accounts.
When Mr E reported the matter to JAJA, Id expect them to take it seriously. So Im glad to 
see that they did. JAJA immediately blocked the account and started an investigation. They 
looked into things within a reasonable time and came to the right conclusion. And theyve 
already done most of the things Mr E asked for: they apologised, confirmed in writing that 
this was not his debt, amended his credit file, and logged the matter with CIFAS. So those 
things have already been sorted out by JAJA.
Unfortunately, at first JAJA didnt update Mr E with the results of their investigation. And they 
continued to send him some chaser letters for the debt. I understand this caused Mr E some 
stress and frustration.
When a business gets things wrong, we often tell them to pay compensation, to recognise 
their error and the impact it had. In terms of the amounts, its worth bearing in mind that 
were not the regulator  were here to resolve complaints informally, and not to issue fines 
or to punish businesses. And while I appreciate where Mr E is coming from, we dont award 
compensation based on hourly rates as he suggested. While Mr E can charge his customers 
his professional rates, JAJA were not his customer and he wasnt providing a professional 
service to them  this was a personal matter of his. But perhaps more importantly, if we 
based compensation on a persons professional rate, it could suggest that one persons free 
time is worth more than another persons free time. And it might not reflect the real impact of 
the error on the complainant. 
Here, I understand that JAJA caused Mr E some stress and worry, and he had to spend 
some time and effort sorting things out. Taking into account the impact JAJAs error had on 
Mr E, alongside our guidelines for compensation, I find that £150 compensation is fair to put 
right what JAJA got wrong here.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive set out, I direct JAJA FINANCE LTD to pay Mr E £150 compensation.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr E to accept or 
reject my decision before 1 November 2023.
 
Adam Charles
Ombudsman