DRN-1988236
The complaint
Mr T complains that HSBC UK Bank Plcs handling of a corporate action has caused him to 
lose money.
What happened
Mr T has an InvestDirect account with HSBC. Within his ISA, he held shares in a company I 
will call C. Last autumn, company C announced that it would be cancelling the trading of its 
shares on the Alternative Investment Market (AIM). While Mr T could have transferred his 
holding away from HSBC, as C were delisting the shares would no longer have been ISA 
eligible given they ceased to trade on a HMRC approved exchange. 
On 3 September 2019, HSBC wrote to Mr T to let him know about what was happening with 
C. Mr T says he didnt receive their letter. As HSBC didnt hear from him, his shares were 
sold and the cash settlement of just under £35 was paid into his ISA cash account. 
Mr T spotted the sale on his portfolio and called HSBC to query it  he was told about what 
had happened with C but he was really unhappy that he hadnt been notified  especially as 
hed had a similar issue a couple of years ago and was directed to rely on the website for 
corporate action information. He didnt think it was good enough that a considerable time 
had passed and similar problems remained. Mr T said that had he have known what was 
coming, he could have taken action in the proceeding days by selling the shares himself and 
benefitting from a higher share price. 
Unhappy with HSBCs handling of Cs action, he made a complaint. HSBC explained what 
had happened with C shares and that theyd written to Mr T to let him know  they couldnt 
see why the letter hadnt been delivered. They said they try to list corporate actions on their 
website, but sometimes this isnt possible given system restrictions, so its best for investors 
to keep up to date by checking company websites. 
Mr T asked for our help  he wanted compensation for his losses on the C shares, but also 
for HSBC to send emails regarding corporate actions. One of our investigators had a look at 
what had happened, but she thought HSBC had acted fairly  she said the terms of the 
account told Mr T that HSBC would use reasonable endeavours to contact him by post in the 
event of a corporate action and that she could see the letter had been sent. While she 
acknowledged the previous issue in 2017, she didnt think HSBC had given any assurance 
that theyd be changing their processes or using email to notify investors. 
Mr T remained unhappy. He says HSBC told him he could rely on their website  not just on 
the post  and that with regard to the website, the terms and conditions say that if something 
isnt correct they would change it as soon as were able to but clearly this hadnt been done 
given itd been more than two years since hed had the same problem before. 
Mr T also pointed out a discrepancy in the terms and conditions  he thought the updated 
version for September hadnt been uploaded by the time he checked in November  which 
led to concern for him as a customer in not knowing what he was able to rely on. 
Our investigator took a look at the screenshots Mr T had provided, but still thought HSBC 
were entitled to rely on post to notify him about the action on C. She also didnt agree hed 
been told in 2017 that he could rely on the website, and said shed consulted the terms 
relevant here. And while she acknowledged HSBC had said they were looking to make 
improvements, she explained that its not for us to tell them how to go about their business. 
Mr T pointed out HSBC werent posting any information online about corporate actions, 
which he didnt think was acceptable. And reiterated his concerns around the terms and 
when the updated version was uploaded to the website. As an impasse was reached, the 
matter was referred to me to consider. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, while Im sorry this will disappoint Mr T, I dont think HSBC have done 
anything wrong here  Ill explain why. 
Mr T says HSBCs website shows they are supposed to notify customers about corporate 
actions by way of their website or by sending a letter in the post. The screenshot hes shared 
from last September says:
Corporate actions
We will contact you by post for corporate actions when we require you to make a decision.
You will need to refer to this information or click Current Events
On this point, HSBCs terms and conditions say they will tell customers about corporate 
actions on a reasonable endeavour basis. They also say any notification will be posted as 
soon as possible.
Although I appreciate Mr Ts screenshot does refer to the posted notification as well as the 
option to review presumably similar information on their website, I do think there is a clear 
reliance on the postal notification. Not only because this is whats set out in the terms of the 
account, but also because the screenshot does clearly say HSBC will use post to notify.
I do understand that website notifications might be more convenient for Mr T, and in the 
same vein that the email notifications hes requested would be too, but its not for our service 
to tell HSBC how to go about their business. Were not their regulator and we wouldnt 
involve ourselves with their choice for communication. Instead, we must look to see if HSBC 
did anything wrong in the specific circumstances raised. It may be the case that HSBC try to 
put corporate actions on their website, but this isnt something that can happen every time. 
And there may well be technical issues theyre faced with. But this isnt something I think 
they ought to be liable for. 
Instead, whats important to consider is whether HSBC did what their terms say they need to 
do. I can see that HSBC sent a letter to Mr T on 3 September 2019. While I dont have a 
copy of the actual letter sent, I have reviewed the template which was sent to a number of 
customers and have checked to see that it was printed on the date in question and was sent 
to Mr Ts home address which is the same we have for him in relation to this case. It is very 
unfortunate that the letter wasnt received, but I cant reasonably hold HSBC responsible for 
a problem with the post when I can see they addressed it correctly and it was dispatched. So from what I have seen, HSBC did what they needed to do in respect of Cs corporate 
action given that they wrote to Mr T to let him know what was happening. 
I know this matter is all the more infuriating for Mr T given he experienced something similar 
in 2017. Ive looked at what HSBC said to him then and do acknowledge they said theyd fed 
back to the business area concerned regarding the website shortcomings. And they also 
said they were looking at sending emails and are continuously improving their processes. 
But they did clearly say they were unable to implement the suggestions Mr T had made and 
explained that at times there was a reason why a corporate action might not be announced 
on their website.
The 2017 letter also said Ordinarily, when we are notified of a Corporate Event, we will send 
letters to all affected shareholders, and where possible details will be placed on our website. 
So they didnt say Mr T was able to solely rely on the website. So I dont think what was said 
in 2017 makes any difference to the complaint now made. 
Mr T also raises concerns about the time at which HSBCs terms were updated  he says 
when he reviewed them last November, he got the July updated version of the January 
terms, rather than the September version. But Ive reviewed both and they are the same on 
this issue  part B section 6 of each version contained the same term I have relied on here. 
He points to a change in payment processes to highlight that the terms were outdated, but 
thats not something thats relevant here. Sometimes there is a way to access previous 
versions of terms too, so it could be this happened here. But it isnt something Ive felt the 
need to investigate further given it doesnt alter the outcome in this case. 
I appreciate that this is not the response Mr T was hoping for. But having very carefully 
considered this matter I dont think HSBC have acted incorrectly so I cannot uphold his 
complaint. 
My final decision
For the reasons explained above, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr T to accept or 
reject my decision before 20 October 2020.
 
Aimee Stanton
Ombudsman