DRN-3847644
The complaint
Miss L complains 1Plus1 Loans Limited lent to her irresponsibly.
What happened
In February 2019 Miss L applied for a guarantor loan for £4,000, which was repayable over a 
period of 60 months. Following a conversation between 1Plus1 Loans and Miss Ls 
guarantor, this was changed to a loan for £5,000, which was repayable over a period of 42 
months. The repayments were around £221 a month and she would need to repay £9,288 in 
total. 
The reason for taking out the loan was debt consolidation  refinancing two existing 
guarantor loans she had taken out a month earlier. Miss Ls credit file showed that she owed 
£944 and she needed to pay £103 monthly over 12 months on one. And that she owed 
£3,600 on the other one, which she needed to pay £203 monthly over 18 months.
Miss L says 1Plus1 Loans shouldnt have given her the loan because she was already 
experiencing financial hardship, and it wasnt affordable. 1Plus1 Loans says it did check 
whether the loan was affordable, and based on those checks, Miss L had enough disposable 
income to make the loan repayments.
Our investigator thought Miss Ls complaint should be upheld. 1Plus1 Loans disagreed, so 
this complaint has been passed to me to make a decision. I issued a provisional decision 
explaining why I thought the complaint should be upheld. Before reaching my findings, I had 
requested some further information from Miss L about her rent payments, the amount she 
needed to pay to close the larger of her two existing loans, and for copies of her salary 
mandated bank account. The additional information was referenced in my provisional 
decision and so both parties have had an opportunity to respond once they had chance to 
consider them. 
In my provisional decision I explained that:
Weve set out our approach to complaints about unaffordable and irresponsible lending on 
our website. And Ive taken this into account in deciding Miss Ls complaint. 
The rules and regulations in place when 1Plus1 Loans lent to Miss L required it to carry out a 
reasonable and proportionate assessment of whether she could afford to repay the credit 
she was being advanced in a sustainable manner.  The assessment had to be borrower 
focused  so 1Plus1 Loans had to think about whether repaying the loan sustainably would 
cause difficulties or adverse consequences for Miss L. In other words, it wasnt enough for 
1Plus1 Loans to simply think about the likelihood of it getting its money back, it had to 
consider the impact of the repayments on Miss L.
Checks also had to be proportionate to the specific circumstances of the loan application. 
In general, what makes an affordability check proportionate will depend on several factors 
including  but not limited to  the particular circumstances of the consumer (e.g. their 
financial history, current situation and outlook, and any indications of vulnerability or financial 
difficulty) and the amount / type / cost of credit they are seeking. Even for the same 
customer, a proportionate check could look different for different applications. 
So I think that a reasonable and proportionate check ought generally to have been more 
thorough:
the lower an applicants income because it could be more difficult to make the 
repayments as a result;
the higher the amount repayable because it could be more difficult to meet a higher 
repayment, especially from a lower level of income;
the longer the loan term, because the total cost of the credit was likely to have been 
greater given the longer time over which repayments have to be made. 
There may also be other factors which could influence how detailed a proportionate check 
shouldve been for a given loan application  including (but not limited to) any indications of 
borrower vulnerability and any foreseeable changes in future circumstances.
Did 1Plus1 Loans complete a reasonable and proportionate check?
1Plus1 Loans did complete some checks to see if the loan was affordable. It asked Miss L 
for details of her income and expenditure and attempted to verify these using an open 
banking report linked to one of her bank accounts. However, Miss Ls salary was not paid 
into the account 1Plus1 Loans used to validate her income and so it could only see benefit 
payments and transfers into (and out of) her account.
It reviewed her credit file to understand her credit history and existing commitments. It also 
asked about the purpose of the loan, which Miss L said was for debt consolidation  she 
planned to consolidate two guarantor loans that she had taken a month earlier.  
From these checks combined 1Plus1 Loans concluded that Miss L had enough monthly 
disposable income to afford the loan. Based on 1Plus1 Loans checks, it concluded Miss L 
had a monthly disposable income of around £650, not including the payment for the new 
loan. 
Miss Ls credit file showed she was two months payments behind on a catalogue shopping 
account and had missed a couple of recent payments towards a mobile phone account. She 
explained that she didnt pay these accounts via direct debit and she had forgotten to make 
the payments. Her credit file also showed she had four historic defaulted accounts (the most 
recently being from 2017). But these facts alone dont mean 1Plus1 Loans shouldnt have 
lent to her.
Miss L did have three quite recent county court judgements (CCJs) from 2017 and 2018. 
There was also a fourth from 2014. Miss L explained that the 2017 and 2018 CCJs were all 
for non-payment of council tax and that they all had been satisfied. She went on to explain 
that she would start paying £75 a month from April towards the following years council tax. 
Miss L declared she was a council tenant and paid £360 in rent each month. Having 
established that she wasnt currently making a monthly payment for council tax, I think 
1Plus1 Loans needed to question why only two payments towards Miss Ls local council 
showed on her bank statements  the first for £344 in November 2018 and a second in 
January 2019 for only £130.
In summary, 1Plus1 Loans checks failed to validate Miss Ls declared income nor her non-
discretionary spending but, to an extent, it established a poor track record of making 
repayments on time. In the circumstances, Im not persuaded its checks were reasonable and proportionate  and so, I must now consider whether reasonable and proportionate 
checks would have shown that it should or should not have agreed this loan.
But before I consider this, I am also concerned that 1Plus1 Loans agreed to increase the 
size of the loan and how long Miss L would be paying it back for at the guarantors request 
not hers. Whilst I accept Miss L agreed to the revised amount and term, she did so only after 
she was told it had been agreed by 1Plus1 Loans underwriters and her guarantor. 
Ive listened to the call between Miss L and 1Plus1 Loans when her application for a £4,000 
loan over 60 months was discussed. Miss L said the loan was to consolidate her two existing 
guarantor loans that she had taken out a month earlier and that she would use any left-over 
money for home improvements. 1Plus1 Loans pointed out that the two balances showing on 
her credit file were more than the £4,000 she was asking to borrow  £944 and £3,600. 
Miss L explained that the £3,600 loan balance included interest for the full term that had 
been added upfront by the lender and that she wouldnt need to pay that amount to repay 
the loan in full early. 
The monthly repayments for the loan in question were £203 over 18 months  thats £3,654 
in total. So, it ought to have been obvious to 1Plus1 Loans  with its lending expertise  that 
the interest was front loaded and, given the loan had only run for a month, that Miss L would 
have been entitled to a sizeable rebate. It instead agreed with the guarantor to increase the 
loan amount to £5,000, which meant that Miss L would now repay £9,288 in total whereas 
she would have needed to only repay around £4,900 under her existing agreements. So in 
these circumstances, noting that the guarantor could have become ultimately responsible for 
repaying the loan, I cannot agree 1Plus1 Loans affordability assessment was borrower 
focused.
What would reasonable and proportionate checks have shown?
Ive explained above why I think 1Plus1 Loans checks didnt go far enough and that it ought 
to have, as a minimum, checked Miss L earnt the income she declared. Our investigator 
went back to Miss L to ask for copies of the bank statements for her account where her 
salary was paid. These showed that in October 2018 she took home £1,838, in November 
she took home £1,909, and in December she took home £1,909. 1Plus1 Loans used £1,750 
for her take home pay in its affordability assessment  so it could have arrived at a higher 
figure for Miss Ls disposable income. But of course, the statements also could have showed 
a different amount of non-discretionary spending.
1Plus1 Loans affordability assessment doesnt breakdown Miss Ls expenditure and so I 
cannot make a like for like comparison using the actual figures showing on her bank 
statements. The statements do, however, have a start and end balance  her November 
2018 started £48 overdrawn and ended £28 overdrawn; her December statement ended £1 
in credit, and her January statement ended £45 overdrawn. Whilst I accept the turnover on 
Miss Ls account was not solely non-discretionary spending, I think its a good enough proxy 
to show her finances were strained. I think it is unlikely Miss L did have the £650 at her 
disposal, which 1Plus1 Loans had arrived at in its affordability assessment.
I also thought 1Plus1 Loans needed to question why only two payments towards Miss Ls 
local council showed on her bank statements when she paid £360 monthly towards her rent. 
When our investigator went back to Miss L, she asked why and she provided a statement for 
her council rent account. These show that Miss L failed to pay her rent in December 2018 
and although she made a payment at the start of January, at the time of the loan application, 
she had yet to pay for February. The account stood at £864 in arrears. I find that in Miss Ls circumstances, reasonable and proportionate checks would have 
shown that she was unlikely to repay the loan in a sustainable way  she was already 
experiencing repayment and wider financial distress. I dont think increasing her 
indebtedness was a realistic solution for her problems. And I think there was enough 
information available to 1Plus1 Loans to prompt further questioning about Mis Ls ability to 
maintain the new borrowing she was requesting.
I asked the parties to the complaint to let me have any further representations that they 
wished me to consider by 5 December 2022. 1Plus1 Loans has confirmed receiving the 
decision but did not make any further representation. Miss L has also replied confirming 
receipt of and her agreement with my provisional findings.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive reviewed everything again. Neither Miss L nor 1Plus1 Loans have made further 
comments in reply to my provisional findings. So, Ive not seen enough for me to alter my 
provisional conclusions.
Putting things right
When I find that a business has done something wrong, Id normally direct that business  
as far as its reasonably practicable  to put the complainant in the position they would be in 
now if the mistakes it made hadnt happened. In this case, that would mean putting Miss L in 
the position she would now be in if she hadnt been given the loan in question. However, this 
isnt straightforward when the complaint is about unaffordable lending. 
Miss L was given the loan and she used the money. In these circumstances, I cant undo 
whats already been done. So, it isnt possible to put Miss L back in the position she would 
be in if she hadnt been given the loan in the first place. Instead, I must consider another way 
of putting things right fairly and reasonably given the circumstances of this complaint. 
Having done so, I think 1Plus1 Loans should: 
a) Remove all interest, fees and charges applied to her loan from the outset. The payments 
Miss L made should then be deducted from the new starting balance. If the payments 
Miss L has made total more than the amount she was originally lent, then any surplus 
should be treated as overpayments and refunded to her. 
b) Add 8% simple interest* calculated on any overpayments made, from the date they were 
paid by Miss L to the date the complaint is settled. 
c) Remove any adverse information recorded on Miss Ls credit file as a result of this loan, 
once the debt is repaid. 
*HM Revenue & Customs requires 1Plus1 Loans to deduct tax from this interest. 1Plus1 
Loans should give Miss L a certificate showing how much tax its deducted, if she asks for 
one.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, I uphold Miss Ls complaint and direct 1Plus1 Loans Limited 
to put things right for Miss L in the way Ive set out above.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss L to accept or 
reject my decision before 4 January 2023.
 
Stefan Riedel
Ombudsman