DRN-3430165
The complaint
E, a company complains that TransferWise Ltd closed its account. They withheld Es funds 
whilst they carried out a review. E would like a reason and compensation.
E is represented by its director Mr B.
What happened
E had a business account with Wise.
Mr B has complained about the closure of his personal account with Wise. This is being 
dealt with as a separate complaint. 
On 29 July 2021 Wise closed Es account. Wise carried out a review and E didnt have 
access to the funds in the account.
Mr B has said he was on holiday abroad when the account was closed.
Mr B was told Wise were carrying out a due diligence exercise on the funds left in the 
account which could take up to 60 days.
Mr B complained to our service.
Es funds were returned to E on 29 October 2021 and they were paid into a nominated 
account with an institution I will refer to as T.
Mr B has said that as a result of the closure of Es account he had to open an account with a 
different provider, T. He told us he had lost a potential contract because the client couldnt 
make payments into the new business account as it didnt accept international payments and 
the client wasnt based in the UK.
One of our investigators looked into the complaint. He said Wise were able to close Es 
account in line with the terms and conditions. He thought Wise could hold onto funds whilst it 
reviewed the account to comply with its legal and regulatory obligations. Our investigator 
agreed that there had been some delays and considered the impact of these delays on E. 
The investigator thought that the reason for the loss of business was that the new account 
wasnt able to accept international payments and this wasnt something Wise should be held 
responsible for.
Mr B was unhappy with the view. 
As there was no agreement the matter has come to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Account Closure 
As the investigator explained its generally for banks to decide whether or not they want to 
provide, or to continue to provide, banking facilities to any particular customer. Unless 
theres a good reason to do so, this service wont usually say that a bank must keep a 
customer or require it to compensate a customer who has had their account closed.
Financial institutions should, however, give reasonable notice before closing an account. 
Usually that means 60 days notice, but it can be less depending on the circumstances. I can 
see that Wise contacted Mr B on 29 July 2021 and let him know it had closed Es account 
immediately. They were also carrying out a due diligence exercise on the funds in the 
account.
Ive considered whether Wise acted fairly in closing Es account. Ive looked at the terms and 
conditions of the account and Im satisfied they did. The terms and conditions outline that 
Wise can close a customers account with two months notice, and in certain circumstances 
they can close an account immediately. In this case Wise closed Es account without notice. 
For Wise to act fairly here they needed to meet the criteria to apply their terms for immediate 
closure  and having looked at these terms and all the evidence Im satisfied that Wise has 
applied the terms fairly. And it was entitled to close the accounts as its already done. 
I also note that Wise carried out a due diligence exercise on the funds remaining in the 
account. 
UK legislation places extensive obligations on regulated financial businesses. Financial 
institutions must establish the purpose and intended nature of transactions as well as the 
origin of funds, and there may be penalties if they dont. This applies to both new and 
existing relationships. These obligations override all other obligations. I am satisfied Wise 
were complying with these obligations when they reviewed Es account.  In addition, I have 
checked the terms and conditions and I am satisfied Wise were entitled to do this. So, I dont 
think they have done anything wrong here. In carrying out the review Wise were following an 
internal process which they carried out in order to comply with their legal and regulatory 
obligations. This was a legitimate exercise so I cant say Wise was unfair.
Return of funds
Es funds were returned on 29 October 2021 to an account Mr B had nominated. I am 
satisfied that E has had its funds returned.
Delay
Looking at the evidence I can see that Wise could have completed their review sooner. 
Because of this I have gone on to consider the impact that this delay had on E.
Mr B has told us that E had an order cancelled because the client wasnt able to make 
payment into Es account as the new account wasnt accepting international payments. I can 
see that the date of this email is 5 November 2021. At that time the funds had already been 
released to E.  I appreciate that the account Mr B opened for E didnt accept international 
payments and the prospective client pointed to that issue for the cancellation of the contract.
I appreciate that E lost business as a result of the closure of the account by Wise. But as Ive 
said above, Im satisfied that Wise acted fairly when they closed the account. I cant see that 
the delays by Wise caused the loss of business to E.
I also cant hold Wise responsible for the cancellation of the contract because they cant be held liable for the way the new account provider chose to run its business or where Mr B 
decided to apply for a replacement account. 
In summary Wise acted fairly when they closed the account and withheld funds whilst they 
carried out a review. And although there were some delays in carrying out the review, I dont 
think the delays caused the loss of business Mr B has told us about. It follows I wont be 
asking Wise to pay compensation to E.
My final decision
For the reasons stated above I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask E to accept or 
reject my decision before 16 August 2022.
 
Esperanza Fuentes
Ombudsman