DRN-2845148
The complaint
Mr W says Provident Personal Credit Limited, trading as Satsuma Loans (Satsuma), didnt 
inform him that his outstanding loan had been recovered from a third-party collection 
organisation. And that Satsuma would now correspond with him about the outstanding 
amounts. 
Because of this lack of communication Mr W says he didnt realise that he still owed money 
to this loan. He says this has affected him financially and also had an impact on his mental 
health. 
What happened
Mr W has made an irresponsible lending complaint about his borrowing with Provident. This 
part of his complaint has been considered separately by this Service. So, I wont look at the 
issues Mr W has raised about irresponsible lending here.
The complaint that I am considering here is about one home collected loan Satsuma 
provided to Mr W in November 2017. Mr W borrowed £1,200 and he was due to make 
twelve repayments of £199. As far as I can see Mr W made two payments early on in the 
loan term and he has been unable to make any contractual payments since. 
This loan was passed to a third-party collection organisation in 2019. Mr W says that he 
thought he had set up an agreement to repay this loan with the third party. But he later found 
out this wasnt the case. 
Mr W says that he became aware that the balance of this loan was still £1,900 in October 
2020. At this point Mr W also found out that the loan had been returned to Satsuma in 
August 2019. Mr W hadnt had any communication from Satsuma about this change. 
Satsuma has considered Mr Ws complaint and said that it shouldve informed him about the 
changes to the administration of his loan. And it should have continued to correspond with 
him about the outstanding amounts. It has reduced his loan balance by £30 because of this 
error. 
Our adjudicator didnt uphold the complaint. He thought that whilst Satsuma should have 
communicated better with Mr W about this issue he wasnt persuaded that the situation 
regarding the loan payments wouldve been different if it had. Mr W shouldve been aware 
that this loan remained unpaid. 
Mr W disagreed with the adjudicators opinion. He said that he had been making repayments 
in respect of a number of debts to the third party and he assumed that this loan was 
included. He wasnt informed that this wasnt the case. When he found out that he wasnt 
going to be debt free in the near future, this caused him some distress. 
As no agreement has been reached the complaint has been passed to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about irresponsible lending - including all 
of the relevant rules, guidance and good industry practice - on our website. 
Mr W says that he believed he had set up a repayment plan with the third party collection 
agency to repay this loan. Ill firstly say that this complaint is about Satsuma. Ive not seen 
that Satsuma had any involvement with the actions, or inactions, of this third party here. And 
added to this Ive not seen any communication Mr W had with this third party. So, I cant 
uphold his complaint due to anything that happened with the third party.  
Mr W has said that Satsuma shouldve told him that the loan was still outstanding. And its 
accepted that it shouldve communicated better about this issue. But in order to uphold Mr 
Ws complaint on this basis I need to be persuaded that he was unaware that the loan wasnt 
fully repaid, and this was solely due to the actions of Satsuma. And I also need to see that 
he wouldve acted differently if he had been given more information. 
From what Mr W says he was going through a difficult, and probably complicated, time. I 
hope things have improved for him. So, its understandable if there was some confusion 
about his finances.
But the responsibility to make the loan repayments is still Mr Ws. And its reasonable to say 
that he should have been aware of whether he had made the repayments or not. And what 
he still owed. 
So the crux of this complaint is did Satsuma mislead Mr W about his outstanding loan 
balance. That is did it tell him, or could it reasonably be implied from what it didnt say, that 
his loan was repaid. Having looked at everything I dont think it did. Its accepted that it 
couldve communicated better around the issue of the loan ownership, but this isnt the same 
as saying the loan was repaid when it wasnt. So, I dont think its reasonable to say it misled 
him. 
And its not clear to me that Mr W wouldve done anything differently if he had received any 
further communication about this issue. And there isnt a financial loss as such, as Mr W 
already owed the money to the loan by the time this error took place. 
Taking all of this into consideration I dont think Mr Ws complaint should succeed. Im not 
persuaded that Satsuma needs to do anything further than it already has done to put things 
right. 
Mr W should still make the loan repayments. And he should try and agree an acceptable 
repayment plan with Satsuma. When Satsuma and Mr W try to agree a repayment plan I 
would remind Satsuma of its obligation to treat Mr W positively and fairly. 
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I dont uphold Mr Ws complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision before 19 November 2021.
 
Andy Burlinson
Ombudsman