DRN-3772240
The complaint
Mr G complains that TSB Bank plc used his PPI compensation payment to offset against his 
credit card debt, a debt that was subject to a previous Debt Relief Order (DRO) and which 
he thought had been written off.
What happened
Mr G had a credit card account with TSB, which was subject to a DRO in 2013. Following 
this, the debt with TSB was waived. Mr G said after the completion of the DRO he closed the 
TSB credit card account and destroyed the credit card. In 2019 he complained to TSB that 
hed received a letter which indicated that his account was still open and he was still liable 
for the debt. In its final response in July 2019 TSB said the letter had been generated in error 
due to a known issue within its system. It said Mr G could ignore the letter. It confirmed TSB 
had registered Mr G's insolvency and had waived the outstanding debt. To compensate Mr 
G for any distress and inconvenience he may have experienced it sent him a cheque for 
£50. 
In June 2021 Mr G received a letter from TSB concerning a PPI refund Mr G was due, 
£409.08. The letter indicated that as fees and interest were outstanding on Mr G's credit 
card account it would adjust his credit balance by £409.08. Mr G complained to TSB. He 
didn't understand why his account was still open with an outstanding balance, especially as 
it had been confirmed closed in 2019, and he wanted to understand why his PPI refund had 
been used against that balance. 
In its final response TSB said it hadn't made a mistake. It said the PPI refund figure relating 
to Mr G's TSB credit card was generated totalling £409.08. It said this figure was credited to 
Mr G's account as that is where the charges would have been applied to. It acknowledged 
that Mr G had been made insolvent and suggested that no error had been made 
apportioning the refund to the credit card. However, it said if Mr G's insolvency practitioner 
could provide a written statement that they have no interest in recovering the funds from the 
PPI claim it would be able to arrange for these to be refunded directly to Mr G.
Mr G remained concerned and brought his complaint to this service. Mr G also complained 
that the balance on his credit card account had been £4,000+ in June 2013 but despite 
completing the DRO the balance had risen to £7,000+ by January 2016. 
Our investigator concluded that there would be no reason for the PPI refund to be paid 
directly to Mr G. However he thought TSB could have done more to make sure they were 
providing the correct information to him at the time. The investigator said by not doing this 
TSB undermined the peace of mind and psychological closure that Mr G was quite 
reasonably seeking to obtain from having entered a DRO in the first place. He also said that 
addressing the balance increase from 2013 to 2016 was a complaint point he could 
consider. He thought it fair and reasonable that TSB:
Write a further letter of apology to Mr G offering firm assurances that the account is 
closed and the balance has been waived, and that this has been the case since the 
completion of the DRO; 
Explain within this letter the reasons behind the increase in balance as reported on 
account statements sent to him in 2013 and 2016; and 
Pay Mr G £250 for his distress and inconvenience. 
TSB agreed to write a letter of confirmation to Mr G regarding the PPI letter sent in June 
2021 and apologise for any inconvenience caused. But it didnt agree that £250 
compensation was fair and reasonable. Mr G did not accept this and asked for a decision 
from an ombudsman.
I issued a provisional decision on 27 September. I said: 
I'd like to thank Mr G for his evidence and I'd like to reassure him that I've read and 
considered all of his submissions, including listening to his complaint calls with our 
investigator. Mr G's concerns include that his PPI refund should have been paid 
directly to him; that his account is open and vulnerable to fraud; that he might still be 
liable for the outstanding debt with TSB; and an explanation as to why the balance 
had risen between 2013 and 2016. 
When Mr G got a DRO, the debts he owed weren't legally cancelled  they were 
effectively frozen. And they weren't cancelled when the DRO ended. So the debt Mr 
G had on his credit card wasn't paid back. Mr G said he doesn't owe TSB anything. 
But this is not correct. Mr G's debt still exists, it's just that TSB can't chase Mr G for 
this debt because of the DRO. So Mr G hasn't been and isnt required to take any 
active steps to pay his debt back. 
On one of the complaint calls to the investigator Mr G said the insolvency service 
paid his creditors. This also isn't correct. The debt hasn't been paid off, it's been 
waived. And because the debt still exists TSB is still out of pocket for this money. 
TSB has accepted that it owes Mr G money for the PPI compensation, so it owes him 
a debt too. And it is 'setting off' that debt for the PPI compensation against the debt 
Mr G owed for the spending on his credit card account which still exists and is still 
owed to TSB. 
There is in law what is called the equitable right of set-off which allows people to 'set 
off closely connected debts. This means that one person (A) can deduct from a debt 
they owe another person (B), money which that person (B) owes to them. 
For this right to set off to apply, I must be satisfied that there is a close connection 
between the PPI compensation and the outstanding debt. I must also consider 
whether it would be fair for TSB to set off in this way. Both tests must be satisfied for 
me to find that TSB has an equitable right to set off the PPI compensation against Mr 
G's outstanding debt on his credit card. 
The PPI sold to Mr G was directly connected to his credit card. Using the right to set 
off I've outlined above, I'm satisfied the PPI compensation and the credit card debt 
are closely connected. They both related to the same account Mr G had with TSB 
and I've seen nothing to show Mr G had priority debts. So I think it's fair and 
reasonable for TSB to use the compensation it owes Mr G to reduce his credit card 
account debt. I understand Mr G is very concerned that hes still liable for this debt. 
So, I think at this point it's worth repeating for clarity that while the debt still exists 
TSB can't chase Mr G for this debt because of the DRO. And Mr G isn't required to 
take any active steps to pay his debt back nor will he face any future charges 
because of it. The debt has been written off. 
Mr G has said that on a different account where he had a successful PPI claim with a different company that business paid him directly. The circumstances around that 
other account or PPI policy are not known to me and aren't relevant in this case. My 
role is to look at the individual circumstances around this complaint with TSB. 
The credit card account with TSB has been closed. And the debt has been written 
off. But I do appreciate Mr G's confusion. I've read the PPI refund letter TSB sent in 
June 2021. It does appear to imply that the account is still open or at least is still 
accruing interest and charges. And I can understand why Mr G would be concerned 
to receive this letter. While this was perhaps a standard letter it did cause Mr G some 
distress. Having received a letter two years previously to tell him the account was 
closed it would be reasonable to expect that any follow-up correspondence wouldn't 
imply the account was still open. So I do agree that it would be helpful and put Mr G's 
fears to rest for TSB to set out clearly in a new letter that Mr G's credit card account 
is closed and therefore not operational. 
TSB disagreed with our investigator that Mr G should receive £250 in compensation. 
Its proposal was just to send a letter. I do think £250 is more than I would expect in 
these circumstances, but Mr G was caused some distress and confusion by the PPI 
letter. So I think an award of £75 compensation is more fair and reasonable and what 
I would expect in these circumstances. 
When he brought his complaint to the service Mr G also questioned why the balance 
of his account had risen from £4,000+ to over £7,000+ between October 2013 and 
2016. TSB believed this formed part of the complaint in July 2019 and did not form 
part of this current complaint. I tend to agree that this complaint point doesn't form 
part of this current complaint and so I am unable to look at it. But I can't see that this 
point was directly addressed in the July 2019 final response letter. This letter does 
confirm the outstanding debt has been waived. And whether it be around £4,000+ or 
£7,000+, as I've said above, TSB can't chase Mr G for this debt because of the DRO 
and Mr G isn't required to take any active steps to pay this debt back.
TSB accepted my provisional decision. Mr G wanted to ensure that his record is clear. He 
also wanted TSBs poor conduct highlighted.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, as neither party has provided any further evidence, I believe my provisional 
decision still stands. 
Mr G has told us that he is very unwell. Im very sorry to hear that. He has asked for 
reassurance that his record is clear. As I outlined above, I can provide the following 
reassurance. Mr Gs debt has been written off. This means TSB can't chase Mr G for this 
debt because of the DRO. And Mr G isn't required to take any active steps to pay his debt 
back nor will he face any future charges because of it.
To clear up the confusion caused to Mr G by TSBs letters I am asking it to write a further 
letter confirming the account is closed.
Putting things right
In order to put things right TSB Bank plc must:Write a further letter of apology to Mr G offering firm assurances that the account is 
closed and the balance has been waived, and that this has been the case since the 
completion of the DRO;
Pay Mr G £75 for his distress and inconvenience.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint and TSB Bank plc must put things right as 
outlined above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision before 22 November 2022.
 
Maxine Sutton
Ombudsman