DRN-3463754
The complaint
Mr R complains that TSB Bank PLC didnt provide adequate support for him when he asked 
for help with his gambling problem and they then closed his account. 
   
What happened
Mr R had a current account with TSB. 
In August 2021 there was a fraud alert on Mr Rs account. He contacted TSB by phone to 
discuss it but following difficulties in the call, he was asked to attend a branch with identity 
documents. When he did so, the branch failed to update his details and upload the identity 
documents, and so the account was not unblocked, and Mr R had to attend again the 
following day before his account was unblocked.
 
Mr R complained about this and was awarded £100 for the trouble and upset caused. 
When he attended the branch in August, Mr R also told TSB that he had been gambling for a 
number of years, but he now wanted to stop, and he asked TSB to place a gambling block 
on his account. He specifically asked for a block on three gambling providers that he used. 
TSB initially said they would put a block on all three, but then advised Mr R that they cant 
currently offer that facility and so were unable to apply the block. TSB suggested Mr R 
contacted Gamstop to arrange self-exclusion from gambling sites and offered a simple ATM 
card instead of a debit card so that he couldnt use his card for purchases. Mr R declined this 
as he thought it would make it difficult when he wanted to buy groceries. 
On 27 August 2021, two supermarket transactions were flagged for fraud and Mr R called 
TSB. TSB were concerned that he wasnt the account holder and so they placed a block on 
the card and asked him to attend a branch with his identity documents. 
Later that day Mr R called TSB to say he planned to use the card for gambling that
weekend and wanted a guarantee that it wouldnt prompt a fraud alert. TSB said they 
couldnt guarantee this. 
On 28 August 2021 Mr R attended the branch to get his card unblocked and asked again 
about placing a block on certain transactions. He was again advised this wasnt possible. 
Mr R complained to TSB and in their final response on 24 September 2021 they said that 
although the gambling block for one provider had worked, they couldnt guarantee it would 
continue and Mr R shouldnt rely on it. They again suggested Mr R change his card to ATM 
only and that he self excludes from gambling sites.  
On 27 September 2021 TSB wrote to Mr R and advised they were closing his account on 29 
November. The account closed on 3 December.
 
Mr R brought his complaint to us. 
 
Our investigator upheld Mr R s complaint.  She thought that TSB could have done more to 
support Mr R by attempting to place blocks on the other two gambling providers. While there 
was no guarantee it would work; they could have tried.  She thought that TSB should pay an 
additional £150 in respect of this poor service. She said that she was unable to refund the 
money that Mr R had spent gambling, as she was unable to show that the blocks, if placed, 
would have prevented Mr R from gambling. 
Mr R didnt agree with the investigators findings, and so the matter has come to me to 
review.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I am upholding this complaint and I will explain why below. 
I have seen all the information provided by TSB, including the system notes, and listened to 
the calls with Mr R.  
The failure to update contact and upload the identity documents
Fraud checks are an important part of financial services, and when a fraud trigger is 
activated, it is important that the customers account is protected until the transaction has 
been verified as genuine. So, I cant say that TSB have done anything wrong in asking Mr R 
to verify his identity. I appreciate that there were difficulties doing this over the phone, and 
this must have been frustrating for Mr R, but asking him to attend the branch was the right 
step to take in the circumstances. 
However, the failure of the branch staff to update Mr Rs contact details and upload the 
documents was an error on TSBs part and caused Mr R the inconvenience of having to 
return to branch the following day. 
In view of that I would expect TSB to offer some redress for the inconvenience caused, and I 
consider that the £100 they have already awarded is fair and in line with what we would 
expect. I do not propose to increase this aspect of the award.  
The failure to apply the gambling blocks 
When Mr R came to TSB to discuss his gambling problem and what measures TSB could 
take, he was looking for help.  I can see that initially they did try to help him by agreeing the 
block on any transactions with his main three gambling providers but then after further 
internal discussion they advised that this wasnt a facility they could currently offer, as it 
wasnt guaranteed that the transactions would be stopped. 
However, I can see that they actually did manage to put a stop on one provider and any 
transactions with that provider after 24 August 2021 were declined. In that case, I cant see 
why TSB couldnt have done the same for the other two providers. I appreciate that it wasnt 
guaranteed, but Mr R was asking for help with a difficult addiction, and an interim measure 
may have at least limited Mr Rs ability to gamble whilst he sorted out a more long term 
solution such as changing banks. So, I agree with the investigator that TSB could have done 
more here to support this vulnerable customer. 
 
I can see that TSB did suggest other options such as contacting the gambling providers 
direct, offering a card which was ATM only and suggesting Mr R change banks. I can see why having an ATM only card isnt really practical given that many retailers are now moving 
away from cash transactions following Covid-19, and moving banks takes some time, but the 
advice given to Mr R to contact Gamstop and change his account provider is the kind of 
advice I would expect to see. 
     
While I think TSB could have done more to support Mr R, I disagree with Mr Rs assertion 
that if the blocks had been applied, he wouldnt have spent a further £7985 on gambling. 
I cant say for certain that Mr R wouldnt have gambled this money in any event as he may 
have found other outlets for his gambling, and so Im not satisfied that TSBs failure to 
provide as much help as they could have directly resulted in Mr Rs losses. Im therefore not 
able to refund the £7985 that Mr R has spent on gambling, but I am making an award for 
TSBs failure to provide all the support they could have. 
 
The account closure
Under the terms and conditions of the account, TSB can close a customers account 
immediately or by giving two months notice if they choose to do so. 
As TSB gave more than two months notice, I cant day they have done anything wrong here.
 
Putting things right
In view of the reasoning I have given above, I agree with the investigators recommendation 
that TSB should pay Mr R an additional £150.
 
My final decision
My decision is that I am upholding Mr Rs complaint and directing TSB Bank Plc put things 
right as detailed above.  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision before 20 July 2022.
 
Joanne Ward
Ombudsman