DRN-3224963
The complaint
B complain that Barclays Bank Plc, trading as Barclaycard, were unreasonable not proceed 
with a chargeback claim they had made about mis-sold insurance.
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again 
here. Instead Ill focus on giving my reasons for my decision.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I know it will disappoint B, but I agree with the investigators opinion. Please let me explain 
why.
Where the information Ive got is incomplete, unclear, or contradictory, as some of it is here I 
have to base my decision on the balance of probabilities.
Ive read and considered the whole file, but Ill concentrate my comments on what I think is 
relevant. If I dont comment on any specific point its not because Ive failed to take it on 
board and think about it but because I dont think I need to comment on it in order to reach 
what I think is the right outcome.
When something goes wrong and the payment was made, in part or whole, with a credit 
card, it might be possible to recover the money paid through a chargeback scheme.
The chargeback scheme is intended to help resolve disputes between the consumer and the 
merchant without the need to resort to court action.
Im not deciding the outcome of the claim but Im looking at whether I think Barclaycard have 
followed the correct process and been reasonable in their approach. 
The scheme, in this case, is operated not by Barclays but by Mastercard and the scheme 
operator sets strict rules under which claims can be made. Barclaycard raised the issue with 
the insurer and the insurer provided a comprehensive defence in which they were able to 
demonstrate that renewal documents had been provided along with fair notice to either 
cancel the policy or continue with the renewal.
Barclaycard decided there were no chargeback rights in light of this evidence, and they 
couldnt proceed further.
On that evidence I dont think Barclaycards actions were unreasonable. They didnt have to 
raise a chargeback and the evidence provided from the insurer led them to fairly conclude 
that a chargeback claim couldnt be made within the scheme providers rules.
Whilst Barclaycard were prepared to raise a temporary credit whilst the dispute was 
concluded that credit was subsequently correctly re-debited and there was no obligation on 
Barclaycard to place the funds in a holding account as B has suggested. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask B to accept or 
reject my decision before 15 February 2022.
 
Phillip McMahon
Ombudsman