DRN-3275826
The complaint
Mr L complains AIB Group (UK) Plc failed to honour a claim he brought under section 75 of 
the Consumer Credit Act 1974 (CCA). Mr L is represented by a claims management 
company (CMC). When I refer to things said or done by Mr L in relation to the complaint then 
this should be taken to include things said or done by his claims management company also.
What happened
The background to the matter is well known to all parties so I will summarise only briefly:
Mr L had a membership with a holiday club I will call C. He was in contact with another
company, Int, in April 2015. Int said it would arrange for Mr L to be released from his
membership with D, and claim compensation for him for the mis-selling of the
membership.
Mr L entered a contract with Int for the above services. He made three payments, two by 
credit card and a third by bank transfer. The total amount was £ 6,518.20. The credit card 
payments were made to a firm I will call R and the bank transfer was to a firm of accountants 
I will call S. The payments were made on 24 April 2015 and for the bank transfer 6 May 
2015. The contract guaranteed that R would achieve the release of Mr L from his 
membership.
Int failed to arrange for Mr L to be released from his membership with C, and in September 
2018 Mr L brought a claim against AIB under section 75 CCA in April 2019, via his CMC.
AIB looked into the matter and didnt agree Mr L had a valid claim under section 75 of the 
CCA. It said that because he had paid R, and not Int, the necessary debtor-creditor-
supplier (DCS) agreement wasnt in place for him to be able to make a claim. Mr L was 
unhappy with this decision and complained, but AIB would not change its position.
Mr L referred his complaint to this service, where one of our investigators looked into
it. He concluded AIB had been right to say Mr L did not have a valid claim under
section 75 CCA, because R had taken the credit card payments instead of
Int. Our investigator looked into whether there were any exceptions which meant this
might not matter, but he couldnt find any. He also thought about whether AIB
should have charged back the credit card transactions but concluded the bank had
been out of time to do so at the point it had been made aware of the issue.
Mr L didnt agree with our investigator and asked for his complaint to be reviewed by an
ombudsman. No further information has been provided save for some concerns expressed 
by the CMC that we hadnt sent the view letter direct to it. The case has now been passed to 
me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
When someone makes a purchase using the facilities offered by their bank or credit card
company, and something goes wrong with that purchase, theres no general obligation for
them to provide a refund. However, there are some mechanisms via which they can
assist. If a credit card has been used, as in this case, Section 75 of the CCA gives a legal
right to the account holder to claim against their credit card issuer in respect of breaches
of contract or misrepresentations by the supplier, so long as certain technical criteria have
been met.
If any type of card has been used (debit, credit or pre-paid), the card issuer can use the
dispute resolution service administered by the card schemes in order to claim back the
money paid on the card. This can be done only in certain scenarios and only so long as
the dispute fits within the rules set out by the card scheme. This includes scenarios where
goods or services have not been received, and the process of disputing payments in this
way is generally known as a chargeback. Although a consumer cannot insist that their
card issuer attempts a chargeback, I would expect the issuer to attempt one if there was a
reasonable prospect of the process succeeding, and to conduct the chargeback process
in a competent way, free of errors.
The Section 75 claim
I dont think Mr L had a valid section 75 claim against AIB for essentially the same
reasons our investigator explained. I dont think his claim meets one of the technical
criteria I referred to above.
The criterion in question is the requirement for there to be a DCS agreement in place. The
simplest explanation of this is, is that when someone makes a payment on their credit
card, in order to be able to make a section 75 claim against their credit card provider they
need to have used the credit card to pay the same company they say misrepresented
something to them or breached its contract with them. Mr L didnt pay Int, which is the
company he has a problem with. Instead, his credit card payments went to R.
There are some exceptions to this general rule. The first exception occurs where the
company which is responsible for the breach or misrepresentation (the supplier) is an
associate of the company which received the credit card payment (the payee), at the
time the payment is made. This doesnt mean an associate in the everyday sense of being
linked in some way or another; the companies have to be associates according to a very
specific definition which is set out in section 184 of the CCA.
According to section 184 of the CCA, in order for companies to be associates they need
to be controlled by the same people, or by people who are themselves associates of one
another. People are associates of one another if they are relatives, or if they are in
partnership (for example, being directors together at another company). A person would
be in control of a company if they are a person whose instructions will normally be
followed by the officers of the company, or if they are entitled to exercise a third or more
of voting power at any general meeting of the company. In general, I would view a
company director or majority shareholder to fall into these categories. 
Ive carefully considered whether Int and R were associates at the time of Mr Ls credit
card payments, by checking publicly available information about the companies. I have not 
been able to identify any link that would allow me to conclude they were associates. I have 
noted that Int told Mr L that the payments were made to R because of accounting reasons. 
But that does not establish a link as required under S 184. I have also reviewed the online 
timeshare checking resource provided by the CMC which refers to the firms being associated, but this does not identify them as being associated within the requirements of 
section 184.
There is another exception which was identified in the case of Bank of Scotland v. Alfred
Truman [2005] EWHC 583 (QB). The case concerned a firm of solicitors who had a motor
trader as a client. The solicitors took credit card payments from customers of the motor
trader, which had no facility to take such payments itself, as deposits for cars which the
customers had ordered. The court found that the contractual arrangements between the
motor trader and the solicitors were adequate to link the motor trader to the card scheme
through the transactions processed via the solicitors credit card facilities, and therefore
mean there was a DCS agreement in place.
The judge observed in the Alfred Truman case that the above conclusion couldnt be
applied in all cases as a general principle, and that there were problems with establishing
where the line should be drawn between scenarios where the supplier could be linked to
the card scheme, and where things were too tenuous to be able to draw this conclusion.
The judge noted that the problem would need to be resolved on a case by case basis, and
that the precise contractual arrangements between the parties would determine whether
the creditor had liability under section 75.
A later case in the County Court, Marshall v. Retail Installation Services Ltd [2016],
clarified that in the absence of knowledge of the precise contractual arrangements
between the company which was meant to supply the services or goods under the
contract, and the payee, that the involvement of the payee in the provision of the goods
or services could be enough to link the supplier to the card scheme and for a DCS
agreement to exist.
In Mr Ls case, not much is known about the precise contractual arrangements between
Int, which was the supplier of the services, and R, which was the payee. Its clear that
R took payments for Rs customers and that this was an established practice.
Unfortunately, I have not received information which helps to clarify what the arrangements 
were between the companies. In Alfred Truman the court had a much more complete picture 
of the nature of the arrangements between the parties and had the benefit of direct evidence 
from the payee. Here I dont have nearly as much information and I feel unable to conclude 
that Int was linked to the card scheme via its arrangements with R, on the evidence available 
to me.
Ive considered whether the case of Marshall might be applicable to Mr Ls case, but Ive
seen no evidence that it would be because it doesnt appear R was involved in the
provision of the timeshare release or compensation claim services Mr L had contracted
with R for.
In light of the above, I conclude there was no valid DCS agreement in place to allow
Mr L to make a section 75 claim against AIB. I therefore dont think the bank was
wrong to reject his claim. Ive thought about the arguments Mr Ls representatives have
raised in response to our investigators assessment, but they dont change my view.
Chargeback
Mr Ls representatives havent challenged our investigators opinion on whether or not
it was possible for AIB to have attempted a chargeback on either of the credit card
transactions.
I agree with the conclusions our investigator reached on this question. The maximumlength of time to dispute a transaction via the relevant card scheme, for services which
have not been received, is 540 days from the date of the transaction. 
This means Mr L would have needed to bring the issue to the attention of AIB before he did 
and I can only conclude the bank did not treat him unfairly by not attempting to obtain a 
refund via this route.
My final decision
For the reasons explained above, I do not think AIB treated Mr L unfairly by refusing to
reimburse him. So I do not uphold his complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr L and Mrs L to 
accept or reject my decision before 11 April 2022.
 
Ivor Graham
Ombudsman