DRN-3193194
The complaint
Mr and Mrs D complain that Bank of Ireland (UK) Plc treated them unfairly when it didnt 
agree to extend the term of their buy to let mortgage. They say it discriminated against them 
due to their ages. 
What happened
Mr and Mrs D took out a buy to let mortgage with Bank of Ireland in 2005 on an interest only 
basis. The term expired in 2020 with an unpaid balance. Mr and Mrs D asked to extend the 
term. Bank of Ireland declined saying its policy is not to lend where the term would go past 
the borrowers 80th birthday, as was the case here. 
Mr and Mrs D say Bank of Ireland discriminated against them due to their ages. They say 
the website is unclear and as a result they applied for a new mortgage instead of a term 
extension  theyd like this put right. And they say Bank of Ireland wrote to them at the wrong 
address.
Our investigator said Bank of Ireland relied on an exemption to the Equality Act 2010 which 
allows financial services providers to make decisions based on age, provided certain 
conditions are met. She said Bank of Ireland applied its lending policy fairly when it declined 
Mr and Mrs Ds request for a term extension. 
Mr and Mrs D didnt agree. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The term of Mr and Mrs Ds buy to let mortgage expired in December 2020 with an unpaid 
balance. Bank of Ireland wrote to Mr and Mrs D before and after the term expired at their 
address in its records. I can see from Bank of Irelands records that it tried to trace Mr and 
Mrs D and in March 2021 it sent an occupancy questionnaire to the security property. It 
updated its records when Mr D contacted it in March 2021 and gave it their current address. 
Mr D asked Bank of Ireland for a term extension in March 2021. Bank of Ireland declined. It 
offered a three-month grace period to allow Mr and Mrs D time to market the property and 
look into their options. It suggested they seek independent financial advice about their 
options. 
Mr and Mrs D say Bank of Ireland discriminated against them when it said it wouldnt extend 
the term due to their ages. We offer an informal dispute resolution service. While we take 
relevant law, regulation and good practice into account we cant decide whether equalities 
law has been breached  that would be for a court to decide. What I can consider is whether 
Bank of Ireland treated Mr and Mrs D fairly.
I need to take into account that this was a buy to let mortgage, taken out in relation to an 
investment property. When Mr and Mrs D took out the mortgage, they agreed to repay it. 
Bank of Ireland was entitled to expect that the loan would be repaid when the term ended. It 
didnt have to offer an extension. And Mr and Mrs D did have options to repay the loan, such 
as remortgaging elsewhere or (as this wasnt their home) selling the security property. 
Lenders are entitled to make a commercial decision about their lending policies and criteria. 
Mr D is right that equalities law says people shouldnt suffer discrimination due to their age. 
However, equalities law allows financial services providers to make decisions based on age 
when they provide services, if they can show this is a proportionate means of achieving a 
legitimate aim. Financial services providers can rely on this exemption if certain conditions 
are met, including that if any risk assessment is undertaken this is based on relevant 
information from reliable sources.  
Bank of Ireland explained why it includes a maximum age of 80 years in its buy to let 
mortgage lending policy. It says it considered life expectancy, affordability, suitability of the 
product (including the ability of borrowers to manage an investment property) and its own 
attitude to risk. In effect, Bank of Ireland carried out an assessment of the risk of lending to 
customers over 80 years old. It didnt provide the information it used in making its 
assessment, so I dont know if it used relevant information from reliable sources. But I think I 
can reach a fair decision without this. 
In March 2021 Mr D asked Bank of Ireland for a five year extension with the loan to be 
repaid by the sale of the secured property. But when our investigator asked Mr and Mrs D 
how theyd hoped to repay the balance when the term expired, Mr D said they intended to 
remortgage and their preferred term was a lifetime mortgage.
Mr and Mrs D repaid their mortgage with Bank of Ireland in June 2021. Mr D told us theyve 
taken out a lifetime mortgage with another lender which will be repaid when they sell the 
property or die. Bank of Ireland doesnt offer lifetime products and so this isnt something it 
could have offered Mr and Mrs D.
I dont think theres anything here that I can ask Bank of Ireland to put right. It made 
reasonable efforts to get in contact with Mr and Mrs D about their mortgage term expiring. 
When Mr D did get in contact with Bank of Ireland it was clear that it wouldnt extend the 
term of the mortgage. Ultimately, whether Bank of Irelands lending policy breaches 
equalities law would be for a court to decide. But what is clear is that Bank of Ireland couldnt 
offer what Mr and Mrs D actually wanted  a lifetime mortgage. They had to go elsewhere for 
this. I think it was fair for Bank of Ireland to allow a grace period for Mr and Mrs D to look into 
their options and re-finance with another provider. I dont think its fair and reasonable in the 
circumstances to require Bank of Ireland to take any further action in relation to this 
complaint.
Mr D says Bank of Irelands website was unclear and as a result he incorrectly applied for a 
new buy to let mortgage rather than a term extension. I appreciate this was frustrating, but it 
didnt change the outcome here. Even if Mr D had applied for a term extension online this 
would still have been declined as outside Bank of Irelands lending policy. Bank of Ireland 
said it had provided Mr Ds feedback about its website to the relevant team. I dont think I 
can fairly require Bank of Ireland to do more. 
My final decision
My decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr D and Mrs D to accept or reject my decision before 3 May 2022.
 
Ruth Stevenson
Ombudsman