DRN-4387933
The complaint
Miss D complains that Legal and General Assurance Society Limited (L&G) has turned down 
an incapacity claim she made on an income protection insurance policy.
What happened
The background to this complaint is well-known to both parties. So I havent set it out in  
detail here. Instead, Ive set out a summary of what I think are the key events.
Miss D is insured under her employers group income protection policy. The policy provides  
cover in the event that Miss D is unable to work in her own occupation, as a result of illness  
or injury. The policy deferred period is 26 weeks.
In February 2023, Miss Ds employer made an incapacity claim on her behalf. Between May 
2022 and February 2023, Miss D had been signed-off from work on four occasions, suffering 
from symptoms of depression.
L&G looked into Miss Ds claim and it linked the four periods of absence. It organised a call 
with one of its vocational clinical specialists and it asked for copies of Miss Ds GP records, 
which it asked its Chief Medical Officer (CMO) to review. Overall, L&G concluded that Miss 
D hadnt shown she met the policy definition of incapacity throughout the deferred period 
and it turned down her claim.
Miss D was unhappy with L&Gs decision and she asked us to look into her complaint.
Our investigator didnt think Miss Ds complaint should be upheld. Based on the available 
evidence, he didnt think it had been unfair for L&G to conclude that Miss D hadnt provided 
enough evidence to show shed been incapacitated in line with the policy terms.
Miss D disagreed and so the complaints been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, whilst Im very sorry to disappoint Miss D, I dont think it was unfair for L&G 
to turn down her claim and Ill explain why.
The relevant regulators rules say that insurers must handle claims promptly and fairly. And  
that they mustnt turn down claims unreasonably. So, Ive considered, amongst other things, 
the terms of this policy and the available medical evidence, to decide whether L&G handled  
Miss Ds claim fairly.
Ive first considered the terms and conditions of the policy, as these form the basis of Miss 
Ds employers contract with L&G. Miss Ds employer made a claim on her behalf for 
incapacity benefit, given she wasnt fit for work. So I think it was reasonable and appropriate 
for L&G to consider whether Miss D claim met the policy definition of incapacity. This is 
defined as follows:
The insured member is incapacitated by illness or injury that prevents him from performing 
the essential duties of his occupation immediately before the start of the deferred period.
The insured member's capacity to perform the essential duties of his own occupation will be 
determined whether or not that occupation remains available to him.
This means that in order for L&G to pay Miss D incapacity benefit, it must be satisfied that 
she had an illness or injury which prevented her from carrying out the essential duties of her 
own occupation. And in order for benefit to be paid, Miss D needed to have been  
incapacitated in line with the policy terms for the entire deferred period and afterwards. 
Its a general principle of insurance that its for a policyholder to show they have a valid claim 
on their policy. This means it was Miss Ds responsibility to provide L&G with enough 
medical evidence to demonstrate that an illness had led to her being unable to carry out the 
duties of her own occupation for the full 26-week deferred period between May and 
December 2022. 
L&G assessed the available evidence, including seeking the opinion of its clinical staff. While 
it acknowledged that Miss D had been through a difficult time, it concluded that there wasnt 
enough objective medical evidence to show that Miss D had been totally incapacitated 
throughout the whole deferred period. So Ive next looked at the available medical and other 
evidence to assess whether I think this was a fair conclusion for L&G to draw.
Miss D and her employer didnt send in a claim form until February 2023  which was over 
six weeks after the deferred period ended. And its unfortunate that by the time Miss D spoke 
to the vocational clinical specialist - in April 2023 - her symptoms were sufficiently recovered 
to allow Miss D to have returned to work  initially on a phased basis. So at the time of the 
discussion between Miss D and the vocational clinical specialist, it was found that Miss D 
was fit for work.
Given the lack of contemporaneous evidence about Miss Ds health and symptoms during 
the deferred period, I think it was reasonable and appropriate for L&G to ask her GP for 
copies of Miss Ds medical records. Ive looked carefully at this evidence. 
In May 2022, Miss D saw a GP who noted that Miss D had experienced a low mood and lack 
of motivation the previous week but was euthymic on the date of consultation. I can see that 
the GP practice (including nurses) continued to issue Miss D with fit notes which stated that 
she was unfit to work due to symptoms of depression. And, in late 2022, she was 
prescribed an anti-depressant. I can also see that Miss D was referred for talking therapy, 
although she was discharged from that service due to non-attendance. There is little 
evidence of Miss D being physically reviewed by her GP practice for much of that period and 
the fit notes appear to have been issued based on Miss Ds self-reported symptoms, rather 
than a GPs observation of her presentation.
Subsequently, in November and December 2022, Miss D attended A&E on a few occasions, 
as shed self-harmed. And Miss D was referred to a community mental health team at that 
point.
As there was little objective evidence of Miss Ds health between May and December 2022, 
L&G asked its CMO to review the available evidence. Ive set out below what I think were the 
CMOs key conclusions:Based on my review of the evidence, there is insufficient objective evidence to support total 
incapacity during the period in my opinion. There were no clinical interventions during the 
majority of the absence, with (an anti-depressant) only briefly trialled in late 2022 and no 
therapy prior to that whatsoever, which is inconsistent with mental illness of sufficient 
severity to totally preclude work, in my opinion. The insurer was also unable to assess the 
member during 2022 due to lack of engagement.
Ive thought very carefully about all of the evidence thats been provided. Its important I 
make it clear that Im not a medical expert. In reaching a decision, I must consider the 
evidence provided by both medical professionals and other experts to decide what evidence 
I find most persuasive. It isnt my role to interpret medical evidence to reach a clinical finding.
Its clear that Miss D was suffering from symptoms which can also be indicative of a 
significant mental health condition. Its also clear that shes been through a difficult and 
upsetting time. But, I have to bear in mind the contemporaneous medical evidence which 
was available to L&G when it assessed the claim. I appreciate Miss D says she didnt 
engage much with medical professionals during the deferred period because she was so 
unwell. 
However, I dont think it was unreasonable for L&G to conclude that there was very little 
objective evidence to show that Miss D was incapacitated in line with the policy definition of 
incapacity between May and December 2022. I say that because as Ive set out above, there 
is little evidence that Miss D was physically reviewed by a doctor after May 2022 and the fit 
notes appear to have been issued based on Miss Ds self-reporting of her symptoms. Miss D 
wasnt prescribed medication until late into the deferred period and neither was she referred 
for psychological treatment after shed been discharged from talking therapy due to non-
attendance. This means there is no available medical evidence from a psychological 
specialist to indicate the severity of Miss Ds symptoms during the deferred period or how 
her symptoms would have affected her ability to carry out the essential duties of her role. I 
was sorry to read about Miss Ds episodes of self-harm. But again, these took place several 
months after the deferred period began.
I note Miss D is unhappy that L&G didnt organise an occupational health assessment or 
support her in returning to work. However, by the time L&G assessed the claim, Miss D had 
already gone back to work and so I think there was little L&G could reasonably do to offer 
rehabilitation support. 
Overall, taking into account the totality of the medical and other evidence available to L&G, I 
think it was reasonably entitled to rely on the clinical opinion of its CMO when deciding 
whether or not to accept this claim. And I dont think it was unfair for L&G to conclude that 
Miss D hadnt provided enough objective medical evidence to show she met the policy 
definition of incapacity throughout the whole of the 26-week deferred period.
Id like to reassure Miss D that Im not suggesting that she was fit for work. I appreciate she 
was medically signed-off. And I understand shes been through a very difficult time. But I 
need to decide whether I think shes shown she met the policy definition of incapacity for the 
whole of the 26-week deferred period. As Ive explained, I dont think she has. This means 
that despite my natural sympathy with Miss Ds position, I dont think it was unfair or 
unreasonable for L&G to turn down her claim.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss D to accept or reject my decision before 6 December 2023.
 
Lisa Barham
Ombudsman