DRN-4291167
The complaint
Mr F has complained that Barclays Bank UK PLC wont refund the money he lost after falling 
victim to a scam.
What happened
In 2018, Mr F was cold-called and sold a corporate bond with a property firm. They provided 
documents setting out a 7% return, backed by a security trustee and a compliance company 
that was registered with the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA). Mr F was persuaded to 
invest £10,000. He paid this by bank transfer from his Barclays savings account. He was 
provided with a bond certificate.
In 2022, Mr Fs representatives complained to Barclays. They said he hadnt got the 
promised returns, and the company had gone into liquidation. They said that Mr F had been 
the victim of an investment scam, and that Barclays should have prevented this by looking 
further into the investment adviser and advice, or by warning Mr F about possible scams.
Barclays tried contacting Mr F to raise a scam case, but were unable to discuss the matter 
with him in any detail. And when he called them, he was unable to pass security.
Mr F came to our service. Our investigator looked into things independently and didnt 
uphold the complaint. Mr Fs representatives appealed, so the complaints been passed to 
me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As far as Im aware, investigations into the property company are ongoing and its not been 
concluded whether this was a scam or not  as opposed to, for example, a badly-run firm 
which fell into financial difficulties and couldnt pay its investors. But I accept its likely and 
plausible that this was a scam, so for the purposes of assessing this case fairly I will treat it 
as such. I also understand that Mr F lost a good deal of money here, for which he has my 
sympathy. I appreciate why he feels his money should be returned. Its worth keeping in 
mind that its the investment companies involved who are primarily responsible for what 
happened. And this case is about Barclays, rather than them. Having carefully considered 
everything both sides have said and provided, I cant fairly hold Barclays liable for Mr Fs 
loss  Ill explain why.
Its not in dispute that Mr F authorised the payment involved. So although he didnt intend 
the money to go to a scammer or a failed investment, under the Payment Services 
Regulations he is liable for the loss in the first instance. And broadly speaking, Barclays had 
an obligation to follow his instructions  the starting position in law is that banks are 
expected to process payments that a customer authorises them to make. 
Barclays should have been on the lookout for payments which could be the result of fraud or 
scams, to help prevent them. But I also accept that a balance must be struck between 
identifying and responding to potentially fraudulent payments, and ensuring theres minimal 
disruption to legitimate payments. Ive thought carefully about whether Barclays should have 
done more in Mr Fs case.
I cant see that Barclays were made aware of Mr F being vulnerable or being victim to any 
previous scams before this. The payment was funded from Mr Fs savings, and its not 
unusual for customers to occasionally make very large payments using their savings. 
Indeed, thats a rather usual way to use savings, and I can see that Mr F made similar or 
even larger payments in the period before this incident. This was a singular payment, rather 
than multiple rapid ones, made to a UK account of an FCA-registered business, authorised 
by the genuine customer. And there was still a very healthy balance left in the account 
afterwards  it was not drained by any means. So I find that this payment was not so 
unusual or out of character that Barclays needed to intervene.
Further, even if Barclays had flagged the payment and given Mr F scam warnings or asked 
further questions about the reasons for the payment, I think its more likely than not that Mr F 
wouldve still gone ahead.
I say this because Mr F was paying an FCA-registered compliance company, which was 
backing an investment into an established UK company which had been trading for over two 
years. The returns were not unviable, and Mr F was given an official bond certificate, as well 
as professional documentation setting out a costed plan and the risks involved, and setting 
out that the bond was safeguarded by an independent security trustee. At the time, there 
were no official warnings or investigations against the companies involved. It would not be 
reasonable to expect Barclays to have investigated the adviser or given investment advice 
themselves. I cant see that theyd have grounds to do so anyway  the matter would have 
looked genuine at the time. I do not think Barclays were reasonably on notice that the 
payment would facilitate fraud, nor could they have reasonably foreseen that Mr F would be 
scammed. Realistically, its only with the benefit of time and hindsight that we might 
reasonably know this was a scam.
So even if Barclays had questioned Mr F, I would not expect them to have blocked the 
payment. And even if theyd given him general warnings about cold callers, investment risks, 
and the possibility of scams, I dont see that it was likely to make a difference. Ultimately, 
Mr F had been given good reason to feel reassured that this was a legitimate investment, 
and at the time Mr F and Barclays wouldnt reasonably have realised this was a scam.
Next, Ive considered whether Barclays should have done more to try to recover Mr Fs 
money. Unfortunately, Barclays were only told this might be a scam over four years after the 
fact, and the company involved had gone into liquidation. Even then, it looks like Mr F wasnt 
able to speak with Barclays and help them look into this as a scam case. And given what the 
administrators have said about the likelihood of funds being available, along with all the time 
thats passed and the tendency for scammers to move money on as quickly as possible, 
I dont think Barclays could have reasonably recovered Mr Fs money by the time they were 
told this was an alleged scam.
So while Im very sorry to hear about what happened to Mr F, I dont think Barclays should 
be held responsible for his loss. And so I cant fairly tell Barclays to refund Mr Fs money in 
this case.My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, I dont uphold Mr Fs complaint in this particular case.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr F to accept or 
reject my decision before 3 October 2023.
 
Adam Charles
Ombudsman