DRN-4113488
The complaint
Mr and Mrs M complain that National Westminster Bank Plc unfairly declined their porting 
application.
Theyd like NatWest to compensate them for their costs, and ideally agree to port the 
mortgage or refund the early repayment charge (ERC). 
What happened
Mr and Mrs M had a mortgage with NatWest. In April 2022 they applied to port the mortgage 
product. NatWest declined the porting application. The valuer said the property wasnt 
suitable security as it didnt have appropriate building warranties. Mr and Mrs M repaid their 
mortgage in September 2022 and paid an ERC.
Mr and Mrs M say NatWest took too long to make a decision, and should have told them at 
the outset it wouldnt accept retrospective building warranties or certificates. They say they 
incurred costs trying to obtain a certificate, and during the delays interest rates increased. 
Our investigator said NatWest was entitled to rely on the opinion of the valuer and hadnt 
caused delays.
Mr and Mrs M didnt agree. In summary, they said theyd have made different decisions  
such as to look for a different property or a different lender  if theyd been told at the outset 
retrospective building warranties or certificates werent acceptable.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Where the evidence is incomplete, inconclusive or contradictory, I reach my decision on the 
balance of probabilities  in other words, what I consider is most likely to have happened in 
light of the available evidence and the wider circumstances. 
Mr and Mrs M had taken out a five-year fixed rate product in late 2019. This included an 
ERC, which was payable if the mortgage was repaid during the product term. However, the 
ERC would be refunded if the product was ported. The product offer said porting was subject 
to Mr and Mrs M meeting NatWests lending criteria, and would require a valuation of the 
new property. It said NatWest could decline to lend on the new property. 
NatWest didnt agree to port Mr and Mrs Ms product to the property they wanted to buy. 
This was because the valuer said the property wasnt suitable security. NatWest was entitled 
to rely on the opinion of the valuer, and I dont think it was unfair in doing so. The valuer, 
who was a member of the Royal Institution of Chartered Surveyors, was suitably qualified. 
Mr and Mrs M say their grievance is that NatWest should have told them at the outset it 
didnt accept retrospective documents, so they could have made other decisions. 
Mr and Mrs M submitted their porting application in March 2022 and the valuation was 
carried out in mid-April 2022. The valuation report said the property wasnt suitable security 
as there was no building warranty in place. 
Mr and Mrs M asked if there was a way forward. There were on-going discussions between 
Mr and Mrs M, NatWest and the valuer until early August 2022. NatWest asked the valuer to 
respond to information and concerns raised by Mr and Mrs M throughout the process. The 
valuer was consistent in saying that without a building warranty or a professional 
consultants certificate (PCC) the property wasnt suitable security. 
The circumstances were unusual, in that Mr and Mrs M had agreed an assisted sale with the 
vendor. Mr and Mrs M arranged and paid for the work to make the property saleable. Theyd 
had a buyer lined up but that fell through, so they decided to buy the property for 
themselves. In early July 2022, Mr M said hed consulted an inspector, but couldnt obtain a 
PCC as the work only included a stud wall and refurbishment, and didnt require building 
regulations. 
In late July 2022 the valuer said it was for the underwriters to make a decision whether to 
lend, despite the valuation. The underwriters asked the valuer to provide a valuation, or 
explain why the property remained unsuitable. The valuer re-confirmed the property was 
unsuitable for lending purposes, and said this was because NatWests criteria required a 
building warranty or a PCC issued at the time of construction.  
Did NatWest cause unnecessary delays?
The valuer said the property wasnt suitable security in April 2022, and said this was 
because there was no building warranty in place. Mr and Mrs M disagreed and wanted to 
know what they could do to change the decline or the valuers opinion. This, inevitably, 
added to the time that passed before the application was declined.
As Mr and Mrs M had arranged the building work, they presumably knew that no building 
warranty or PCC had been provided. So I understand their point that if NatWest had told 
them at the outset the warranty or certificate had to be issued at the time of construction 
theyd have known this wasnt possible. 
But NatWest doesnt have to provide its lending policy to customers. And NatWest wouldnt 
have known at the outset what warranties and certificates were in place. Usually, the 
property owner would have arranged the work and would provide the required warranties 
and certificates to the purchaser. Here, Mr and Mrs M had arranged the work. They werent 
able to provide a building warranty or PCC  even one issued retrospectively. If theyd 
looked into this in April 2022, when they were first told a building warranty was needed, the 
matter might have been resolved sooner. 
Mr and Mrs M had provided funds to renovate the property to make it saleable and paid the 
vendors legal costs. Mr and Mrs M said they had a buyer lined up, but this fell through and 
they decided to buy the property for themselves. Given theyd invested in the property, it 
seems unlikely theyd have decided to look for a different property rather than purchase this 
one. 
By early July 2022 Mr and Mrs M knew they couldnt provide a PCC. At this point, they could 
have applied to a different lender or looked for a different property to buy. Its unclear if by 
this time theyd exchanged contracts to sell their property and agreed a completion date. But 
it was another two months before their sale completed, so I think theyd have had time to 
apply elsewhere or look for a different property to buy if that was what they wanted to do. 
Instead, they continued to ask what they could provide so that NatWest would port the mortgage. 
Taking all this into account, I think its likely Mr and Mrs M would have continued to try to find 
a way for the porting application to go ahead even if theyd known earlier in the process that 
NatWests policy is that warranties and certificates are issued at the time of construction.
Mr and Mrs M say the valuers request in July 2022 that NatWests underwriters make a 
lending decision, and the underwriters saying it was for the valuer to decide if the property 
was suitable security shows no-one was making a decision. I think though this was an effort 
on the part of the valuer and NatWest to bring the matter to a conclusion. 
What happens now?
When Mr and Mrs M took out a new fixed rate product in 2019 they agreed to the terms, 
including the ERC. They repaid the mortgage during the product term. I think NatWest was 
entitled to apply the ERC, in accordance with the mortgage terms and conditions.
I think NatWests decision to decline Mr and Mrs Ms porting application based on the 
valuation report was fair and consistent with its lending policy. I dont think NatWest caused 
unnecessary delays with the porting application. It follows that I dont think its fair and 
reasonable to require NatWest to port the mortgage, refund all or part of the ERC or pay 
compensation to Mr and Mrs M.
My final decision
My decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M and Mrs M to 
accept or reject my decision before 27 September 2023.
 
Ruth Stevenson
Ombudsman