DRN-4406843
The complaint
Mr R has complained about damage charges applied by Mercedes-Benz Financial Services 
UK Limited trading as Mercedes-Benz Finance (MBFS) under a hire agreement.
What happened
In December 2018 Mr R acquired a new car under a four-year hire agreement with MBFS. 
Normal rentals were around £300 per month. Mr R arranged for the car to be handed back in 
December 2022. It was inspected with Mr R on 21 December 2022, and then it was 
inspected again on 3 January 2023. 
MBFS wrote to Mr R to say he owed £2,668.12 for damage charges because the car had 
been returned outside of its vehicle return standards. Mr R complained and MBFS reduced 
the charge. Ive calculated the balance to be £2,193 which is made up of the following:
Bonnet dented £260
Bumper front scratched £210
Bumper rear scratched £210
Door left hand front dented £260
Door left hand rear dented £260
Door shut inner left hand front dented £130
Door shut inner right hand front dented £130
General interior too dirty £48
Quarter panel left hand rear dented £260
Spare key missing (gloss black type) £335
Tailgate dented £90
Mr R referred his complaint to our service to consider. To summarise his complaint he said 
when the car was first inspected on his drive the inspector listed damage that totalled around 
£1,400. He said one item noted as an unsatisfactory repair had been completed a week 
previous at a cost of £580. Mr R said he was told another inspection would be carried out to 
verify the charges. Mr R said the car was driven a considerable distance to the collection 
centre and it was stored for some time before the second inspection. He says hes only 
willing to pay for damage that was present on his drive. He said the inspector was very 
thorough and that he shouldnt have to pay more than what was highlighted. He also says he 
continued to dispute the charges to clean the boot along with damage caused to the door 
shuts because he says this was caused by the seatbelts not retracting properly. Therefore, 
Mr R says the invoice should be around £900. This was in relation to the spare key; bumper 
front scratched; left hand door dent; and left-hand rear quarter panel dent.
One of our investigators looked into things. He initially said the charge for the bonnet and the 
left-hand front door should be removed. But after hearing back from MBFS he thought the 
bonnet charge was fair. MBFS disputed removing any charges. 
I issued a provisional decision that said:
Mr R acquired the car using a regulated consumer hire agreement, and our service is able to 
consider complaints relating to these sorts of agreements. 
The car was new when it was supplied to Mr R, so I think its reasonable to assume it was 
supplied free from even minor defects. Therefore, any damage that was on the car when it 
was returned wouldve likely happened during the time it was with Mr R. 
Damage Charges
I note the vehicle return standards are set out within the hire agreement itself. The 
agreement sets out that when the car is returned it must be in line with the vehicle return 
standards. And it also says if the vehicle has not been returned within those standards 
MBFS is able to charge costs for either repairing and/or refurbishing the vehicle, or the cost 
of the consequent reduction in the sale value of the vehicle, as compensation. It also says 
When the vehicle is returned to us, a Vehicle Return Standard Inspection will be carried out 
by trained technicians at the nominated Defleet Centre. 
As a starting point, Im satisfied that by signing the agreement, Mr R agreed to the terms. I 
therefore dont find MBFS is acting unfairly by applying charges for damage that falls outside 
of fair wear and tear, as per the return standards. Moreover, I dont think MBFS acted 
unfairly by carrying out another inspection at the Defleet Centre. 
Ive gone on to think about whether (or not) the damage falls outside of those standards. 
Before I do that, Ill highlight what the vehicle return standards says about the sort of 
damage MBFS is seeking to charge for. 
With regards to body and paint it says minor dents are acceptable provided that theyre less 
than 13mm in diameter, theres a maximum one dent per panel, up to two dents per vehicle 
up to two years old, or four dents for vehicles over two years old. Dents on high profile 
panels like the bonnet or wheel arches arent acceptable. Light surface scratching not 
through the topcoat which can be removed by polishing or touch up is acceptable. It says 
any excessive chipping or scratching of paintwork thats penetrated the base coat isnt 
acceptable. It also says dents on swage lines, folder edges or high-profile panels arent 
acceptable. 
For previous repairs it says there cant be evidence of poor colour match; ripples; 
preparations marks; visible overspray; masking lines; or excess dirt in paint. 
The vehicle return standards say scuff marks up to 50mm are acceptable as long as they 
dont affect the overall appearance of the vehicle. 
They also say that light soiling from normal use is acceptable for the luggage area. And that 
all items originally supplied with the car such as the keys must be returned. 
Bonnet dented
Theres a photo on the first report that shows a chip on the bonnet that looks like its 
penetrated the base coat. And the second report shows what looks like a dent on the 
bonnet, which as Ive set out above is a high-profile panel. So I think both reports indicate 
there was damage that was outside of fair wear and tear. And I dont find the charge of £260 
to be unreasonable. 
Bumper front scratched
I think both sets of reports show damage to the bumper that would be considered outside of 
fair wear and tear. I can see scuffs, chips and scratches that I dont think can be polished out. Theres damage across different arears of the bumper and I find the charge of £210 to 
be reasonable as well. 
Bumper rear scratched
Both reports show lots of scratches on the rear bumper. I cant see the scratches have 
penetrated the base coat, but the scratches dont look like they can be polished out. I think 
the charge of £210 seems reasonable. 
Door left-hand front dented
The first report highlights an unsatisfactory repair on the left-hand front door. And the second 
report has photos of what it says is a dent and an unsatisfactory repair. The photo of the 
dent on the second report isnt that clear in my opinion. But it looks like the first report at 
least shows theres rippling in the paint, most likely due to the previous repair Mr R 
mentioned. While I appreciate Mr R has said he had the damage repaired at a reputable 
body shop the presence of ripples means I think this falls outside of fair wear and tear as per 
the vehicle return standards he agreed to. Even though MBFS charged for a dent, an 
unsatisfactory repair charge is £310. So I dont think the charge it applied of £260 is 
unreasonable.
Door left-hand rear dented
Both reports have a photo of a dent on the left-hand rear door. And I think the first report 
shows its clearly over 13mm in diameter. So I think this is enough to show this is outside of 
fair wear and tear. And I dont find the charge of £260 to be unreasonable. 
Door shut inner left-hand front dented
Both reports show damage to the left-hand front inner door shut. I can see what looks like a 
scratch thats penetrated the base coat, and the second report shows a dent that I think is 
over 13mm. So I think theres enough to show theres damage outside of fair wear and tear 
and I dont find the charge of £130 to be unreasonable. 
Door shut inner right-hand front dented
I cant see a dent clearly on the photo from the first report of the right-hand front inner door 
shut but the second report shows a dent that I think is over 13mm. I think this matches up 
with what looks like a dent on the video linked to the first report. So I think this shows theres 
damage outside of fair wear and tear and I dont find the charge of £130 to be unreasonable. 
General interior too dirty
I think both reports show soiling that is more than light in the boot area at least. I think this 
would fall outside of fair wear and tear as well. And I dont find the charge of £48 to be 
unreasonable. 
Quarter panel left-hand rear dented
Both reports show a dent on the left-hand rear quarter panel which is over 13mm. So I think 
this falls outside of fair wear and tear as well. And I dont think a £260 charge is 
unreasonable. 
Spare key missing Mr R hasnt disputed the spare key was missing. I dont find the charge of £335 for this to be 
unreasonable. 
Tailgate dented
Both reports show a dent on the tailgate that looks like its over 13mm. So I think this falls 
outside of fair wear and tear as well. And I dont think a £90 charge is unreasonable.
Having considered everything, I think theres enough to show on the first report that all areas 
of damage that MBFS has charged for were present. So I dont have the grounds to say that 
the damage happened after the car was collected from Mr R. Ive not seen enough to 
demonstrate there was an inherent fault with the seatbelt that led to damage on the door 
shuts. I appreciate Mr R is unhappy the damage charged for increased after the second 
inspection. But MBFS assessed the damage and set out what it ultimately wanted to charge 
for. As Ive found the damage was likely caused during Mr Rs possession, and that from 
looking at both reports, the damage was outside of fair wear and tear as per the vehicle 
return standards he agreed to, I dont think MBFS acted unfairly by raising the charges that it 
did. But I can of course understand why Mr R is disappointed. 
Therefore, in all the circumstances, while I sympathise with Mr R that cumulatively this is a 
lot of money, I dont find I have the grounds to say the individual charges are unfair. The 
damage would cost money to repair, or it would likely impact the resale value of the car. So 
Im not intending to direct MBFS to take any further action. 
I cant see we received a response from MBFS. Mr R responded to say he was happy to 
take responsibility for the damage that occurred during the time he had possession of the car 
but not the damage after. He said this had been ignored. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I thank Mr R for his response. As I explained in my provisional decision, Im satisfied Ive 
seen damage present on every part of the car that MBFS is charging for, on the first report. 
This was either through the photos or video attached to the report. Ive also explained why I 
thought the overall charges for each area of damage were fair as well. Ive not seen that 
MBFS is applying an unfair charge for something that likely happened after the car was 
collected. 
MBFS arranged for an agent to collect the car from Mr R and carry out the report. I 
appreciate it would have been better had the agent set out the actual charges for all of the 
damage on the first report. But Ive explained in my provisional decision why it wasnt 
unreasonable for a second report to be carried out. MBFS is then allowed to decide what to 
charge. Ive weighed up the evidence and found the charges relate to damage that occurred 
while the car was in Mr Rs possession, and that those charges are fair. While I know hell be 
disappointed, I dont find I have the grounds to direct MBFS to remove charges. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision before 16 November 2023.
 
Simon Wingfield
Ombudsman