DRN-2971348
The complaint
Mr J complained about Barclays Bank UK PLC, trading as Barclaycard. 
Two payments went from his bank account with another bank, and credited his Barclaycard, 
in September 2020. Mr J said he only made one of them, and he believes Barclays illegally 
took the other one from his bank account.
What happened
Mr J said hes had a Barclaycard account for many years without a problem. He explained 
that he usually settled his account in full at the end of each month. To do this, he transferred 
money from various accounts into his bank account elsewhere, ready to make the payment 
to Barclays. Mr J said hed sometimes paid his Barclaycard bill by Barclaycards automated 
phone payment system, and sometimes by bank transfer.
Mr Js August 2020 statement showed that the amount to be paid was £1,712.70.  At 3.35pm 
on 4 September, Mr J obtained a mini-statement from his bank, to check he had enough to 
pay his bill. He had just under £3,000.
Later that day, Mr J went online to make his payment  but he found that his bank account 
only showed a balance of £1,258.49. Mr J thought his bank account had been hacked. He 
made an online payment of £1,258 to Barclays, to avoid late payment charges and reduce 
the interest he expected to be charged. He then rang his bank straightaway. It told him that 
the missing funds had been taken by Barclaycard.  
Mr J rang Barclays to complain. He was told that because of the Covid pandemic, the 
complaints team couldnt deal with his complaint, and asked him to go to a branch, which Mr 
J did.
Mr Js Barclaycard statement showed two credits for 4 September: one for £1,712.70, and 
the other for £1,258. Barclays returned £1,258 from Mr Js Barclaycard. This left Barclays on 
12 September, and reached Mr Js bank account on 15 September. 
Mr J was unhappy that he didnt hear promptly from Barclays about his complaint, and 
contacted this service. At about the same time, Barclays sent Mr J its final response. This 
confirmed that two payments had credited Mr Js Barclaycard on 4 September, but it said 
that Mr J should contact his bank, because Barclays hadnt taken the additional payment. 
Mr J wasnt satisfied and asked this service to look into his complaint. He said that he 
wanted his complaint to be upheld, and an acknowledgement that Barclays had acted 
illegally and even fraudulently. He also believed he should receive some compensation for 
the stress and aggravation the complaint had caused him.
Our investigator didnt uphold Mr Js complaint. She looked into the disputed £1,712.70 
payment, and found that it had been made by the automated phone payment service. 
Barclays couldnt trace the number from which the call had been made, but it said that 
whoever made the call would have had to provide personal information, including the card 
number, and a PIN. It provided an extract from its computer system which showed the 
incoming call making the £1,712.70 payment had been made at 16:02 on 4 September.
Mr J offered to obtain his phone records, saying there would be a charge which he would 
expect Barclays to pay. The investigator said this wouldnt make a difference, because she 
hadnt been able to find any fault by Barclays. The computer records had shown that a call 
came in through the automated system, to credit Mr Js account. That wouldnt benefit 
anyone except Mr J. The investigator also thought Barclays had refunded Mr J in a timely 
manner, refunding him within five days.
Mr J wasnt satisfied. He said the refund hadnt reached his bank account until 15 
September, not 12 September, which had been seven working days not five. He said that 
Barclays evidence of a call at 16:02 wasnt evidence. He said that if this complaint ends up 
in a court action, Barclays will also have to provide the date and the phone number which 
rang in. He said Barclays had used the extra £1,258 to offset against transactions not yet 
due to be paid, and he believed Barclays had only refunded hm because he had threatened 
to sue.
Mr J asked for an ombudsman decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im sorry that Mr J has been so distressed by what happened. I can see hes spent a lot of 
time on his complaint, and that he firmly believes hes been the victim of illegality and fraud. 
My job is to look at the evidence provided by both sides, and to reach a decision about 
whats most likely to have happened, in all the circumstances of the case.
Mr J has helpfully provided a copy of his bank statement. This shows the two outgoing 
transactions to Barclays.
The disputed one for £1,712.79 is labelled Bcard Bill P/ment CD 9550 under the 
Description heading. Under Type it has the code DEB.  
Bill payments are an electronic payment mechanism initiated by the account owner, to 
transfer money either by phone, online or mobile banking. 
The type DEB on Mr Js statement indicates that the payment was a debit card payment, 
made either online or directly with Mr Js bank card.
A bill payment would be initiated by the account holder, not by the recipient. So the codes on 
Mr Js bank statement indicate that Barclays didnt take the money, but the money was sent 
to Barclays by the account holder. 
This can be seen by the contrast with one of the other transactions on Mr Js bank statement 
that month. A payment to a utility has a type code DD. This indicates a direct debits. Direct 
debits are initiated by the receiving organisation, and theyre the only way a recipient can 
take money out of a payers account  theyre subject to strict rules and can only be taken in 
line with a payers previously-agreed authority. But the £1,712.79 disputed payment isnt 
coded as a direct debit. The code DEB shows it was a debit card payment made directly 
using Mr Js card.
For completeness, the undisputed £1,258 transaction to Barclays, which Mr J authorised 
online, is coded BARCLAYCARD VISA followed by Mr Js account number. The Type  code for that is FPO. This stands for Faster Payment Outwards  which is what Mr J 
agrees.
So the codes on Mr Js bank statement show that the disputed £1,712.70 transaction was a 
debit card payment initiated by the account holder. It wasnt a direct debit which is the only 
way a recipient can claim money.
I recognise that Mr J is sceptical about the records which Barclays provided about the 
telephone banking payment. Ive looked at what Barclays has sent. Its a screen print from a 
computer record, not just an email telling us that the payment was made at 16:02. The 
screen print shows Mr Js account number, name, date in full, time 16:02, and a number of 
other bank codes. Viewed impartially  I  accept that this is an accurate computer record of 
the incoming transaction, and that it reflects that a telephone payment was made to Mr Js 
account at 16:02 on 4 September 2020.
There is a standard process when completing a telephone banking payment, involving 
entering the card number and a four to six digit PIN, and the customer then chooses how 
much to pay and gives payment details. Its hard to see how the disputed transaction could 
have been carried out by any third party, because Mr J hadnt reported his card lost, stolen 
or compromised. Equally importantly, theres also no reason why a third party fraudster 
would use Mr Js card to make a payment from Mr Js bank to Mr Js Barclaycard.
I dont consider that its necessary for Barclays to prove what phone number was used to 
make the payment. Nor would it change the outcome if Mr J were to provide his phone 
records. The reason is that the phone number isnt something that was used when making 
the payment. What matters is that an incoming payment was made using the standard 
telephone banking process, which required knowledge of some of Mr Js personal security 
information. The phone number isnt relevant to that.
I also note that the time of 16:02 isnt very long after the timing of Mr Js 15:35 mini-
statement from his bank, which he obtained in order to check he had enough money in his 
account to pay that months Barclaycard bill. I also see that Mr J has told us that he has 
sometimes paid his bill by Barclays automated telephone payment system, and sometimes 
by bank transfer. So it was a payment method he did use.
As Ive said above, its clear that Mr J is very distressed about the disputed payment. All the 
evidence, however, indicates that its more likely than not that Mr J authorised the disputed 
payment himself. As Ive set out, the two main reasons are:
- Mr Js own bank statement shows the coding for a debit card payment authorised by 
the account holder. Its not a direct debit, which is the only way Barclays could have 
taken the money; and 
- Barclays computer records show that it was an incoming telephone banking 
payment, which would have been completed using relevant security codes which 
only Mr J could have known.
I recognise that this will be unwelcome to Mr J, who has told us that hes very organised 
about making sure his accounts are in order and that he pays the correct amount promptly 
each month. It is, however, easy for anyone to make a mistake, and I hope the explanations 
here will help Mr J to understand why Ive decided this is whats more likely than not to have 
happened here. In turn, that means I cant tell Barclays that it has to refund the payment 
here.
Finally, Ive looked at the timescales within which Barclays refunded Mr J with the extra 
payment. The payment credited Mr Js Barclaycard on 4 September, and the refund left Barclays on 12 September, which Mr J said arrived back in his bank on 15 September. I 
consider this is a fair and reasonable timescale for the refund. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr J to accept or 
reject my decision before 22 September 2021.
 
Belinda Knight
Ombudsman