DRN-1917140
The complaint
Mr J is unhappy that Union Reiseversicherung AG (URV) failed to provide him with medical 
assistance under his travel insurance policy.
All reference to URV includes its claims handlers and medical assistance team. 
What happened
Mr J took out a travel insurance policy to cover a two weeks holiday abroad, in Europe, in 
the summer of 2019. The policy was underwritten by URV.
Unfortunately, whilst away, Mr J injured his foot and ankle. And, worried that his injuries 
mightve become infected, he sought medical attention. He was advised by the hotel he was 
staying at to visit a particular medical facility close by. Upon arriving at the medical facility he 
was asked to pay 120 euros and told that he would be able to claim this back from his 
insurer. However, the facility said it didnt recognise his insurer. He called URV for 
assistance before proceeding with payment (the call).
Mr J is unhappy with the information he received during the call and the lack of assistance 
provided. He says he wasnt given concise information about where he could go for medical 
assistance. He also says at one point it was suggested he walk three hours to the nearest 
public medical facility.
As a result, he says he was unable to fully enjoy the remainder of his holiday. And it was not 
until he returned to the UK that he was able to get treatment he needed for the infection.
Our investigator didnt uphold Mr Js complaint. Although she empathised with the situation 
Mr J found himself in, having listened to the call, she didnt think URV had given him 
inaccurate information. She also felt URVs representative had been trying to assist him. 
Mr J disagrees. So, his complaint has been passed to me to consider everything afresh and 
make a decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I dont uphold it.
The Financial Conduct Authority (FCA) Handbook sets out a number of Principles for 
Businesses, which URV must follow, including:
Principle 2  A firm must conduct its business with due care, skill and diligence 
Principle 6 - A firm must pay due regard to the interests of its customers and treat 
them fairly 
Principle 8  A firm must manage conflicts of interest fairly, both between itself and 
its customers and between a customer and another client. 
The relevant FCA regulations also include ICOBS 8.1.1R which says:
An insurer must:
(1) handle claims promptly and fairly;
(2) provide reasonable guidance to help a policyholder make a claim (and appropriate 
information on its progress); and
(3) not unreasonably reject a claim (including by terminating or avoiding a policy). 
The policy does cover:
customary and reasonable fees or chargesoutside your home country for medical, 
surgical, hospital nursing . services. 
However, the policy doesnt cover: 
costs of private treatment unless our 24-hour medical helpline has agreed, and adequate 
public facilities are not available.
The policy terms also set out what someone should do in a medical emergency. It says 
medical incidents:
fall into two categories:
-outpatient treatment usually involving minor ailments which entail a visit to the local 
chemist, doctor or clinic; and 
-inpatient treatment which usually entails an admission to a hospital or clinic. 
Given the nature of Mr Js injuries, Im satisfied that they required outpatient treatment, and 
didnt need inpatient treatment.
The policy goes on to give advice on what to do when outpatient treatment is required:
If you need to see a doctor, ask your hotel reception or tour representative for the nearest 
public / state medical facility. Some hotels will urge you to seek private treatment, however 
this is not necessary as private medical facilities vary greatly and are not equipped to deal 
with all emergencies. They may give you unnecessary treatment and at inflated prices - if 
you are ever in doubt please call the assistance team for advice on where to seek treatment.
In Europe you should show them your EHIC card, and have it accepted. Medical treatment 
should be free or at a reduced cost, if so you will not be required to contribute towards the 
claim because the policy excess will be reduced to NIL. 
You will only be covered for the cost of private treatment in these countries if this is 
approved in advance by our 24-hour emergency assistance service (telephone number 
given)
Outpatient bills less than £500 should be paid by you at the time and claimed on your return. 
It is very important to obtain an itemised receipt for any monies paid for medical treatment.Ive listened to a recording of the call and Im satisfied that the information initially given by 
URVs representative was consistent with this. 
After hearing about Mr Js injuries and his visit to the private facility, she initially explained 
that Mr J should attend a public facility instead of a private facility for medical attention. She 
explained that this was due to some private hospitals being a tourist trap. She also 
discussed the process of Mr J paying for the treatment upfront and claiming back the money 
from URV. After she was made aware that the nearest public facility was far from where Mr J 
was staying, she explained that she may be able to agree to Mr J receiving medical attention 
from the private facility. She said shed look to set up a claim and contact the medical facility 
to work with them. 
She then took some details of the medical facility Mr J had visited. Whilst she looked into the 
status of that facility, Mr J said a doctor from the medical facility was visiting his hotel the 
next day to see him, and he doesnt know whether he is going to be charged for that visit. 
The representative then said shes unable to confirm as its an unusual thing to happen. 
The call proceeded. And the representative advised Mr J that if the private facility is covered, 
he would be required to pay a £50 excess. Im satisfied thats in line with the policy terms. 
Mr J replied that if hell have to pay £50 anyway, hell leave it. The call ended shortly after 
that. So, overall, Im persuaded that URVs representative was trying to assist Mr J and if 
hed been happy to pay the £50 excess for medical attention at a private facility, Mr J is likely 
to have received the assistance he wanted from URV.
I note that at one point during the call URVs representative says the nearest public facility 
shed found was 27 minutes away by car and three hours on foot. However, she doesnt 
suggest that Mr J make that journey himself. It was due to the distance of the public facility 
that URVs representative started to explore other ways that URV could assist him. I think 
that was reasonable in this particular case.
I also note that URVs call records reflect that it tried to contact Mr J on two occasions in the 
days following the call. It appears that it was unbale to get through to Mr J the first time and 
second time, Mr J hangs up after the representative explains where he is calling from. So, 
Im satisfied that URV was proactively trying to see whether Mr J did require any further 
assistance from it whilst away.
My final decision
I dont uphold Mr Js complaint. Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im 
required to ask Mr J to accept or reject my decision before 31 December 2020.
 
David Curtis-Johnson
Ombudsman