DRN-3390548
The complaint
Mrs W has complained about Liverpool Victoria Insurance Company Limited (LV). She isnt 
happy about the cost of the policy she was offered at the time of renewal of her motor 
insurance policy.
What happened
Mrs W had car insurance with LV over a number of years. She added two named drivers 
onto the policy in 2021 mid-term and the premium increased. When her policy was due for 
renewal in January 2022 she wasnt happy that the insurance had risen significantly from the 
previous year. And so, she looked to remove the two named drivers and was quoted a price 
that was over £150 more than the previous year. As she wasnt happy about the price she 
was offered she took her business elsewhere. 
But she complained to LV about the cost of the premium she was offered. LV said sorry but 
explained that was the best price it could offer at that point in time. And as Mrs W remained 
unhappy she complained to this Service. 
Our investigator looked into things for her but didnt uphold her complaint. He investigated 
the circumstances surrounding the uplift in price but was satisfied LV had treated Mrs W 
reasonably and in line with how other consumers would be treated in a similar position to 
her.
As Mrs W didnt agree the matter has been passed to me for review. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so I dont think the complaint should be upheld. I know this will come as a 
disappointment to Mrs W, but Ill explain why.
I think its important to explain Ive read and taken into account all of the information provided 
by both parties, in reaching my decision. If Ive not reflected something thats been said in 
this decision its not because I didnt see it, its because I didnt deem it relevant to the crux 
of the complaint. This isnt intended as a discourtesy to either party, but merely to reflect my 
informal role in deciding what a fair and reasonable outcome is. This also means I dont think 
its necessary to get an answer, or provide my own answer, to every question raised unless 
its relevant to the crux of the complaint.
I can understand Mrs Ws frustration as LVs renewal price had increased, especially as I 
think LV could have been a lot clearer, even if it couldnt provide its commercially sensitive 
data to Mrs W, about why there was a price increase. It certainly didnt provide a particularly 
clear explanation to Mrs W initially.
However, Mrs Ws first renewal offer included two young named drivers which naturally 
meant the premium offered was significantly more than her renewal the year before when 
they werent on the policy. But given the additional risk involved here which wasnt 
comparable with the year before I think this was understandable. 
Mrs W then looked for cover with the two younger drivers removed and was surprised to see 
the price was still over £100 more than it had been the year before. As our investigator 
explained generally motor insurance premiums are calculated based on an insurers 
approach to risk  effectively an insurer calculates how much money it needs to collect to 
cover the risk and provide a customer with insurance. The calculations behind this are 
complex and are commercially sensitive so I cant disclose the details to Mrs W.
However, LV has provided data to this Service which shows it has taken into account a 
number of different factors in finalising its offer. These calculations take account of things 
that affect risk such as the vehicle make and model, a customers driving history and the 
area they live amongst a whole range of other factors. And LV moved its approach to rating 
and its rating structure around this time which also affected pricing here. Although I cant 
comment on LVs commercial decision making Im satisfied that it treated all its customers in 
a similar vein here. 
So, while I can understand Mrs Ws frustration, especially as she was a loyal customer of LV 
and it could have explained its position clearer, I cant say LV has done anything wrong here. 
I say this as Im satisfied that Mrs W has been treated the same as any other customer in a 
similar position to her. And, fortunately, she hasnt been impacted by LVs actions here in 
any event as she chose to take her business elsewhere. I know Mrs W feels that she could 
have shopped around earlier and got an even cheaper policy. But I think LV gave enough 
notice to Mrs W that the premium would increase at renewal, and Im pleased to see that she 
got a cheaper policy elsewhere. 
My final decision
It follows, for the reasons given above, that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs W to accept or 
reject my decision before 29 July 2022.
 
Colin Keegan
Ombudsman