DRN-4365958
The complaint
Mr A is complaining that Hiscox Insurance Company Limited hasnt settled a claim he made 
on his car insurance policy.
What happened
The facts of this complaint are well known to all parties, so I wont set them out in detail. But, 
in summary, in March 2021 Mr A says he became aware that a company hed instructed to 
restore one of his classic cars had gone into administration. He reported the incident to his 
broker who advised him to report the claim to the police, which he did. Mr A then proceeded 
to look to track the car down and eventually located it in a storage facility. He advised Hiscox 
as such and asked for its assistance as he said he was unable to get the car back and he 
said it was missing various parts.
Hiscox investigated Mr As claim but said that it didnt think there was a loss covered by the 
policy. Mr A didnt agree as he said hed shown his car was missing a number of parts. So 
he didnt think Hiscoxs decision was fair.
Our investigator didnt uphold this complaint. She said the policy did cover loss or damage to 
Mr As car, but it needed to be shown that this occurred during the time Hiscox was the 
insurer and she didnt think she could reasonably say that was the case. So she didnt think 
Hiscox had acted unfairly.
Mr A didnt agree with the investigator as he didnt think its fair his insurance wasnt covering 
this situation. As he didnt agree, the complaints been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive decided to not uphold this complaint and Ill now explain why.
The terms of the insurance policy set out what Hiscox covers under the insurance policy and 
says:
We [Hiscox] will cover physical loss of or damage to an insured vehicle occurring during the 
period of insurance anywhere within the territorial limits.
So, in essence, unless Hiscox can demonstrate an exclusion clause applies, all Mr A has to 
show is:
1. His car has suffered loss or damage; and
2. That loss or damage occurred during a period of time Hiscox was insuring the vehicle.
Mr A has said that he first sent the car to the repairing garage in 2012 and the garage was 
contracted to complete a a bare metal restoration. In an email to the police Mr A explained 
that work was slow but progress was evident between 2014 and 2017 then slowed down.
I understand Hiscox has insured the car since June 2016. And Mr A has provided photos of 
the car showing it was stripped down and in a worse condition than when it went to the 
repairing garage. So I dont dispute the car has suffered loss or damage. But, for me to say 
Hiscox is liable for the loss, I have to say that this damage happened after it insured the car. 
But, by Mr As own admission the work started in 2012  which would have included the 
stripping down of the vehicle. It seems to me, therefore, that the damage Mr A is claiming for 
was most likely done before Hiscox became the insurer.
I recognise Mr A says that he only became aware of the loss in March 2021 which is when 
he understood the garage ceased trading. But this isnt when the car suffered the damage. It 
may be this is when Mr As civil dispute starts with the repairing garage  i.e. when it 
became apparent that it wouldnt complete the restoration contract. But this doesnt mean its 
when the damage occurred.
Ultimately, I remain of the opinion that the damage that Mr A says the car has suffered 
occurred before Hiscox insured the car. So I cant reasonably say Hiscox should cover the 
claim.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive set out above, its my final decision that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision before 27 October 2023. 
Guy Mitchell
Ombudsman