DRN-3847980
The complaint
Mr K, through a representative complains that Morses Club PLC (Morses) didnt carry out 
sufficient proportionate affordability checks before it lent to him.
What happened
Mr K was advanced six home collected loans between April 2016 and May 2019. Ive
included some of the information weve received about these loans in the table below.
loan 
numberloan 
amountagreement 
daterepayment 
dateterm 
(weeks)weekly 
repayment
1 £200.00 22/04/2016 18/08/2016 20 £15.00
2 £300.00 11/08/2016 09/03/2017 33 £15.00
3 £400.00 09/03/2017 06/10/2017 33 £20.00
4 £400.00 06/10/2017 07/06/2018 33 £20.00
5 £500.00 07/06/2018 31/01/2019 33 £25.00
6 £600.00 17/05/2019 06/11/2019 33 £30.00
Following Mr Ks complaint, Morses wrote to his representative to explain that it wasnt going
to uphold the complaint. Mr Ks representative, then referred the complaint to the 
Financial Ombudsman.
An adjudicator reviewed the complaint. She thought Morses had made a reasonable
decision to provide loans 1 - 4 and so she didnt uphold Mr Ks complaint about these loans.
But she thought loans 5 and 6 should be upheld because the lending had become harmful
for him.
Morses disagreed with the outcome the adjudicator had reached. Ive summarised its
comments below.
Loans 5 and 6 were larger but the increase wasnt in Morses view unsustainable.
Mr K had a good repayment history.
There was a break in lending between Mr K repaying loan 5 and returning for loan 6.
An income and expenditure check was completed before each loan was granted and 
all of the loans looked affordable.
Mr Ks representative confirmed receipt and said it would provide any further comments but 
none where provided. 
The case was then passed to an ombudsman to make a decision about the complaint. I then 
proceeded to issue a provisional decision explaining the reasons why I was intending to 
uphold Mr Ks complaint about loan 5 only. A copy of the provisional findings follows this in 
smaller font and italics and forms part of this final decision.
What I said in the provisional decision
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about this type of lending - including all
the relevant rules, guidance and good industry practice - on our website.
Morses had to assess the lending to check if Mr K could afford to pay back the amounts hed
borrowed without undue difficulty. It needed to do this in a way which was proportionate to
the circumstances. Morses checks couldve taken into account a number of different things,
such as how much was being lent, the size of the repayments, and Mr Ks income and expenditure.
With this in mind, I think in the early stages of a lending relationship, less thorough checks
might have been proportionate. But certain factors might suggest Morses should have done
more to establish that any lending was sustainable for Mr K. These factors include:
Mr K having a low income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make any
loan repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income);
The amounts to be repaid being especially high (reflecting that it could be more
difficult to meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income);
Mr K having a large number of loans and/or having these loans over a long
period of time (reflecting the risk that repeated refinancing may signal that the
borrowing had become, or was becoming, unsustainable);
Mr K coming back for loans shortly after previous borrowing had been repaid
(also suggestive of the borrowing becoming unsustainable).
There may even come a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable for Mr K.
Morses was required to establish whether Mr K could sustainably repay the loans  not just
whether he technically had enough money to make his repayments. Having enough money
to make the repayments could of course be an indicator that Mr K was able to repay his
loans sustainably. But it doesnt automatically follow that this is the case.
Industry regulations say that payments are sustainable if they are made without undue
difficulties and in particular, made on time, while meeting other reasonable commitments and
without having to borrow to make them. If a lender realises, or ought reasonably to have
realised, that a borrower wont be able to make their repayments without borrowing further,
then it follows that it should conclude those repayments are unsustainable.
Ive considered all the arguments, evidence and information provided in this context, and
thought about what this means for Mr Ks complaint.
Neither Morses nor Mr K (or his representative) appear to disagree with the outcome the
adjudicator reached about loans 1 - 4. I therefore no longer think these loans are in dispute
and so I say no more about them. But I have kept them in mind when thinking about the
overall lending relationship.
Loan 5
For this loan, Morses has shown that it asked Mr K for details of his income and expenditure.
He declared, an income of £299.27 with outgoings of £196 per week. This left Mr K with a
weekly disposable income of £103.27 per week to make his weekly repayments of no more
than £25.
Based solely on Mr Ks income and expenditure information Morses couldve been confident
he would be able to comfortably afford the repayments he was committed to making.
But its arguable whether these checks went far enough considering how long Mr K had
been indebted to Morses, his future weekly payments and his lending history. For example,
Mr K returning for further borrowing usually on the same day a previous loan had been
repaid. By now, it wouldve been reasonable for Morses to have at the very least, started tohave verified the information it was being given. Ive not seen anything to suggest it carried
out further checks in this case.
However, I dont think I need to try and establish, in this case, whether a proportionate check
wouldve led Morses to conclude these loans were unaffordable for Mr K.
So, in addition to looking at the checks that Morses did Ive also looked at the overall pattern
of Morses lending history with Mr K, with a view to seeing if there was a point at which
Morses should reasonably have seen that further lending was unsustainable, or otherwise
harmful. And so Morses should have realised that it shouldnt have provided any further
loans.
Given the particular circumstances of Mr Ks case, I think that this point was reached by loan
5. I say this because:
At this point Morses ought to have realised Mr K was not managing to repay his
loans sustainably. Mr K was now taking his fifth loan in 26 months. So Morses ought
to have realised it was more likely than not Mr K was having to borrow further to
cover a long-term short fall in his living costs.
From his first loan, Mr K was provided with a new loan on the same day a previous
loan was repaid. To me, this is a sign that Mr K was using these loans to fill a long-
term gap in his income rather than as a short-term need.
Over the course of the lending relationship, Mr Ks weekly commitments generally
increased. There was no time when his commitment decreased. Which may have
given Morses confidence that Mr K was no longer reliant on these loans. However,
the fact that these loans were lent in a consecutive manner, ought to have led it to
realise these loans werent sustainable anymore.
Mr K wasnt making any real inroads into the amount he owed Morses. Loan 5 was
taken out 26 months after Mr Ks first loan and was to be repaid over the same term
as most of the previous loans. This loan was also the largest capital loan to date and
was more than twice the value of the first loan. Mr K had paid large amounts of
interest to, in effect, service a debt to Morses over an extended period.
I think that Mr K lost out when Morses provided loan 5 because:
these loans had the effect of unfairly prolonging Mr Ks indebtedness by allowing him
to take expensive credit intended for short-term use over an extended period of time
the number of loans and the length of time over which Mr K borrowed was likely to
have had negative implications on Mr Ks ability to access mainstream credit and so
kept him in the market for these high-cost loans.
So, Im upholding Mr Ks complaint about loan 5.
Loan 6
The adjudicator upheld the loan because in her view the lending was now harmful for
Mr K.
I accept, that Mr K had been indebted with Morses for around 3 years and he was further
committing to be indebted for an additional 33 weeks. This, in some situations could be a
sign that he was now reliant on the borrowing or at the very least having longer term money
management problems.
However, what I cant ignore is that there was a break of over around four months from when
he repaid loan 5 to when he returned for loan 6. In some cases, that maybe enough to break
the whole lending chain and therefore, Morses, in some cases may have considered loan 6
as in effect loan 1 in a new chain.
In saying that, in this case, I think the break in lending is significant enough to show that
Mr K was no longer reliant on this lending and or it was otherwise harmful for him thatdoesnt mean Morses did all it ought to have done before it advanced this loan.
So, taking everything together, I dont think Morses wouldve or ought to have realised the
loan was unsustainable for Mr K and so I am intending to conclude the loan wasnt likely to
be so harmful that it wouldve prompted Morses to have stopped lending to him. But that
doesnt mean Morses did all it shouldve done before advancing the loan.
It also doesnt mean that Morses carried out a proportionate check. I do think the time in
debt, the increasing capital value of the loan ought to have alerted Morses to the possibility
that Mr K may have had wider financial problems.
So, I dont think it was reasonable for Morses to have relied on what Mr K declared to it
about his income and expenditure even though this information suggested Mr K could
afford the loan repayments.
Instead, I think it needed to gain a full understanding of Mr Ks actual financial position to
ensure the loan was affordable. This couldve been done in several ways, such as asking for
evidence of her outgoings or looking at bank statements and/or Mr Ks full credit file.
This mightve helped verify information provided and revealed whether there was any other
information that Morses mightve needed to consider about Mr Ks financial position.
However, that isnt the end of the matter. For me to be able to uphold the loan, I have to be
satisfied that had Morses carried out what I consider to be a proportionate check it wouldve
likely discovered that Mr K couldnt afford it.
Mr Ks representative hasnt provided a copy of his credit file or his bank statements
covering the period leading up to loan being advanced. Without anything further, I cant be
sure, what Morses may have seen had it carried out better checks. So, I cant fairly uphold
the complaint about this loan.
So, Im intending to not uphold Mr Ks complaint about the loan.
Response to the provisional decision 
Both Mr K and Morses were asked to provide anything further in response to the provisional 
decision as soon as possible, but in any event, no later than 5 December 2022. 
Mr Ks representative emailed the Financial Ombudsman to confirm Mr K accepted the 
findings as outlined in the provisional decision. 
Morses also let the Financial Ombudsman know that it was accepting the outcome in the 
provisional decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Both Mr K and Morses accepted the findings which I outlined in the provisional decision. I 
therefore see no reason to depart from those findings and I still think Morses was wrong to 
have advanced loan 5 to Mr K. 
Ive outlined below what Morses has agreed to do in order to put things right.
Putting things right
In deciding what redress Morses should fairly pay in this case Ive thought about what mighthave happened had if it hadnt lent loan 5, as Im satisfied it ought to have. Clearly there are
a great many possible, and all hypothetical, answers to that question.
For example, having been declined this lending Mr K may have simply left matters there, not
attempting to obtain the funds from elsewhere. If this wasnt a viable option, he may have
looked to borrow the funds from a friend or relative  assuming that was even possible.
Or, he may have decided to approach a third-party lender with the same application, or
indeed a different application (i.e. for more or less borrowing). But even if he had done that,
the information that would have been available to such a lender and how he would (or ought
to have) treated an application which may or may not have been the same is impossible to
now accurately reconstruct. From what Ive seen in this case, I certainly dont think I can
fairly conclude there was a real and substantial chance that a new lender would have been
able to lend to Mr K in a compliant way at this time.
Having thought about all of these possibilities, Im not persuaded it would be fair or
reasonable to conclude that Mr K would more likely than not have taken up any one of these
options. So, it wouldnt be fair to now reduce Morsess liability in this case for what Im
satisfied it has done wrong and should put right.
Morses shouldnt have provided Mr K with loan 5.
A. Morses should add together the total of the repayments made by Mr K towards 
interest, fees and charges on these loans, including payments made to a third party 
where applicable, but not including anything you have already refunded.
B. Morses should calculate 8% simple interest* on the individual payments made by 
Mr K which were considered as part of A, calculated from the date Mr K originally 
made the payments, to the date the complaint is settled.
C. Morses should pay Mr K the total of A plus B.
D. The overall pattern of Mr Ks borrowing for loan 5 means any information recorded 
about them is adverse, so Morses should remove the loan entirely from Mr Ks credit 
file.
*HM Revenue & Custom requires Morses to deduct tax from this interest. Morses should
give Mr K a certificate showing how much tax it has deducted, if he asks for one.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained above and in the provisional decision, Im upholding Mr Ks 
complaint in part.
Morses Club PLC should put things right for Mr K as directed above. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr K to accept or 
reject my decision before 5 January 2023.
 
Robert Walker
Ombudsman