DRN-2942251
The complaint
Mr C complains Zenith Insurance Plc settled his motor insurance claim unfairly.
What happened
In April 2021 Mr Cs van was damaged in a collision. He claimed on his Zenith motor 
insurance policy. The van was deemed a total loss. Zenith offered to settle his claimed using 
a valuation of £9,000. That was including VAT, but before any excess deduction. Mr C felt 
this was too low, so declined Zeniths offer. 
In May 2021 Zenith issue a complaint response to Mr C. It said his policy terms stated the 
most it would pay in the event of a total loss is the market value of the insured vehicle 
immediately before the loss. It explained various trade guides provided an average market 
value of about £6,650 including VAT. Zenith said it had accepted the guides were low 
compared to what it had seen on the market. So it had increased the settlement to £9,000.
Mr C was still unhappy so came to this service. He says Zeniths valuation isnt enough to 
allow him to buy a comparable van in a similar condition. He feels £11,000 - £12,000, 
including VAT, would be fairer. Hes also complained about Zeniths customer service during 
the claim. 
Our investigator didnt feel Zenith had done anything wrong. He felt Zeniths valuation and 
settlement offer was fair. Mr C didnt accept that, so the complaint was passed to me to 
decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im not going to require Zenith to do anything differently.
Mr Cs policy says Zenith can decide either to repair the damage, replace whats lost or pay 
Mr C an amount equal to the loss or damage. So the terms provide Zenith with a choice. Ive 
no reason to think its choice to pay Mr C an amount equal to the loss was unfair or 
unreasonable.
 
The policy says Zenith will not pay more than the market value of the vehicle less the excess 
shown in Mr Cs policy schedule. Market value is defined as the cost of replacing it in the UK 
with another of the same age, condition, make, mileage, model and specification just before 
the time of the loss. So Ive considered if Zeniths offer to settle Mr Cs claim is fair and in 
line with these terms.   
Its not the role of our service to put an exact value on a vehicle. When looking into these 
types of complaints we check the relevant trade guides and consider whether the insurer has 
made a reasonable offer in line with them. We do also consider information other than trade 
guides, including adverts. But we place most weight on the guides as theyre based on 
nationwide research of likely selling prices, so theyre more reliable than individual adverts. 
Zenith used three trade guides. The valuations ranged from about £6,100 to £7,200 
including VAT. This service has checked some trade guides - using the make, model, age 
and mileage of vehicle of Mr Cs vehicle. The given values are significantly below the £9,000 
valuation Zeniths offer is based on.
Mr Cs provided some adverts for vehicles like his. He says they show Zeniths valuation is 
too low. The adverts do give prices of £10,500 to £11,500 exclusive of VAT. But they are for 
vans with significantly lower mileage than Mr Cs  30,000 to 80,000 to his vans 150,000. I 
lowered the mileage for Mr Cs van on one of the trade guides. Doing so produced values 
much closer to those Mr C feels would be fair for his van.  
Ive considered everything Mr Cs provided including the adverts and his comments on the 
standard, maintenance, condition and specification of his van. Ive also thought about the 
current condition of the used vehicle market. But Im not persuaded Zeniths market value or 
settlement offer, particularly when the mileage of Mr Cs van is considered, is unfair or 
unreasonable. 
Mr Cs complained Zenith, when he was disputing its offer, didnt allow him to provide any 
supporting information. Ive looked through its record of contact for his claim. I can see 
Zenith had various conversations with Mr C about the valuation. It also responded to various 
emails he sent in. Overall, I cant say Zenith didnt provide him with a reasonable opportunity 
to contest its valuation. 
According to Mr C Zenith opened a complaint without his knowledge. I can see it did tell him, 
after he turned down an interim payment for the van, that it would raise a complaint. From 
the call notes it seems he understood what was happening.  
Mr C paid a compound release fee for the van. He complains Zenith hasnt reimbursed him. 
Its claim notes show it offered to do so in May 2021, but he asked that the payment not be 
made until this service had considered his complaint. So I cant say Zenith treated him 
unfairly here. If Mr C would like the funds he should get in touch with the Zenith.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, Im not upholding Mr Cs complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 13 January 2022.
 
Daniel Martin
Ombudsman