DRN-2167581
The complaint
Miss J says PDL Finance Limited, trading as Mr Lender (Mr Lender), irresponsibly lent to 
her. Miss J says she had other short-term loans at the same time as she was borrowing from  
Mr Lender and had to borrow further to keep up with repayments. 
What happened
This complaint is about one short-term Mr Lender provided to Miss J in May 2010. Miss Js 
borrowing history is as follows:
Loan Date 
TakenDate 
RepaidInstalments Amount Repayment Deferrals
1 12/05/2010 23/12/2011 1 £300.00 £380.00 16
Mr Lender had previously offered to refund charges and interest Miss J had paid after 3 May 
2011 (rollovers 13  16). It said it have paid Miss J £425 plus 8% in June 2015 for this. 
Our adjudicator partially upheld Miss Js complaint and thought the rollovers four onwards 
shouldnt have been given. They thought it was evident that Miss J was struggling to make 
loan repayments after the third rollover the loan. 
Mr Lender disagreed with the adjudicator. It referred to the fact it had already upheld the 
complaint about rollovers 13  16. But it did offer redress for rollovers 9 - 12. 
We put the offer Mr Lender made to Miss J, but she didnt want to accept it. Mr Lender then 
offered to uphold the complaint about rollovers 5  12 but again, Miss J didnt want to accept 
it. 
As the complaint remains unresolved it has been passed to me for decision in my role as 
ombudsman. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about short-term lending - including all of 
the relevant rules, guidance and good industry practice - on our website. 
Mr Lender needed to take reasonable steps to ensure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In 
practice this means that it should have carried out proportionate checks to make sure Miss J 
could repay the loans in a sustainable manner. These checks could take into account a 
number of different things, such as how much was being lent, the repayment amounts and 
the consumers income and expenditure. With this in mind, in the early stages of a lending 
relationship, I think less thorough checks might be reasonable and proportionate.  
But certain factors might point to the fact that Mr Lender should fairly and reasonably have 
done more to establish that any lending was sustainable for the consumer. These factors 
include:
the lower a consumers income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make 
any loan repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income);
the higher the amount due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income); 
the greater the number and frequency of loans, and the longer the period of time 
during which a customer has been given loans (reflecting the risk that repeated 
refinancing may signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, 
unsustainable).
There may even come a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly 
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable.
I think that it is important for me to start by saying that Mr Lender was required to establish 
whether Miss J could sustainably repay her loans  not just whether the loan payments were 
affordable on a strict pounds and pence calculation. 
Of course, the loan payments being affordable on this basis might be an indication a 
consumer could sustainably make their repayments. But it doesnt automatically follow this is 
the case. This is because the relevant regulations define sustainable as being without undue 
difficulties and in particular the customer should be able to make repayments on time, while 
meeting other reasonable commitments; as well as without having to borrow to meet 
the repayments. And it follows that a lender should realise, or it ought fairly and reasonably 
to realise, that a borrower wont be able to make their repayments sustainably if theyre 
unlikely to be able to make their repayments without borrowing further. 
In Mr Lenders response to the adjudicator it referred to another ombudsmans decision 
which it said conflicted with the outcome reached by the adjudicator. This service considers 
each individual complaint on its own particular merits, so I wont be taking any other 
information into account other than is relevant to this particular complaint. 
Miss J didnt disagree with the adjudicators opinion that the first three rollovers on the loan 
shouldnt be upheld. Because of this, I dont think there is any ongoing disagreement about 
this part of the borrowing. So, I wont be making a decision about it. But the lending was part 
of the borrowing relationship Miss J had with Mr Lender. So, it is something I will take into 
account when considering the other lending she took. 
Ive carefully considered all of the arguments, evidence and information provided in this 
context and what this all means for Miss Js complaint. After doing so Ive decided to uphold 
the complaint in part. Ill explain why.
Before agreeing to this loan Mr Lender asked Miss J for details of her employment, income 
and living costs. From the information recorded by Mr Lender, this loan would have seemed 
affordable and I dont think Mr Lender was wrong to have agreed to the lending on a pounds 
and pence basis  it appeared affordable for Miss J. 
Mr Lender has told us Miss J chose to make interest only payments for the loan. It says this 
facility provides its customers with flexibility in repaying the loan. This meant the loan was 
rolled over in return for a monthly payment of additional interest  in this case £75 per 
rollover. But this happened repeatedly on a monthly basis on a total of 16 occasions. I think that after 
the loan had been rolled over three times, Mr Lender ought to have realised that the 
repayment was potentially problematic for Miss J and a possible sign she was experiencing 
financial difficulties. It should have responded to her sympathetically and positively rather 
than letting her rollover further.
So, I think that after the third rollover Mr Lender should have realised that further lending 
was unsustainable for Miss J and it shouldnt have agreed to rollovers four and onwards. 
I understand from Mr Lender that Miss J made contact as she couldnt settle the loan. Mr 
Lender says it supported Miss J by setting up an affordable repayment plan and Miss J was 
able to repay the loan in full. 
It also told us of the redress it says had been paid in June 2015 to Miss J for interest and 
charges after 3 May 2011 (rollovers 13 - 16). Mr Lender doesnt have the acceptance 
evidence of this offer but has been able to give us a copy of its faster payments record 
which shows the amount of £425 being paid on 13 April 2015. 
Its also given us other records from its systems which says 19/06/2015 15:17:17 8% 
compensation refund set to be paid out on 23.06.2015. So, its not completely clear what 
was actually paid as its faster payments records only refers to the amount of £425 paid on a 
different date and there is no indication of the 8% interest being added as well (unless this is 
the 23.06.2015 payment) which Mr Lender has told us was the case. 
Bearing this in mind, and to make it clear, Ive included all of the rollovers in the redress 
section that are either being upheld in this decision or that have already offered by Mr 
Lender. 
So, like the adjudicator, Im also upholding the complaint about the rollovers four and 
onwards and Mr Lender should put things right.
Putting things right
refund all interest and charges Miss J paid on rollovers four and onwards;
pay interest of 8% simple a year on any refunded interest and charges from the date 
they were paid (if they were) to the date of settlement;
remove any negative information about the rollovers four and onwards from Miss Js 
credit file;
Mr Lender can deduct any redress it has already paid but it needs to provide Miss J 
with evidence of the amount paid and that it included 8% interest. 
 HM Revenue & Customs requires Mr Lender to take off tax from this interest. Mr Lender 
must give Miss J a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if she asks for one.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, Im partially upholding Miss Js complaint. PDL Finance 
Limited should put things right as set out above.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss J to accept or 
reject my decision before 21 October 2020.
 
Catherine Langley
Ombudsman