DRN-3402620
The complaint
Mr M complains that The Co-operative Bank Plc (the Co-op) provided incorrect information 
on their banking app suggesting his mortgage direct debit had been paid when it hadnt.  
What happened
Mr M maintains a current account with the Co-op from which he pays various household bills 
and payments. Those payments include a regular direct debit to his mortgage provider. 
In or around October 2021, Mr M discovered that his mortgage direct debit hadnt been paid 
for three months. After various conversations and discussions with the Co-op and his 
mortgage provider, Mr M established that the direct debit instruction had been set up with an 
expiry date of 5 July 2021 by his mortgage provider. And although theyd continued to make 
direct debit claims each month, those claims were rejected, as the direct debit instruction 
held by the Co-op was no longer active.
Mr Ms mortgage provider accepted theyd made a mistake. They corrected this and 
removed the arrears that had been reported on Mr Ms mortgage. But Mr M thought the 
information reported on the Co-op banking app on his smart device was wrong. Each 
month, the app showed that his mortgage payment was scheduled as paid when, in fact, it 
hadnt been. 
Mr M thought the Co-op had reported incorrect information which had led him to believe his 
mortgage was being paid. He didnt think this was right and thought it was the Co-ops 
responsibility to look after his financial affairs. He thought the Co-op shouldve told him his 
mortgage payments hadnt been paid.
Mr M complained to the Co-op on 7 October 2021. He was unhappy with how his mortgage 
direct debit was being shown on the banking app on his smart device. He said the 
information they were providing was false and misleading. The Co-op didnt agree theyd 
done anything wrong. They said Mr Ms mortgage provider had made mistakes in how theyd 
attempted to claim direct debit payments. Because of this, each claim was still being 
reported on the banking app. But because no valid direct debit instruction was active, the 
claims were being rejected.
Mr M wasnt happy with the Co-ops response to his complaint. He thought theyd a 
responsibility to report accurate information and tell him if the direct debit wasnt being paid. 
So, Mr M decided to refer his complaint to this service.
Having considered all the details of Mr Ms complaint, our investigator didnt think the Co-op 
had made a mistake or treated Mr M unfairly or unreasonably. Mr M didnt agree with our 
investigators findings. So, as an agreement couldnt be reached, his complaint has been 
passed to me to consider.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
A direct debit instruction gives a company permission to take money out of a consumers 
bank account on an agreed date. The instruction is confirmed by the consumer and 
effectively gives permission for their bank to accept and process those payment claims. The 
claiming company can usually collect however much is owed to them. But they must inform 
the consumer in advance how much they will be taking and when.
When a direct debit is set up for the first time, its the claimant (in this case Mr Ms mortgage 
provider) who notifies the paying bank (here thats the Co-op) that theres an active direct 
debit instruction. Part of that information may also include details of how many payments will 
be claimed or an instruction expiry date. In Mr Ms case, the mortgage provider had set up 
the direct debit with an expiry date of 5 July 2021. This meant that the Co-op wouldnt accept 
any claims under that instruction after then.
Direct debits are processed through the Bankers Automated Clearing System (BACS). 
BACS traditionally operates on a three-day cycle. So, any direct debit claim would usually be 
initiated by Mr Ms mortgage provider on day one before being paid from his Co-op bank 
account on day three. Mr Ms mortgage provider continued to claim his mortgage direct debit 
payment, even after the instruction had expired in July 2021. Each claim appeared as a 
scheduled payment on the Co-ops banking app. This is what Mr M wouldve seen. But 
when it fell due for payment on day three, the Co-op refused the claim as the direct debit 
instruction had expired.
I can appreciate how this might have been confusing to Mr M. The banking app wouldve 
shown a payment due to go out, but it would later disappear from his statement when the 
Co-op refused the claim. This was further confused because the Co-ops banking app would 
then show the date of the last direct debit claim  whether it had been paid or not. 
Scheduled payments on banking apps are usually provided as an aid to plan future 
expenditure. But they dont necessarily mean a payment will definitely be made. This can 
only be established by checking the bank statement once the claim has been accepted and 
paid by the Co-op. Ive seen copies of Mr Ms bank statements which show a direct debit 
payment was processed on 5 July 2021 but stopped after that. So, I think it was clear the 
payments were no longer being made. I would also have expected Mr Ms mortgage provider 
to have notified him in the event that a payment wasnt received.
Mr M believes the Co-op shouldve told him when the direct debit payments werent made. 
While I understand why Mr M may think that, I dont agree. The original direct debit 
instruction wouldve reflected an agreement between him and his mortgage provider. And as 
this appeared to include an expiry date, it wouldnt be unreasonable for the Co-op to 
conclude that Mr M shouldve been aware of this. So, theyd have no reason to notify him. 
As Ive already said, the question of why payments werent made has been resolved. Mr Ms 
concern here is about what was reported on his Co-op banking app. And as Ive explained, I 
cant reasonably say that the information reported was inaccurate or false. Scheduled 
payments were reported as a consequence of claims made by Mr Ms mortgage provider. 
But these were subsequently rejected by the Co-op when they fell due.
I appreciate Mr M may will be disappointed. But I dont think the Co-op did anything wrong 
here or treated Mr M unfairly or unreasonably. So, I wont be upholding his complaint.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I dont uphold Mr Ms complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 23 August 2022.
 
Dave Morgan
Ombudsman