DRN-4446019
The complaint
Ms N has complained about Admiral Insurance (Gibraltar) Limited. She isnt happy with the 
way it dealt with a claim under her motor insurance policy.
What happened
I looked at this case and provided my initial thoughts in my provisional decision as follows;
Ms N made a claim under her Admiral motor insurance policy after she was involved in an 
accident and her vehicle was declared a total loss. But she wasnt happy with the way it 
dealt with her claim, so she complained to Admiral.
Admiral accepted it got a number of things wrong and offered her £400 by way of 
compensation in acknowledgement of a number of failings including - not telling her that she 
could retain the salvage; that she didnt receive support when she was anxious about the 
insurance process; that it referred to her incorrectly during telephone calls; that it didnt 
respond to her in a timely fashion and she had to deal with multiple teams about her claim; 
that she asked to make a yearly premium payment as opposed to monthly; and that she was 
caused stress and had to see her doctor.
When our investigator looked into Ms Ns complaint he upheld it. He agreed that Admiral had 
made a number of errors as it accepted, and he thought its offer of £400 compensation for 
most of this was fair. And he explained why he wasnt upholding a few of Ms Ns further 
concerns. But he thought it should increase the level of compensation by a further £750 
compensation for the failure to allow Ms N to retain the salvage of her car.
As Admiral didnt agree the matter has been passed to me for review.
What Ive provisionally decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so I agree the complaint should be upheld but Im suggesting a different level of 
compensation to the amount put forward by our investigator. But before I finalise my decision 
I want to give both sides the opportunity to comment.
It is agreed that the general service provided by Admiral wasnt to the required level and this 
clearly caused Ms N a fair degree of stress and inconvenience. And as both sides appear to 
accept that £400 is a fair level of compensation for this I dont propose to go over the finer 
detail of this again now. I agree that Admiral should pay Ms N £400 for the failings identified.
Although I can understand why Admiral has responded to our investigators opinion to say it 
isnt its process to offer retention of salvage to customers. But it has already acknowledged 
to Ms N in its Final Response Letter (FRL) and in the file notes that it should have allowed 
this to happen in Ms Ns case when it upheld this point. Given this, Ill just focus on the level 
of compensation offered and I think the additional £750 suggested by our investigator for this 
is a little high here.
I say this as I cant be sure Ms N would have gone ahead with the return of the salvage (her 
car) if it was offered given that she would have had to get the car repaired herself. And 
obviously this would have impacted on her ability to use the car and stay mobile for work.
However, the discussion on file suggests the damage to her car was mainly cosmetic so I 
think Ms N couldve managed the repair herself so that she could stay mobile. So, although 
Ms N wasnt entitled to a courtesy car as her car was written off I think the possibility of 
retaining the salvage should have been explored with Ms N. And given her circumstances at 
the time she may well have chosen this path, especially as Ive listened to the calls Ms N 
made about the claim when she made it abundantly clear that she had to have a car for work 
and the amount of stress not having a car caused.
Given all of this, I agree that Ms N should have been offered the possibility of keeping the 
salvage and should be compensated for this failing. It would appear that Admiral offered a 
small amount of compensation for its error, but I think £400 for this failing in addition to the 
£400 offered for the other failings and poor service feels fair (£800 total).
Replies
Both Ms N and Admiral didnt provide any comment or respond to my provisional decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so I remain of the view that the complaint should be upheld for the reasons 
outlined above. As neither party responded to my provisional decision I dont propose to go 
over the finer detail of this complaint or rehearse the arguments again now. 
Ultimately, Im satisfied that Ms N shouldve been offered the possibility of keeping the 
salvage (her car) and that she should be compensated for this failing. And so, I think Admiral 
should pay £400 in addition to the £400 already offered for the poor service and failings 
identified. 
My final decision
It follows, for the reasons given above, that I uphold this complaint. I require Admiral 
Insurance (Gibraltar) Limited to pay Ms N an additional £400 (£800 total) compensation. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms N to accept or 
reject my decision before 8 December 2023.
 
Colin Keegan
Ombudsman