DRN-3147037
The complaint
Mr P has complained that U K Insurance Limited trading as Churchill (UKI) declined a claim 
following a single vehicle crash in August 2021.
What happened
Mr P was involved in a single vehicle crash on a motorway on 5 August 2021. He said he 
saw the car in front of him slow down drastically when it hit a patch of water. He says he 
panicked, and he hit the brakes harshly over the puddle, causing him to lose control and hit 
the central reservation. He says that with considerable effort he got the car over to the hard 
shoulder on three wheels, as one of his wheels was badly damaged in the crash and he 
called his breakdown service. He reported the incident to UKI the next day and UKI arranged 
for the car to be uplifted and moved to a garage. 
On 18 August 2021 UKI called and said the vehicle involved in the crash was unroadworthy 
due to what it said was the poor condition of the rear tyres. Because of this UKI declined 
Mr Ps claim in line with the policy terms and conditions. 
Mr P was very unhappy. He said hed only had the vehicle a number of months and hed 
already spent money replacing the rear tyres. He said there was no way they couldve worn 
so quickly, and he referred the complaint to this service. An investigator looked at this 
complaint and was satisfied UKI had made a fair and reasonable decision as per the terms 
and conditions of the policy.
But Mr P doesnt agree, and hes asked for an ombudsman to review the complaint.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im not upholding this complaint. Ill explain why.
Its our role to make sure UKI has made a fair and reasonable decision when it declined the 
claim. Our approach is to review UKIs actions and to decide whether it has done enough to 
fairly and reasonably decline Mr Ps claim in line with the available evidence and the terms 
and conditions of his policy. 
Mr Ps policy has a number of general conditions set out. And one of these conditions is 
under the heading of taking care of your car. The policy says You and any person who is 
covered by this policy must make sure your car is roadworthy
Mr P says that legal tyre limit is 1.6mm. He says he made reasonable efforts to keep the 
vehicle up to standard and roadworthy. He says that the garage measured the rear tyres on 
10 August and were deemed above the limit at 2mm. He has provided a receipt from 23 
June 2021 that shows he replaced two tyres on the vehicle. He has also provided a report 
dated 10 August 2021 from the inspecting garage that shows the back-wheel measurements 
as follows:
Nearside rear 2mm
Offside rear 2mm
Mr P says these measurements were taken by a reputable garage with high standard 
credentials. He says these measurements are a direct contradiction of those provided by 
UKI and that the evidence he is providing is credible. He says he knows the tyres were low, 
but they werent illegal according to the report completed on 10 August 2021.
UKI has submitted photographs of the vehicles rear wheels taken on the 12 August 2021 
and 16 August 2021. The photos taken on 12 August 2021 of the near side rear wheel show 
a tyre with visible signs of wear on the middle and inside sections, and with wear, to a lesser 
extent visible on the outer section of the tyre. The offside rear wheel is similar to this, wear 
on the middle to inner part of the tyre, with less wear visible on the outer part of tyre. 
The photos taken on 16 August 2021 show the garage using the tyre depth indicator tool. 
The measurement from the inside of the nearside rear tyre reads less than 1mm. The outer 
measurement reads less than 1.6mm. The measurement from the offside tyre reads less 
than 1.6mm inner measurement and 2mm for the outer section of that tyre. 
Ive reviewed the claim notes taken throughout this claim in order to gauge a timeline of what 
happened. The vehicle was taken to a garage and the initial visual inspection was done. This 
report is the one provided by both parties. Its provided as an estimate and it sets out the two 
rear tyres as having thread depth measurements of 2mm.
However, I can see that when the vehicle was put up on a lift, and the rear wheels as a 
whole became more visible, a concern was raised. The garage carried out its own 
measurements, with a tyre depth indicator and Ive listed them above. I note this is the same 
garage that carried out the visual inspection and provided the estimate report that Mr P is 
relying on. 
At this point UKI had a call with Mr P. Mr P was told the tyres were below the legal limit and 
the vehicle was unroadworthy. He was told the claim would be declined. Mr P said the tyres 
were new and provided a recent receipt for them. He also said that he had put excessive 
pressure on the wheels trying to get to the hard shoulder directly after the accident and 
whilst loading the vehicle onto the tow truck. He says this likely contributed to the tyres 
burning out. 
So, the wheels were sent to a tyre specialist for a second report. This report sets out the 
measurements at the three measurement points on a tyre. It measures the inner section, 
middle section and outer section. And from the readings provided I can see one of the rear 
wheels has readings of 0mm/0mm/1.6mm. The other rear wheel has readings of 
1mm/1mm/1.6mm. 
UKI also contacted the breakdown company and looked again at images of the vehicle at the 
roadside post-accident and at Mr Ps home address. There was no mention of tyre condition 
on the breakdown report, and there were no visible skid or burn marks at the accident site or 
home address in the photos. The engineer concluded that given the price of the tyres on the 
receipt they were unlikely to have been new tyres and more likely to have been part worn 
tyres. Part worn tyres are legal, but are part worn, so wouldnt have the thread depth of a 
new tyre. He also concluded that the tyres couldnt have worn to such an extent as 
evidenced in the photographs on the wet road, whilst Mr P attempted to get across to the 
hard shoulder or when manoeuvring the car up onto the tow truck.The law requires car tyres to have a minimum tread depth of 1.6mm in a continuous band 
around the central three quarters of the tyre. To help you judge how much tread you have on 
your car tyres, manufacturers often mould tread bars across all three section points of a tyre 
at roughly 1.6mm.
On Mr Ps rear wheels, the measurements taken by a specialist would indicate that the tyre 
thread depth is lower than 1.6mm on a continuous band around the tyre. This means the 
tyres on the back wheels were below the legal limit at the time of inspection. I appreciate Mr 
Ps argument that the report on 10 August was taken after the date of the accident and 
recorded the tyre depth as 2mm on both wheels. But that was a visual inspection only. And 
the tyre wear shown in the photograph shows clearly that there is inconsistent tyre wear on 
the middle to inner section of both rear tyres, with less wear on the outer part of the tyres. Its 
also clear that in certain sections of both tyres, the tyre material is wearing at the level of the 
thread bars. So, Im satisfied the readings are correct and the rear wheels were both below 
the legal limit.
So, I need to determine when this wear is more likely than not to have happened. Ive 
considered the argument put forward that the tyres were worn out after the incident whilst Mr 
P was trying to safeguard and recover the vehicle. However, whereas I dont disagree with 
Mr P, and I can see how there wouldve been wheel spin given the damage to the front 
offside wheel, the consistency and shape of the tyre wear on both tyres suggests an ongoing 
longer standing issue. If there was wear due to wheel spin, I would expect to see a more 
consistent wear around the full band of the tyres. But wear such as that described by Mr P 
would only take place after a very heavy wheel spin for a long period of time, at a very high 
rev on a drier surface, and that type of wear is not evidenced in the photographs provided in 
this instance. So, Im satisfied the tyre wear likely predated the accident. And the low thread 
on these tyres is more likely than not the reason why the vehicle aquaplaned and Mr P lost 
control when he had to harshly apply the brakes on a patch of road with heavy surface 
water. Because of this I think it was reasonable for UKI to make the decision to decline the 
claim.
I appreciate this is not the outcome Mr P wanted, and he will be disappointed with this final 
decision. I know he has suffered, and this incident has had an impact on both himself and 
his livelihood. But based on the evidence provided on this file, I think UKI made a fair and 
reasonable decision. So, I wont be asking UKI to do anything further.
Mr P did raise one or two other issues. He has raised an issue with the initial recovery of his 
vehicle. But this recovery is separate to any work UKI has carried out and would have to be 
raised with the recovery company separately. Mr P also mentioned an issue he had when 
discussing car hire. He had Guaranteed Car Hire Plus, and he says he was under the 
impression he would receive a similar car to his own one. He says he discussed this with 
UKI as he ended up paying £367.62 for a like for like rental. He says he asked for a 
recording of this call so he could understand what was explained to him. 
Mr P had Guaranteed Car Hire Plus, and the policy says Hire car  a similar physical size 
car or van to your car, if such size is available, that is supplied to you by the hire car 
company on a temporary basis. This car should keep you mobile but may not be the same 
as your car in terms of its size, type, value or status. 
The policy also says:
Similar physical size  a hire car up to a Class F for vehicles with 5 seats or up to a Mini 
MPV for vehicles with 7 or more seats, as defined by the hire car company.Ive listened to the call recording where Mr P reported the incident to his insurer. In this call 
car hire is discussed. The agent from UKI says will provide you with a car similar in physical 
size to your own for a maximum of 21 days when your car is being repaired. This is exactly 
whats set out in the policy terms. I appreciate Mr P says he had to pay additional costs for a 
like for like vehicle. But all UKI were obliged to offer was a vehicle of similar physical size as 
per the policy terms and conditions and it did this. Because of this I wont be asking UKI to 
do any more in relation to the car hire aspect of this complaint. 
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I don't uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision before 24 December 2021.
 
Derek Dunne
Ombudsman