DRN-2348178
The complaint
Ms H is unhappy Quickly Finance Limited, trading as Fast Track Reclaim (FTR) is charging 
her a fee for a mis-sold payment protection insurance (PPI) claim that she said she didnt 
authorise them to make. She said shed made the claims herself with her lenders.
What happened
In January 2020, Ms H was told her mis-sold PPI claim was successful by one of her 
lenders, Ill call B. And they offered her compensation for the successful claim. A few days 
later Ms H said FTR asked her to pay their fee for the successful claim. Ms H complained to 
FTR as she said she hadnt authorised them to work for her and didnt think she should have 
to pay their fee.
FTR said Ms H had agreed in July 2019 to use their services. And had signed a letter of 
authority (LoA) authorising them to act on her behalf to pursue mis-sold PPI claims with her 
lenders. For one of her lenders Ill call S FTR asked Ms H to complete further documents, 
Ms H said she didnt complete them and returned them unsigned. She also said she called 
and wrote to FTR to say she wanted to cancel her agreement as she was in direct contact 
with her lenders. FTR said they never received any calls or letters asking them to cancel. But 
they accepted that for Ms Hs claim with lender S they shouldnt have asked her for their 
fees as theyd told her she had to complete the documents to continue her claim, and she 
hadnt completed the forms. 
But FTR said further documentation wasnt needed for Ms Hs claim with lender B as theyd 
accepted her claim from the information, theyd sent to them. Lender B agreed Ms H had 
been mis-sold PPI. FTR said as the claim was successful and their agreement with Ms H 
hadnt been cancelled, their success fee was justified.
Ms H wasnt happy with FTRs response and referred her complaint to us.
Our investigator said FTR should waive their fee as they had done for lender S as they 
hadnt provided a claims service to Ms H. And it was Ms Hs contact with lender B that had 
determined the success of the claim. FTR didnt agree and has asked for an ombudsman to 
decide.
A provisional decision was issued in October 2020, which said.
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Having done so, Im currently minded to 
uphold this complaint. Ill explain why.
Were an informal dispute resolution service, acting as an alternative to the courts. This 
means were impartial and look at both sides of the story. We dont place more weight on 
one sides story because of who they are. We ask questions and weigh up all the information 
were given. Where there is a different version of events as is the case here, I have to base 
my decision on what I think most likely happened. 
I can understand Ms Hs frustration as she doesnt think she authorised FTR to act on her 
behalf. And it must be confusing when her not returning documents meant the fees were 
waived for one of her claims but not for the other. Ms H says she cancelled her agreement 
with FTR and made her claim with lender B herself.
FTR feel strongly that Ms H had signed Terms & Conditions (T&C) with us and agreed to 
pay our contingency fee in the event of a successful claim, even where that claim was auto-
converted by the lender.
In making my decision I need to determine whether Ms H had authorised FTR to act on her 
behalf. And if she had, whether they knew she no longer wanted them to work for her. And to 
see whether FTR has acted fairly and reasonably in their actions with Ms H.
FTR has shown an online application was made about mis-sold PPI for both lenders in July 
2019. The personal details in this application correlate with the personal details Ms H has 
given this service. FTR has said to pursue a claim lender details were needed. And these 
were supplied, this included lender B and lender S. Ms H doesnt dispute she completed 
the application. On completing the application, a LoA was generated, populated with the 
above information. And this could only be submitted with a signature. The LoA says:
To whom it may concern, this letter of authority relates to all policies and/or agreements 
and/or bank accounts that I/we have with your company throughout my/our complete history
FTRs terms and conditions were also available to see. And in signing the LoA Ms H had 
agreed to them. 
The agreement Ms H had with FTR was on a No win No fee basis. This means
FTR charged a percentage success fee, not a fee based upon the amount of work they did.
This meant any work done on any unsuccessful claims would be done for free. Where a
claim was successful, FTRs fee maybe more or less than the value of the work they actually
did. This is the risk taken by all parties in this type of agreement.
FTR has said as Ms Hs claim was successful their terms and conditions show that their fee 
is justified. So, Ive looked at these they say:
If no PPI is identified, this Agreement will come to an end, but this Agreement will
continue on any accounts where a Company has confirmed You had PPI. 
I can see that lender B mis-informed Ms H around 13 August 2019 about one of her 
accounts *3077. In January 2020 lender B told Ms H theyd sent the wrong information and 
that they would now investigate her complaint. And they asked Ms H to complete a PPI 
questionnaire, which she did. They also sent a copy of the letter to FTR with FTRs reference 
C***9646. FTR said this shouldnt have been sent to them as the claim had been made 
separately by Ms H. But FTRs notes for C***9646 say PPI hadnt been found. And the LoA 
as outlined above says in signing the agreement Ms H had agreed to FTR looking into all her 
accounts and policies with lender B. So, when Ms H got the letter in August 2019 saying 
she didnt have any PPI I think she would have considered her agreement with FTR to have 
ended. And I think FTRs notes support this.
A few days later, in January 2020, lender B sent another letter to Ms H, about her account 
*1362,and that they would investigate her claim using all the information available to us 
and went on to detail what theyd look at. And this would have included the information 
supplied in the PPI questionnaire Ms H had completed and sent to them. Lender B also 
told FTR and referenced the letter again with C***9646. And within another couple of days 
lender B told Ms H her claim for account *1362 was successful.FTRs terms and conditions say:
Once PPI is identified, the Free PPI Check Period ends and You authorise FTR to
continue to provide You with the Claims Services.
But also goes on to say:
If further information is required from You prior to submitting a Claim(s), FTR will
endeavor to contact You and You agree to provide reasonable assistance and information
to allow Us to submit a Claim(s) on Your behalf.
FTR has said that their fee is justified because lender B had auto converted Ms Hs claim 
and the success of her claim was based on the PPI check done by FTR. But I dont think this 
is correct as lender B needed Ms H to complete a PPI questionnaire. So, I can understand 
Ms H thinking shed made her claim direct with lender B as she did complete the 
questionnaire for them, something she hadnt done when asked by FTR for her claim with 
lender S. And lender B used the information from the questionnaire to assess Ms Hs 
claims with them. I think if the correct letter had been sent by lender B to both Ms H and 
FTR in August 2019, Im satisfied FTR would have followed the same process as they did 
with Ms Hs claim with lender S. Theyd have needed Ms H to return the PPI questionnaire 
to them to progress her claim. And Im persuaded Ms H would have acted in the same way 
as she did for lender S and not done this. 
Ms H also says she sent a cancellation letter to FTR accompanied by the unsigned 
documents theyd asked her to complete for lender S. I think if shed thought she still had 
an active claim with FTR for lender B shed have referred in the letter to this claim as well. I 
know Ms Hs letter is undated and that FTR say they have no record of its receipt. But from 
looking at FTRs cases notes there are letters from lender B that havent been recorded, 
that they arent disputing, so Im persuaded by Ms H that she did send the letter. And this 
letter I think shows she didnt think she had an on going claim with lender B.
So as FTR has waived their fee for lender S I think its fair and reasonable for them to waive 
their fee for lender B for the same reasons. 
responses to my provisional decision
Ms H accepted the provisional decision.
FTR made the following comments:
theyd waived the fee for lender S as theyd issued a letter which stated that they 
couldnt proceed with the claim unless Ms H completed the PPI questionnaire and 
returned the LoA. But they hadnt issued the same letter for Ms Hs claim with lender 
B
 
the provisional decision stated that had lender B issued the correct letter in August 
2019, FTR would have followed the same process as theyd followed for the lender 
S claim. They strongly disagreed with this finding as they said an Ombudsmans 
decision should be based only on available facts.
 
they referred to their terms and conditions section 2.ii)i. The Company may contact 
You directly and You will inform FTR promptly of this and any relevant matters 
affecting Your Claim(s). Ms H didnt make FTR aware of the contact from her lender and if she had, they would have contacted the lender to request an update and taken 
the appropriate action.
the letter Ms H said she sent, wasnt dated and she hadnt shown any proof of 
posting. And Ms H said in the letter I enclose your information pack that you have 
sent me for the 2nd time as I have stated I do not wish for you to proceed with any 
claims on my behalf.  FTR said the only information pack theyd sent to Ms H was on 
the 12th August 2019 and this date was outside of the 14-day cooling off period. So, 
if Ms H had written to cancel after receiving information by post, she was attempting 
to cancel outside of the cooling off period, and would be liable for contingency fees in 
the event of a successful claim.
 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so Ive not been persuaded to change my thinking and Im upholding this 
complaint.
When making a decision the relevant facts and events will form the basis of the outcome. 
Where there is a dispute about what has happened as is the case here, I have considered 
what both parties have said and have based my decision on what I think most likely 
happened.
FTR has strongly disagreed with my thinking that theyd have sent the letter asking Ms H to 
complete the PPI questionnaire. But as lender B needed a PPI questionnaire completed, I 
looked at FTRs usual process in similar circumstances. And based on the process theyd 
followed for lender S I think they would have asked Ms H to complete the questionnaire 
and explained the claim wouldnt have been able to progress without the questionnaire being 
completed. And as Ms H hadnt completed the questionnaire for lender S when asked by 
FTR to do so, Im persuaded she wouldnt have completed the questionnaire when asked by 
FTR for lender B either.
FTR has referred to their terms and conditions saying Ms H should have contacted them 
when lender B had got in touch with her. But as I said in my provisional decision from 
August 2019 Ms H was of the understanding, she didnt have an active claim with lender B 
and her agreement with FTR had ended as no PPI had been found. Lender B didnt get in 
touch with Ms H until January 2020, several months later, and as there hadnt been any 
contact between Ms H or FTR about the claim in that time I dont think it would be fair or 
reasonable for her to have known to get in touch with FTR.
I accept Ms H cant show her cancellation letter was sent. But I based my decision on when 
the letter could have been drafted by its content. If the letter had been generated to support 
Ms H about her claim with lender B I think shed have made some reference to it. The 
content of the letter was specific to lender S (a claim FTR has already agreed to waive its 
fee on) which reinforced my thinking that Ms H didnt think she had an active claim with 
lender B.
FTR has said Ms H didnt cancel her agreement within the 14 day cooling off period. But in 
August 2019 the evidence shows both Ms H and FTR considered the agreement ended as 
PPI hadnt been found. And I havent seen any contact from FTR about Ms Hs claim with 
lender B until they invoiced Ms H for their fee. I dont think this was fair for the reasons Ive 
outlined in my provisional decision and my responses above.My final decision
I uphold this complaint and I require Quickly Finance Limited, trading as Fast Track Reclaim 
to waive their fee.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs H to accept or 
reject my decision before 22 December 2020.
 
Anne Scarr
Ombudsman