DRN-3713312
The complaint
Mr K complains that The Royal Bank of Scotland Plc (RBS) processed a payment even 
though the fraud team had declined it.
What happened
Mr K says RBS processed a payment for a holiday after its fraud team had declined it. Hed 
like the money refunded as he made a new booking and has now been charged twice.
RBS says the initial payment on 2 July 2022 was stopped for a security check and Mr K was 
assured by the fraud team that it would not be processed. However, the payment was 
subsequently processed on 4 July 2022 without Mr Ks knowledge. Mr Ks wife then made 
another booking on 10 July 2022 resulting in a double charge. RBS says it did not provide 
any incorrect information on the 2 July 2022 as it was the retailer who reprocessed the 
payment on 4 July 2022 without Mr Ks knowledge. RBS says that, as Mr K had confirmed 
the transaction was genuine, it was not flagged again for a security check and the bank had 
no reason to stop it.
RBS adds that it is unable to raise a chargeback for the duplicate payment as the strict terms 
and conditions of the scheme dont allow it. This is because the retailer is not in breach of its 
contract as its provided two bookings for the two payments.
Our investigator did not recommend the complaint should be upheld. She acknowledged that 
a payment was processed on 4 July 2022, but, as this was a different payment, she didnt 
find RBS had made an error when it said the original payment wouldnt be processed.
Mr K responded to say, in summary, that he wanted to appeal the investigators view.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In order to uphold Mr Ks complaint, I need to be satisfied that RBS has made an error when 
it declined the original transaction, said the payment would not go through, processed the 
subsequent payments or failed to action a chargeback request.
Declining the original transaction
I can see the transaction was flagged by RBSs fraud team and I have listened to a call 
between RBS and Mr K. In the call Mr K says he was wary of contact hed received from the 
bank and agreed to the transaction being declined. However, he then said the transaction 
was genuine and RBS agreed to take the block off the account. RBS confirmed that the 
transaction would not be processed and so I dont find it did anything wrong in that respect.
Telling Mr K the original payment would not be processed
Although a payment to the same retailer was then processed two days later, I am satisfied 
that this was a different transaction. I have seen evidence to show that the retailer re-
processed the payment request and that it was not the same transaction that had originally 
been declined on 2 July 2022. So, RBS did not make a mistake when it told Mr K that the 
first payment would not be processed.
Processing the payments on 4 July 2022 and 10 July 2022
As Mr K confirmed on the call that the original payment to the retailer was genuine, RBS 
would have had no reason to decline the payments on either the 4 or 10 July 2022. Indeed, 
as the amounts differed between these two payments (in both the currency and sterling) they 
would not have been flagged to RBS as possible duplicate payments and so I cant see RBS 
made an error by processing either of them.
Chargeback request
As each of the payments was for a different booking, the retailer cannot be said to be in 
breach of contract as it is effectively providing two holidays for two payments. I accept that 
that is not what Mr K wants, but unfortunately such a scenario does not meet the conditions 
required to raise a chargeback request and RBS has done nothing wrong in that respect.
In summary, although I very much sympathise with the position in which Mr K finds himself, I 
cannot conclude RBS made any errors and so I wont be asking it to refund either payment.
My final decision
My decision is that I do not uphold Mr Ks complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr K to accept or 
reject my decision before 1 June 2023. 
Amanda Williams
Ombudsman