DRN-4050847
The complaint
Mrs G complains that Bank of Scotland plc trading as Halifax (Halifax) irresponsibly gave 
her three credit cards that she couldnt afford. Mrs G has other complaints against Halifax 
which are being looked at under separate references, I understand.
What happened
Mrs G applied for a credit card in 2015, 2017 and 2020. The initial credit limits were 
£2,500, £4,200 and £7,000. There were increases to the credit limits on these cards.
In 2022, Mrs G complained to Halifax to say that the credit cards shouldnt have been 
opened for her because they werent affordable and that Halifax ought to have made a 
better effort to understand her financial circumstances before providing her with credit. 
Our adjudicator didnt recommend the complaint be upheld. Mrs G didnt agree. So, the 
complaint has been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive read and considered the whole file, but Ill confine my comments to what I think is 
relevant. If I dont comment on any specific point its not because Ive failed to consider it 
but because I dont think I need to comment on it in order to reach what I think is the right 
outcome in the wider context. My remit is to take an overview and decide whats fair in 
the round.
Halifax will be familiar with all the rules, regulations and good industry practice we 
consider when looking at a complaint concerning unaffordable and irresponsible lending. 
So, I dont consider it necessary to set all of this out in this decision. Information about our 
approach to these complaints is set out on our website.
Mrs Gs complaint is that Halifax made credit available that was unaffordable. Its possible 
that Halifax failed to make adequate checks before providing Mrs G with credit. But even if 
thats true, I have seen insufficient evidence to think better enquiries would have caused 
Halifax to think the loans were unaffordable. 
It is not straightforward trying to determine affordability because Mrs G has not been able 
to provide pertinent bank statements from the times in question or any credit information 
from the times. So, I have no way of knowing the volume of any credit Mrs G may have 
had or how Mrs G was managing any existing credit she had at the time the lending 
decisions were made. 
Halifax told us they completed credit checks for their lending decisions which showed no 
adverse markings. I have been shown no evidence that undermines that. And for the 
credit increases, Halifax had knowledge of how Mrs G was managing her existing 
borrowing on the accounts to assess further affordability. Halifax has told us that the 
accounts were managed well with no record of any collection activity on the accounts. 
And eventually the accounts were fully paid off with two left open with a zero balance.
I have also considered the monthly repayments in relation to the income Mrs G told 
Halifax she had at the time of two of the lending decisions and this is insufficient to make 
the credit she was given automatically unreasonable. 
So, having considered all the submissions made in this case, and in the absence of any 
extra evidence from Mrs G to the contrary, I have seen insufficient evidence to think that 
more thorough affordability checks would have led Halifax to think that the credit it 
provided Mrs G was unreasonable. 
I know that Mrs G will be disappointed with my decision. But I want Mrs G to know that I 
considered all the submissions made in this case. Having done so, I have not found 
sufficient evidence to uphold this complaint.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs G to accept or 
reject my decision before 2 June 2023.
 
Douglas Sayers
Ombudsman