DRN-2956613
The complaint
 Mr A complains about the level of service received from Royal & Sun Alliance Insurance Plc 
(RSA) following a claim against his home insurance policy.  
What happened
The background to the complaint is well-known by all parties. So, in this decision, Ill 
summarise my understanding of whats happened and focus on the issues I consider to be 
materially relevant to the complaint. 
The claim has been running since it was accepted by RSA in 2018. 
There have been a significant number of visits at Mr As home and expert reports obtained. 
Following repairs in 2019, Mr A continued to report damp issues to RSA and provided expert 
reports to substantiate this. Then in 2020, a further visit took place where it was said Mr As 
home was dry. However, Mr A was asked to monitor the dampness levels which he did, but 
no further work has been completed by RSA. They also said they had exhausted all expert 
resources available to them, and it was for Mr A to locate the source of the issues. 
Mr As provided evidence to show an issue remains through expert reports. Within these, 
there have been questions over the quality and rationale of RSAs repairs and steps taken to 
resolve matters. Mr A says hes demonstrated RSAs 2019 repairs werent lasting and 
effective and to date, the root cause hasnt been found. 
Mr A brought the complaint to our service and our investigator recommended it be upheld. 
He didnt think RSA fairly considered the information Mr A provided  such as expert reports. 
He recommended RSA should work with Mr As experts to find a solution and pay him £850 
compensation for the distress and inconvenience caused. 
The complaint was passed to me for a decision. Before issuing my decision, I wrote to all 
parties requiring further action to be taken. I said I hadnt been persuaded on the evidence 
that RSA provided Mr A with a lasting and effective repair. I said this because its not 
disputed that Mr A continues to experience issues after RSA carried out repairs. 
The key question I needed to answer here was what must be done to provide Mr A with a 
lasting and effective repair. And in order to answer this, I proposed a new expert report 
should be carried out which all parties agreed to. Following the completion of the new report 
 known as the 2021 report  I issued my provisional decision on 16 July 2021 which Ive set 
out below. 
What Ive provisionally decided  and why 
Ive considered all the evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable in the 
circumstances of this complaint. 
The facts and evidence leading to this dispute are well-known, so Ill now focus on what Ive 
decided needs to be done here in light of the evidence, and why. My starting point is the 
expert report dated 21 June 2021  Ill refer to this as the 2021 report. 
I requested the report to be carried out because all parties agree Mr A continues to 
experience issues. Though the challenge with this claim has been understanding what 
needs to be done to put matters right. Having reviewed the 2021 report, Im satisfied the 
claim can be progressed and theres a clearer understanding to the key questions I think 
RSA failed to find answers to  which in turn has resulted in a failure to carry out lasting and 
effective repairs. For clarity, these questions  which I asked the expert to answer  were: 
Report on the cause of the damp in 2018  against the backdrop of a property that 
has stood for some time with no previously reported issues; 
The ongoing cause of the damp  in 2019 and after repairs were made, and 
currently; 
Whether previous repairs carried out by RSA in relation to the claim were adequate 
in treating this cause, lasting and effective; and if not 
What is required to put things right and provide a lasting and effective repair. 
The 2021 report in my view demonstrates RSA hasnt carried out a lasting and effective 
repair since accepting the claim in 2018. I accept Mr As frustration here as hes provided 
expert reports of his own which I think offer similar recommendations to those set out within 
the 2021 report. Mr As been living in a damp home during this time and his efforts to assist 
RSA in resolving the claim havent been fairly considered. 
But to give some balance to this dispute, in 2020 it was said that Mr As home was dry. But 
the important thing to note here is Mr A was asked to monitor the issues  which he did  but 
nothing further was done. 
Ill now turn to the 2021 report and Ill use sub-headings for ease of reading to set out my 
decision. 
Report on the cause of the damp in 2018 and the ongoing damp after repairs were 
completed by RSA 
The expert says ground water has entered Mr As home due to the failure of a drainage pipe, 
which developed enough water pressure to force water under the paved path and into the 
property. The damp is therefore most likely a result of soluble ground salts and by RSA 
mistakenly failing to remove contaminated plaster. In fact, the expert says many of the 
issues Mr A faces today are as a direct result of the plaster not being removed following the 
drying process. 
Whether previous repairs carried out by RSA were lasting and effective
Ive mentioned above its clear RSA should have removed contaminated plaster from Mr As 
home  its been said that this is the main cause of the issues he experiences today. 
The removal of Marley tiles is said to have resulted in the damp proof membrane (DPM) 
being non-continuous and now requires extending. The expert also said the flooring where 
the tiles were removed is lower than it previously was, and possibly cooler now. So, the 
expert recommended a new report to be carried out by someone appropriately qualified in 
floor insulation and condensation risk. RSA removed Marley tiles in 2019 during repairs and 
theyve agreed to pay for a further report to be completed. 
Mr A raised concerns about the damp proof course (DPC) injection used by RSA in 2019. To 
substantiate his concerns, he provided an opinion from an expert and the manufacturer of 
the DPC. The 2021 report says the DPC injection was ineffective as the plaster wasnt 
removed. I think these comments also substantiate Mr As concerns about the DPC injection 
and its purpose. What is required to put things right to provide a lasting and effective repair
Within the 2021 report, the expert provided all parties with their Final conclusions which 
says: 
1. Ground water has entered the property due to the failure of the drainage pipe, which 
seemingly developed sufficient water pressure within the high ground of the adjacent 
bank for water to be forced under the pathed path and into the property. The 
drainage system has now been repaired. 
2. The damp walls to the W and SW rooms are most likely a result of soluble ground 
salts, which are hygroscopic, attracting water in its gaseous form (vapour) in the air. 
3. The paint flaking is most likely resulting from debonding of the paint from the plaster 
due to the formation of efflorescing salts, left in the wall when as the plaster naturally 
dried after the flooring. 
4. The removal of the Marley tiles has resulted in a non-continuous floor DPM and 
potentially a lower thermal efficiency of the floor. 
5.  
6. it is a bit of a mystery why the DPC injection was commissioned and what it was 
intended to achieve. 
7. Not removing the contaminated plaster was a mistake.
Im aware a further report is required, and my initial thoughts were to request this takes 
places prior to issuing my decision. But Im mindful of the fact this is a longstanding claim 
and its appropriate that my decision should direct progression as Mr A is still no further 
forward with the claim that continues to impact him. Therefore, Ill go onto set out my 
intended direction next. 
My provisional findings on the 2021 report and all other information available to me 
My provisional decision is RSA hasnt completed a lasting and effective repair since 
accepting the claim in 2018  which the policy entitles Mr A to. I say this because its not 
disputed that Mr A continues to experience issues with damp. In fact, hes reported issues 
since 2019 and has provided expert evidence which follows similar lines to the 
recommendations set out within the 2021 report. 
The 2021 report in my view demonstrates RSAs repairs were inadequate and essential 
works such as the removal of plaster wasnt done. The removal of Marley tiles  which now 
requires a further report  also suggests has caused further issues Mr A is living with today. 
So, I intend to require RSA to carry out the necessary recommendations set out within the 
2021 report. So the direction of what needs to happen next is clear to all parties, Ill explain 
this further below. 
RSA needs to remove and reinstate the plaster in line with the experts recommendations 
Its clear to me many of the issues Mr A experiences today are as a result of the plaster not 
being removed following the drying process. I note this was something recommended in 
2018. So, in the interest of progressing the complaint, RSA will need to arrange for the 
contaminated plaster to be removed and reinstated in line with the recommendations within 
the 2021 report. Mr As home will then require redecoration which RSA will need to include 
as part of the final settlement. 
RSA needs to pay for a new expert report 
The removal of the Marley tiles is said to have resulted in the DPM being non-continuous, and the flooring is lower  and potentially cooler  than before. 
RSA removed Marley tiles in 2019. Theyve agreed to cover the costs of the new report 
which I think is fair and all parties will need to agree the expert instructed to complete the 
report is appropriately qualified in floor insulation and condensation risk. This report needs to 
be arranged to take place by no later than four weeks from the date of this decision. RSA 
said theyve exhausted all expert resources, so Mr A can instruct his own expert provided all 
parties agree theyre suitably qualified to form the report and recommendations for a lasting 
and effective repair. 
Following the report, and importantly, any recommendations set out by the expert for 
completing a lasting and effective repair to the claim-related damage will need to be included 
in RSAs final settlement. This should also include any damage caused / remedial work 
required as a result of RSAs repairs during the claim process  and in line with current 
building regulations. 
The DPC injection 
I set out above that Ive not been persuaded this was effective and the reasons for this. RSA 
will need to include any remedial work given its more likely than not the chemical DPC 
injection wasnt effective in ensuring a lasting and effective repair was completed. 
It's important for me to explain the works required now are to complete a lasting and 
effective repair following the 2018 claim. Whilst I appreciate all parties will be aware of this, 
Im unable to direct RSA to carry out any non-claim related repairs or preventative works. 
This isnt what an insurance policy is designed to do. Its the responsibility of a policyholder 
to ensure their property is sufficiently maintained to protect it from future unforeseen events. 
RSA should compensation Mr A for the service issues 
This is a longstanding claim and Ive no doubt its been a difficult time for Mr A. The claims 
been running since 2018 and, despite attempts, RSA have been unable to find a solution 
that puts Mr A back into the position he was in prior to the claim. 
I anticipate the findings within the 2021 report will be welcomed, but also frustrating for Mr A. 
I say this because hes taken time to organise reports, engineers and repairs, only to be no 
further forward with the claim whilst living in a home with damp issues. 
Our investigator recommended RSA pays Mr A £850 compensation for the distress and 
inconvenience the matter caused. Mr A wants RSA to compensate him further for the time 
spent dealing with the claim along with the distress and inconvenience experienced due to 
living in a damp home. 
To give some balance to this dispute, whilst things could have been handled much better, I 
accept the claim has a complex nature and required several experts to find the root cause 
and solutions. The 2021 report says the circumstances to how water entered Mr As home 
has only been seen once before by the expert in over 100 investigations into water ingress. 
But with that said, I think had RSA given fairer consideration to the evidence Mr A provided 
during the claim process, things would be much further along and potentially resolved. 
In fact, during the claim process Ive seen Mr A felt the need to do a lot of his own research 
and investigative work in order to try to aid RSA with the progress of the claim. Whilst it was 
his choice to do so, I think its fair to say he did this as the claim wasnt progressing as it 
should have, and RSA said they had exhausted all expert resources available to them. I also 
note after accepting the claim and carrying out works, RSA said it was for Mr A to substantiate his claim  which I think he had adequately done by this point, which is further 
evidenced by the 2021 report. 
Returning to the impact the claim handling had on Mr A. I accept this has been a very 
difficult time for him. And Ive no doubt the way things were handled caused him to 
experience a level of distress and inconvenience  over and above whats reasonably 
expected following a claim. Im also aware the claim isnt yet resolved. 
Given the delays in resolving the claim whilst Mr A was living in a damp home, and the way 
things were handled, I consider the impact this had on Mr A to fall within the severe 
category. Our investigator recommended £850 compensation, but I think, for the reasons 
give above, this should be increased to £2,000 in total to recognise the distress and 
inconvenience caused to Mr A. 
My provisional decision 
I intend to uphold the complaint and require Royal & Sun Alliance Insurance Plc to do the 
following: 
Carry out repairs to Mr As home in line with the recommendations set out within the 
21 June 2021 report  and in line with current building regulations; 
Pay for an appropriately qualified expert with experience of floor insulation and 
condensation risk to report on the effects of the removal of Marley tiles and their 
insulative qualities (to be arranged by no later than four weeks from the date of this 
decision); 
Upon receipt of the new report, carry out any recommendations to provide a lasting 
and effective repair to the 2018 claim-related damage, and any remedial works 
required as a result of failed 2019 repairs; and 
Pay Mr A £2,000 compensation for the distress and inconvenience caused (less any 
compensation amount paid by Royal & Sun Alliance Insurance Plc to Mr A following 
our investigators recommendations). 
Responses to my provisional decision 
Following my provisional decision, Mr A sourced an appropriately qualified expert to carry 
out the final report. RSA paid for this. Though they said the latest report doesnt provide any 
recommendations into what needs to be done to put the flooring right. 
RSA responded to my provisional decision and follow up correspondence. They agreed to 
cover the claim-related issues, but not any betterment. 
Mr A responded to my provisional decision and asked me to give consideration to the 
following points: 
He doesnt think £2,000 compensation goes far enough to take into account the 
impact for the way things were handled, his circumstances and the time hes spent 
dealing with the claim; 
His home is now cooler, and remedial work must be undertaken to the flooring  as 
well as removing and reinstating plaster, and redecoration; 
Alternative accommodation should be provided whilst the works are undertaken, and 
his personal belongings should be moved into storage during this time; 
He doesnt think its fair for him to arrange a new scope of works and RSA should 
update their 2018 scope of works; 
The 2021 report did report on the likely cause, but its possible there could be other 
causes; RSA agreed to make good the broken slabs and reimburse his out of pocket 
expenses as part of the claim, but this hasnt been done; and 
He doesnt think it was fair to request him to undertake arranging the reports. 
I wrote to all parties ahead of my final decision to clarify the further points raised following 
my provisional decision. All parties have now had the opportunity to respond to this. I will 
now go onto set out in detail what must happen next in order to settle Mr As complaint 
against RSA. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Following the responses from all parties to my provisional decision, and the latest report, I 
remain of the view that RSA must now put matters right for Mr A. For ease of reading, Ive 
used sub-headings below to set out my final decision. 
Compensation 
Mr A felt £2,000 compensation didnt go far enough to recognise the impact the way things 
were handled had on him, his circumstances and the time hes spent dealing with the claim. 
He said my intended award underestimated the impact the way things were handled had on 
him. 
I must reiterate that my award doesnt remove the severity of the impact this longstanding 
claim has had on Mr A. I agree the impact this has had on him is severe. Mr A told us the 
claim has taken up much of his time which Ive seen, but our service doesnt award 
compensation based on units of time. I therefore remain of the view that £2,000 
compensation is fair and reasonable. Our investigator previously recommended £850, but 
this should be increased to £2,000 in total to recognise the distress and inconvenience 
caused to Mr A since bringing the complaint to our service. 
Remedial work 
Following my provisional decision, RSA suggested Mr A could employ his own contractors to 
set out a new scope of works for whats now required. RSA then said they would arrange for 
their own contractors to meet with Mr A to discuss what needs to be done. Mr A didnt think it 
was fair for RSA to request he organises a new scope of works given his circumstances and 
said RSA should update the previous scope of works from 2018. 
Ive carefully considered everything all parties have said regarding these next steps. And I 
think its fair for RSA to take responsibility for organising the new scope of works, and all 
parties will need to agree the works set out will provide a lasting and effective repair to the 
claim-related damage. There is a scope of works from 2018, and whilst I agree its sensible 
for RSA to give consideration to the contents of this, now they will need to create a new 
scope of works in order to move this longstanding claim to a resolution. The new scope of 
works should provide specific detail of the remedial works and costings involved. 
The latest report doesnt give details of the remedial works required to the flooring to put 
things right. Though Mr A says his home is now cooler than it was before. RSA removed 
Marley tiles from the flooring so they will need to include remedial works to the flooring as 
part of the new scope of works. 
It's clear from the 2021 report that RSA should have removed and reinstated contaminated plaster from Mr As home  its been said the failure to do so is the reason why Mr A 
continues to experience issues today. Therefore, RSA will need to include the removal and 
reinstatement of contaminated plaster and redecoration as part of the new scope of works  
in line with the recommendations set out within the 2021 report. 
Alternative accommodation and storage 
RSA should include the costs of alternative accommodation and storage of Mr As 
belongings whilst the remedial works are undertaken. 
Broken slabs and Mr As out of pocket expenses 
RSA previously agreed to repair the slabs that were broken during the claim, so this work will 
need to be included as part of the new scope of works. Mr A also said he incurred costs 
during the claim when arranging experts to substantiate his claim. I think its fair for RSA to 
reimburse Mr As claim-related out of pocket expenses upon proof of receipt to support 
these. 
How to progress the claim once RSA has completed the new scope of works 
Its clear to me the relationship between Mr A and RSA has broken down. So, I want to 
clearly set out what should happen once RSA has completed the new scope of works. After 
the new scope of works has been set out and all parties agree all claim-related issues have 
been considered, RSA should provide Mr A with two options in order to progress the claim. 
The first option is for RSA to undertake the repairs. RSA would be responsible for these 
repairs. 
The second option would be for Mr A to employ his own contractors to undertake the repairs 
set out within the new scope of works. RSA would only be responsible for the cash 
settlement which should reflect the market value and not the commercial value. For clarity, 
this means the amount it would cost Mr A to have the works completed  rather than the 
amount it would cost RSA through discounts and the commercial value given from their own 
preferred suppliers. RSA would not be responsible for the repairs undertaken by Mr As own 
contractors and the claim would be settled once RSA provides Mr A with the cash settlement 
amount. 
To be clear, if Mr A decides to choose option two, I think RSA should cash settle the claim 
based on what the remedial works would cost Mr A to have completed. I say this because 
RSA has already had the opportunity to put things right with repairs, but havent been able to 
do so. 
Putting things right
In order to settle the complaint, Royal & Sun Alliance Insurance Plc now need to do the 
following: 
Arrange for a new scope of works to be completed for the remedial works required to 
complete a lasting and effective repair to the claim-related damage. This should 
include the removal and reinstatement of plaster, redecoration (in line with the 2021 
report) and remedial works required to the flooring; 
Include remedial work to the broken slabs within the new scope of works;
Upon completion of the new scope of works, RSA should provide Mr A with the 
option of either RSA completing the works, or pay him a cash settlement for the 
remedial works to reflect how much it would cost Mr A to have the work completed;Include alternative accommodation and storage costs as part of the final settlement 
whilst remedial works are undertaken; 
Reimburse Mr As claim-related out of pocket expenses upon proof of receipt to 
substantiate these; and
Pay Mr A £2,000 compensation (less any compensation paid to Mr A following our 
investigators view dated April 2020). 
My final decision
My final decision is I uphold the complaint. I now require Royal & Sun Alliance Insurance Plc 
to put things right as set out above under heading Putting things right. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision before 8 September 2021.
 
Liam Hickey
Ombudsman