DRN-2519629
The complaint
Mr H complained because HSBC UK Bank plc refused to refund him for payments he 
disputed.
What happened
On 14 November 2019, Mr H complained to HSBC. He said hed been looking back through 
his bank statements, and he disputed a significant number of transactions, going back to 
2012. Some of these were cash withdrawals made at a cash machine, and others were 
transfers.
HSBC replied the next day, saying that Mr H had complained outside the chargeback 
scheme timescales of 120 days since the disputed transactions. It said that it was the 
customers responsibility to check monthly statements and report any problems. 
Mr H wasnt satisfied and complained to this service. He said the withdrawals had caused 
him to go into overdraft and had caused him financial difficulty.
Our investigator didnt uphold Mr Hs complaint. 
First, the investigator looked at time limits. He explained to Mr H that this service cant 
consider complaints made more than six years after the event being complained about. 
Thats unless the complaint was made within three years of when he ought reasonably to 
have been aware he had cause for complaint, or there were exceptional circumstances 
which had prevented him from complaining within the time limits. Mr H had complained to 
HSBC on 14 November 2019, so the investigator said he couldnt consider anything before 
14 November 2013.
And the investigator also said that the relevant regulations say that customers can only get a 
refund if they report them within 13 months of the payments. In Mr Hs case, this meant that 
hed have to have reported them before 14 October 2018. 
However, HSBCs terms and conditions said that this 13 month restriction didnt apply if a 
customer was overdrawn. So the investigator explained that what he could consider was:
- payments after 14 October 2018; and
- payments after 14 November 2013 if Mr H was overdrawn at the time, but not the 
ones where he wasnt overdrawn.
The investigator didnt think it was likely that someone else had been able to take and return 
Mr Hs genuine card, and known his PIN, repeatedly over the years. Also, Mr H had said 
hed talked to HSBC in 2015 about why he was in debit every month. The investigator 
pointed out that if Mr H had been concerned about his spending, hed expect him to have 
looked at his statements and noticed any payments he hadnt made.
So the investigator thought it was likely that Mr H had made the payments himself.
Mr H didnt agree and asked for an ombudsman decision.
Mr H said he hadnt received monthly statements, and hed reported the transactions as 
soon as he became aware of them.  He said the investigators view was unfair because 
HSBC had failed to protect his account. He also said hed never been issued with a cheque 
book. He also said that his daily cash machine limit was £300, so there shouldnt have been 
any above that. Mr H said that his card hadnt been lost or stolen and he always had it with 
him, so it must have been the branch staff whod taken large sums out of his account.
Another ombudsman considered jurisdiction for this case  in other words, which of Mr Hs 
disputed transactions we could consider. She said that HSBC had been wrong to say it didnt 
need to consider his complaint because he was outside the 120 day time limit set by the 
chargeback scheme. But she agreed with the investigator that this service cant consider 
some of Mr Hs disputed transactions.
This decision isnt about the jurisdiction issue, because a final decision has been taken 
about that. This decision considers whether or not HSBC should refund Mr H for the 
transactions which this service can look at.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr H has raised multiple points in his submissions to the service. Ive understood and looked 
into these, but Ive commented on what I think is vital to my conclusions. 
First, only one of the disputed transactions was paid by cheque. This was one of those which 
the ombudsman considering jurisdiction said that we cant consider. So I wont address Mr 
Hs arguments that he never had a cheque book.
The relevant regulations for the transactions which this service can consider are the 
Payment Services Regulations 2009 and the Payment Services Regulations 2017. In 
general terms, the bank is liable if the customer didnt authorise the payments, and the 
customer is liable if he did authorise them.
So Ive considered whether or not I think Mr H made the transactions himself, or whether it 
could have been anyone else.
Mr H told us that he kept his card with him at all times, and it had never been lost or stolen. 
He also said that hes never told anyone else his PIN, or written it down. But the genuine 
card was used. And the chip in the card is a secure technology, and theres never been any 
occasion when a card with a chip in it has been cloned.  Cloned, or copied, cards, are 
sometimes used by fraudsters for phone transactions, where the card isnt produced, but 
these wouldnt work in a cash machine. So I cant see how anyone other than Mr H could 
have carried out the cash machine transactions.  
I recognise that Mr H has said that his cash limit was £300. But the banks evidence shows 
that its own cash machines could allow temporary increases above that. Because of the 
length of time, HSBC cant provide detailed information about the specific withdrawals, but I 
accept that this standard policy was what happened here.  
In his reply to the investigators view, Mr H said he believed it had been the branch staff who 
had taken large sums of money out of his account. But in order to do so, theyd have needed 
Mr Hs card, and would need to have known his PIN. Its not possible for branch staff to take 
money out of a customers account without these, because the computer systems wouldnt process the transactions. I cant see how the branch staff could have obtained these, given 
that Mr H said he was careful about his card, PIN and security.
Not all of the disputed transactions were carried out at a cash machine. These included a 
couple of direct debits and a bank transfer. These wouldnt have needed the card to be 
presented with its genuine chip. But whoever made them would still have had to have known 
Mr Hs card or account details, and Mr H has said he kept these secure.
The pattern of transactions doesnt fit with that or a fraudster.  The transactions took place 
over a long period of time, and some of them were for small amounts of money. A fraudster 
would generally be seen to take out as much money as possible, straightaway, before the 
fraud could be spotted and the account blocked. So its not likely that a fraudster would take 
out money sporadically over several years, which is the pattern here.
Another key factor is that Mr H didnt report these transactions promptly. As Ive set out 
above, this means that this service cant consider many of the transactions hes disputed, 
and Im only considering the rest. But even with these, its not helpful to Mr Hs argument 
that he didnt report them promptly. Id expect Mr H to have been monitoring his accounts, 
and if he wasnt receiving monthly statements, either by paper or electronically, its 
reasonable to expect him to have chased HSBC for statements. 
Taking all these factors into account, I consider its most likely that Mr H carried out the 
transactions himself. They were properly authorised; dont fit the pattern of a standard fraud; 
and Mr H didnt report them promptly. Its possible hes just forgotten some of them over 
time, but I dont require HSBC to refund him for them.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 18 March 2021.
 
Belinda Knight
Ombudsman