DRN-3762001
The complaint
Mr G complains that Lloyds Bank PLC unfairly blocked his current account.
What happened
The background to this complaint and my initial conclusions were set out in my provisional 
decision. I said: 
Mr G has a current account with Lloyds. Mr G has told us he moved abroad in early 2020 
and wrote to Lloyds with his new address. But Lloyds says it didnt have an up to date 
record of Mr Gs signature and couldnt verify his request to amend his address. As a 
result, Mr Gs address wasnt changed.
Mr G later completed a change of address form online but Lloyds says it wasnt able to 
verify him and placed restrictions on his account. Lloyds says a block was placed on Mr Gs 
account in June./July 2020 and removed around a month later.
In June 2021 Lloyds applied further blocks to Mr Gs account and he went on to raise a 
complaint. Mr G has explained that he was unable to meet basic living costs during this 
time as he was unable to transfer his pension payments to another account.
Lloyds took steps to remove the account blocks and update Mr Gs address. Lloyds 
issued two responses to Mr Gs complaints and offered him £250 to apologise for the 
distress and inconvenience caused.
An investigator at this service looked at Mr Gs complaint. They thought Lloyds had dealt 
with Mr Gs complaint fairly and didnt ask it to do anything else. Mr G asked to appeal and 
said the compensation offered didnt reflect the level of upset caused or length of time hes 
spent trying to resolve matters. As Mr G asked to appeal, his complaint has been passed 
to me to make a decision.
What Ive provisionally decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Lloyds has explained there were two blocks placed on Mr Gs account. One in 2020 and 
another in 2021. Our investigator asked Lloyds to explain why the block in 2020 was put in 
place and why it was removed. Lloyds response doesnt clarify what happened or why the 
block was initially removed, only to be put back in place a year later. I think Lloyds missed 
an early opportunity to deal with the address issues that were impacting Mr Gs account. I 
note Lloyds says there were verification issues because it didnt hold an up to date record 
of Mr Gs signature. But Lloyds only arranged to send out the form required to update a 
signature in September 2021, over a year after the first restrictions were put in place.
Mr G has also sent us evidence that the error messages he received when trying to access 
his online banking facility. I note they dont specifically explain what the issue was. And, Mr 
G has told us the call wait times meant he wasnt able to speak with Lloyds when he called. 
I can see Mr G contacted Lloyds about the account block in July 2021 but it took it until 
September 2021 to update his details and remove the restriction. I understand Lloyds has 
now resolved the issue so Mr G can access his account in full.
Lloyds has paid a total of £250 to apologise for its errors. But Im not persuaded £250 fairly 
reflects the overall impact of the way account restrictions were applied or the 
inconvenience caused to Mr G over a significant period. I think early opportunities to 
update Lloyds records were missed and that it couldve taken steps to update Mr Gs 
details, get a copy of his signature and ensure his account access was correctly working in 
2020. Whilst I havent seen evidence that shows Mr G had no other access to funds during 
the time his account was blocked, I am satisfied he wasnt able to use his main source of 
funds  his pension. And Im satisfied that did have an unfair impact on Mr G in addition to 
the other inconvenience caused.
Taking all the available evidence into account, I intend to increase the total award by a 
further £200 taking the compensation payment to £450. In my view, that figure fairly 
reflects the level of distress a and is a more reasonable way to resolve his complaint.
I invited both parties to respond with any additional comments or information they wanted 
me to consider before I made my final decision. 
Lloyds responded and said much of the inconvenience couldve been avoided if Mr G had 
updated his address before leaving the country. 
Mr G responded in detail. Amongst other points, Mr G said customers shouldnt be held 
responsible for keeping bank records up to date but that he had complied over the years. 
Mr G also said that at no time did he agree with the way Lloyds had resolved his 
complaint. Mr G said he also wanted the specific dates his account had been blocked in 
2021 and noted it was in place for longer than one month.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Id like to thank both parties for their responses. Ive read and considered everything Mr G 
and Lloyds has sent us. Mr G forwarded his case documentation to ensure Id had full sight 
of the relevant information. Id like to assure Mr G that everything he sent us during the 
investigation was made available to me when reaching my provisional decision. Ive also 
looked over everything Mr G has said and sent in response to the provisional decision to see 
if it changes my mind. 
As noted in the provisional decision, our investigator asked for more details from Lloyds 
concerning the circumstances of its block in 2020. No clear explanation of what happened 
has been given. Lloyds response implies the issue came about due to Mr Gs move to 
another country without first updating his records. And Lloyds sent information from Mr Gs 
statements that shows transfers to a bank in Canada from early 2020 (although his account 
was blocked for several months from February 2020). 
I understand Mr G couldve taken more timely action to update his details. But I remain of the 
view that there was an unreasonable level of inconvenience caused to Mr G here. Lloyds 
hasnt shown why it removed the account block in 2020 or why it was put back in place in 
2021, beyond implying it related to Mr Gs address. And I remain satisfied opportunities to 
assist Mr G in updating his records and getting his account working were missed. So whilst I agree Mr G could also have taken earlier action, I havent been persuaded to change my 
decision to uphold his complaint. 
Mr Gs response says his account was blocked for longer than a month in 2021. The 
statement evidence shows that between the end of June 2021 and the end of September 
2021 withdrawals were limited on Mr Gs account. And the evidence on file shows it took 
around three months for the block to be removed. Ive factored that in when deciding how to 
resolve Mr Gs complaint.  
I havent been persuaded to change the conclusions I reached in my provisional decision. I 
still think Mr Gs complaint should be upheld, for broadly the same reasons. 
My final decision
My decision is that I uphold Mr Gs complaint and direct Lloyds Bank PLC to pay him a total 
of £450, less any compensation already paid. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision before 16 November 2022.
 
Marco Manente
Ombudsman