DRN-2863697
The complaint
Mrs W complains about the quality of a used car that was supplied to her through a hire 
purchase agreement with Oodle Financial Services Limited (Oodle).
 
What happened
In November 2019 Mrs W acquired a used car through a hire purchase agreement with 
Oodle. The car was registered in May 2011, which means it was about eight and a half years 
old and had travelled around 41,977 miles at the point of supply. The purchase price of the 
car was £4,000. Mrs W paid a deposit of £101 which meant that the credit agreement was 
for £3,899 payable over 54 months.
Mrs W says that on 21 November 2020 her car broke down while she was driving on a dual 
carriageway. Mrs W says she called out a roadside recovery company, which Ill refer to as 
B, to assist her. Mrs W says that B thought the problem might be the head gasket but that 
further investigation would be required. Mrs W says that B recovered her car to an affiliated 
garage where the mechanic there told her the problem was a bent con rod caused by a 
hydraulic lock (hydrolock). Mrs W says she was told her car needed a new engine.
On 7 December 2020 Mrs W called Oodle to discuss the issue, this is confirmed on Oodles 
system notes. Oodle provided Mrs W with three options to end her agreement. The options 
included part exchange, voluntary termination or selling the car with their permission.
Mrs W contacted Oodle again two days later to explain that she felt it was their responsibility 
to repair or replace the car for her. Oodle advised that shed need to obtain an inspection to 
show if the issues with her car were developing or present at the point of supply. This is also 
confirmed in Oodles system notes.
On 23 December 2020 Mrs W sent Oodle a copy of an independent inspection report that 
shed arranged. Ill refer to this as report A. The inspection was carried out on 18 December 
2020 and the mileage noted on report A was an approximation of 47,000.
Within its conclusion report A stated:
In summary it is our considered opinion that the damage presented to us was 
caused in an event that predated Mrs Walls ownership and that a fix carried out at 
the time allowed the engine to carry on for some 5000 more miles before it eventually 
seized.
On review of the report, Oodle confirmed that the dealer decided to arrange another 
independent report as they disputed some of the contents of report A. Ill refer to the dealer 
arranged inspection as report B. Report B, dated 5 February 2021 contradicted some of the 
conclusions made in report A. Within its conclusions report B stated:
In conclusion, however the instance occurred and only the driver of the car at the 
time may be fully aware of, I have wholly explained and convincingly demonstrated 
that the cause is entirely due to the ingestion of water from outside of the car and its 
systems and not in any way due to any of the reasons that [report A] has so 
incorrectly supposed.
On 16 February 2021, Oodle sent Mrs W a holding letter explaining that they were still 
investigating her concerns, however due to the time theyve taken to investigate she was 
free to refer her complaint to our service. So, Mrs W brought her complaint to us later that 
month. Mrs W explained during a phone call that she wanted to cancel the finance 
agreement and be reimbursed the £120 she paid for report A, and the £189 she paid for the 
initial mechanics investigation.
On 1 April 2021 Oodle sent Mrs W their final response (FRL) to her complaint. They 
explained that based on the findings of report B they didnt uphold her complaint. 
One of our investigators looked into Mrs Ws complaint and didnt think that the complaint 
should be upheld. The investigator felt that on balance the damage was likely to have been 
caused by external water entering the pistons causing the engine to fail. 
Unhappy with the investigators view, Mrs W asked that her complaint be referred to an 
ombudsman for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In considering what is fair and reasonable, Ive thought about all the evidence and 
information provided afresh and the relevant law and regulations, regulators rules, guidance 
and standards, codes of practice and (where appropriate) what I consider to have been good 
industry practice at the relevant time. 
The agreement in this case is a regulated consumer credit agreement. As such, this service 
is able to consider complaints relating to it. Oodle is also the supplier of the goods under 
this type of agreement, and responsible for a complaint about their quality.
The Consumer Rights Act 2015 (CRA) is relevant in this case. It says that under a contract 
to supply goods, there is an implied term that the quality of the goods is satisfactory, fit for 
purpose and as described. To be considered as satisfactory, the CRA says the goods would 
need to meet the standard that a reasonable person would consider satisfactory, considering 
any description of the goods, the price and all the other relevant circumstances. 
So, it seems likely that in a case involving a car, the other relevant circumstances a court 
would consider might include things like the age and mileage at the time of sale and the 
vehicles history. 
My starting point is that Oodle supplied Mrs W with a used car that had travelled nearly 
42,000 miles. So although he mileage wasnt significantly high it was over eight years old. 
With this in mind, I think its reasonable to expect the level of quality to be less than that of a 
brand-new car with lower mileage; and that there may be visual signs of wear and tear due 
to its usage. 
From the information provided its clear to me that there was a fault with the car. This is 
apparent from report A and report B which both advise that the engine had failed as a result of hydrolock to number 4 cylinder. Having considered the car had a fault, Ive had to 
consider whether it was of satisfactory quality when it was supplied to Mrs W. 
satisfactory quality
Having considered all the evidence provided, on balance, I think Mrs Ws car was of 
satisfactory quality when it was supplied to her.
Report A advised that the connecting rod (con rod) of cylinder four had been shortened by 
bending and twisting, which the report says was as a result of a hydrolock, which in turn was 
due to the ingestion of water above the piston. The report advised hardened contaminant 
was identified in the water jackets around the cylinders, which it believed was the residue of 
a previous repair.
The report concluded that a historical ingestion of water, prior to Mrs Ws ownership had 
caused the hydrolock to cylinder 4. And that the repair carried out at the time, allowed the 
car to carry on for some 5000 miles before eventually seizing up.  
The report suggested the repair most likely involved a liquid sealant to address a weakened 
gasket. The report says that the liquid sealant was likely to be the contaminant identified in 
the water jackets. 
Report B also diagnosed a hydrolock. It also confirmed that engine damage like this would 
be caused by the sudden ingress of a liquid, normally rain water or flood water and that it 
was unlikely to be engine coolant in this instance because the coolant levels were 
uncontaminated and at the correct level.
Report B explained that the contaminants mentioned in report A were likely to be usual micro 
particles of bearings and metallic components. The report then goes on to conclude, as Ive 
mentioned earlier, that the engine failure was caused by the ingestion of water from outside 
the car.
Both reports confirm that the hydrolock was likely caused by an ingress of water to the 
cylinders. And although report A advised this would have been historical and that a fix had 
failed over the course of time, I dont think on balance that a fix was put in place as 
suggested by report A. 
I think the ingress of water is likely to have been an instant or more sudden event causing 
the engine to fail. I say this because had Mrs Ws car experienced hydrolock some time ago, 
as suggested in report A, from the information provided and having looked into hydrolock, I 
think its unlikely to have been able to effectively function for around 5,000 miles as Mrs W 
had done. 
I think its unlikely a car engine would continue to function for as long as is suggested by 
report A, particularly with a shortened conrod following the event. This is supported by report 
B. Ive also seen no evidence to suggest Mrs W had reported any concerns with the cars 
performance, for example poor engine performance or noises from the engine which can all 
be signs of hydrolock.
In addition, the conclusion of report A appears to be in consideration of the information 
provided by Mrs W, that since acquiring the car, she wasnt aware of any incidents where the 
car would have ingested rainwater. And its following this information that the report 
concludes that the ingestion of water would have been historical. 
Due to a flat battery the precise mileage of Mrs Ws car hasnt been documented. However, 
having checked the latest MOT completed in September 2020, the mileage at that time was 46,841. So, Im satisfied that it was likely that the cars mileage would have been around 
47,000 miles when it broke down, as approximated on the inspection report. 
From the information provided I think the failure of the engine was likely to be a sudden 
event and not something that had predated Mrs Ws ownership. So, I think the car was of 
satisfactory quality when it was supplied to Mrs W.
I recognise my decision is likely to be disappointing for Mrs W. However, Id like to assure 
Mrs W that Ive considered all the information available to me and believe that Oodle have 
acted fairly in the circumstances.
As Ive concluded that the car was of satisfactory quality at the point it was supplied, I dont 
require Oodle to take any action in respect of this complaint.
My final decision
Having thought about everything above, along with what is fair and reasonable in the 
circumstances, my final decision is that I dont uphold Mrs Ws complaint about Oodle 
Financial Services Limited.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs W to accept or 
reject my decision before 8 November 2021.
 
Benjamin John
Ombudsman