DRN-3155374
The complaint
Miss S complains that Nationwide Building Society (Nationwide) unfairly declined a loan 
application.
What happened
In February 2021, Miss S applied for a loan with Nationwide. She says the application for the 
loan was instantly approved online, but she needed to provide further documentation of 
proof of income. So she printed the agreement, signed it and took it into her local Nationwide 
branch, alongside some documents.
Miss S says she is part of The Rent a Room Scheme which lets a person earn up to a 
threshold of £7,500 per year tax-free from letting out furnished accommodation in their 
home.
Miss S says she was later told that her rental income couldnt be included as part of her 
declared income as she hadnt provided the appropriate documentation. But she says she 
was able to rectify this and produce the necessary documents, and so printed off the 
agreement again, signed it, and took it into branch.
Miss S then says she was told her payslips couldnt be accepted for approval of the loan, so 
she requested to speak to a customer service advisor to clarify what she needed to provide 
to show proof of income. As advisors werent available, she later received a call back.
During a call, Miss S says she was told that previous documentation she provided also 
couldnt be used to show proof of income as Nationwide believe some of her income hasnt 
been declared to HMRC. Miss S says these comments made her feel like a criminal.
Miss S got in touch with HMRC to seek advice and clarification and she says they confirmed 
everything has been correctly declared to them. She says she also got in touch with her 
accountant who would be able to provide a letter confirming her circumstances if needed.
After continued communication with Nationwide, and further documents provided, Miss S 
was eventually told she could no longer be approved for the loan.
Miss S complained to Nationwide about the service she received, including what she 
believes to be a lack of clarification throughout the process and the inaccurate information 
she received which caused a delay in Nationwide responding to her complaint.
Nationwide say that Miss S provided a tax calculation for her 2019/2020 income but couldnt 
see any deductions for tax and National Insurance made. They also say they couldnt accept 
Miss S payslips as they also didnt show any tax or National Insurance deductions on them. 
Miss S explains that her accountant normally calculates the tax and National Insurance due 
at the end of the tax year so this will be detailed on her 2020/2021 tax calculations. 
Nationwide say they need Miss S to submit her 2020/2021 tax return and suggested that she 
reapplies for the loan based on her income that HMRC has accepted for her business. They 
also explained that her rental income still needs to be included on her earnings, even if it is 
below the tax-free threshold.
Nationwide did pay £50 compensation to Miss S as they could see they did provide her with 
an incorrect email address to raise her complaint on, resulting in a delay.
Miss S, unhappy with Nationwides response, brought her complaint to our service. She says 
she applied for the loan as an individual but feels she has been discriminated against as 
Nationwide consider her to be self-employed as she is also a company director. She says 
she applied for the loan as an employee and the loan was for personal use. Miss S also 
feels she was discriminated against because of her race.
Our investigator found that Nationwide assessed Miss S application in line with their 
underwriting policy. The investigator found that Nationwides loan application documents 
guide, available on its website says that they may request some more information before 
they can confirm a loan offer. He felt that Nationwide fairly assessed the risk in approving the 
loan, and felt it was reasonable to request further information from Miss S about her income.
 
Miss S disagreed with the investigators findings and requested the complaint to be 
escalated to an ombudsman. And so, it has been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im not upholding this complaint and Ill explain why below.
Miss S has explained that she applied for this loan, not in her capacity as a company director 
of her business, but as an employee  and so, she doesnt feel some of the proof of income 
Nationwide has requested from her is necessary.
Nationwides loan application documents guide available on their website states, When you 
apply for a personal loan from Nationwide, we may request a little more information before 
we can confirm your loan offer. It goes on to explain the documents they may need an 
individual to show for proof of income in both employed and self-employed instances. For 
employed people, one of the documents Nationwide may need is a copy of the most recent 
payslip. This payslip must show the name of the employer, the year to date income and the 
tax and National Insurance that has been deducted. 
Miss S says she provided Nationwide with her payslips. Nationwide say they couldnt see 
any deductions for tax and National Insurance on them. They also say that from the 
documents Miss S provided and possible checks on Companies House, they could see she 
was a company director.
Nationwide say they consider company directors to be self-employed for loan application 
purposes. And as Miss S wished for her rental income to be considered as part of her 
income, they explained this would also mean she needed to be re-processed as self-
employed. For self-employed individuals, one of the documents Nationwide may request is a 
SA302 letter from the Inland Revenue that includes a tax calculation.
So, I dont think Nationwide has done anything wrong in assessing Miss S as a self-
employed person whose role is a director. Nationwide say as part of their underwriting policy 
and to ensure they are lending responsibly, it is necessary for them to question any 
discrepancies in the information provided, and in some instances, to carry out checks or request further evidence to resolve those. One of the checks they may carry out is to search 
Companies House, and in this instance, I dont think it was an unreasonable thing to do.
Nationwide say that after reviewing all the information Miss S provided about her income, 
they would need her to submit her 2020/2021 tax return and suggested that she reapplies for 
the loan based on her income that HMRC has accepted for her business. They also 
explained that if she would like her rental income included, it still needs to be included on her 
earnings, even if it is below the tax-free threshold.
Considering the information Nationwide has provided about the checks they completed on 
Miss S and why they requested further income documentation from her, I cant say they 
have done anything wrong. The documents they asked for are in line with those set out in 
their loan application documents guide, which is available for all potential customers to 
review.
Nationwide also say that once they examined all the income proofs, they did not feel Miss S 
income was sufficient to afford the loan, so the application was declined. Its up to a lender to 
assess their own risk in lending, and from what I have seen, Im satisfied that the checks 
Nationwide completed were fair and reasonable.
Nationwide has already credited Miss S with £50 for incorrect information they provided to 
her on how to complain about the service shes received. I think this was a fair way to 
resolve this complaint.
Miss S says she feels Nationwide has discriminated against her given the problems she has 
experienced. The Equality Act 2010 says a person must not be treated less favourably 
because of their race. We dont have the power to decide if the Equality Act 2010 has been 
breached. That is a matter for the courts. But Ive taken this Act into account when deciding 
whether Nationwide has acted fairly and reasonably  given that its relevant law.
I can understand why Miss S feels this way but having looked at all the evidence Im not 
persuaded Miss S race played a part in the way she was treated by Nationwide. From what 
Ive seen, Ive got no reason to doubt that other customers, in the similar circumstances, 
wouldve been treated the same. And I dont think Nationwide has acted unfairly or 
unreasonably here. 
Miss S believes that when Nationwide looked into her business, they came across 
information revealing her ethnicity. Miss S also commented that Nationwide insinuated that 
her payslips werent genuine and that she hadnt declared her full income to HMRC. She 
believes these accusations reveal a racial bias. As Ive already said above, I dont think the 
checks Nationwide completed on Miss S employment status were unreasonable. And I 
appreciate why Miss S might have felt that Nationwide was accusing her of not providing 
genuine payslips or declaring her income to HMRC, but Nationwides notes - which I have 
seen - suggest they were trying to verify Miss S income and assess the affordability of the 
loan.
I hope that it helps Miss S to know that someone impartial and independent of the parties 
involved has looked into her concerns.
My final decisionFor the reasons Ive explained, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss S to accept 
or reject my decision before 12 January 2022.
 
Ronesh Amin
Ombudsman