DRN-4000356
The complaint
Miss R complains Building Block Insurance PCC Ltd (BBI) caused damage to the spare tyre 
locking mechanism in the boot of her car.
There are several parties and representatives of BBI involved throughout the complaint but 
for the purposes of this complaint Im only going to refer to BBI.
What happened
Miss R made an assistance call out claim on her roadside assistance policy when she had a 
blow out with a tyre on her car.
BBIs approved roadside assistance contractor attended and fitted the spare tyre that was in 
the boot of Miss Rs car. The damaged tyre was put back in the boot of the car. 
Later the same day Miss R went to buy a new tyre and have it fitted. When the mechanic at 
the garage looked in the boot found the damaged tyre had been put into the boot but it had 
not been secured because the spare tyre locking mechanism was broken and so it could not 
be secured correctly.
Miss R said this was not broken prior to the spare tyre being removed. She contacted the 
approved roadside assistance contractor as she thought it had been damaged when her tyre 
was changed earlier in the day. She said it should pay for it repairing.
BBI said no damage was caused during the assistance call out by its contractor.
As Miss R was not happy with BBI, she brought the complaint to our service.
Our investigator upheld the complaint. They looked into the case and said as there is no 
clear evidence as to who caused the damage, BBI should pay 50% of the cost of the repair.
As BBI is unhappy with our investigators view the complaint has been brought to me for a 
final decision to be made.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I looked at the evidence provided from the roadside assistance contractors report and found 
it had limited information. It stated only the date and time of attendance and the fault was a 
flat tyre and there was a spare. 
It was in the middle of the covid 19 lockdown situation  when the roadside assistance was 
requested by Miss R. BBIs roadside assistance contractor was not obtaining signatures 
from customers as it was operating a contactless process. Therefore there was no signature 
obtained from Miss R that confirms she was happy the tyre change was completed to an 
acceptable standard. 
Miss R said she was not aware there was a problem with the locking mechanism in the boot 
until the mechanic at the tyre garage told her.
Miss R complained to BBIs roadside assistance contractor in June 2021 straight after the 
issue was found. I saw evidence of multiple emails to the contractor from Miss R and she 
said she also made multiple phone calls but was told each time that she had to email in.
In early 2022 Miss R contacted BBI. It said its contractor said no damage was caused when 
it attended to put the spare tyre on. It said its contractor had told Miss R this when she made 
the complaint to them.
Miss R said the roadside assistance contractor had never denied to her that it had not 
caused damage  it just kept asking her to email in her complaint which she did  multiple 
times.
I saw in the evidence provided by Miss R, that the roadside assistance contractor did 
respond to some emails and saw in an email sent to Miss R in July 2021 it said no unusual 
occurrences happened during the assistance. And in addition it said it was not uncommon 
for a garage to throw accusations whenever they encounter or cause issue. This was not 
supported by any evidence. In this email it told her to contact her breakdown provider to 
raise her concerns.
To support her complaint Miss R tried to obtain a testimony from the mechanic at the tyre 
garage, but he was no longer employed there. The garage said it was unable to give a 
testimony as only the specific mechanic witnessed it. I have seen evidence that Miss R has 
tried to contact the mechanic directly but without success.
Miss R also provided a testimony from her friend who was present when the roadside 
recovery contractor fitted the spare tyre and also when the car went to the tyre garage. He 
said nothing was damaged at the beginning. He said he had kept a distance whilst the work 
was going on to change the tyre because of the covid 19 restrictions that were in place at the 
time.
BBI have confirmed that an independent assessment was not carried out on the damage at 
the time of the complaint and will not be now due to time passed.
As there are limited call out notes, no explanation as to why the burst tyre wasnt fitted back 
into the boot securely, and BBI failed to conduct an independent assessment of the damage 
when Miss R made her complaint in June 2021, I am not convinced the locking mechanism 
in the boot  wasnt broken by its contractor at the roadside .
I have seen that a written quotation for the work to supply and fit the broken locking 
mechanism was obtained by Miss R in January 2023. The total cost being £114.84.
I cannot be certain beyond reasonable doubt from the evidence provided by both Miss R and 
BBI as to when the damage occurred. So I think the fair and reasonable outcome in this 
case is that BBI pay half the cost of the invoice to supply and fit a new locking mechanism. 
Therefore, I uphold Miss Rs complaint and require BBI to pay half the cost to replace and fit 
a new locking mechanism part in the boot of her car. My final decision
For the reasons I have given I uphold this complaint.
I require Building Block Insurance PCC Ltd to pay Miss R half of the cost to replace and fit a 
new locking mechanism part in the boot of her car. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss R to accept 
or reject my decision before 7 April 2023.
 
Sally-Ann Harding
Ombudsman