DRN-2304632
The complaint
Mr B complains that Startline Motor Finance Limited irresponsibly gave him a hire purchase 
agreement which he couldnt afford. 
What happened
Mr B acquired a used car in September 2019 using a hire purchase agreement provided by 
Startline. The cash price of the car was £5,991 and the total repayable under the agreement 
was around £7,800. The agreement was for 36 months with repayments of around £220 per 
month. 
Soon after taking out the agreement, Mr B contacted Startline to say he had been signed off 
work and his income had significantly reduced. Startline says Mr B requested a payment 
holiday but it couldnt offer him one. It says instead it told Mr B about his termination options 
if he wanted to come out of the agreement, but it says this wasnt something Mr B wanted.
In February 2020, Mr B agreed to voluntary surrender. The car was sold at auction and the 
sale price reduced the liability under the agreement. However, Mr B was still required to pay 
the remaining outstanding balance. Startline recorded a default on Mr Bs credit file as the 
outstanding balance wasnt repaid. 
Mr B complained to Startline to say the agreement was unaffordable from the outset and the 
finance shouldnt have been approved. Startline didnt agree. It says before lending it carried 
out a credit check and reviewed copies of Mr Bs payslips and bank statements to ensure the 
lending was affordable. It said these showed the lending was affordable. 
Our investigator didnt recommend the complaint be upheld. She thought Startline ought to 
have asked more about Mr Bs expenditure. This was because Startlines credit check 
showed Mr B had paid some of his creditors late only a few months before the lending 
decision. She said this may have indicated he was in financial difficulty and therefore a more 
thorough assessment would have been reasonable. However, she said that if they had 
asked more questions, they would likely have still concluded the lending was affordable to 
Mr B.
Mr B didnt agree. In summary, he said his expenditure and credit commitments were out of 
control at the time and Startline should have been able to see he was already two months in 
arrears on a previous car finance agreement. 
The complaint has been passed to me for a final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In doing so, Ive considered  amongst other things  the rules and guidance for lenders set 
out in the Consumer Credit Sourcebook (CONC) within the Financial Conduct Authoritys 
handbook.
I think there are two overarching questions I need to consider in order to decide whats fair 
and reasonable in all of the circumstances of this complaint. These questions are:
1. Did Startline complete reasonable and proportionate checks to satisfy itself that Mr B 
would be able to repay the borrowing in a sustainable way?
a. If so, did it make a fair lending decision?
b. If not, would reasonable and proportionate checks have shown that Mr B 
could sustainably repay the borrowing?
2. Did Startline act unfairly or unreasonably in some other way?
If I think Mr B has been disadvantaged in any way by Startlines actions, Ill go onto consider 
what I think is a fair way to put things right. 
Did Startline complete reasonable and proportionate checks to satisfy itself that Mr B would 
be able to repay the borrowing in a sustainable way?
Before granting credit, Startline were required to carry out a reasonable and proportionate 
assessment of Mr Bs ability to sustainably repay the borrowing. This is often referred to as 
an affordability check. This check had to be borrower-focussed. This means it needed to be 
concerned with whether Mr B could sustainably afford the borrowing (considering his specific 
circumstances), rather than how statistically likely she was to repay. The latter, is the risk 
posed to Startline as the lender, or its credit risk but this is not necessarily the same as an 
assessment of affordability. 
Whats considered reasonable and proportionate will vary depending on a number of factors 
such as, but not limited to:
The amount of credit;
The total repayable and the size of the regular repayments;
The duration of the agreement;
The cost of the credit; and
The consumers individual circumstances. 
What this means is that there isnt a one-size-fits-all approach to what is considered 
proportionate as any of these factors (or others) might influence what a reasonable and 
proportionate check ought to be.
The total repayable under the agreement was around £7,800 with monthly repayments of 
around £220 over a 36 month term. Startline gathered copies of Mr Bs recent payslips and 
bank statements as part of its application process and also completed a credit check. As a 
starting point I think this was relatively thorough and I think it gathered a reasonable amount 
of information to assess Mr Bs ability to repay.  
However, Startline told us the credit check it carried out showed Mr B had some recent 
missed payments recorded on his credit file as well as evidence of him taking out a number 
of payday loans recently. Startline did say that all the missed payments appeared to have 
been put right and the number of payday loans had reduced significantly. On this basis it 
said it was comfortable that the information it had gathered showed the agreement was 
affordable to Mr B. Having reviewed the bank statements, it seems that some regular expenditure which might 
be expected  such as housing costs  werent clearly visible. So, despite having sight of 
Mr Bs bank statements I dont think it necessarily had a good enough understanding of what 
his committed expenditure was, particularly because it knew hed had payment difficulties 
recently and was taking out high-cost short-term loans. For this reason, in the specific 
circumstances of this case, I dont think the checks Startline carried out were reasonable or 
proportionate. I think it ought to have asked Mr B more about his committed expenditure. 
Would reasonable and proportionate checks have shown that Mr B could sustainably repay 
the borrowing?
Startline already had a reasonably good understanding of Mr Bs income and expenditure. It 
had verified his income through payslips and could see much of his expenditure on his bank 
statements. However, certain expenditure wasnt clear. Our investigator asked Mr B about 
what his expenditure was. Hes told us his contribution towards rent was £600 per month 
and he had no other regular commitments on top of those shown on his bank statements. 
Having reviewed the statements, I can see that Mr Bs committed expenditure was around 
£1,200 per month. This included his rent, bills, subscriptions, insurance, and regular credit 
commitments (including existing payday loan repayments). His monthly income was around 
£1,900 per month. While Mr B did have a further car finance agreement that he was paying 
around £380 for each month, that agreement was settled at the time he took out the 
agreement with Startline. So the previous hire purchase agreement wasnt a cost hed 
continue to incur. 
It appears from the information that Startline gathered and from the additional information 
Mr B has provided about his expenditure, that he was left with around £700 per month after 
taking into account committed expenditure. I think it would have been reasonable for 
Startline to conclude that was sufficient to cover the costs of the hire purchase agreement 
(around £220 per month) and general living costs such as food and petrol. 
Therefore, even if Startline had carried out reasonable and proportionate checks by asking 
more questions about Mr Bs expenditure, I think it still would have likely concluded the 
lending was affordable to him. For that reason, I dont think Startline have acted unfairly in 
granting Mr B credit. 
Did Startline act unfairly or unreasonably in some other way?
Mr B says Startline didnt act fairly when he got in touch with them in November 2019 about 
his financial difficulties. He said it didnt offer any payment holidays or other options other 
than terminating the agreement. 
Financial firms ought to treat anyone in financial difficulty fairly. What that means will depend 
on the circumstances of each individual. Mr B got in contact with Startline within two months 
of the agreement starting to say he was struggling due to an income shock. I can see from 
Startlines contact notes that they told Mr B the only options they could offer him were 
termination of the agreement or to allow it to default. 
I dont think this was a particularly helpful response and Im not persuaded Startline fairly 
explored all possible options with Mr B at this stage. It appears Mr B had explained his 
change in income was only temporary so I dont understand why Startline wouldnt even 
consider a short repayment plan for any arrears that might have built up during that time.
However, it appears Mr B has said he couldnt afford to keep up with the repayments in any 
event and ultimately opted to voluntary surrender on that basis soon after. So even though I would have expected Startline to do more in exploring other options, I dont think Mr B is in 
any different position than he would have been. This is because it doesnt appear a 
repayment plan or payment holiday would have prevented the account from eventually 
defaulting. As I dont think theres been any material loss or distress and inconvenience 
caused by this, I dont propose to make any direction or award in relation to how they dealt 
with Mr Bs financial difficulties. 
 
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 30 December 2020.
 
Tero Hiltunen
Ombudsman