DRN-3244052
The complaint
Ms D complains that Heritage Pensions Limited failed in its regulatory duties to carry out due 
diligence when accepting her application for a Self-Invested Personal Pension (SIPP). She 
says that it didnt carry out appropriate checks on the advisor who recommended the 
transaction, or on the investments to be held in the SIPP.
 
What happened
The parties
Heritage Pensions Limited
Heritage is a regulated SIPP provider and administrator. It is authorised, in relation to SIPPs, 
to arrange (bring about) deals in investments, deal in investments as principal, establish, 
operate or wind up a pension scheme and make arrangements with a view to transactions in 
investments.
Tailormade 
Tailormade Independent Limited (TMI) was an independent financial adviser previously 
authorised by the FCA and the FSA.
TMI specialised in giving advice to retail customers about transferring their pension monies 
into SIPP schemes.
In 2013 the FCA restricted TMIs permissions and it has since dissolved.
Heritage had an agreement in place with TMI which enabled TMI to advise its clients to use 
Heritages SIPP.
The Introducer
Ms Ds representative says she was introduced to the investments to be held in her SIPP by 
an unregulated financial business which I will call the Introducer.  
The investments
Harlequin Property
The Harlequin group of companies was involved in the development and distribution of 
overseas property investments and resorts, primarily based in the Caribbean and promoted 
by a UK registered company.
The developments failed and funds invested were not always used as intended. A number of 
Harlequin entities are now in insolvency, with some senior figures involved with those 
companies facing prosecution.
Green Oil Plantations Ltd
Green Oil Plantations Ltd was developing a Millettia tree plantation in Australia. The 
commercial uses of these trees include bio-oil, animal feed, fertiliser, etc. To earn carbon 
credits investors were offered shares in the company, which would be rewarded from the 
sale of harvested trees. The company was dissolved in 2019.
Food Water and Energy SA 
Food Water and Energy SA is a company based in Argentina. Through subsidiaries and 
affiliates, it apparently owns and operates large tracts of farmland in South America and 
Europe. 
Investors could purchase a beneficial interest in the land for a term of years, with the 
intention that they would be rewarded with a portion of any profits from farming that land. 
One of the investment opportunities offered was SCS Farmland (Weisburd), relating to land 
in Argentina. It seems this investment has not yielded any reward and has likely failed.
What happened
Ms D had retained benefits in an occupational pension scheme which TMI noted was a final 
salary scheme. It had a transfer value of around £230,000.
In November 2012, following advice from TMI, Ms D opened a SIPP with Heritage with the 
intention of investing in the above three companies.
After the pension was transferred around £97,500 was invested in Harlequin, £30,250 in 
Green Oil and £25,000 in SCS Farmland. 
The investments appear to have failed and it is likely that Ms D has lost all, or nearly all, the 
money she invested.
Post-investment events relating to TMI
Since 2015 the FCA has issued a number of notices in relation to TMIs directors and made 
a number of points in relation to the operation of TMI. These include:
TMI provided advice to consumers who were considering switching or transferring 
their pension funds to a SIPP to make unregulated investments in biofuel oil, 
farmland and overseas property. Those investments were high risk, illiquid and 
esoteric and not suitable for all retail customers.
TMI reviewed consumers' overall financial circumstances and assessed their attitude 
to risk. But the advice process couldn't be relied on to ensure suitable 
recommendations were made, as the overriding factor was to aim to use the pension 
funds to purchase unregulated investments. In nearly all cases, TMI had 
recommended to move to a SIPP. This included cases where the consumer was 
transferred from an occupational scheme, where the assumption should be that the 
transfer is unsuitable.
TMI's recommendation process was inadequate because, rather than taking into 
account consumers' individual needs, it produced recommendations based on the 
consumers' objective of using their pension funds to purchase unregulated 
investments.TMI failed to ensure the investments consumers intended to make into the SIPPs 
were suitable.
The FSCS claim
Ms D made a claim to the Financial Services Compensation Scheme (FSCS) about the 
actions of TMI. The FSCS accepted the claim and calculated that Ms Ds total loss at over 
£265,000. The FSCS paid Ms D £50,000, in line with its maximum award limit at the time. 
When a claim is made to the FSCS it is normal that the successful claimant assigns their 
rights of action against third parties in relation to the dispute to the FSCS.  Those rights were 
re-assigned back to Ms D in December 2017 on the basis that the payment made by the 
FSCS would be repaid by Ms D if she is successful in recovering compensation from any 
other party.
Following this M D complained to Heritage, using a claims management company (CMC).  
In summary, the CMC said Heritage should compensate Ms D for her losses because it had 
failed to meet its obligations to Ms D in allowing her to transfer her existing occupational 
pension to an unsuitable pension which facilitated the purchase of unsuitable, high risk, 
illiquid investments. 
The CMC raised a number of other concerns too, including that the investment had been 
introduced to Ms D by an unregulated financial business (the Introducer).
Heritage didnt accept the complaint. It made a number of points, including:
While accepting that it had obligations to Ms D it didnt agree they were as extensive 
as the CMC suggested.
It was entitled to accept the application at face value unless there was clear evidence 
that the information provided was incorrect.
Ms D signed a SIPP application form which stated that Heritage was not providing 
financial advice and was not responsible for the choice of investments or for any 
losses.
Investment advice was the responsibility of the adviser (TMI). Nevertheless, Heritage 
did carry out due diligence into the investments and on TMI.
It did not (and was not required to) see the suitability report prepared by TMI. It 
wouldnt have been able to assess suitability anyway because it wasnt authorised to, 
and because it wasnt in possession of the underlying information.  However, when it 
provided its submissions to the ombudsman service Heritage said:
oHeritage was not under a duty to obtain clarification from Tailormade as to 
suitability As this was a transfer of a Defined Benefit Pension, Heritage did 
obtain a copy of the Suitability Report prepared by Tailormade on [Ms D].  
Nothing in the Suitability Report suggested that [Ms D] should not be 
permitted to go forward with her investment.
Its understanding was that all business was referred on an advised basis, both in 
relation to the pension transfer and in relation to the investments.
It was not aware of the Introducer or its role. The Introducer is not, and never had been, an introducer to Heritage.
As a means of ensuring the quality of the investment business Heritage limited the 
pipeline of new business to 20 new introductions per month and required quarterly 
review meetings with TMI.
It took comfort from the fact that TMI was actively working with the FSA to establish 
an approved SIPP company.
It denies that the investments were esoteric assets and that there was any obligation 
on Heritage to seek clarity from TMI as to the suitability of the investments for Ms D.
It completed an appropriateness test for Ms D for each investment, which she 
signed. The forms contained warnings that if Ms D was in any doubt about the 
suitability of the investment she should get independent financial advice. The forms 
also asked Ms D to confirm that the investments did not form a significant part of her 
savings or investments and that if she lost all the capital invested she would still be 
able to maintain her lifestyle. 
Any loss that has arisen is as a result of a breach of contract on the part of the 
investment companies.
Even if Heritage had refused to accept the transfer, it did not accept that TMI would 
not have arranged for another SIPP operator to make the investment.
Our investigation
The matter was then referred to us and our investigator looked into it, taking into account all 
the submissions made by the parties, including Heritages view that it was more appropriate 
for this complaint go be dealt with by The Pensions Ombudsman.
After completing his investigations, our investigator wrote to the parties on 17 December 
2019.
He first explained why he didnt think it would be more appropriate for the complaint to be 
dealt with by The Pensions Ombudsman.
He then went on to explain why he thought Ms Ds complaint should be upheld. Heritage did 
not agree with the investigator.
My provisional decision
I issued a provisional decision on 22 October 2021.  After setting out the background I 
said:
As a preliminary point I confirm that I agree with our investigatorthat it would 
not be more appropriate for this complaint to be dealt with by The Pensions 
Ombudsman.
Im satisfied that the Financial Ombudsman Service has the jurisdiction to 
consider this complaint and that it is appropriate for us to do so.
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats 
fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.In considering whats fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of this 
complaint, Ive taken into account relevant law and regulations; regulators rules, 
guidance and standards; codes of practice; and, where appropriate, what I 
consider to be good industry practice at the relevant time.
Relevant considerations
The Principles
In my view, the FCAs Principles for Businesses are of particular relevance to my 
decision.
The Principles for Businesses, which are set out in the FCAs handbook are a 
general statement of the fundamental obligations of firms under the regulatory 
system (PRIN 1.1.2G). And, I consider that the Principles relevant to this 
complaint include Principle 2, 3 and 6 which say:
Principle 2  Skill, care and diligence  A firm must conduct its business with 
due skill, care and diligence.
Principle 3  Management and control  A firm must take reasonable care to 
organise and control its affairs responsibly and effectively, with adequate risk 
management systems
Principle 6  Clients interests  A firm must pay due regard to the interests of 
its clients and treat them fairly. 
Ive carefully considered the relevant law and what this says about the application 
of the FCAs Principles. In R (British Bankers Association) v Financial Services 
Authority [2011] EWHC 999 (Admin) (BBA) Ouseley J said at paragraph 162:
The Principles are best understood as the ever present substrata to which the 
specific rules are added. The Principles always have to be complied with. The 
specific rules do not supplant them and cannot be used to contradict them. They 
are but specific applications of them to the particular requirement they cover. 
The general notion that the specific rules can exhaust the application of the 
Principles is inappropriate. It cannot be an error of law for the Principles to 
augment specific rules.
And at paragraph 77 of BBA, Ouseley J said:
Indeed, it is my view that it would be a breach of statutory duty for the 
Ombudsman to reach a view on a case without taking the Principles into 
account in deciding what would be fair and reasonable and what redress to 
afford. Even if no Principles had been produced by the FSA, the FOS would 
find it hard to fulfil its particular statutory duty without having regard to the sort 
of high level Principles which find expression in the Principles, whoever 
formulated them. They are of the essence of what is fair and reasonable, 
subject to the argument about their relationship to specific rules.
In R (Berkeley Burke SIPP Administration Ltd) v Financial Ombudsman Service 
[2018] EWHC 2878) (BBSAL), Berkeley Burke brought a judicial review claim 
challenging the decision of an ombudsman who had upheld a consumers complaint 
against it. The ombudsman considered the FCA Principles and good industry practice at the relevant time. He concluded that it was fair and reasonable for Berkeley Burke 
to have undertaken due diligence in respect of the investment before allowing it into 
the SIPP wrapper, and that if it had done so, it would have refused to accept the 
investment. The ombudsman found Berkeley Burke had therefore not complied with 
its regulatory obligations and had not treated its client fairly.
Jacobs J, having set out some paragraphs of the BBA judgment including paragraph 
162 set out above, said (at paragraph 104 of BBSAL):
These passages explain the overarching nature of the Principles. As the FCA 
correctly submitted in their written argument, the role of the Principles is not 
merely to cater for new or unforeseen circumstances. The judgment in BBA 
shows that they are, and indeed were always intended to be, of general 
application. The aim of the Principles- based regulation described by Ouseley 
J. was precisely not to attempt to formulate a code covering all possible 
circumstances, but instead to impose general duties such as those set out in 
Principles 2 and 6.
The BBSAL judgment also considers section 228 of Financial Services & Markets Act 
2000 (FSMA) and the approach an ombudsman is to take when deciding a 
complaint. The judgment of Jacobs J in BBSAL upheld the lawfulness of the 
approach taken by the ombudsman in that complaint, which I have described above, 
and included the Principles and good industry practice at the relevant time as 
relevant considerations that were required to be taken into account.
Ive considered the High Court decision in Adams v Options SIPP. Since that 
decision the Court of Appeal has handed down its judgment following its 
consideration of Mr Adams appeal. Ive taken both judgments into account when 
making this decision.
Ive considered whether the judgments mean that the Principles should not be taken 
into account in deciding this case and I find that they dont. In the high court 
judgment, Adams v Options SIPP, HHJ Dight did not consider the application of the 
Principles and they didnt form part of the pleadings submitted by Mr Adams. The 
Court of Appeal judgment gave no consideration to the application of the Principles 
either. So, Adams v Options SIPP says nothing about the application of the FCAs 
Principles to the ombudsmans consideration of a complaint.
As outlined above, Ouseley J in the BBA case held that it would be a breach of 
statutory duty if I were to reach a view on a complaint without taking the Principles 
into account in deciding what is fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of a 
case. And, Jacobs J adopted a similar approach to the application of the Principles 
in BBSAL. I am therefore satisfied that the FCAs Principles are a relevant 
consideration that I must take into account when deciding this complaint.
COBS 2.1.1R 
The rule says: 
A firm must act honestly, fairly and professionally in accordance with the best 
interests of its client (the client's best interests rule).
Unlike the Principles, COBS 2.1.1R was considered by HHJ Dight in the Adams v 
Options SIPP case. Mr Adams pleaded that Options SIPP owed him a duty to comply 
with COBS 2.1.1R, a breach of which, he argued, was actionable pursuant to section 138(D) of FSMA (the COBS claim). HHJ Dight rejected this claim and found that 
Options SIPP had complied with the best interests rule on the facts of Adams case.  
The Court of Appeal rejected Mr Adams appeal against HHJ Dights dismissal of the 
COBS claim on the basis that Mr Adams was seeking to advance a case that was 
radically different to that found in his initial pleadings. The Court found that this part of 
Mr Adams appeal did not so much represent a challenge to the grounds on which HHJ 
Dight had dismissed the COBS claim, but rather was an attempt to put forward an 
entirely new case. 
Overall, I am satisfied that COBS 2.1.1R remains a relevant consideration  but that it 
needs to be considered alongside the remainder of the relevant considerations, and 
within the factual context of Ms Ds case.   
I note that there are significant differences between the breaches of COBS 2.1.1R 
alleged by Mr Adams and from the issues in Ms Ds complaint.  The breaches were 
summarised in paragraph 120 of the Court of Appeal judgment. In particular, as HHJ 
Dight noted, he was not asked to consider the question of due diligence before 
Options SIPP agreed to accept the store pods investment into its SIPP. The facts of 
the case were also different.  
So I have considered COBS 2.1.1R - alongside the remainder of the relevant 
considerations, and within the factual context of Ms Ds case, including Heritages role 
in the transaction.  However, I think it is important to emphasise that I must determine 
this complaint by reference to what is, in my opinion, fair and reasonable in all the 
circumstances of the case. And, in doing that, I am required to take into account 
relevant considerations which include: law and regulations; regulators rules, guidance 
and standards; codes of practice; and, where appropriate, what I consider to have 
been good industry practice at the relevant time. This is a clear and relevant point of 
difference between this complaint and the judgments in Adams v Options SIPP. That 
was a legal claim which was defined by the formal pleadings in Mr Adams statement 
of case.  
The regulatory publications
The FCA (and its predecessor, the FSA) has issued a number of publications which 
remind SIPP operators of their obligations and set out how they might achieve the 
outcomes envisaged by the Principles.
The 2009 and 2012 thematic review reports.
The October 2013 finalised SIPP operator guidance.
The July 2014 Dear CEO letter.
I have set out below what I consider to be the key parts of the publications (although I 
have considered them in their entirety). 
The 2009 Thematic Review Report
The 2009 report included the following statement:
We are very clear that SIPP operators, regardless of whether they provide 
advice, are bound by Principle 6 of the Principles for Businesses (a firm must pay due regard to the interests of its clients and treat them fairly) 
insofar as they are obliged to ensure the fair treatment of their clients. 
COBS 3.2.3(2) states that a member of a pension scheme is a client for 
COBS purposes, and Customer in terms of Principle 6 includes clients. It 
is the responsibility of SIPP operators to continuously analyse the individual 
risks to themselves and their clients, with reference to the six TCF 
consumer outcomes.
We agree that firms acting purely as SIPP operators are not responsible for 
the SIPP advice given by third parties such as IFAs. However, we are also 
clear that SIPP operators cannot absolve themselves of any responsibility, 
and we would expect them to have procedures and controls, and to be 
gathering and analysing management information, enabling them to identify 
possible instances of financial crime and consumer detriment such as 
unsuitable SIPPs. Such instances could then be addressed in an appropriate 
way, for example by contacting the member to confirm the position, or by 
contacting the firm giving advice and asking for clarification. Moreover, while 
they are not responsible for the advice, there is a reputational risk to SIPP 
operators that facilitate the SIPPs that are unsuitable or detrimental to clients.
Of particular concern were firms whose systems and controls were weak and 
inadequate to the extent that they had not identified obvious potential instances 
of poor advice and/or potential financial crime. Depending on the facts and 
circumstances of individual cases, we may take enforcement action against 
SIPP operators who do not safeguard their clients interests in this respect, with 
reference to Principle 3 of the Principles for Business (a firm must take 
reasonable care to organise and control its affairs responsibly and effectively, 
with adequate risk management systems).
The following are examples of measures that SIPP operators could 
consider, taken from examples of good practice that we observed and 
suggestions we have made to firms:
Confirming, both initially and on an ongoing basis, that 
intermediaries that advise clients are authorised and regulated by 
the FSA, that they have the appropriate permissions to give the 
advice they are providing to the firms clients, and that they do not 
appear on the FSA website listing warning notices.
Having Terms of Business agreements governing 
relationships, and clarifying respective responsibilities, with 
intermediaries introducing SIPP business.
Routinely recording and reviewing the type (i.e. the nature of the 
SIPP investment) and size of investments recommended by 
intermediaries that give advice and introduce clients to the firm, so 
that potentially unsuitable SIPPs can be identified.
Being able to identify anomalous investments, e.g. unusually small 
or large transactions or more esoteric investments such as 
unquoted shares, together with the intermediary that introduced the 
business. This would enable the firm to seek appropriate 
clarification, e.g. from the client or their adviser, if it is concerned 
about the suitability of what was recommended.Requesting copies of the suitability reports provided to clients by 
the intermediary giving advice. While SIPP operators are not 
responsible for advice, having this information would enhance the 
firms understanding of its clients, making the facilitation of 
unsuitable SIPPs less likely.
Routinely identifying instances of execution-only clients who have 
signed disclaimers taking responsibility for their investment 
decisions, and gathering and analyzing data regarding the aggregate 
volume of such business.
Identifying instances of clients waiving their cancellation rights, and 
the reasons for this.
Ensuring that an investment is safe/secure (meaning that 
custody of assets is through a reputable arrangement, and any 
contractual agreements are correctly drawn-up and legally 
enforceable).
Ensuring that an investment can be independently valued, both at 
point of purchase and subsequently.
Ensuring that an investment is not impaired (for example that 
previous investors have received income if expected, or that any 
investment providers are credit worthy etc.
The later publications
In the October 2013 finalised SIPP operator guidance, the FCA states: 
This guide, originally published in September 2009, has been updated to give 
firms further guidance to help meet the regulatory requirements. These are not 
new or amended requirements, but a reminder of regulatory responsibilities 
that became a requirement in April 2007.
All firms, regardless of whether they do or do not provide advice must meet 
Principle 6 and treat clients fairly. COBS 3.2.3(2) is clear that a member of a 
pension scheme is a client for SIPP operators and so is a customer under 
Principle 6. It is a SIPP operators responsibility to assess its business with 
reference to our six TCF consumer outcomes.
The October 2013 finalised SIPP operator guidance also set out the following:
Relationships between firms that advise and introduce prospective 
members and SIPP operators
Examples of good practice we observed during our work with SIPP 
operators include the following:
Confirming, both initially and on an ongoing basis, that: introducers 
that advise clients are authorised and regulated by the FCA; that they 
have the appropriate permissions to give the advice they are providing; 
neither the firm, nor its approved persons are on the list of prohibited 
individuals or cancelled firms and have a clear disciplinary history; and 
that the firm does not appear on the FCA website listings for un- 
authorised business warnings.Having terms of business agreements that govern relationships 
and clarify the responsibilities of those introducers providing 
SIPP business to a firm.
Understanding the nature of the introducers work to establish the 
nature of the firm, what their business objectives are, the types of 
clients they deal with, the levels of business they conduct and expect 
to introduce, the types of investments they recommend and whether 
they use other SIPP operators. Being satisfied that they are 
appropriate to deal with.
Being able to identify irregular investments, often indicated by 
unusually small or large transactions; or higher risk investments such 
as unquoted shares which may be illiquid. This would enable the firm 
to seek appropriate clarification, for example from the prospective 
member or their adviser, if it has any concerns.
Identifying instances when prospective members waive their 
cancellation rights and the reasons for this.
Although the members advisers are responsible for the SIPP investment 
advice given, as a SIPP operator the firm has a responsibility for the quality of 
the SIPP business it administers.
Examples of good practice we have identified include:
conducting independent verification checks on members to ensure 
the information they are being supplied with, or that they are 
providing the firm with, is authentic and meets the firms procedures 
and are not being used to launder money
having clear terms of business agreements in place which govern 
relationships and clarify responsibilities for relationships with other 
professional bodies such as solicitors and accountants, and
using non-regulated introducer checklists which demonstrate the SIPP 
operators have considered the additional risks involved in accepting 
business from non- regulated introducers
In relation to due diligence the October 2013 finalised SIPP operator guidance said:
Due diligence
Principle 2 of the FCAs Principles for Businesses requires all firms to conduct 
their business with due skill, care and diligence. All firms should ensure that 
they conduct and retain appropriate and sufficient due diligence (for example, 
checking and monitoring introducers as well as assessing that investments 
are appropriate for personal pension schemes) to help them justify their 
business decisions. In doing this SIPP operators should consider:
ensuring that all investments permitted by the scheme are permitted by 
HMRC, or where a tax charge is incurred, that charge is identifiable, 
HMRC is informed and the tax charge paid
periodically reviewing the due diligence the firm undertakes in 
respect of the introducers that use their scheme and, where 
appropriate enhancing the processes that are in place in order to 
identify and mitigate any risks to the members and the schemehaving checks which may include, but are not limited to:
oensuring that introducers have the appropriate permissions, 
qualifications and skills to introduce different types of business to 
the firm, and
oundertaking additional checks such as viewing 
Companies House records, identifying connected parties 
and visiting introducers
ensuring all third-party due diligence that the firm uses or relies on 
has been independently produced and verified
good practices we have identified in firms include having a set of 
benchmarks, or minimum standards, with the purpose of setting the 
minimum standard the firm is prepared to accept to either deal with 
introducers or accept investments, and
ensuring these benchmarks clearly identify those instances that would 
lead a firm to decline the proposed business, or to undertake further 
investigations such as instances of potential pension liberation, 
investments that may breach HMRC tax- relievable investments and non-
standard investments that have not been approved by the firm
The July 2014 Dear CEO letter provides a further reminder that the Principles apply 
and an indication of the FCAs expectations about the kinds of practical steps a SIPP 
operator might reasonably take to achieve the outcomes envisaged by the Principles.
The Dear CEO letter also sets out how a SIPP operator might meet its 
obligations in relation to investment due diligence. It says those obligations 
could be met by:
Correctly establishing and understanding the nature of an investment.
Ensuring that an investment is genuine and not a scam, or linked to 
fraudulent activity, money-laundering or pensions liberation.
Ensuring that an investment is safe/secure (meaning that custody of 
assets is through a reputable arrangement, and any contractual 
agreements are correctly
drawn-up and legally enforceable).
Ensuring that an investment can be independently valued, both 
at point of purchase and subsequently.
Ensuring that an investment is not impaired (for example that previous 
investors have received income if expected, or that any investment 
providers are credit worthy etc).
I acknowledge that the 2009 and 2012 reports and the Dear CEO letter are not 
formal guidance (whereas the 2013 finalised guidance is). However, the fact that 
the reports and Dear CEO letter didnt constitute formal guidance doesnt mean 
their importance should be underestimated. They provide a reminder that the 
Principles for Businesses apply and are an indication for the kinds of things a SIPP 
operator might do to ensure it is treating its customers fairly and produce the 
outcomes envisaged by the Principles. In that respect, the publications which set out 
the regulators expectations of what SIPP operators should be doing also go some 
way to indicate what I consider amounts to good industry practice at the time, and I 
am therefore satisfied it is appropriate to take them into account.Like the ombudsman in the BBSAL case, I dont think the fact that the publications 
(other than the 2009 Thematic Review Report) post-date the events that are the 
subject of this complaint mean that the examples of good industry practice they 
provide were not good practice at the time of the events. The later publications were 
published after the events subject to this complaint, but the Principles that underpin 
them existed throughout, as did the obligation to act in accordance with those 
Principles.
It is also clear from the text of the 2009 and 2012 reports (and the Dear CEO letter 
published in 2014) that the regulator expected SIPP operators to have incorporated 
the recommended good industry practices into the conduct of their business 
already. So, whilst the regulators comments suggest some industry participants 
understanding of how the standards shaped what was expected of SIPP operators 
changed over time, it is clear the standards themselves had not changed.
It is important to bear in mind that the reports, Dear CEO letter and guidance gave 
non- exhaustive examples of good industry practice. They did not say the 
suggestions given were the limit of what a SIPP operator should do. As the annex to 
the Dear CEO letter notes, what should be done to meet regulatory obligations will 
depend on the circumstances.
Its also important to keep in mind the judgments in Adams v Options did not consider 
the regulatory publications in the context of considering what is fair and reasonable in 
all the circumstances bearing in mind various matters including the Principles (as part 
of the regulators rules) or good industry practice.
Overall, in determining this complaint I need to consider whether Heritage complied 
with its regulatory obligations as set out by the Principles to act with due skill, care 
and diligence, to take reasonable care to organise its business affairs responsibly and 
effectively, to pay due regards to the interests of its customers (in this case Ms D), to 
treat them fairly, and to act honestly, fairly and professionally. And, in doing that, Im 
looking to the Principles and the publications listed above to provide an indication of 
what Heritage could have done to comply with its regulatory obligations and duties.
The role of the Introducer and TMI
Ms Ds representative says the investments were introduced by an unregulated 
business, the Introducer. Ms D says someone from the Introducer phoned her at her 
place of work and sent her a brochure.
Heritage says it was not aware of the Introducer, or its role.
With the papers submitted theres evidence to show that [the Introducer] was involved 
in submitting the applications for investment. So Im satisfied from this, and from Ms 
Ds recollections, that [the Introducer] played a part in Ms Ds decision to transfer her 
pension. The precise circumstances are unclear, but TMIs business model relied on 
introductions received from agents/introducers so its likely the Introducer acted in 
that capacity.
In any event it doesnt seem to be in dispute that it was TMI that introduced Ms D to 
Heritage for the provision of her SIPP.
To meet its regulatory obligations as a SIPP operator when conducting this business Heritage had to decide whether to accept or reject the business and/or particular 
investments. It had to pay due regard to Ms Ds interests and treat her fairly. 
Heritage has said that its understanding was that all business from TMI was referred 
on an advised basis, both in relation to the pension transfer and in relation to the 
particular investments.
That is not supported by the evidence on file. The Introducer Profile, which Heritage 
prepared when deciding whether to enter into its agreement with TMI, shows that 
TMIs business model was that clients had the option of choosing their own 
investments or referring to an IFA. I havent seen anything to suggest that TMI itself 
offered advice on the investments, or any reason why Heritage would think that was 
the case.
The suitability report which TMI sent to Ms D made clear that the recommendation to 
transfer her pension was predicated on her own decision to invest in an overseas 
commercial property. It didnt purport to give advice about that decision. 
Heritage has said that it didnt (and wasnt required to) routinely ask to see suitability 
reports and that it wouldnt have been able to assess suitability anyway because it 
wasnt authorized to, and because it wasnt in possession of the underlying 
information.
However, in practice Heritage did see the suitability report in Ms Ds case and
the information in the report is consistent with the way TMI told Heritage it operated. 
So, Heritage did know how TMI operated, and knew that Ms D had not received 
advice on the investments from TMI.
In addition, the appropriateness test which Heritage asked Ms D to complete for each 
investment was one designed to be used when instructions are given to make a 
complex investment in circumstances where the client hasnt received independent 
advice. The form makes this clear. That suggests that Heritage was aware that clients 
could be choosing their investments without advice. Ms D completed the form, 
seemingly without question. That again should reasonably have alerted Heritage to 
the possibility that she hadnt received advice.
The contract between Heritage and Ms D
Heritage says that, consistent with the decision in Adams v Options, the regulatory 
rules have to be read in the light of the contract between the customer and the SIPP 
provider. 
I dont think the considerations in the Adams v Options case are analogous to the 
circumstances in this complaint, in which Im considering the Principles. I accept that 
Heritage made clear to Ms D that it was not giving her financial advice. But I dont 
think that absolved Heritage of its regulatory obligations to treat customers fairly when 
deciding whether to accept or reject business.
Heritage has said itself that its understanding was that TMI was responsible for 
providing Ms D with investment advice as her regulated financial adviser and that TMI 
had provided her with that advice. 
So, although Heritage says it accepted Ms Ds business on an execution only basis 
that appears to have been on the understanding that she had received investment 
advice from TMI. I think there were reasons to doubt that, as mentioned above, and that Heritage should have been wary of accepting Ms Ds business in these 
circumstances.  
In the Adams v Carey case, the judge at first instance found that Mr Adams would 
have proceeded with the transaction regardless. HHJ Dight said (at para. 32):
The Claimant knew that it was a high risk and speculative investment but 
nevertheless decided to proceed with it, because of the case incentive
In this case there is no suggestion that Ms D received an incentive to invest. She says 
she didnt and that she didnt understand the risk. She says there is no way she 
would knowingly have risked losing her pension.
Heritage had to act in a way that was consistent with its regulatory obligations. I dont 
think the contract between Heritage and Ms D means that Heritage no longer had the 
responsibilities placed on it by its regulatory obligations, or that it didnt have to pay 
due regard to Ms Ds interests and treat her fairly.
I dont think it would be fair for Heritage to rely on the contract when it had (or ought to 
have had) concerns about the way TMI was operating. It still had to treat Ms D fairly 
when deciding whether to accept or reject the introduction of her business by TMI. 
Heritage could have declined Ms Ds application. I dont consider that would have 
amounted to giving her financial advice. So I dont think the fact that Heritage wasnt 
authorised to give advice precluded it from meeting its regulatory obligations to think 
carefully about the quality of the business is was accepting. And I dont think that 
Heritage needed to carry out an assessment of Ms Ds needs and circumstances in 
order to identify the risk of consumer detriment in the business model operated by TMI.
What did Heritages obligations mean in practice?
In this case, the business Heritage was conducting was its operation of SIPPs. Im 
satisfied that meeting its regulatory obligations when conducting this business would 
include deciding whether to accept or reject particular investments and/or referrals of 
business.
I note that in Adams v Options SIPP, HHJ Dight found that the factual context of a 
case would inform the extent of the duty imposed by COBS 2.1.1R (A firm must act 
honestly, fairly and professionally in accordance with the best interests of its client). 
HHJ Dight said at paragraph 148: 
In my judgment in order to identify the extent of the duty imposed by Rule 
2.1.1 one has to identify the relevant factual context, because it is apparent 
from the submissions of each of the parties that the context has an impact on 
the ascertainment of the extent of the duty. The key fact, perhaps composite 
fact, in the context is the agreement into which the parties entered, which 
defined their roles and functions in the transaction.
Heritage says the Principles and COBS rules need to be addressed in the context of 
the specific area in which it was acting. It says it was in a non-advisory/execution only 
relationship with Ms D and the regulations did not impose an obligation on a SIPP 
operator to refuse to accept the underlying investment even where that could be 
done without having to give advice to the investor himself.As mentioned, I do not say that Heritage was under any obligation to advise Ms D on 
the SIPP and/or the underlying investment. I only say that to meet its regulatory 
obligations when operating its SIPP it had to give consideration to whether to accept or 
reject particular investments and/or referrals of business. 
  
In paragraph 159 of the Adams judgment HHJ Dight said:
to ascertain the suitability or otherwise of the investment for the claimant 
himself the defendant would have had to make detailed enquiries about the 
claimant's financial circumstances and, in my view, take advice on the value of 
the investment, evaluate the risks inherent in and lastly make a judgment call on 
the question of whether those risks were appropriate for the claimant in the light 
of the information which they had obtained about his financial situation and 
appetite for risk. That was not the role which the parties had agreed in the 
contract that the defendant would have. COBS Rule 2.1.1 cannot, in my view, be 
interpreted as requiring the defendant to take those steps.
In my view this simply says that the obligation to act in a clients best interests set by 
COBS 2.1.1R does not oblige a firm to give advice on the suitability of an investment 
for an individual investor, where the firm was not contracted to provide advice. That is 
consistent with the approach I am taking in this complaint. In this section of the 
judgment, the alleged breach of COBS 2.1.1R under consideration was taking into the 
SIPP what was claimed to be a manifestly unsuitable underlying investment, where 
suitability meant suitability for Mr Adams. The judge does not say the SIPP operator 
was not obliged to give any consideration to whether to accept or reject an application. 
Only that such consideration did not need to include the suitability of the intended 
investment for the individual investor. It does not follow from this, for example, that the 
SIPP operator was obliged to accept and execute the clients instructions in all 
circumstances. 
And, in my view, refusing to accept an application is not the same thing as advising 
Ms D on the merits of investing and/or switching to the SIPP  there is a difference.  
Further the point about SIPP operators being required to carry out the instructions it 
receives was considered and dealt with in the BBSAL decision where Jacobs J said at 
paragraph 135
any suggestion that a SIPP provider must, as a result of COBS 11.2.19R, 
execute a transaction, regardless of the duties contained in the Principles, 
produces surprising results and in my view cannot be right. A number of 
examples were given during the course of argument as to circumstances in 
which, having received an instruction, the SIPP provider would or might think it 
inappropriate to proceed, or at the very least query the transaction with his client. 
These included situations where: (1) the proposed investment was not then 
SIPPable; i.e. was not eligible for the tax benefits of putting an investment into 
a SIPP; (2) the SIPP provider knew that although it was then SIPPable, there 
had been a legislative change which meant that it would no longer be SIPPable 
in a few months time; (3) the SIPP provider had received information which cast 
doubt on the integrity of those who were promoting the proposed investment, or 
as to whether underlying assets actually existed; (4) the SIPP provider had learnt 
of problems, such as a possible insolvency, which affected the proposed 
investment. In all of these situations, I consider that there is scope for the 
operation of the Principles, and that COBS 11.2.19R does not mandate the SIPP 
provider to proceed to execute the transaction. This is consistent with the 
underlying purpose of the COBS rules, which have their origin in MiFID, namely consumer protection.
And in my view the thrust of the point is, in effect, acknowledged  at least in so far as 
the position before any contract is entered into with the client - by Heritage when it 
says it regularly declined to do business with introducers in whom they did not have 
confidence. 
The point made by Heritage also undermines its argument that by extension the 
Adams judgment means that it was not under no obligation to carry out due diligence 
on an introducers business model. In practice it did carry out checks on introducers to 
it and this would inevitably have included checks on the introducers business model.
The regulatory publications provided some examples of good industry practice 
observed by the FSA and FCA during their work with SIPP operators including being 
satisfied that a particular introducer/investment is appropriate to deal with/accept. 
That involves conducting checks  due diligence  on introducers and investments to 
make informed decisions about accepting business.  The obligation was a continuing 
one. And in practice Heritage seems to have accepted the need to carry out some 
checks.  
As set out above, to comply with the Principles, Heritage needed to conduct its 
business with due, skill, care and diligence; organise and control its affairs 
responsibly and effectively; and pay due regard to the interests of its clients (including 
Ms D) and treat them fairly. Its obligations and duties in this respect were not 
prescriptive and depended on the nature of the circumstances, information and 
events on an ongoing basis.
I agree with our investigator that its clear Heritage understood and accepted that its 
obligations meant it had to carry out appropriate due diligence on TMI to ensure the 
quality of business it was introducing, and on the investments before accepting them 
into Ms Ds SIPP.  And to do this it needed to carry out checks on TMIs business 
model.
What due diligence did Heritage carry out on TMI?
Heritage was approached by TMI in early November 2011. Apparently, due to 
increasing demand TMI wanted to add another SIPP provider to the existing panel of 
three providers it was working with. 
Heritage has said that prior to agreeing to accept business from introducers, it carried 
out appropriate due diligence into them. And that it regularly declined to do business 
with introducers in whom they did not have confidence. 
Heritage has explained the steps it took, including regulatory checks on the directors of 
TMI, preparing an Introducer Profile, and holding regular review meetings with TMI.
Ive considered everything Heritage has told us. 
The steps Heritage took, including the terms of business it had in place, the list of 
business hurdles, and the regulatory checks it conducted itself, do show that Heritage 
was aware of the need to undertake due diligence on TMI.
But whilst Heritage did have in place some measures of good practice, I dont think 
these absolved it of all further responsibility. Heritage may have been reassured that TMI had in place the necessary authorisations and permissions, but that didnt 
necessarily mean there was no risk of consumer detriment.
And whilst I agree that it was good practice to have some business hurdles in place 
to flag up potential inappropriate business, I think these particular hurdles would only 
have flagged up the most obvious signs of potential detriment.
Heritage says TMIs management told it that TMI had been reviewed by the FSA in 
2011 and had been found to have satisfactory procedures in place. It says it had no 
reason to doubt what TMI said. Again, whilst Heritage may have been reassured by 
what TMI told it I dont think it means it didnt need to check for itself and make up its 
own mind about TMI.
It seems to me that Heritage relied too heavily on what TMI told it and didnt pay 
sufficient attention to warning signs that things might not be as they should be. 
Heritage says that the systems and controls it had in place didnt reveal an obvious 
risk of consumer detriment such as to prompt it to decline business from TMI.
I disagree, and I think the Introducer Profile is particularly relevant here.
The Introducer Profile was a pro-forma document which I understand Heritage 
produced in relation to each of its introducers. It was, in effect, a fact-find which set out 
various information about TMI including its sales process and typical volume of 
business. In effect it summarised how TMI conducted its business.
The form was completed on 23 November 2011.  I early November 2011 Heritage met 
with Tailormade.  It was noted that:
Tailor Made [is] a group of companies that offer a variety of services.  These 
include a regulatory [sic] company that provides pension and pension transfer 
advice a non-regulated company that promotes unregulated investments.
And
We discussed the various investments Tailor Made was promoting. [Tailor 
Made] explained he always sought legal opinion about the products they 
promoted before approaching SIPP providers for their confirmation.  He felt his 
due diligence was very through. For all investment products they were promoting 
he had legal opinion as to the suitability and agreed he wold share this 
information.
There was a further meeting in mid-November.  In Heritages notes of the meeting it 
recorded:
[Alistair Burns] has a number of companies ie TailorMade group which includes 
an FSA regulated firm which provides independent pension transfer advice and 
recommendations; and a company that promotes non-regulated alternative 
investment products. [the use of the quotation marks for the word promotes in 
the original]
And
[Tailormade] asked about alternative investments and whether these were 
permitted by the Heritage SIPP, [Heritage] explained [it] was aware TailorMade had conducted their own compliance and asked for copy documents.  This would 
assist greatly Heritage with their compliance
[Tailormade] asked typically how long it took Heritage to approve an Investment.  
[Heritage] explained this depended on the due diligence TailorMade had 
undertaken and provided to Heritage. Assuming the due diligence carried out 
was comprehensive Heritage could move forward with its own due diligence 
subject to no further information/due diligence being required. 
The Introducer Profile included the following:
What is the process for monitoring pension sales?
Introductions received from agents/introducers.  Tailormade SIPP Ltd send client 
introductory letter, client agreement and services and costs disclosure document, 
fee schedule, business card, attitude to risk profiler and fact.  If client completes 
and returns forms SIPP is set up.  Tailormade Alternative Investments contact 
client and provide investment brochure which includes only investments that 
have been approved by a third party specialist [name given].  Copies of the 
investment sign-off have been provided directly to Heritage by a director of [that 
third party].  Client given option to make their investment choices or refer to an 
IFA for further advice.

How would the firm describe its client profile?
Individuals with preserved pension arrangements, who are dissatisfied with their 
current pension performance, and who require control over their investment 
decisions.  Individuals who require independent advice.

What determines whether a client is recommended a member-directed scheme 
over a personal pension or stakeholder plan and is this documented?
Client indicates on fact find their preferred investment option, and choice of 
investment flexibility.

How does the firm demonstrate it is meeting its TCF [treating customers fairly] 
requirements?
Tailormade SIPP Ltd is authorized by the FSA and provides independent advice 
with no bias.  They offer a transparent fee structure, provide clear literature and 
regular training is provided with external speakers to ensure competency is 
maintained.  The firm is subject to a regular external compliance audit.
And concluded with the following summary:
Tailormade appear to write a lot of SIPP business and have provided clear 
insight into their process which we are told has been reviewed by the FSA 
satisfactorily. To manage work performance and risk restrict new business to 
circa 20 per month.  Agree to discuss the position every quarter.
I also note that in February 2012 Heritage had a phone discussion with Tailormade. 
Heritages note includes:
No changes to their modelAnd on 22 May [2012] it noted:
TM has a well-oiled NB machine.  No changes in model albeit always looking 
to streamline their processes.
(I assume NB means new business.  Ms D applied for her SIPP in November 2012.) 
Although it is not expressly recorded in the Introducer Profile, TMI were not operating 
what might be referred to as a typical IFA business model.  By that I mean a firm 
operating with an array of clients with differing needs and objectives whose individual 
circumstances are assessed by the adviser, who then uses their judgment to 
recommend an investment they consider suitable for the clients particular 
circumstances. 
TMIs business model was different.  In its process an introducer promoted a limited 
number of what were considered unregulated investments to the potential client and 
the client in effect chose whether or not they wanted to invest in the investments on 
offer.  There was nothing in that process in which the individual clients circumstances 
were considered in an advice process or any advice given to the client that the 
investment under consideration was suitable for them.  There was the possibility that 
the client could refer to an IFA but that was not the normal process - a process 
referred to by Heritage before Ms Ds application as a well-oiled machine.
If the client decided they would like to invest in say Harlequin it was only then that TMI 
would give its limited advice on whether transferring or switching their existing pension 
was suitable for them in order to invest in the type of investment the investor had 
chosen.  And, I repeat, that is an investment or investments that they had chosen 
(under the normal process) without the benefit of any advice or at least not any advice 
from a regulated financial adviser.  And the investments being considered were all 
exotic higher risk investments.  
Further, the typical clients were retail clients whose average SIPP fund size was 
£61,000.  They may have typically been dissatisfied with the performance of their 
pension, but they were also noted to be individuals who require independent advice.  
They were not non-advised clients as far as their relationship with TMI was concerned.  
But they were not receiving advice on the investment which was a crucial part of the 
overall transaction.
Heritage knew this was an unorthodox business model.  And I note that it recorded the 
following in the Introducer Profile: 
Tailormade appear to write a lot of SIPP business and have provided clear 
insight into their process which we are told has been reviewed by the FSA 
satisfactorily.
Such a comment would not have been called for in the case of a typical IFA business 
model or advice process.
Heritage did not however obtain a copy of any inspection report in which TMIs process 
was apparently considered satisfactory or otherwise obtain confirmation of the point 
from the FSA.  Merely checking the FSA register (which it did) was not enough as 
inspection reports are not published there and if the FSA was not happy and was 
taking any kind of action against TMI it would take some time for that point to be 
publicised.  Heritage should have formed its own view on whether it had confidence in TMI and its 
process (as it had apparently done with other potential introducer firms) and in my view 
it should have concluded that it could not reasonably have confidence in TMI and the 
process it was operating.
Why this should have caused concern.
In my view the model operated by TMI was one that exposed the client to very 
considerable risk.  There was the risk that the client would choose to invest in 
investments that were not suitable for them.  There was also the risk that the 
introducer  who had a financial interest in the client choosing to invest  would 
encourage or even pressurise clients into choosing to invest in unsuitable investments.
And TMIs process would not prevent these unsuitable investments.  Its process was 
such that the regulated business did not consider the suitability of the investment.  It 
only advised on the suitability of switching or transferring existing pensions to a SIPP  
something it could not reasonably or safely do without considering the overall 
transaction.  It could not know, and therefore could not safely give advice upon, the 
suitability of the transfer or switch to the SIPP without considering the suitability of the 
proposed investments.
I acknowledge that the regulators reports and guidance dont specifically mention 
considering the business model of an introducer as an example of good practice. But 
the reports and guidance are not exhaustive. They only provide examples of good 
practice and are based on the overarching Principles for Businesses. What is 
reasonable will depend on the circumstances. In this case Heritage did consider the 
business model as part of its due diligence on TMI and it asked about and noted the 
sales process that should have given it serious cause for concern.
Having done so I think it ought to have been apparent to Heritage that there was a real 
risk of consumer detriment in accepting this business from TMI  as was identified by 
the FCA in 2015. This is because:
TMIs business model involved it receiving introductions of business from third 
parties.
Unless the consumer chose to get advice, it seems none was given.
Unregulated parties were involved in promoting the investments.
TMI was transacting large volumes of SIPP business, including unusually large 
numbers of pension transfers.
Heritage says it couldnt have known the extent of the issues that gave rise to the 
FCAs concerns. That may be so. But I think there were sufficient warning flags in the 
Introducer Profile to reasonably have alerted Heritage that introductions from TMI 
carried a significant risk that customers werent receiving suitable advice.
In its Retail Conduct Risk Outlook 2011 the FSA referred to its 2009 thematic review 
and went on to say:
SIPPs have also been used by some advisers as wrappers for exotic, risky and 
potentially poor value unregulated products such as Unregulated Collective 
Investment Schemes (UCIS).  In our July 2010 review of the sale of UCIS, nearly half of all sales considered were within SIPP wrappers.  This maybe because the 
advisers mistakenly believed that some of [the] restrictions on marketing UCIS to 
retail customers do not apply if the UCIS is placed within a SIPP.  We have 
warned advisers about this, but customers should take care when considering 
placing exotic products and funds in their SIPP.
Although the point does not really need spelling out, it is clear from the use of the 
words such as Unregulated Collective Investment Schemes, that there is a risk from 
exotic investments regardless of their precise structure.  Therefore while I have noted 
that TMI provided opinions that the investments its introducers were promoting were 
technically not UCIS, the point remains that they were still exotic higher risk 
investments.  That is the sort of investments that are not normally suitable for most 
retail investors.  This means they are the sort of investments where a retail investor - if 
it is being considered at all  should be given carefully considered advice rather than 
left to choose for themselves from a promotion from an unregulated introducer. This is 
because the risks involved in this type of transaction are unlikely to be fully understood 
by most people, without obtaining regulated advice. 
I also think Heritage should have been particularly alert to cases where a final salary 
scheme was involved, as in Ms Ds case.
 
COBS 19.1.6G states:
When advising a retail client who is, or is eligible to be, a member of a 
defined benefits occupational pension scheme whether to transfer or opt-
out, a firm should start by assuming that a transfer or opt-out will not be 
suitable. A firm should only then consider a transfer or opt-out to be 
suitable if it can clearly demonstrate, on contemporary evidence, that the 
transfer or opt-out is in the clients best interest.
I acknowledge that this aims to define the expectation of a regulated financial adviser 
when determining suitability of a pension transfer, but it highlights the regulators 
concern about the potential detriment such a transaction could expose a consumer 
to. Given the nature of its business and regulatory status Id expect Heritage to have 
been familiar with the guidance contained in COBS  even if it didnt apply directly to 
it.
So, I think Heritage should reasonably have had concerns about the volume of 
SIPP applications and pension transfers which TMI was conducting. 
Im aware that Heritage has said that as a means of ensuring the quality of the 
investment business it limited the pipeline of new cases to twenty new introductions 
a month and required quarterly meetings with TMI. Ive considered the notes of the 
meetings supplied but, as our investigator concluded, it seems the pipeline of 
business was largely determined by Heritages capacity to take on the work. And 
whilst limiting the number of cases may have reduced Heritages exposure to TMIs 
business I dont think it lowered the risk of potential consumer detriment.  
So, overall, whilst I acknowledge that Heritage did take some steps to conduct due 
diligence on TMI, I dont think it did everything it needed to do to meet its regulatory 
obligations in the circumstances or comply with good industry practice at the relevant 
time.
What due diligence did Heritage carry out on the investments?It is also very relevant that TMI was introducing investments which were unusual, high 
risk and unregulated. Such investments will generally only be suitable for a small 
proportion of the population  generally sophisticated and/or high net worth investors. 
Heritage says that investment advice was the responsibility of TMI. Nevertheless, it did 
carry out quite extensive due diligence on the investments, as outlined in our 
investigators view. It denies that the investments were esoteric.  That is not the view 
the regulator came to.
In its review of the TMI business model in 2015/2016 the FCA said:
TMI provided advice to consumers who were considering switching or 
transferring their pension funds to a SIPP to make unregulated investments in 
biofuel oil, farmland and overseas property. Those investments were high risk, 
illiquid and esoteric and not suitable for all retail customers.
I appreciate that Heritage thinks its unfair to use the findings of this regulatory action 
against it when it says it couldnt have known the extent of the issues that gave rise to 
the FCAs concerns. However, although the regulatory action post-dated the time 
were looking at, the nature of the investments hadnt changed. 
From the information Heritage gleaned for itself I think it should reasonably have been 
aware that the kind of business TMI was introducing was risky and that it needed to be 
very cautious.
Why Heritage should have been concerned?
Heritage was aware of the unusual nature of the investments. Most of the investments 
in Harlequin, for example, (including Ms Ds) were, initially at least, in the form of 
deposits for off-plan purchases. The risks were heightened not only because the 
properties might not be built but also because investors would need to find additional 
cash at some point to complete the purchases.  The investment also involved the 
uncertainties that come with the property being overseas for UK based investors such 
as Ms D, as well as a high degree of specific risk/lack of diversity.
Other investments were unusual and unregulated, so offered no protection for 
investors. I think that should have rung alarm bells. Such investments were unlikely to 
be suitable for most retail investors and were only likely to be suitable for a very small 
part of the investment portfolio of a sophisticated investor. 
Taking all this into account my view, in summary, is that Heritage should have decided 
not to accept introductions of business from TMI. It should have concluded that its 
sales process or business model was high risk and did not treat customers fairly.  It 
should have concluded that it did not have confidence in TMI as an introducer as it had 
done with other firms that had approached it.  This means no application would have 
been made to Heritage for a SIPP by Ms D or that if she had made the application 
Heritage would not have accepted it.
Did Heritages failings cause Ms Ds loss?
Heritage has said that the proximate and direct cause of Ms Ds loss was the advice 
given by TMI, not the steps taken by Heritage in accepting business from them.I acknowledge TMIs part here. But I cant look at a complaint against TMI as it no 
longer exists. In this decision Ive looked at Heritages separate role and 
responsibilities, and Ive found that it failed to meet those responsibilities. So I need to 
consider what Ms D would have done if that had not happened.
Ms D has said that, at the time, she was worried about pension shortfalls. I dont 
think this means that Ms Ds mind was set on changing her pension arrangements. I 
think it simply means she was open to receiving advice. She has also said that there 
was no way that she would knowingly have risked losing her pension. So I dont think 
this is a case where Ms D was so keen on the arrangement, or investments, that she 
would have found a way of making the move regardless of what she was told. 
Bearing that in mind I think its likely that if Ms D had become aware that Heritage was 
not prepared to take her instructions from TMI it would have given her cause to 
question the advice she had received. I think its more likely than not that she would 
not have gone ahead with TMI.
Its possible that Ms D may have sought financial advice elsewhere. But, if that had 
happened, I think that Ms D would have been told, in no uncertain terms, to leave her 
pension arrangements as they were, and I think its likely she would have taken that 
advice.
Heritage says that if it had refused the business TMI would simply have made the 
introduction elsewhere.
Ive thought about this carefully and Im aware that TMI was dealing with other SIPP 
providers at the time, besides Heritage. But I dont think its a very compelling 
argument. I dont think it would be fair and reasonable to say that Heritage shouldnt be 
responsible for its failings because another SIPP provider might have made the same 
mistakes.
I think Its fair instead to assume that another SIPP provider wouldnt have accepted 
the application if it had acted fairly and reasonably and carried out sufficient due 
diligence on TMI in accordance with its own regulatory responsibilities and good 
industry practice. 
So I think the end result would have been the same and that Ms D would not have 
transferred her pension or made the investments she did. I think she would have 
remained in her existing pension scheme. And, whilst I accept that TMI is responsible 
for initiating the course of action that has led to her loss, I consider that Heritage failed 
to comply with its own regulatory obligations and did not put a stop to that course of 
action when it had the opportunity and obligation to do so.
So I think its fair and reasonable to say that Heritage accepting Ms Ds application has 
caused her a loss and that its fair that Heritage should compensate her for that.
For the avoidance of doubt Ive taken into account the potential contribution made by 
other parties to the losses suffered by Ms D  including TMI. But I think its reasonable 
in this case to make an award that requires Heritage to compensate Ms D for the full 
measure of her loss. TMI was reliant on Heritage to facilitate access to Ms Ds 
pension. So, but for Heritages failings, Ms Ds pension transfer would not have 
occurred in the first place.
As such, I am not asking Heritage to account for loss that goes beyond the consequences of its failings. Im satisfied those failings have caused the full extent of 
Ms Ds loss. That other parties might also be responsible for that same loss is a 
distinct matter, which I am not able to determine. However, that fact should not 
impact on Ms Ds right to fair compensation from Heritage for the full amount of her 
loss.
I also acknowledge that Ms D has received a sum of compensation from the FSCS. 
However, the terms of her reassignment of rights require her to return any 
compensation paid by the FSCS in the event this complaint is successful. So I will 
make no allowance for what has been paid by the FSCS. It will be for Ms D to make 
the arrangements to make any repayments she needs to make to the FSCS.
In conclusion
It is my view that in the light of what Heritage knew, or ought to have known, about 
TMI before it received Ms Ds application, it didnt comply with good industry 
practice, act with due skill, care and diligence, organize and control its affairs 
responsibly, or treat Ms D fairly by accepting her application. And I think  that, in not 
doing  so, it allowed  her to be put at significant  risk of detriment.
For the avoidance  of doubt,  Im not saying  that Heritage  should  have  assessed  
the suitability  of the investment  or the SIPP  for Ms D. I accept  that Heritage  had 
no obligation  to give advice  to Ms D, or otherwise  ensure  the suitability  of a 
pension  product  or investment  for her. My finding  is not that Heritage  should  
have  concluded  that the investment  or SIPP  was not suitable  for Ms D. Rather  it 
is that Heritage  did not meet  its regulatory  obligations,  or treat Ms D fairly,  by 
accepting  her application  for a SIPP  introduced  by TMI.
I then went on to say how I thought Heritage should put things right and invited the parties to 
respond.
The responses to my provisional decision 
Ms D had no comments on the provisional decision.  
Heritage does not agree with the provisional decision.  It made and developed several 
points but in summary, Heritage says the provisional decision:
 
1. seeks to distinguish the cases of Adams v Options in relation to the application 
of the Principles and fails to give full effect to that decision as to the proper 
understanding of the relationship between contractual and regulatory 
obligations.  And it misunderstands Heritages case in relation to the limited 
extent of its contractual duties. 
2. fails to give proper weight to the suitability advice given by TMI to MS D.  It 
was not as narrow or unhelpful as the provisional decisions suggests.
3. wrongly concludes that Heritage should have had serious concerns about 
TMIs business model despite the extensive evidence pointing to it having 
good reason not to have such concerns at the relevant time.  And based on an 
unrealistic expectation of the role of an execution-only SIPP provider receiving 
referrals in relation to which specialist pension transfer advice had already 
been given.4. wrongly treats the supposed obligation on Heritage as an execution only 
provider to decline to do business with TMI as not entailing any suitability 
assessment or advice.  It is impossible to separate this supposed obligation 
from the making of such an assessment.
5. wrongly fails to take account of the extensive due diligence on the investments 
actually carried out by Heritage.  It was entirely reasonable for Heritage to 
proceed as it did and not consider that the investments would necessarily be 
unsuitable for retail customers such as Ms D.
6. wrongly concludes that Heritage caused Ms D to suffer the loss she alleges.  
This is inconsistent with the finding that Heritage ought never to have accepted 
business from TMI since Ms D would have been advised to transfer to a 
different SIPP provider which was willing to accept TMIs business.
 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As a preliminary point, and before considering what is fair and reasonable, as I said in 
my provisional decision, Im satisfied that the Financial Ombudsman Service has 
jurisdiction to consider this complaint and that it is appropriate for us to do so.
In considering whats fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of this complaint, Ive 
taken into account relevant law and regulations; regulators rules, guidance and 
standards; codes of practice; and, where appropriate, what I consider to be good 
industry practice at the relevant time.
I have considered all the points made by Heritage.  I will not however respond to all 
the points made in detail.  Rather I will concentrate on what I consider to be the main 
points in determining this complaint. 
Relationship between regulatory obligations and contractual relationship.
I accept that it is right to consider the nature of the relationship between the parties 
when considering the regulatory obligations on the regulated firm.  This applies to 
COBS 2.1.1R and it applies to the Principles.
I do not say, and did not say in the provisional decision, that the Principles or COBS 
2.1.1R impose an obligation to advise on an execution only SIPP provider.
Heritage is an execution only SIPP provider.  But it is, in that capacity, in that limited 
role, as it accepts, subject to the Principles and COBS rule 2.1.1.  As Heritage says, at 
issue is what it means to perform that role honestly, fairly and professionally and in the 
best interests of the client?
Heritage has itself said that it made checks on TMI and the investments TMI was 
promoting.  Heritage has also said it made checks on other introducers and decided 
not to do business with some of them.  In doing these things Heritage was not doing 
something outside the scope of its contractual (or contemplated contractual) role.  It 
was acting in a way that was consistent with Heritages role as an execution only SIPP 
operator.  Heritage also made the decision to limit the amount of new business it would accept 
from TMI, To manage work performance and risk restrict new business to circa 20 
per month.
The decision to limit the amount of new business accepted in this way  and to in 
effect refuse to accept further application after its cap of circa 20 applications had 
been received in a given month - was also consistent with Heritages role as an 
execution only SIPP provider.  
In its role as an execution only SIPP operator Heritage was not obliged to accept 
TMIs business.  It could use its judgement about whether it had confidence in TMI.  
And it decided it did  albeit limited to circa 20 applications per month.  It is my view 
that this decision was not the right one in the circumstances.  And that pursuant to its 
obligation to act professionally and fairly and in the best interests of the client in its 
capacity as an execution only SIPP provider it should have refused to accept any 
business from TMI.
The suitability advice given by TMI
Heritage says it was not its function or role to advise Ms D in relation to her 
investment choices.  But if it did have some responsibility it was entitled to rely on the 
advice given by TMI.  It had seen the recommendation report.  It says Ms D had 
expressed an interest in using her pension fund to purchase a commercial property 
and using this property to increase the funding potential of her pension from its rental 
income.  This was one of three objectives alongside better investment performance 
and access to your tax free cash before normal retirement age.
The report assessed Ms Ds attitude to risk as 7  highest medium risk.  Heritage says 
it was entitled to rely on this assessment made by a regulated firm with permission to 
give pensions transfer advice.  
And the report addressed the possibility of investing in alternative investments and 
identifies a number including those which Ms D invested in.  It says the investments 
have not been risk assessed.  But it is clear the suitability advice was given with 
these investments in contemplation.
Heritage also says the suitability report which contains a Property Fund Warning in 
stark terms.   
Heritage says it was not required to consider that TMI might have be wrong to 
conclude that the transfer out of a defined benefit scheme was suitable for Ms D.
Heritage says the suitability advice was suitable for the purpose of helping Ms D to 
make her own decision, and she was entitled to make her own decisions.
I note all Heritages points, but a crucial point is that the TMI advice process relating to 
the SIPP was flawed.  The standard TMI model made no provision for advice to the 
consumer about the suitability for them of the investments Tailormade was promoting 
through its unregulated business and other introducers such as the Introducer in this 
case.  Risk warnings, even from a regulated firm, are not equivalent to advice.  
Providing information about investments and then inviting the consumer to choose is 
not an advice process.  
The investments to be made in the SIPP are fundamental to the effectiveness of the 
SIPP as a means of providing pension benefits.  It is necessary to ensure that the contemplated investments are suitable in order to assess whether the SIPP is suitable 
as an alternative to the consumers existing pension.  Giving warnings that the SIPP 
might not provide as good a pension does not make up for the lack of personal advice 
on the suitability of the overall transaction being considered by the consumer.  
To be clear I do not say that Heritage should have given Ms D advice.  Nor do I say 
that it was obliged to check the advice from TMI was suitable for Ms D.  It is however 
my view that Heritage can take no comfort from the advice TMI gave to Ms D.  This is 
not a case where Ms D ended up with suitable advice despite there being a flawed 
process.  It is clear from the suitability report itself that Ms Ds attitude to risk was not 
especially high at 7 out of 10 highest medium risk and that a transfer of her final 
salary pension scheme to invest in an overseas off-plan property-based investment 
and other alternative investments involved more risk than was suitable for her.
There was a clear risk of such unsuitable outcomes for many clients given that TMIs 
typical client was not identified as being sophisticated and able to make decisions 
about complex investments without advice.  The risk of consumer detriment was 
considerable.  Heritage should have refused to accept business from TMI. 
Also, the warnings in the report were undermined by TMI when it said:
If you agree with my recommendations, and the reasons for them, you must 
accept a risk that when you come to retirement age you might find yourself 
worse off  perhaps considerably so although I feel the likelihood of this 
happening is quite small and the potential for an improvement in your pension 
benefits at age 67 could be more likely. [emphasis added]
The report does not show that Ms D was given such clear warnings that it must be 
assumed she would have transferred her final salary pension scheme and invested in 
high risk investments in any event.
Concerns about TMIs business model
Heritage says the conclusion that it should have had concerns about Heritages 
business model is wrong.  It says the view is based on a misunderstanding of the law 
in relation to an execution only SIPP provider.
Heritage says TMI had a pension transfer specialist giving suitability advice which 
addressed the customers circumstances.  There was reason to have confidence in 
TMI.
Heritage also says that although the informal guidance is not exhaustive it is wrong 
not to treat the omission of express mention of an introducers business model as 
indicating that the FCA did not intend to impose any obligation in that respect on an 
execution only SIPP provider.  Heritage says its wrong to treat it as a guarantor of 
TMIs compliance with its own regulatory obligations. It is an attempt to impose 
obligations that go beyond Heritages contractual obligations.
I note all of Heritages points but I do not agree with it.  Making checks on introducers 
such a TMI was consistent with its contractual role and its regulatory obligations in 
that role.  It did make checks.  It sometimes refused to accept business from some 
introducers.  It decided to put limits on the amount of new business it would accept 
from TMI.
Heritage asked TMI about how it did business and it found out that it did not operate in a conventional way.  Although it had a pension transfer specialist it did not give advice 
on the investments that were promoted to the consumer.  Heritage therefore knew that 
consumers were not receiving advice on a crucial part of the overall proposed 
transaction that involved transferring away from existing pensions to one of its SIPPs.  
Heritage knew TMIs sales process and business model was high risk and did not 
treat customers fairly.  Limiting the amount of new business from TMI to circa 20 
cases per month to manage work performance and risk was not enough.  It did not 
do enough to protect those circa 20 cases per month it did accept from the 
considerable risk involved in unsuitable transfers to SIPPs. 
Wrong to say declining business from TMI does not entail giving advice on the 
suitability of investments.
Heritage says an execution only SIPP provider who has contracted expressly on 
terms excluding the possibility of giving advice cannot be obliged by COBS rule 2.1.1 
or the Principles to give advice.
Heritage says the flaw in the analysis in the provisional decision is that when one asks 
what risk Ms D and others were supposedly exposed to the answer given is 
unsuitability risk.  And this issue can only be addressed by carrying out individual 
suitability assessments which is not consistent with Heritages limited role as an 
execution only SIPP provider.
But as I have said, Heritages did carry out checks on introducers, did sometimes 
refuse to accept business from some introducers and did put limits on the amount of 
new business it would accept from TMI.  These acts were all consistent with its limited 
role as an execution only SIPP provider.  And It did all this without making individual 
suitability assessments for individual potential clients.  
There was in the system operated by TMI a very real risk that consumers would 
transfer away from suitable pensions to unsuitable SIPPs with unsuitable investments.  
There was a very real risk consumers would suffer considerable detriment in the form 
of considerable losses in the pensions that were supposed to provide long term 
financial security.  It did not require the individual assessment of suitability for an 
individual client such as Ms D to understand that the business model itself involved 
considerable risk of consumer detriment.
The investment due diligence carried out by Heritage. 
Heritage says it carried out extensive due diligence on the investments promoted by 
TMI.  This led it to be comfortable with the investments.
Heritage says the view that the investments were risky and unsuitable is based on an 
FCA review carried out in 2015/2016 which did not inform its view at the relevant time.
I accept that Heritage carried out due diligence checks on the three investments 
referred to in this case.  It concluded the investments were appropriate to be held 
within a SIPP wrapper. 
The investments were unregulated alternative investments.  Heritage knew them to be 
and classified them as complex investments at the time. 
In addition to being complex, they did not have Financial Service Compensation 
Scheme protection nor were they subject to UK regulatory oversight.  They involved overseas investment for a UK based investor.  They involved a high degree of specific 
risk/lack of diversity.  These were not run-of the mill, common place investments that 
posed little risk.  
The investments would generally, and reasonably at the time, have been regarded as 
complex and higher risk.  That does not make they unsuitable for a SIPP.  It does 
however mean that they would generally be considered unsuitable for most retail 
investors.  And that means there was a high likelihood of unsuitability if the consumers 
were buying those investments without individual advice about the investment as in 
the process set up by TMI.
So while the investments may have been suitable for SIPPs the process that led to the 
investment in those investments was flawed and involved a considerable risk of 
consumer detriment.  Heritage should therefore have refused to accept such business 
from TMI.
Ms D would have invested in the same way if Heritage had not accepted business 
from TMI
It is correct that TMI was doing business with other SIPP providers.  However, in 
deciding how things should be put right a reasonable counterfactual should be 
considered.  Comparison should be with what should reasonably have occurred even 
if in practice some other market participants were acting in a similar way to the 
conduct which is found to be wrong in the dispute being remedied.
Heritage should not have accepted business from TMI under its existing business 
model.  If TMI had not been able to get business accepted from SIPP providers, it is 
likely Ms D would never have been approached to consider transferring her pension.  
Alternatively, she would have been given suitable advice from a regulated financial 
adviser which means she would have been advised not to transfer her final salary 
pension.  And it is more likely than not that she would have accepted such reasonable 
advice rather than insisting on acting contrary to it.
It remains my view that Heritages conduct is one of the factors that caused Ms D to 
suffer the losses it did.  Heritage should have made checks on TMI, as it did.  Having 
made those checks it should have decided not to accept business referred to it by 
TMI.  So Ms Ds application should not have been accepted by Heritage.  Accepting 
the application has caused a loss to Ms D which I think it is fair and reasonable in the 
circumstances of this case to ask Heritage to compensate her for.
So for the reasons given in my provisional decision and above I uphold Ms Ds 
complaint and require Heritage to put things right as set out in my provisional decision.
Putting things right
A fair and reasonable outcome would be for Heritage to put Ms D, as far as possible, into the 
position she would now be in but for what I consider to be Heritages failure to carry out 
adequate due diligence checks and treat Ms D fairly when it received her SIPP application 
from TMI.
I consider that, but for Heritages failure, Ms D would not have transferred from her existing 
pension.
In light of this Heritage should:1. Calculate the loss Ms D has suffered as a result of making the transfer.
2. Take ownership of the Harlequin Property and the Green Oil, and SCS Farmland 
investments if possible.
3. Pay Ms D £500 for distress and inconvenience.
Ill explain how Heritage should carry out these calculations in further detail below:
Calculate the loss Ms D has suffered as a result of making the transfer.
Heritage must undertake a redress calculation in line with the regulators pension review 
guidance as updated by the Financial Conduct Authority in its Finalised Guidance 17/9: 
Guidance for firms on how to calculate redress for unsuitable defined benefit pension 
transfers.
This calculation should be carried out as at the date of my final decision, using the most 
recent financial assumptions at the date of that decision. In accordance with the regulators 
expectations, this should be undertaken or submitted to an appropriate provider promptly 
following receipt of notification of Ms Ds acceptance of the decision.
Heritage may wish to contact the Department for Work and Pensions (DWP) to obtain 
Ms Ds contribution history to the State Earnings Related Pension Scheme (SERPS or S2P).
These details should then be used to include a SERPS adjustment in the calculation which 
will take into account the impact of leaving the occupational scheme on Ms Ds SERPS/S2P 
entitlement.
If the redress calculation demonstrates a loss, the compensation should if possible be paid 
into Ms Ds pension plan. The payment should allow for the effect of charges and any 
available tax relief. The compensation shouldnt be paid into the pension plan if it would 
conflict with any existing protection or allowance.
If a payment into the pension isnt possible or has protection or allowance implications, it 
should be paid directly to Ms D as a lump sum after making a notional deduction to allow for 
income tax that would otherwise have been paid. The notional deduction should be 
calculated using Ms Ds marginal rate of tax in retirement.  Typically, 25% of the loss could 
have been taken as tax free cash and 75% would have been taxed according to Ms Ds 
likely income tax rate in retirement  presumed to be 20%.  So making a notional deduction 
of 15% overall from the loss adequately reflects this.
The compensation amount must where possible be paid to Ms D within 90 days of the date 
Heritage receives notification of her acceptance of my final decision. Further interest must be 
added to the compensation amount at the rate of 8% per year simple from the date of my 
final decision to the date of settlement for any time, in excess of 90 days, that it takes 
Heritage to pay Ms D. 
Its possible that data gathering for a SERPS adjustment may mean that the actual time 
taken to settle goes beyond the 90 day period allowed for settlement above  and so any 
period of time where the only outstanding item required to undertake the calculation is data 
from DWP may be added to the 90 day period in which interest wont apply.
Take ownership of the Harlequin Property, Green Oil and SCS Farmland investments.In order for the SIPP to be closed and further SIPP fees prevented, the investments need to 
be removed from the SIPP. To do this Heritage should calculate an amount it is willing to 
accept as a commercial value for the investments, pay that sum into the SIPP and take 
ownership of the relevant investments. This amount should be taken into account for the loss 
calculation.
If Heritage is unwilling or unable to purchase the investments the value of them should be 
assumed to be nil for the purposes of the loss calculation.
Provided Ms D is compensated in full Heritage may ask her to provide an undertaking to 
account to it for the net amount of any payment the SIPP may receive from the investments. 
That undertaking should allow for the effect of any tax and charges on the amount Ms D may 
receive from the investment and any eventual sums she would be able to access from the 
SIPP. Heritage will need to meet any costs in drawing up the undertaking.
If Heritage does not take ownership of the investments, and they continue to be held in 
Ms Ds SIPP, there will be ongoing fees in relation to the administration of that SIPP.
Ms D would not be responsible for those fees if Heritage had not accepted the transfer of her 
pension into the SIPP. So I think its fair for Heritage to waive any SIPP fees until such time 
as Ms D can dispose of the investments and close the SIPP.
Trouble and upset
I also think Ms D has been caused distress and inconvenience as a result of Heritages 
actions. The sudden loss of a significant portion of her pension fund would have come as a 
shock to her and has clearly had a significant impact. I think it would be fair and reasonable 
for Heritage to pay Ms D £500 compensation for this. 
My final decision
For the reasons given, my decision is that I uphold Ms Ds complaint against Heritage 
Pensions Limited. 
Where I uphold a complaint, I can award fair compensation of up to £150,000, plus any 
interest and or costs that I think are appropriate. If I think that fair compensation might 
be more than £150,000, I may recommend that the business pays the balance.
Determination and money award: I require Heritage Pensions Limited to pay Ms D the 
compensation amount as set out in the steps above, up to a maximum of £150,000.
Where the compensation amount does not exceed £150,000 I additionally require 
Heritage Pensions Limited to pay Ms D any interest on that amount in full, as set out 
above.
Where the compensation amount already exceeds £150,000 I only require Heritage 
Pensions Limited to pay Ms D any interest as set out above on the sum of £150,000.
Recommendation: If the compensation amount exceeds £150,000, I also recommend 
that Heritage Pensions Limited pays Ms D the balance. I additionally recommend any 
interest calculations as set out above on this balance to be paid to Ms D.
If Ms D accepts my decision, the money award is binding on Heritage Pensions Limited. 
My recommendation is not binding on Heritage Pensions Limited. Further, its unlikely 
that Ms D can accept my decision and go to court to ask for the balance. Ms D may want to consider getting independent legal advice before deciding whether to accept 
this decision. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms D to accept or 
reject my decision before 8 February 2022.
 
Philip Roberts
Ombudsman