DRN-4120232
The complaint
Mr T complains about Liverpool Victoria Insurance Company Limited, trading as LVs 
handling of his home insurance claim.
LV is the underwriter of this policy i.e. the insurer. Part of this complaint concerns the actions 
of its agents. As LV has accepted it is accountable for the actions of the agents, in my 
decision, any reference to LV includes the actions of the agents. 
What happened
In November 2021, Mr T made a claim under his home insurance policy with LV after his 
home and contents were damaged by a storm. The storm caused a large tree to fall over, 
which resulted in significant damage to his property. LV accepted the claim and arranged for 
some emergency repairs and drying and strip out works to be carried out. Mr T and his wife 
were placed in alternative accommodation.
LV had some difficulty finding contractors to carry out repairs to the property for a 
reasonable cost. Mr T found a local contractor to replace the roof with costs agreed by LV. 
In April 2022, Mr T offered to take on the role of securing trades to carry out various other 
repairs, for a reasonable fee, in order to progress the claim more quickly. LV agreed for Mr T 
to manage the repairs and sent him the schedule of work.
In November 2022, Mr T raised a complaint with LV about its handling of his claim. He felt it 
was responsible for delaying the progression of repairs.
LV said that delays at the beginning of the claim were due to a difficulty in securing 
contractors because of significant and widespread damage caused by the storm, followed by 
a succession of other storms. 
It said that when Mr T expressed a willingness to procure trades himself in April 2022 for an 
appropriate fee, it had been prepared to meet this. The current position was that it had 
offered to pay Mr T 10% of the total building work value, in line with what it pays its qualified 
surveyors to project manage.
It said that following Mr Ts agreement of the schedule of work, hed confirmed hed pass 
copies to each of the associated tradespersons for pricing. The quotes were to be submitted 
to LVs surveyor as obtained, for validation and release of appropriate funds in a timely 
manner. LV said it had also paid a lump sum ahead of quotes being received to facilitate    
Mr T making arrangements as easily as possible.
LV said Mr T had delayed submitting documentation required to validate costs for repairs. It 
said some of the costs provided werent based on like for like. It wasnt able to accept a 
quote from a decorator as it was vague in content and labour costs were overstated.
LV said there was a delay in agreeing cover for replacing windows because Mr T felt every 
window had been damaged by the impact of a tree that fell on the front of his property. LV 
had arranged for an expert to inspect all of the windows to obtain an independent view. 
Following this, LV said it had offered an appropriate cash settlement, which was along the 
lines of what it had offered to cover in January 2022.
LV said that although it wasnt responsible for damage to sanitaryware and carpets that 
appeared to have occurred after the storm incident, it had agreed to meet the cost of 
replacements. 
LV said it had recently put forward a detailed offer to Mr T that covered all buildings items, a 
10% contingency allowance and Mr Ts management fee. In making this offer it recognised 
that certain elements may need to be revised subject to further evidence and costs 
submitted by Mr T that inform the need for change. 
LV said it understood Mr T planned to be able to return to his home in June 2023 and it felt 
this timeframe was more than sufficient to address the outstanding work items. It had agreed 
alternative accommodation and storage costs up until the end of June 2023.
Mr T remained unhappy. He didnt feel that LV had fully addressed his concerns and raised 
a number of questions and points.
Our investigator looked into Mr Ts concerns but didnt think his complaint should be upheld. 
He thought LV had acted fairly and in line with the policys terms.
Mr T disagreed with our investigators outcome. He said there was still a lot more work that 
needed to be carried out on the house and he didnt think it would be ready to move into by 
the end of June. He said LV should have mobilised appropriate tradespeople to do the jobs 
at the outset. He didnt think LV appreciated that paints and other materials used in his 
house werent standard and longer lead times were required. He felt the delay in repairs 
being completed were as a direct result of how the process had been handled by LV. He 
said that any suggestion by LV that hed delayed the process or tried to mislead or take 
advantage of it was untrue and he found it insulting.
As Mr T disagrees with our investigators outcome, his complaint has been passed to me to 
decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided not to uphold Mr Ts complaint. Ill explain why.
Ive considered everything Mr T has told our service, but Ill be keeping my findings to what I 
believe to be the crux of his complaint. I wish to reassure Mr T Ive read and considered 
everything he has sent in, but if I havent mentioned a particular point or piece of evidence, it 
isnt because I havent seen it or thought about it. Its just that I dont feel I need to reference 
it to explain my decision. This isnt intended as a discourtesy and is a reflection of the 
informal nature of our service.
To be clear, Ive only considered events complained of that occurred prior to LVs response 
to Mr Ts complaint dated 3 February 2023. If Mr T has concerns about LVs actions after 
this, our service may be able to consider these as a separate complaint.
The relevant industry rules say an insurer should handle claims promptly and fairly.Roof works
From what I can see Mr T made his claim at the end of November 2021. LV says it arranged 
some emergency, make-safe works to his property through December 2021 and into 
February 2022. However, it had some difficulty securing contractors to move reinstatement 
works forward. Strip out works to aid the drying process were completed in March 2022. 
LV has noted a conversation with Mr T in late March 2022 where it told him the quote for 
repairs to his roof its contractors had provided was much higher than expected. It looks like 
part of the issue was to do with costs for travel and hotel stays for the roofers. LV has also 
commented that its contractors quote included installation and hire of a bespoke scaffold and 
tin hat covering. Mr T managed to find a roofer who could complete the work for a much 
lower price, and this was agreed by LV. I think this was a reasonable way forward.
Part of Mr Ts complaint was that LV gave inaccurate information to third parties about when 
structural works were completed. I understand that LV said major structural work had been 
completed and the roof was replaced in April 2022. Mr T says repairs to the roof were 
completed in October 2022. According to LVs records, the roofing works were completed 
(apart from stonework) in May 2022 and Mr T has confirmed this is correct. I appreciate that 
information given by LV may have been slightly inaccurate in terms of the timing of the roof 
repairs. I also note that Mr T feels the statement was also inaccurate because work to 
outbuildings, the garage and the boundary wall hadnt yet been carried out. However, Im not 
persuaded LV deliberately attempted to mislead anyone. 
Windows
LV says that its loss adjuster and surveyor concluded that only windows that had come into 
direct contact with the fallen trees canopy were damaged by the storm incident. It says it 
agree to pay 50% towards undamaged windows to the front elevation because of Mr Ts 
concern about replacement windows not matching the original undamaged ones.
However, Mr T believed that all of the windows had been damaged by the impact of the 
falling tree. LV noted that Mr T had provided two quotes that gave no opinion and were 
based on replacement styles that were not like for like. So, LV arranged for a forensic expert 
to provide an opinion. 
In the policys terms and conditions, under matching sets and suites for buildings it says 
LV will make a cash contribution of up to 50% for undamaged items in the same set or suite 
if it cant repair or replace damaged items in a bathroom or kitchen. It goes on to say:
We wont pay the cost of replacing or altering any other undamaged items solely because 
they form part of a set or suite, this includes groups or collections of items of the same 
design, nature or colour.
LV says it shared the forensic experts report with Mr T in December 2022, which confirmed 
which windows were damaged. LVs cash settlement offer included 50% towards 
undamaged windows at the front of the policy. So, it appears to have offered more than it 
needed to under the terms of the policy. 
Validation of costs
Under cash payments the policys terms and conditions say:If we can offer a repair or replacement through one of our suppliers and you choose not to 
have the item repaired or replaced or you wish to use your own supplier, we will not pay 
more than the amount we would have paid our supplier.
If were unable to offer repair or an equivalent replacement is not available, well pay the 
nearest cash equivalent or current market value of the item at the time of the loss or 
damage.
Mr T has expressed frustration that LV wouldnt agree to cover the costs he submitted for 
certain repairs, such as decorating. LV says the estimate he submitted for his preferred 
decorator was vague in content and labour costs were overstated. When it tried to discuss 
the quote with the decorator, he wouldnt provide further detail and the rate was inconsistent 
with what hed applied to a previous job with Mr T.
I appreciate Mr T feels that his property required a decorator with special expertise. 
However, I dont think it was unreasonable for LV to have required a further quote when it 
wasnt able to substantiate the information that was provided, and the cost appeared to be 
above market rates.  
In January 2023, LV made Mr T a cash settlement offer to cover the remaining building 
repairs, with the exception of wallpaper costs. This was calculated using estimates of repairs 
for items Mr T hadnt yet provided validation for, along with a 10% contingency allowance. I 
think this was a pragmatic way to move things forward. 
I appreciate Mr T had concerns that the cash settlement wouldnt be enough to cover his 
costs. However, in its response to his complaint, LV said it recognised that certain elements 
might need to be revised subject to further evidence and costings submitted by Mr T. And I 
think this was reasonable.
Damage to sanitaryware and carpets
I can see there was also quite a bit of discussion regarding Mr Ts claim for damage that 
occurred after the storm event. 
Mr T said that LVs contractors failed to take reasonable care to prevent dust contamination 
to sanitaryware from the en suites that was set aside whilst strip out works were being 
carried out. LV says when its surveyor visited in late March 2022 after the strip out works 
were complete, he said the dust contamination was very minor. It says any other damage 
would have been as a result of works carried out by contractors chosen by Mr T.
According to LVs records, it arranged for the sanitaryware to be cleaned. LV says the 
cleaning was successful, but Mr T disagreed. So, LV gave Mr T the benefit of the doubt and 
agreed to meet replacement costs for both en suites.
LV also agreed to cover the cost of replacing carpets that werent damaged by the storm 
event but werent adequately protected during repair works. It says strictly speaking some of 
the carpet damage wasnt covered because it had allowed for the cost of safeguarding them 
in the schedule of work. But it had agreed to meet the cost of replacement anyway. It 
accepted Mr Ts contention that carpets in two other rooms were damaged by LVs 
contractors even though this was denied by them.
It looks like there was some concerns about the costings Mr T supplied for replacement 
carpets not being like for like with the damaged carpets. I can see that LV arranged for one 
of its suppliers to provide a validation quote and offered Mr T a cash settlement based on this. It said that alternatively it could arrange for its supplier to undertake the work. I think this 
was reasonable. 
I appreciate there may have been some delay in these matters being resolved because of 
disputes about whether or not LV was responsible for replacing the sanitaryware and 
carpets. However, I think LV acted fairly and reasonably by agreeing to cover these costs.
Attempted theft of radiator
Mr T also raised concerns about an increase in his insurance premium, which LV says was 
because of a second claim hed made for the attempted theft of a radiator.
LV didnt address this issue in its final response to Mr Ts complaint. However, Ive listened 
to a call from an LV customer relations consultant who contacted Mr T after this, and Ive 
read the follow up email. 
Im satisfied that the attempted theft of the radiators that were left outside Mr Ts property in 
August 2022, doesnt fall under the storm event claim. Mr T was given the option of either 
withdrawing the second claim or paying the additional premium. I think this was reasonable. 
Alternative accommodation
The cash settlement offer LV made Mr T in January 2023 included £8,000 for the remaining 
costs of alternative accommodation. This was enough to cover his costs until the end of 
June 2023. In its response to Mr Ts complaint, LV said it thought this timeframe was more 
than sufficient. 
When Mr T spoke to our investigator in April and May 2023, he said he didnt think his 
property would be habitable by the end of June. We wouldnt expect an insurer to continue to 
pay for alternative accommodation costs once a property is deemed suitable to live in. This 
wouldnt necessarily mean all repairs needed to be completed. I havent seen sufficient 
evidence to conclude that LVs estimate of how long it should take for the property to be 
made habitable was unrealistic.
Mr T also raised concerns about LV overpaying for alternative accommodation arranged 
through one of its agents. I understand Mr T was able to negotiate a reduced rate and LVs 
cash settlement was based on this. 
I appreciate that Mr T saved LV some money by negotiating a reduced rate. However, I cant 
see how hes lost out by it initially paying a higher rate.
In conclusion
LV has acknowledged some difficulty in finding contractors to carry out repairs early on in 
the claim. LV has noted there being an overwhelming amount of damage in a large area 
surrounding Mr Ts property because of the storm. So, I think delays at the beginning of the 
claim were likely to have been unavoidable. 
Mr T holds LV entirely responsible for the length of time it has taken to progress his claim. 
However, from what Ive seen, Im not persuaded thats the case. There were several 
disputes about what was covered by the policy and LV had difficulty validating costs from 
information supplied by Mr T.
I acknowledge that Mr T saved LV some money with regards to roof repairs and alternative 
accommodation costs. However, I think it was fair for LV to want to ensure the cash settlement for other items reflected reasonable costs for repairs that Mr T was entitled to 
under the policy.
I appreciate project managing the repairs has taken up a lot of Mr Ts time, but this is 
something he offered to do. LVs cash settlement included over £11,000 for Mr Ts 
management fee.
I understand this has been a difficult and frustrating experience for Mr T and his family. 
Given the nature of the claim and complexities involved, it was inevitable that repairs would 
take quite some time to be completed. I acknowledge that LV was responsible for some of 
the delay and things didnt always go as smoothly as they might. 
However, I think LVs overall handling of the claim has been reasonable. It has covered the 
costs of certain items that strictly werent covered by the terms of the policy. It made a 
number of payments to Mr T throughout the claim for contractors and accommodation. And it 
made a large payment in February 2023 in an effort to facilitate the progress of building 
repairs.
I do empathise with Mr T who has had to deal with some very difficult circumstances over 
the last couple of years.  However, Im not persuaded LV is entirely responsible for delays in 
the progress of his claim and I think its done enough to resolve matters it is responsible for. 
So, whilst I appreciate my answer will be disappointing for Mr T, I havent found reason to 
uphold his complaint.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, I dont uphold Mr Ts complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr T to accept or 
reject my decision before 13 November 2023.
 
Anne Muscroft
Ombudsman