DRN-1639774
The complaint
This complaint is about a mortgage payment protection insurance (PPI) policy taken out in 
2001. Mrs K and Mr F say Santander UK Plc mis-sold them the PPI. 
What happened
Mrs K and Mr F applied for a further advance on their mortgage with Santander in 2001. At 
the same time they were sold a PPI policy. The policy covered Mrs K and Mr F against being 
unable to work due to accident, sickness or involuntary unemployment. The monthly cost of 
the PPI policy was £33.07. the policy benefit was £630. The cover was split to provide 50% 
of the benefit to Mrs K and 50% to Mr F. In the event of a claim the policy couldve paid the 
monthly benefit for up to 12 months per claim. The premiums were paid separately to the 
mortgage by direct debit.
In 2005 Mrs K and Mr F cancelled the policy.
An adjudicator didnt think the complaint should be upheld. Mrs K and Mr F disagreed with 
the adjudicators opinion. So, the complaints been passed to me.
 
 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding this case.
Ive decided the policy wasnt mis-sold because:
Santander hasnt got copies of all the paperwork that was completed at the time of the 
further advance and PPI sale. This isnt unusual and its understandable in view of the time 
that has gone by since the sale took place. But where there is limited information, I will make 
my decision based on whats more likely to have happened, taking into account the evidence 
available, what both parties have told me and what we know about these types of sale.
From experience I think the type of form used at the time of the sale would have given       
Mrs K and Mr F a choice about whether to take the PPI and the level of cover they required. 
Ive also seen a copy of a welcome letter addressed to Mrs K and Mr F that confirmed the 
cover that had been put in place.
I note the policy remained in place until 2005 and it was paid for separately to the mortgage 
by direct debit. So, I think Mrs K and Mr F would have been aware they were paying for the 
policy. The policy insurer has shown that Mrs K and Mr F contacted it by telephone on at 
least two occasions while it was in force. If it was something that had not been discussed or that Mrs K and Mr F didnt want, Id expect them to have questioned it at an early stage. But 
Ive not seen any evidence that they did so.
All this makes me think that Mrs K and Mr F were most likely made aware the PPI was 
optional. And I think they chose to take the PPI knowing they didnt have to  although I can 
understand why they cant remember this after so long.
Santander recommended the PPI to Mrs K and Mr F, so it had to check that the PPI was 
right for them and based on what Ive seen of their circumstances at the time, I think that it 
was.
The policy was set up to cover both Mrs K and Mr F. From what Ive seen they were both 
eligible for the policy. And they were not affected by any of the exclusions to or limits on the 
PPI cover, for instance theyve told us they didnt have any existing medical conditions that 
would not have been covered. So, theyd have been able to make a claim if they had needed 
to.
Mrs K and Mr F have told they would have received some sick pay if they couldnt work. But 
the PPI policy could have paid them a monthly benefit in addition to any sick pay, and for up 
to 12 months if either became too unwell to work. So, I still think they would have found it 
useful, particularly if they became unable to work for a prolonged period of time.
The policy would also have paid a monthly benefit if Mrs K or Mr F had lost their job. 
Meaning they could use any redundancy pay or savings for other living expenses.
Its possible that Santander didnt give all the information it should have done. But thats not 
enough to uphold this complaint. I next need to decide whether or not Mrs K and Mr F would 
have changed their mind about buying the policy if they had been given better or clearer 
information. I cant say they would have done. It looks like they chose to buy the policy so 
were interested in this type of cover. The cover was right for them and they seem to have 
had a need for it. And Ive not seen any evidence that the policy was unaffordable.
Mrs K has said the policy benefit would not have been enough to cover the mortgage and 
also the household bills. But the policy was only designed to cover the mortgage costs. And 
the application form from 2001 would have allowed Mrs K and Mr F to select the level of 
cover and the way the cover was split between them.
In summary, I think its likely Santander made Mrs K and Mr F aware the policy was optional, 
and they chose to buy it. From what Ive seen it looks as if the policy Santander 
recommended was right for them. And I dont think any clearer or more complete information 
wouldve made them act differently and decline it.
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint and I make no award against Santander UK Plc.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr F and Mrs K to 
accept or reject my decision before 28 May 2020.
Steve Thomas
Ombudsman