DRN-2267659
The complaint
Mr and Mrs B have complained about delays they experienced trying to get an appointment 
with Nationwide Building Society to review their financial holdings. 
What happened
In July 2019 Mr and Mrs B were contacted by Nationwide regarding their investment they 
held with it. They said that Nationwide had expressed concerns with the performance of the 
fund. It suggested that Mr and Mrs B booked a review with a Nationwide Financial Advisor. 
So, they arranged a meeting on 7 August 2019. However, no action was taken at this 
meeting, and they were advised to book another meeting at a larger branch. 
On 9 September Mr and Mrs B had a second meeting with a Financial Advisor (FA). Initially 
the FA indicated that he could address their concerns, but during this meeting it was 
concluded that Mr and Mrs B needed to discuss their investments with a Financial Planning 
Manager (FPM).  So, a further meeting was arranged on 2 October 2019 with an FPM. 
Unfortunately, this meeting was cancelled as it had been arranged in error as the FPM was 
on annual leave. Another meeting was scheduled for 6 November 2019. This meeting did 
proceed but Mr and Mrs B said this was simply a meeting to complete the fact find, which 
could have been done prior to the meeting if they had been made aware. A second meeting 
was arranged on 27 November 2019, and a final meeting on 14 January 2020 was arranged 
to discuss the suitability report. However, on 4 December 2019, the fund in question was 
suspended. As a result, Mr and Mrs B couldnt act on the FPMs advice, so they were 
prevented from making any withdrawals or switches until the fund was unsuspended.
Mr and Mrs B are unhappy because they feel Nationwide considered it urgent enough to 
send a letter warning them about their investment but couldnt provide timely advice to assist 
them. And because of this they feel they have been disadvantaged by the unnecessary 
delay resulting in the suspension of the fund they were invested in. 
Nationwide said they had assessed if any disadvantage had been caused by the delays     
Mr and Mrs B had experienced but the account had resulted in financial gains during that 
period of time. However, Nationwide did accept the service it had provided (in regard to the 
error it made booking an appointment on 2 October 2019 when the FPM was on annual 
leave) was unsatisfactory. Because of this it offered Mr and Mrs B £100 for the distress and 
inconvenience it caused. 
In regard to the suspension of the fund Nationwide said it could not have foreseen when the 
fund would be withdrawn. And it felt the three meetings with the FPM were necessary and in 
line with what Mr and Mrs B wanted. As such it didnt think the fact the fund had been 
suspended by the time Mr and Mrs B had come to see was a result of its delay. And so, it 
didnt uphold this aspect of Mr and Mrs B s complaint. Mr and Mrs B remained unhappy so 
brought their complaint to our service.
Our investigator looked into Mr and Mrs Bs complaint but she didnt recommend it be 
upheld. To summarise she said Nationwide had made an error booking a meeting with an 
FPM when the FPM in question was on annual leave. And while it did take a long time for a 
full financial review to take place, she felt the meetings were necessary and the risks of what 
could happen to the fund had been explained from the outset. So, she felt the offer of £100 
in recognition of the delays was fair and reasonable.
She went on to say she understood that Mr and Mrs B felt Nationwides delays impacted 
them as the fund was suspended before they were able to make the changes 
recommended. But she explained she didnt think Nationwide should be held accountable for 
this as it was ultimately the fund manager who made the decision to suspend the fund.  And 
while she empathised with the fact Mr and Mrs B have been unable to access their money, 
she said they didnt agree to disinvest, but to switch the funds. And therefore, the financial 
review meetings were required.
Mr and Mrs B didnt agree with the investigators findings, so they asked for the case to be 
passed to me to consider.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the investigators findings for broadly the same reasons. I will 
explain why.
Fact find and Suitability report
One of the points raised by Mr and Mrs B is that two appointments were scheduled to 
complete the fact find  they feel this was unnecessary, added further delays and could have 
been completed in one meeting or prior to the meeting. However, Nationwide has said two 
meetings were required (prior to the presentation meeting on the 14 January 2020  which is 
required and in line with Nationwides process) because Mr and Mrs B wanted more time to 
decide if they wanted income recommendations or growth recommendations. They wanted 
time to gather their budget details and reflect on their options. So, Nationwides version of 
events conflicts with what Mr and Mrs B has said. And while I dont dispute either sides 
recollection of events, I have looked at the supporting documentation that was completed at 
the time. 
Having reviewed the fact find I can see it says:
We have split this process into smaller meetings to ensure you had the opportunity 
to speak between you before making decisions.
The fact find goes on to say:
You invested in 2010 as you wanted to have a better opportunity to grow your 
savings than cash as you felt interest rates were poor. Your initial objective was to 
grow the funds and now you would like to benefit from an income to help with 
discretionary costs.
So, taking this into consideration on balance I think Mr and Mrs B were aware there would 
be two meetings prior to the presentation meeting on January 2020, as they too wanted an 
opportunity to consider their options before making any decision. And considering Mr and 
Mrs Bs investment objectives had changed and their attitude to risk had also changed, I 
dont think it was unreasonable to allow time for them to consider their options and ensure 
they were happy with the changes proposed. In fact Nationwide had an obligation to ensure Mr and Mrs B understood the recommendation and could make informed decisions so it was 
important for Nationwide to have given Mr and Mrs B time to consider their options. 
Therefore, I think two separate meetings were reasonable and in line with what Mr and Mrs 
B wanted at the time. 
Meeting delays
I have reviewed the letter Mr and Mrs B received in July 2019. Having done so, I do 
appreciate why they were concerned and wanted to arrange a meeting urgently to discuss 
their options. The letter said;
There may be times when you cant sell your funds and get access to your money. This
is known as illiquidity. With the property funds, theres a greater risk of this happening,
as buying and selling physical properties within the funds takes time. So, although your
existing funds may have been performing well, we believe the risk of illiquidity may be
higher now, because of concerns over the economic outlook within the commercial
property market.
I appreciate that some inconvenience was caused to Mr and Mrs B due to appointments 
being arranged which proved to be unhelpful for them.  Nationwide eventually identified Mr 
and Mrs B needed to speak to a particular type of advisor in order to give them the advice 
and service required. I do agree that Nationwide should have identified this sooner which 
would have avoided the need for one of the meetings that took place.
Ive also considered the error with Nationwides booking system - which resulted in the 
meeting in October 2019 being cancelled. I am aware that Mr and Mrs B were made aware 
of this. And while I agree this would have cause a degree of inconvenience to Mr and Mrs B, 
they didnt actually attend the meeting. So, while Mr and Mrs B have said this caused a 
further delay, I am not satisfied anything different would have happened if this error hadnt 
occurred. I say this because this was a busy time for Nationwide. The meeting slot in 
October 2019 was never actually available (due to annual leave) therefore, on balance I 
think it is unlikely Mr and Mrs B would have been able to get a meeting sooner than they did. 
So, with that in mind I think the offer of £100 for the inconvenience it caused, booking the 
meeting in error and not assisting Mr and Mrs B in July to arrange a meeting with a FPM, is 
fair and reasonable. 
Fund suspension 
While I appreciate Mr and Mrs B frustrations that the fund was suspended on 4 December 
2019 before they could act on the advice provided by the FPM from Nationwide, the decision 
to suspend the fund was made by the fund manager. Overall, I am satisfied it was always 
going to take some time to get to the point where Mr and Mrs B were in a position to make a 
change to their holding. So, on balance I dont think the process was likely to be concluded 
before the fund suspension. Therefore, even if the unnecessary meeting hadnt been 
scheduled I dont think it would have impacted the overall outcome.
So, I wont be asking Nationwide to do anything further. The offer of £100 is fair and 
reasonable to compensate Mr and Mrs B for the inconvenience it caused. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs B and Mr B to 
accept or reject my decision before 18 January 2021.
 
Jade Rowe
Ombudsman