DRN-2715775
The complaint
This is a complaint that Bank of Scotland plc (trading as Halifax) mis-sold Mr and Mrs P 
payment protection insurance (PPI).
What happened
This complaint is about a monthly premium PPI policy taken out with a mortgage. The 
mortgage started in December 2002 and the PPI started in March 2003. 
Our adjudicator said the complaint shouldnt be upheld. Mr and Mrs P disagreed with the 
adjudicators opinion and so the complaint has been passed to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding this case. 
Ive decided not to uphold this complaint. I will explain why.
Mr and Mrs P said the PPI was added to their account without them being given an option to 
choose. They have also, in response to the adjudicators view, said it was not made clear to 
them about the policy when Mr P phoned to set it up. 
I am conscious that this all happened about 18 years ago, and I wouldnt expect someone to 
recall in detail everything that happened so long ago. But that does mean it can be difficult to 
know whether its fair to rely fully on everything they remember.
I have to decide what is most likely to have happened, based on the available evidence. And 
I think the evidence points to it being likely Bank of Scotland did present the PPI as a choice. 
I say this because the policy didnt start until a few months after the mortgage. So it would 
have been clear that taking PPI wasnt a condition of the mortgage, and so its likely Mr and 
Mrs P knew at the time they didnt have to take PPI. Its likely either Bank of Scotland 
contacted them to ask if they wanted it, or Mr and Mrs P decided to ask if they could have it. 
But I think it would have been clear they had a choice. 
I dont think its likely the PPI was added without Mr and Mrs Ps knowledge. Ive seen a 
copy of a letter (with a schedule of insurance) sent to them when the PPI was started, 
describing the policy and its costs, and confirming the separate direct debit for the policy 
premiums. I think theyd have queried that if they hadnt authorised its start. And a couple of 
years later the information is that Mr and Mrs P made a significant claim on the policy  so, 
at least by then, they were aware of its existence. 
I dont think Bank of Scotland recommended the PPI to Mr and Mrs P, in the sense of saying 
it had assessed their circumstances and believed the PPI suited their individual needs. This 
means it didnt have to check if the PPI fitted their circumstances. It would have been for 
Mr and Mrs P to decide whether it was suitable.  
Its hard to know how well Bank of Scotland explained the costs and benefits of the policy 
during the actual sale  although the costs and main benefits were set out in the schedule of 
insurance sent to them when it started. But I dont anyway think its likely that full and clear 
information about this would have affected whether Mr and Mrs P took the PPI. I say this 
because the potential benefits were greater than the sick pay Mr P (the person covered) 
would have received from his employer; and Mr and Mrs P have said they didnt have 
significant savings at the time to fall back on. Also, the cost wasnt significantly high, and I 
dont think Mr P would have been caught ought by any of the significant exclusions in the 
policy.  So, even with full information, its likely theyd still have found it potentially useful.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, Im not upholding this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr P and Mrs P to 
accept or reject my decision before 15 May 2021.
 
Timothy Bailey
Ombudsman