DRN-4057942
The complaint
A limited company, which Ill refer to as J, is unhappy that Metro Bank PLC defaulted its 
Bounce Bank Loan (BBL).
Js complaint is brought to this service by its director, whom Ill refer to as Mr B
What happened
J had a BBL with Metro to which it was making payments at the beginning of each month by 
direct debit. On 3 May 2022, Mr B contacted Metro and explained that J couldnt make the 
BBL payment for that month and requested a Pay As You Grow (PAYG) payment deferral 
option for the next sixth months. 
Metro explained that the PAYG option could be implemented, but that because the process 
to take the direct debit for the payment that had been due 1 May 2022 had already begun, 
the payment deferral period would begin in June 2022 and the May 2022 payment would be 
considered as being in arrears if J wasnt able to make that payment. 
Mr B called Metro back a few days later and explained hed had an accident which had 
impacted Js ability to pay the May BBL instalment. Mr B agreed a temporary payment plan 
with Metro whereby J  whose regular monthly payments from June onwards were being 
deferred because of the PAYG option  would only pay £10 towards the missed May 
payment for the next three months and would then clear the remainder of the BBL arrears.
Mr B made the £10 payments for the months of May and June but didnt make the payment 
required by the end of July. Mr B also didnt respond to the letters, phone calls, and text 
messages sent by Metro to J about the missed £10 payment. As a result, Metro issued a 
formal demand to J on 23 August 2022, and defaulted the BBL on 7 September 2022  even 
though Mr B had made a payment to clear Js BBL arrears a few days earlier, on 2 
September 2022. Mr B wasnt happy about this, so he raised a complaint on Js behalf.
Metro responded to Mr B but didnt feel that theyd acted unfairly in how theyd managed the 
situation and so didnt uphold Js complaint. Mr B wasnt satisfied with Metros response, so 
he referred Js complaint to this service. 
One of our investigators looked at this complaint. They didnt feel it had been fair for Metro to 
have effectively defaulted Js BBL for being £10 in arrears for a matter of weeks, and so they 
recommended that the complaint be upheld in Js favour and that Metro should reinstate Js 
BBL account. Metro didnt agree with the view of this complaint put forwards by our 
investigator, so the matter was escalated to an ombudsman for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Id like to begin by confirming that this service isnt a regulatory body or a 
Court of Law and doesnt operate as such. This means that it isnt within my remit here to 
declare that Metro has or hasnt acted in a non-regulatory or unlawful way. 
Instead, this service is an informal, impartial dispute resolution service. And while we do take 
relevant law and regulation into account when arriving at our decisions, our remit is focussed 
on determining whether we feel a fair or unfair outcome has occurred  from an impartial 
perspective, after taking all the circumstances and factors of a complaint into consideration. 
Having considered all the information and evidence available to me here, I think that both J 
and Metro could and reasonably should have handled matters better here. 
For instance, Mr B has explained to this service that the reason he didnt make the £10 
payment required of J by the end of July 2022 was because hed had to travel suddenly 
overseas for a funeral and had forgotten to take his mobile or business phone. This is 
different to what Mr B appears to have told Metro when he first contacted them about the 
missed payment in September 2022, at which time Metros notes record that Mr J explained 
that he forgot about the payment because he was on holiday.
Regardless of the reason why Mr B missed the £10 July payment, the fact remains that he 
did miss it. And it was Mr Bs responsibility as the director of J to ensure that the arrears 
payment plan to which hed agreed on behalf of J was met. And I dont feel that this 
responsibility was diminished even in the eventuality that Mr B had to travel overseas 
suddenly for a funeral and forgot to take his mobile phones.
That being said, given that Metro have record on 30 May 2022 of amending Js payment 
plan so that after the three agreed payments of £10 for May, June, and July, a fourth agreed 
payment of £487  equal to the remainder of the missed May 2022 payment  was 
scheduled for 31 August 2022, I dont agree with Metros assertion that when J didnt make 
the £10 payment required of it by the end of July 2022, the agreed plan should be 
considered void from inception such that J reverted to being in arrears since May 2022.
Instead, I feel that its fairer and more reasonable to consider J to have been £10 in arrears 
since the end of July  in the context of the agreed plan, which included the fourth agreed 
payment of £487. And given that Mr B had made a promise to clear the full arrears by the 
end of August  and did so shortly after the end of August, on 2 September 2022  I dont 
feel that Metro have acted fairly by issuing the formal demand to J on 23 August 2022, after 
J had missed a £10 payment, rather than waiting to see if J met its commitment to clear the 
full arrears by the end of August and to have chased J to clear those arrears if it did not.
In taking this position Ive considered that Mr B informed Metro in May 2022 that hed been 
in an accident which had impacted Js ability to pay the BBL instalments and that J was 
benefiting from a PAYG plan during the £10 payment plan which meant that Js arrears 
werent in any danger of increasing while the six-month PAYG period was in place.
I realise that Metro might contend that because J didnt make the £10 payment required by 
the agreed plan in July 2022 that the plan was broken and that they then followed their 
account arrears process which led to the issuance of the formal demand and the subsequent 
defaulting of the account. But it can be the case that a correctly followed process can lead to 
an unfair outcome, and thats what I feel has happened in this instance. 
Ultimately, in consideration of the unique circumstances that took place here, as Ive 
described them above, I feel that Metro issued the formal demand to J too quickly for the 
issuance of that formal demand to be considered as being fair. Additionally, had Metro taken the course of action that I feel they fairly should have taken 
here  which was to wait to see if J honoured its commitment to clear the full outstanding 
arrears by the end of August, and to have chased J for those outstanding arrears if it didnt, 
safe in the knowledge that Js overall account arrears wouldnt increase while the PAYG plan 
was in place  Im satisfied that Js BBL wouldnt have been defaulted, given that J did make 
a payment to clear the full outstanding BBL arrears on 2 September 2022.
All of which means that Ill be upholding this complaint in Js favour and instructing Metro to 
reinstate Js BBL and to amend Js credit file reporting accordingly. I realise this might not be 
the outcome Metro wanted, but I hope Metro will understand, given all that Ive explained, 
why Ive made the final decision that I have.
Putting things right
Metro must reinstate Js BBL and allow J to resume making payments to the BBL in line with 
the original BBL agreement. 
Before any future BBL payments become due, Metro must allow J to avail of any period of 
the six-month PAYG payment deferment plan that J was unable to benefit from because of 
the unfair defaulting of the BBL by Metro.
Finally, Metro must remove any adverse credit file reporting relating to the default from Js 
(or Mr Bs if applicable) credit file reporting. Js BBL reporting should show the May 2022 
payment as having been missed, with the arrears from that payment having been cleared in 
September 2022 so that the BBL shows as being up to date beyond that time. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint against Metro Bank PLC on the basis 
explained above. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask J to accept or 
reject my decision before 8 August 2023.
 
Paul Cooper
Ombudsman