DRN-3235954
The complaint
Miss A complains that a loan agreed by Bamboo Limited  for which she was a guarantor 
was fraudulent. She says she should be released from the terms of the guarantee for that 
reason.
What happened
In August 2019, Miss A agreed to be a guarantor for someone applying to Bamboo for a 
loan. Bamboo agreed the loan for the borrower and accepted Miss A as guarantor.
Subsequently Miss A says the borrower moved abroad and is no longer making payments. 
She says that although the borrower declared to Bamboo that they are a British citizen, she 
believes that isnt true and therefore the application was fraudulent. She says shed not 
have agreed to be a guarantor if shed been aware the borrower wasnt a British citizen.
Bamboo says it carried out all its usual checks before agreeing to lend and the borrower 
passed them. It said a member of its fraud team had spoken to Miss A and it was 
established that she was fully aware of her obligations as guarantor and that she hadnt 
been the victim of fraud. It acknowledged that Miss A had recently told it of concerns she 
had about having to make the payments and offered to work with her to come to a 
solution. Bamboo didnt uphold Miss As complaint and refused to release her from the 
guarantee.
Miss A was unhappy with Bamboos response and referred her complaint to us. One of our 
investigators looked into the complaint. He upheld it as he noticed a number of CIFAS 
markers were listed against the borrowers address so he felt Bamboo should have done 
more. He asked Bamboo to release Miss A from her guarantee, refund any payments shed 
made, remove any records regarding this loan from her credit file and pay her 
compensation.
Miss A accepted what our investigator said, but Bamboo didnt. It said:
In the conversation Miss A had with its fraud team in July 2020, shed confirmed 
she hadnt been the victim of fraud, but she had been misled by the borrower 
regarding his intentions during the loan.
Miss A had been fully aware of the loan and was happy to be guarantor.
Miss A had told it in April 2020 that the borrower had moved abroad so she no 
longer wanted to be guarantor. It said this was post-loan and wasnt foreseeable.
During the application shed confirmed shed known the borrower for more than 
five years, so it is reasonable to expect she ought to have known their residency 
status.
It has since agreed to remove her mobile number and email address from its 
records to reduce communication and has agreed to release her from the 
guarantee once the capital of the loan has been repaid (waiving charges and 
interest).
It had noted the CIFAS markers at the time of the application and had concluded they 
were not linked to the borrower.
As there was no agreement, the complaint was passed to me for a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I disagree with our investigator and dont think Mr As complaint should be 
upheld. I issued my provisional decision saying:
I dont agree with the argument put forward by our investigator regarding the CIFAS 
markers on the credit file of the borrower. These are linked to the address rather than the 
individual. Lenders will usually look into any CIFAS markers to see if they relate to the 
applicant they have.
In this case, Bamboo has shown that it looked into the CIFAS markers and none were a 
match or partial match for the borrower. They were all registered at one address and dated 
2017 or earlier. None matched details for the borrower who moved to the address at which 
they were registered in 2019. Bamboo was satisfied therefore that the markers had no 
bearing on the creditworthiness of the applicant. I think thats a reasonable conclusion to 
draw in the circumstances.
But I note that Miss A believes the application made by the borrower was fraudulent because 
he declared he was a British citizen and she believes he isnt. She says she wouldnt have 
agreed to be his guarantor if shed known he wasnt.
Ive listened to several calls Miss A had with the business, including the calls from the 
application stage before the loan was drawn and some afterwards, such as the one she had 
with the fraud team.
During the application calls, Miss A demonstrates a good understanding of the role of a 
guarantor and seems happy to be helping the borrower. Ive not heard her ask any questions 
about the identity checks Bamboo carried out or express any concerns about the borrower.
The data for Miss As application to be a guarantor lists her relationship to the borrower as
friend and that theyd known each other for 5+ Years.
In the conversation with the fraud team, Miss A says she assumed Bamboo would have 
checked the borrower was a British citizen. The advisor explained that Bamboo was able to 
verify the borrowers details, such as their name, address and date of birth through 
automatic means. The advisor asked how Miss A knew the borrower and she said they were 
a friend of a friend and shed only known them less than a year. She said she believed she 
could go to Bamboo to clarify if the borrower was a British citizen. Miss A confirmed her only 
concern with the loan was that she was unaware that the borrower wasnt a British citizen.
The checks Bamboo carried out were for it to be satisfied the borrower was who they said 
they were and that they could afford the loan applied for. Its not the role of the lender to 
conduct checks on behalf of the guarantor  but if it had any doubts, Id expect it to share
them with the guarantor.
In this instance, the borrower and Miss A passed all the checks Bamboo carried out. It made
clear to Miss A that shed be liable if the borrower failed to repay which she accepted. 
Ive seen nothing that makes me think that Bamboo made any mistakes in carrying out its 
usual checks.I have every sympathy for the situation Miss A now finds herself in. It appears she acted in
good faith in guaranteeing a loan for a friend but has been let down by them, so she now
finds that the terms of the guarantee have come into force  in other words, Bamboo is
asking her to make the payments. Miss A entered into the agreement willingly and
understood that shed need to repay the loan if the borrower didnt.
Im pleased to see that Bamboo has already agreed to lessen its communication with her
given the circumstances and has waived charges and interest. I think thats a reasonable
way to resolve this complaint.
Bamboo accepted my provisional decision and restated its intention to only collect the capital 
of the loan under the guarantee, not charges and interest. Miss A didnt accept my 
provisional decision. She said (in summary) that her circumstances have changed a lot since 
becoming guarantor for this loan and gave some details about that. 
As I said in my provisional decision, I have every sympathy for the situation Miss A finds 
herself in now  shes clearly had a difficult time since the loan was agreed. But that doesnt 
mean that Bamboo was wrong to accept her as a guarantor based on what she told it at the 
time when the loan was applied for.
Miss A clearly understood what it meant to be a guarantor and what the risks were if the 
borrower didnt repay the loan and willingly entered into a contract with Bamboo on that 
basis. The circumstances she now faces in her life were not foreseeable by either her or 
Bamboo. I know it will come as a disappointment to Miss A, but I can see no grounds for 
asking Bamboo to release her from that contract.
Id encourage Miss A to talk to Bamboo about her current circumstances in order to agree a 
way forward, and I remind Bamboo of its obligation to treat customers fairly.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss A to accept 
or reject my decision before 2 February 2022. 
Richard Hale
Ombudsman