DRN-2367281
The complaint
Mr F complains that the vehicle he acquired through a hire purchase agreement (HPA) with 
Black Horse Limited wasnt of satisfactory quality and that the HPA wasnt adequately 
explained to him.
What happened
Mr F entered a HPA with Black Horse in May 2017 to acquire a used vehicle. In February 
2019, he says the vehicle started to have electrical issues. The vehicle was taken to a dealer 
and action was taken regarding the battery. Following this Mr F says there were ongoing 
issues with the satnav and recognition of the key fobs and the alarm and locking system. Mr 
F says he made several visits to the dealer where software updates and other action took 
place, but the issues werent resolved. He says the dealer couldnt understand what was 
causing the ongoing electrical issues. He asked to reject the vehicle and have his payments 
from February 2019 refunded but says that when he tried to reject the vehicle he wasnt 
provided with the service he should have been.
Mr F also complains that he wasnt provided with the information he should have been when 
he entered the HPA. He says he wasnt aware that the vehicle would be owned by Black 
Horse and not himself. He said that he wasnt aware Black Horse wouldnt support him with 
any quality issues and said that when discussing options with a dealer he was offered a new 
agreement without any financial checks being carried out. He also said he wasnt aware of 
the additional insurances that were added or the amount he would remain liable in the event 
of a voluntary termination (VT). 
Black Horse issued a final response letter dated 19 November 2019 in response to Mr Fs 
complaint about the quality of the vehicle. It said that Mr F had raised his complaint on 8 
November about the vehicle not being of satisfactory quality and noted potential issues with 
the satnav and the key not registering. It contacted the supplying retailer about the vehicle, 
and it confirmed it hadnt been returned since acquisition. It then contacted the dealer Mr F 
had used for repairs which confirmed the vehicle was brought in for a drained battery in 
February 2019. It was then in for the MOT and then a recall and update to the satnav in May 
2019. Following this the antennae and key were replaced due to an issue with the key. It 
said Mr F had been able to drive the vehicle without issue for around 21 months and didnt 
accept the vehicle wasnt of satisfactory quality at the point of supply.
Black Horse issued a final response letter dated 11 August 2020 in response to Mr Fs 
complaint about the mis-sale of the HPA. It said that before Mr F signed the HPA he was 
provided with a pre-contract information document which contained all the information on the 
HPA. It said that by signing the HPA, Mr F agreed to its terms and conditions. It said the 
terms and conditions confirmed that Mr F wouldnt become the owner of the vehicle until all 
repayments and the purchase fee had been paid. It said that the HPA contained information 
about termination and listed the additional insurances that Mr F had acquired.
Black Horse said that before the HPA was agreed, checks were carried out to establish the 
affordability of the agreement. It said that Mr F provided a monthly income and disposable 
income and that it carried out verification checks. It said M F hadnt raised any concerns 
about the affordability of the HPA and that his payments had been made on time.
Our investigator didnt uphold this complaint. He said Mr F first reported issues with the 
vehicle to Black Horse in November 2019 after having the vehicle for around 21 months. He 
noted the repair history and didnt think this was enough to say the vehicle wasnt of 
satisfactory quality at the point of supply. Because of this he said Black Horse hadnt acted 
unreasonably by not accepting Mr Fs request to reject the vehicle.
Regarding the mis-sale of the HPA our investigator said it wouldnt be expected that all the 
terms and conditions of the HPA would be discussed at the point of supply but that the 
important terms shouldve been made clear. He said that the HPA clearly set out all the key 
terms including the interest rate, term, total amount to pay and also information about the 
ownership of the vehicle and termination rights.
Mr F didnt accept our investigators view. He said he wanted to reject the vehicle because 
after having to return it on several occasions due to ongoing electrical issues the issues 
remained unresolved. He also reiterated the other issues he had raised in his complaint. 
Following our investigators views, Mr F decided to VT his HPA and said he was provided 
with a document suggesting he owed over £3,000. He said there was no explanation of this 
amount and he didnt accept the debt. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr Fs complaint is about the vehicle not being of satisfactory quality at the point of supply 
and the HPA being mis-sold. I have addressed both issues below.
Quality of vehicle
Mr F acquired the vehicle through a HPA. Under the regulations, specifically the Consumer 
Rights Act 2015 (CRA 2015) Black Horse can be held liable if the vehicle wasnt of 
satisfactory quality at the point of supply. Satisfactory quality takes into account factors such 
as the age and mileage of the vehicle. When Mr F acquired the vehicle, it was nearly a year 
old and had been driven around 10,900 miles. Therefore, the vehicle was still relatively new 
although it is reasonable to expect some wear and tear to have occurred.
Mr F says that issues started with the vehicle in early 2019. This was over a year and half 
after acquisition. I understand it mustve been frustrating for Mr F that issues arose, and I 
note his comments about it being a premium vehicle. But this complaint is against Black 
Horse and I can only hold Black Horse liable if I am satisfied that the issues Mr F s vehicle 
experienced were due to faults that were present or developing at the point of supply. 
It appears the problems experienced were due to electrical issues and while attempts were 
made to address these the issues remained unresolved. I can see that there were attempts 
to replicate the issues Mr F had identified and these werent always successful. Mr F made 
several visits to the dealer for the issues to be addressed and appreciate this would have 
caused him distress and inconvenience. I also note his comment about the reduced use 
made of the vehicle due to the issues. However, based on the information provided, I do not 
find I have evidence to say that the issues Mr F reported were due to faults that were 
present or developing at the point of supply.I say this because Mr F had been able to drive the vehicle for over a year and half without 
issues being raised. I can see the first issue related to the battery (February 2019) and then 
further issues were raised in May 2019. A MOT took place in May 2019 which didnt raise 
any concerns. The MOT recorded the mileage at that time as being over 22,000 miles so 
Mr F was able to drive the car around 10,000 miles by this time. Therefore, without further 
evidence to show that the issues Mr F identified were present from the point of supply I dont 
find I can hold Black horse liable for these.
Mr F has explained that he wasnt provided with the service he should have been when he 
was trying to get the issues resolved and when he said he wished to reject the vehicle. I 
understand this must have been frustrating and involved Mr F in lots of discussion. In terms 
of the service provided after the HPA had been put in place, I can only hold Black Horse 
liable for the actions it was responsible for. Mr F raised his complaint with Black Horse in 
November 2019, and it investigated the points he had raised with the supplying dealer and 
the dealer Mr F had visited for repairs. It then issued a final response letter that month. 
Based on the information I have seen I find Black Horse acted in a reasonable and timely 
way.
Overall, I do not find that I have enough evidence to say the vehicle Mr F acquired through a 
HPA with Black Horse wasnt of satisfactory quality at the point of supply and so I do not find 
I can say Black Horse is liable for the issues raised.
Mis-sale of HPA
Mr F says he wasnt provided with the information he shouldve been before entering the 
HPA. I have considered the points Mr F has raised but I do not uphold this part of his 
complaint. Mr F says he wasnt made aware that he wouldnt be the owner of the vehicle. 
However, this is standard for a HPA and it is set out in capital letters where the signature is 
required that The goods will not become your property until you have made all payments. 
The first section of the terms and conditions is titled Hiring and ownership of the goods and 
this explains the ownership of the vehicle. Therefore, I find that Mr F shouldve been 
reasonably aware that the vehicles ownership wouldnt be transferred to him until all 
payments had been made.
Mr F also said he wasnt aware of the amounts he would be liable for in the event of a VT. I 
wouldnt expect this to have been discussed at the time of the supply of the vehicle unless 
Mr F had asked about it. The front page of the HPA has a section about termination rights 
and this explains that the vehicle can be returned once Mr F has made half the total amount 
payable under this agreement, that is £25,668.50. Therefore, I find that Mr F should have 
been reasonably aware of the amount he needed to pay in a VT and had he had questions 
about this he could have raised them at the time.
Mr F is upset that he wasnt assisted by Black Horse with the issues he experienced with the 
vehicle but as I have set out above, as there wasnt evidence to show the issues raised were 
due to faults present at the point of supply Black Horse wasnt liable for the repairs. Under 
the CRA 2015, it is generally accepted that if issues are raised after six months it is up to the 
consumer to show the issues were present at supply. This didnt happen and given the 
issues raised and the timing of these I do not find it unreasonable that Black Horse didnt 
take further action.
Mr F said that no affordability checks took place when he was given the option of a new 
agreement, but this complaint is about the vehicle he acquired under the HPA in 2017 and 
so I havent considered this point further. Black Horse has explained the affordability checks 
it carried out before the HPA.Mr F decided to VT his HPA. He then raised concerns in December 2020 about an 
outstanding balance. Black Horse has confirmed that there is no outstanding balance on 
Mr Fs account. Therefore, I havent considered this issue further.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint against Black Horse Limited.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr F to accept or 
reject my decision before 25 February 2021.
 
Jane Archer
Ombudsman