DRN-3211968
The complaint
Mr C complained about the way Lloyds Bank General Insurance Limited handled his claim 
for damage to his kitchen units under his home contents insurance policy. 
Reference to Lloyds includes its agents.
What happened
Mr C contacted Lloyds in February 2021 when he damaged one of his kitchen cabinets. 
Lloyds attempted a repair but both parties agreed it wasnt to a good standard. Lloyds paid 
Mr C £150 for the inconvenience and agreed to make a new cabinet door. There was a 
delay in providing the door and Lloyds paid Mr C a further £75. It wasnt until June 2021 that 
the door was ready to be installed and it was then found to be the wrong size. Mr C also said 
the trim of the door was the wrong colour.
Lloyds sent a claims consultant to inspect the old and new door in person and reported on 
their findings. They noted the grain around the edging of the door was different but they 
thought the colour was nearly identical and a reasonable colour match within the terms of 
the policy wording. Lloyds said it believed the colour of the cabinet door was a reasonable 
match and so it said it could arrange for the door to be remade to the right size. Alternatively, 
it said it could provide a cash settlement so Mr C could carry out the repairs with his own 
contractors. It offered him £1,406.70 to settle the claim. It apologised for the upset and 
frustration caused and paid Mr C a further £300 for the delays and disappointment of 
providing a door that didnt fit.
Mr C wasnt happy and brought his complaint to this service. He said a number of kitchen 
retailers and tradespeople hed spoken to agreed they wouldnt be happy with the colour of 
the cabinet door Lloyds had provided. He said the door sits below another door, so the 
different colour of the trim would be really noticeable. He didnt agree that the door trim was 
a reasonable match and thought Lloyds should replace all the cabinet doors in his kitchen. 
He said the service Lloyds had provided had a detrimental impact on his household, 
particularly on his wife who suffers from OCD.
Our investigator thought the report provided by the claims consultant was persuasive. And 
he thought Lloyds had applied the terms and conditions of Mr Cs policy fairly by finding a 
replacement door that was similar but not an exact match. As Lloyds had tried to provide a 
reasonable match and offered a cash settlement, he didnt think it would be fair to ask it to 
replace all the kitchen cabinets. 
As Mr C didnt agree with the investigators view, his complaint has been passed to me to 
make a final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Lloyds tried to repair the damage to Mr Cs kitchen cabinet but accepted that didnt work. As 
the type of kitchen cabinets Mr C had were no longer available, Lloyds said it would arrange 
for a new door to be made to match the damaged one. It acknowledges it took too long to do 
that but its satisfied that the door that was made is a reasonable match, albeit its the wrong 
size. Mr C doesnt agree the door is a reasonable match and has said a number of people 
hed spoken to dont think its a good match either. So, what do I think? 
The terms of Mr Cs policy says that if he makes a successful claim for an item which forms 
part of a matching set or suite, Lloyds will pay for the cost of replacing or changing any 
associated undamaged items from the matching set. But it goes on to say it will only do this 
when a replacement of, or reasonable match for, the lost or damaged item cannot be 
obtained. And importantly the policy says a reasonable match means it may be similar but 
not an exact match. 
Ive reviewed all the evidence, including the photos of the two cabinet doors and the report 
prepared by the claims consultant. I can see that the doors arent an exact match. While the 
laminate on the outside of the door is a good match, the edging or trim of the door is a 
slightly different colour. Mr C has described the new door as being darker with a tinge of 
orange and red and I can see what he means. The grain is also slightly different, being a 
little more pronounced on the replacement door. Overall, the doors are of a similar 
appearance but its possible to tell which is the replacement door. So, I think the 
photographs show theres a difference between the two doors but also that theyre similar. 
And because theyre similar, I think, on balance, Lloyds has applied the terms of the policy 
fairly. I appreciate its a subjective view, but I think Lloyds has provided a reasonable match 
and, for that reason, I think its handled the claim in line with the terms of Mr Cs policy.
Lloyds has also offered a cash settlement so Mr C can either repair or replace the cabinet 
door using his own contractors. Mr C hasnt disputed the amount its offered. It includes an 
amount for replacing the bottom shelf in the cabinet, which was also damaged. The report 
from the claims consultant explains how they arrived at that figure and, in the circumstances, 
I think its a fair and reasonable amount. 
Lloyds has accepted it didnt always handle Mr Cs claim well. It apologised and took action 
to get things back on track. And it paid Mr C a total of £525 for the initial poor repairs, the 
delays it caused and for providing a cabinet door that was the wrong size. Our investigator 
explained why this service cant consider the impact of that poor service on Mr Cs wife, as 
shes not a joint policy holder and therefore not an eligible complainant. But theres no doubt 
the way Lloyds handled Mr Cs claim caused him a lot of distress and inconvenience and I 
think it was right it apologised for that. I also think Lloydss payment of £525 compensation is 
fair in the circumstances.
I know Mr C will be disappointed with this outcome. But based on everything Ive seen I think 
Lloyds has handled the complaint fairly. Its compensated him for the poor service it 
provided. And its offered to replace the cabinet door, so a reasonable matching look is 
maintained. If Mr C wants someone else to carry out the work, its offered a reasonable cash 
settlement so he can arrange for that to happen. He should contact Lloyds directly if he now 
wishes to accept either of these options.
My final decision
Lloyds Bank General Insurance Limited has already made an offer to either replace the 
cabinet door with a reasonable match or pay £1,406.70 to settle the complaint. And I think 
this offer is fair in all the circumstances. I dont think it needs to do anything more. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or reject my decision before 17 February 2022.
 
Richard Walker
Ombudsman