DRN-3456464
The complaint
Mr T complains about two loans provided to him by GeorgeBanco.com Limited
(GBL). GBL has since been acquired by Everyday Lending Limited. So, for ease, I shall
refer to the lender as ELL below. Mr T says the loans were unaffordable.
 
What happened
ELL agreed two guarantor loans for Mr T between June 2018 and February 2019. Loan 2 
was used to repay Loan 1. According to the most recent information Ive seen, Loan 2 hasnt 
been repaid. Some of the information ELL provided about the loans is shown in the table 
below.
Loan 
numberStart date End date Loan amount Monthly 
repaymentsTerm 
(months)
1. 12/6/2018 7/2/2019 £3,800 £149.94 60
2. 6/2/2019 Unpaid £6,500 £292.42 60
Mr T says that he took loans with ELL out of desperation. He was a freelancer at the time
and his income was very hit and miss. He could have a good month and earn well, then a 
poor month and earn next to nothing.
In its final response letter, ELL didnt uphold Mr Ts complaint about Loan 1. But with regard 
to Loan 2, it said it was unable to find evidence to suggest that all the necessary checks had 
been carried out. So, it couldnt confirm that responsible checks were completed. ELL said 
that it was willing to refund anything Mr T had paid over £6,500. The amount paid at the date 
of its letter was £7,017.99. So, it said it would refund £517.99 plus an additional 8% statutory 
interest. ELL also said that it had requested that the details of Loan 2 be removed from      
Mr Ts credit file.
Our investigators view
Our investigator said that as ELL had made an offer on Loan 2 which was in line with this 
Services recommendations, she wouldnt be investigating this loan in her view. With 
regard to Loan 1, she recommended that this be upheld. She said that ELL had carried out 
proportionate checks and that the loan appeared to be affordable as Mr T appeared to have 
a monthly disposable income of around £385 which would allow for any unexpected 
expenditure should it arise. But she didnt think ELL should have lent to Mr T based upon 
what ELLs credit search revealed.
ELL disagreed. It responded to the investigators view to say, in summary, that:- 
- It had discussed the defaults on its credit search with Mr T at the time and he provided 
an explanation that these were due to a relationship breakdown, and he was taking 
steps to clear these. 
- The fact that Mr T chose not to use his available income to settle his previous debts 
didnt demonstrate that its decision to lend was flawed or irresponsible.
- Even with the item of credit in arrears, it had established that Mr Ts disposable income 
should have been enough to reduce the arrears.
As this complaint hadnt been resolved informally, it was passed to me, as an ombudsman, 
to review and resolve. 
my provisional decision
After considering all the evidence, I issued a provisional decision on this complaint to Mr T
and to ELL on 30 March 2022. I summarise my findings:
As ELL had offered to settle Loan 2, I said that I wouldnt be investigating this loan. But I 
would include the redress for this loan in the redress section of my decision.
I noted that when ELL lent Loan 1 to Mr T, the regulator was the Financial Conduct Authority 
(FCA) and relevant regulations and guidance included its Consumer Credit Sourcebook 
(CONC). 
Its rules and guidance obliged ELL to lend responsibly. As set out in CONC, this meant that 
ELL needed to take reasonable and proportionate steps to assess whether or not a borrower 
could afford to meet their loan repayments in a sustainable manner over the lifetime of the 
agreement. 
Repaying debt in a sustainable manner meant being able to meet repayments out of normal 
income while meeting normal outgoings and not having to borrow further to meet these 
repayments.
The lender was required to carry out a borrower focussed assessment each time - 
sometimes referred to as an affordability assessment or affordability check. Neither the 
law nor the FCA specified what level of detail was needed to carry out an appropriate 
assessment or how such an assessment was to be carried out in practice. The FCA said that 
the level of detail would depend on the type of product, the amount of credit being 
considered, the associated cost and risk to the borrower relative to the borrowers financial 
situation, amongst other factors.
The checks had to be borrower focussed  so ELL had to think about whether Mr T could 
sustainably repay his loan. In practice this meant that the lender had to ensure that making 
the payments to the loan wouldnt cause Mr T undue difficulty or adverse consequences. In 
other words, it wasnt enough for ELL to simply think about the likelihood of it getting its 
money back, it had to consider the impact of the loan repayments on Mr T. 
In general, Id expect a lender to require more assurance the greater the potential risk to the 
borrower of not being able to repay the credit in a sustainable way. So, for example, Id 
expect a lender to seek more assurance by carrying out more detailed checks
- the lower a borrowers income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make any loan 
repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income);
- the higher the amount due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to meet a 
higher repayment from a particular level of income); 
- the longer the period of time a borrower would be indebted for (reflecting the fact that 
the total cost of credit was likely to be greater and the borrower was required to make 
repayments for an extended period);
Bearing all of this in mind, in coming to a decision on Mr Ts case, Id considered thefollowing questions:
- Did ELL complete reasonable and proportionate checks when assessing Mr Ts loan
application to satisfy itself that he would be able to repay the loan in a sustainable way? If
not, what would reasonable and proportionate checks have shown?
- Did ELL make a fair lending decision?
Did ELL complete reasonable and proportionate checks when assessing Mr Ts loan
application to satisfy itself that he would be able to repay the loan in a sustainable way?
Loan 1
ELL provided Mr T with Loan 1 in June 2018. The interest rate was 41.1%, (49.7% APR). 
The loan was to be repaid by 60 monthly repayments of £149.94. If Mr T made each 
payment when it was due, hed pay £8,996.40 in total. The loan was repaid from the 
proceeds of Loan 2. Mr T told the lender that the loan was to be used to pay legal fees.
ELL spoke to Mr T on the phone and gathered some information from him about his income 
and accommodation expenses before it agreed the loan. Id listened to a recording of this 
call. Mr T said that his net monthly income was £2,200 and his rent was £800. He was single 
and had two dependents. ELL asked Mr T to provide a payslip or a bank statement so it 
could verify his income. It assessed Mr Ts other expenditure as £815 by using statistics 
from the Office for National Statistics (ONS). It also carried out a credit check. After 
including the financial commitments from Mr Ts credit file, ELL said that Mr T would have 
had approximately £380 of disposable income remaining each month.
I could see why ELL would have thought that the loan repayment would be affordable based 
on what it had calculated. But I thought it should have gathered more information than it did 
for the following reasons.
I noted that ELL said in its final response letter that it didnt obtain bank statements or 
payslips to verify Mr Ts income. It said that it verified his income using a credit reference 
agency. But Mr T had told this Service that he was on a zero hours contract at the time of 
the loan application, and there were times when he would go without income for a period of 
time. So, Id queried whether the credit reference agency was able to accurately verify Mr Ts 
monthly income in his circumstances. I thought that a more accurate verification would have 
arisen from checking payslips or bank statements, but not from a credit reference agency 
tool.
Id reviewed ELLs credit checks. Whilst ELL said that Mr T had no live loans, Id noted that 
the checks showed that Mr T had opened five accounts since May 2017.  He didnt appear to 
have used four of these accounts. But the fifth account had a balance of £457 and had been 
in arrears for the two months prior to the credit check. There were also two defaulted 
accounts. One had been defaulted in October 2013 with a default balance of £943 which had 
been reduced to £939. The second default appeared to be dated January 2018 but might 
have been earlier. This had a balance of £85. Whilst I thought the two defaults might not 
have caused ELL additional concerns, I did think that ELL might have been concerned that 
Mr T had made hardly any payments to those balances. In addition, I thought ELL might 
have been concerned that Mr T had been unable to repay the account with recent arrears of 
£457 despite having a disposable income according to its calculations which was sufficient 
to repay it over a couple of months. 
In ELLs call with Mr T, it noted that he had no live borrowing although it noted historic 
defaults from a few years before the loan application which Mr T said were due to a 
relationship breakdown. ELL also noted that Mr T had an account which was around £425 over its limit, but Mr T said that he had agreed to pay monthly payments of £50 towards this 
account. ELL appeared to have accepted Mr Ts explanations.
With regard to Mr Ts expenditure, I didnt think it was reasonable for ELL to base its 
assessment on ONS data in Mr Ts circumstances. I thought it needed to tailor its 
assessment to Mr Ts actual circumstances. Mr T had two dependents. He was involved in 
legal proceedings in which more costs could be incurred. There was evidence of recent 
pressures on Mr Ts finances in ELLs credit checks. Mr T was entering into a significant 
commitment with ELL. He would need to make monthly repayments of around £150 for 60 
months. So, I would have expected that ELL would have wanted to gather, and 
independently check, some detailed information about Mr Ts actual financial circumstances 
before it agreed to lend to him. 
Altogether, I didnt think that ELLs checks went far enough. I thought it would have been 
proportionate for ELL to independently check the true state of Mr Ts finances before 
agreeing the loan.
ELL was required to establish whether Mr T could make his loan repayments without being 
caused undue difficulty or adverse consequences and not just to ascertain whether the loan 
repayments were technically affordable on a strict pounds and pence calculation. It could 
have done this by, for example, requesting payslips and bank statements from Mr T, asking 
for copies of  bills and/or receipts for his expenses and by asking him for more information 
about his existing credit commitments. I couldnt see that ELL took steps to do this. So 
overall, I didnt think the checks ELL carried out on this occasion were reasonable and 
proportionate. 
But although I thought ELL should have asked for some additional information before 
agreeing the loan, that in itself didnt mean that Mr Ts complaint should succeed. I also 
needed to be persuaded that any further information would have shown ELL that Mr T 
couldnt sustainably afford the repayments. So, Id reviewed Mr Ts bank statements from 
around the time of the loan, to see what additional checks would have shown the lender. 
I wasnt suggesting that this was the exact check that ELL should have carried out. But I 
thought ELL needed information about Mr Ts actual financial situation. And looking at his 
bank statements was one way of achieving that although there were of course many other 
ways that level of detail could be established. But I thought that by looking at Mr Ts bank 
statements I could get a good idea of what further checks might have shown. 
What would reasonable and proportionate checks have shown? And did ELL make a fair
lending decision?
Loan 1
Mr T had provided this Service with his bank statements from two current accounts from 
around the time of Loan 1. Id reviewed Mr Ts transactions in April 2018 and May 2018 to 
give me the best picture of what the lender should have seen if it had made better checks. 
ELL would have likely seen that Mr T had received no income in both April 2018 and in early 
June 2018 up until the loan was provided. In May 2018 it appeared that Mr T had received 
income totalling about £758. I could see that this wasnt sufficient to even pay his rent. I 
could also see that Mr T was receiving amounts from third parties and Id asked the 
investigator to query these with Mr T. He said that he received loans from friends and family 
who were keeping him afloat whilst his income was so sporadic. In those circumstances, I 
didnt think that ELL would have lent if it knew this, as I thought it ought to have if it had 
made better checks. So, I thought if ELL had carried out what I considered to be proportionate checks, it was 
likely it would have discovered Mr Ts relatively low and sporadic income. And I thought ELL 
ought reasonably to have realised that Mr T was having significant difficulties managing his 
finances. His finances werent stable, and it was likely he would need to borrow elsewhere to 
repay Loan 1. So, I thought ELL ought reasonably to have realised that it was unlikely that   
Mr T would have been able to sustainably repay his loan over the 60 months term. And it 
should reasonably have concluded that it was unfair to lend Loan 1 to him.
So, subject to any further representations by Mr T or ELL, I intended to uphold Mr Ts 
complaint about Loan 1 and say that ELL needed to put things right as follows, including the 
redress for Loan 2 referred to above.
Putting things right  what ELL needs to do
I understand that Loan 1 was repaid from the proceeds of Loan 2, and that Loan 2 hasnt 
been fully repaid. In order to put Mr T back into the position he would have been had                
Loans 1 and 2 not been agreed for him, ELL needs to ensure that Mr T only repays the total 
amount of money he received as a result of having been given Loans 1 and 2. So, ELL 
needs to:
1. Add up the total amount of money Mr T received as a result of having been given   
Loans 1 and 2. For the avoidance of doubt this added up amount should not include 
any interest, charges, document or any other administration fees;
2. The payments Mr T made (to Loans 1 and 2) should be deducted from this amount;
3. Any payments made, if any, after the total amount repaid exceeds the amount of 
money Mr T was given should be treated as overpayments and refunded to Mr T;
4. Interest at 8% per year simple should be paid on any overpayments made, if they 
were, from the date they were paid by Mr T to the date of settlement;*
5. If the total amount of money paid by Mr T doesnt exceed the total amount of money 
he received as a result of having been given Loans 1 and 2 (and for the avoidance of 
doubt any outstanding balance shouldnt include any interest, charges and document 
or other administration fees), ELL should treat Mr T positively and sympathetically 
regarding repayment of the balance. This might mean agreeing a mutually agreeable 
repayment plan with him; and
6. Remove any adverse information recorded on Mr Ts credit file as a result of           
Loans 1 and 2; 
If ELL has sold the outstanding debt, it should buy it back if it is able to do so or chooses to 
do so and then take the steps listed above. If ELL isnt able to buy the debt back or chooses 
not to, then it should liaise with the new debt owner to bring about steps 1. to 6. above.
*HM Revenue & Customs requires ELL to take off tax from this interest. ELL must give Mr T 
a certificate showing how much tax it has taken off if he asks for one. 
Mr T responded to my provisional decision to say that he didnt have anything further to add.
ELL responded to my provisional decision to say that it upheld Mr Ts complaint and agreed 
the recommended course of action.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.I have also taken into account the law, any relevant regulatory rules and good industry 
practice at the time. 
Given that Mr T has given me nothing further to consider and ELL has upheld the complaint 
and agreed the recommended course of action, I see no reason to depart from the 
conclusions I reached in my provisional decision. It follows that I uphold this complaint and 
require ELL to take the steps set out above under the heading Putting things right - what 
ELL needs to do.
My final decision
My decision is that I uphold this complaint. In full and final settlement of this complaint, I 
order Everyday Lending Limited to put things right as Ive set out above under the heading 
Putting things right  what ELL needs to do.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr T to accept or 
reject my decision before 2 June 2022. 
Roslyn Rawson
Ombudsman