DRN-4480548
The complaint
Miss J complains Santander UK plc has failed to assist her with a dispute over a payment 
she made on her credit card for return flights for her mother.
What happened
I issued a provisional decision on Miss Js case on 10 November 2023 in which I outlined the 
background to the complaint and my provisional findings on it in detail. However, the origins 
of Miss Js complaint could be summarised as follows:
Miss J bought a return ticket to London from Trinidad for her mother with an airline, 
B. The outbound flight was on 5 September 2022 and the return flight on 3 March 
2023. The ticket cost £915.49 and was paid for on Miss Js Santander credit card.
Miss Js mother needed special assistance with mobility and hearing, which had 
been booked through B. On the outbound flight, assistance was only provided at the 
departure airport after a delay and on the insistence of a relative. At the arrival airport 
Miss Js mother was left sitting on the plane and was unable to leave the airport for 
two hours, again because assistance was not provided.
A complaint was made to B, and Miss Js mother did not want to use the return flight 
after her experience. B never responded to the complaint, prompting Miss J to 
contact Santander to obtain a refund in order to enable her mother to fly with a 
different airline.
Santander looked into the matter but said it couldnt help, giving various different 
reasons why it was unable to obtain a refund via the chargeback process or a claim 
under section 75 of the Consumer Credit Act 1974 (CCA). The bank paid Miss J 
£75 for poor customer service connected to the claim. Miss J referred her complaint 
to the Financial Ombudsman Service.
Miss Js mother did use the return flight with B in the end, and received a better level 
of service than on the outbound flight.
In my provisional decision I said firstly that what had happened to Miss Js mother wasnt 
disputed and it was obviously unacceptable, but that I was considering a complaint about 
Santander, not B, and was restricted to looking at whether the bank could have helped more 
via the chargeback process, or should have honoured a section 75 claim.
I went on to consider, firstly, whether Miss J might have had a valid section 75 claim. I think 
it is worth reproducing this part of my provisional decision in full:
Section 75 of the CCA Section 75 of the CCA gives consumers a degree of protection when 
they pay for goods or services using a credit card, so long as certain conditions are met. If 
those conditions are met then the consumer can claim against their credit card provider in 
respect of any breach of contract or misrepresentation by the supplier of the goods or 
services. Section 75 only covers breaches of contract and misrepresentations, it does not 
cover other kinds of wrong, such as breaches of statutory duty.
One of the conditions which needs to be met, and which has been a much focused-on 
point in this case, is the need for there to be a DCS agreement. It can be a very complex 
concept but  in practical terms  it means that the person whose credit card account was 
used to make the payment, is the person that needs to have a claim against the supplier for 
breach of contract or misrepresentation.
This effectively limits the scope of any claim Miss J has against Santander under section 
75, to any breach of contract which happened to her or misrepresentation which was made 
to her. Its not been alleged that a misrepresentation occurred in this case, so Ive 
not examined this point further. Rather, the problem is that special assistance was meant 
to have been provided to Miss Js mother as part of her flight arrangements, but it was not. 
If the provision of this assistance was part of the contract with B, then this could potentially 
be a breach of contract.
When Miss J purchased her mothers tickets, her mother entered into a contract of 
carriage with B. Her mother was the person who was to be carried on Bs aircraft, to and 
from London. Any breach of that contract would therefore be something her mother has a 
claim in respect of, and not Miss J herself. I dont doubt that having her mother visit was of 
some benefit to Miss J, but that doesnt automatically make her a party to the contract or 
mean she is able to make a claim in respect of it having been breached.
But having read Bs conditions of carriage (which would apply to the contract of 
carriage here), I think they give Miss J some contractual rights. In particular, the conditions 
define you as: 
any person holding a ticket who is to be carried or is carried on an aircraft, except 
members of the crew, or, in relation to ticket refunds, the person who paid for the ticket. 
And in the section on ticket refunds (section 10), the conditions say that if a refund 
becomes due under this section, the person who paid for the ticket is the person entitled to 
receive the refund. This means that there could be some limited scope for Miss J to have a 
claim in respect of a breach of contract by B, and therefore be able to make a claim under 
section 75 of the CCA against Santander.
However, in order to have such a claim then a refund would need to have become 
payable under section 10 of the conditions of carriage and B would have needed to have 
failed to pay this refund to Miss J. Ive considered the conditions of carriage closely to 
determine whether a refund would have been payable to Miss J.
The conditions of carriage differentiate between two types of refund: involuntary 
and voluntary. On the topic of involuntary refunds, the conditions say the following: 
10b1) We will pay fare refunds as set out below if we: 
cancel a flight 
make a significant change to a flight time which is not acceptable to you 
delay a flight by five hours or more fail to stop at your place of destination or stopover 
cause you to miss a connecting flight on which you held a confirmed reservation or 
refuse to carry you because a banning notice is in force against you or for 
some other reason pursuant to these conditions where reference is made to this 
clause. 
Based on the available evidence, none of these scenarios applied in this case.
The conditions are less prescriptive about voluntary refunds, saying only: 
10c1) If you are entitled to a refund of the fare for your ticket for reasons other than 
those set out in clause 10b, the refund will be as follows. 
The conditions then go on to explain that a voluntary refund would only be for any 
unused part of the ticket.
Based on the conditions of carriage, even if a refund had been due for a reason other 
than the ones listed under involuntary refunds, in reality no refund would have been 
payable to Miss J as her mother ended up using both her outbound and return tickets. So its 
difficult to see how Miss J could make a claim now that B had, in breach of contract, failed to 
pay her a refund which had become due.
Ive also thought about the situation at the time Miss J contacted Santander to make a claim.
At that time, her mother hadnt yet used the return ticket. It appears that if she had 
cancelled the return flight then a refund (either of the fare and taxes, or just taxes, depending 
on the type of ticket) would have become payable, and if B had failed to pay this to Miss J it 
would have been in breach of contract. This is all hypothetical however, as the ticket was 
not cancelled.
I realise that this will all seem rather unsatisfactory from Miss Js perspective, but she 
is limited in my view to making a claim against Santander under section 75 only if a refund 
had become due under Bs conditions of carriage and, in breach of contract, B had failed to 
pay this to her as the person who had originally paid. I cannot see that she was entitled to 
such a refund and therefore there has been no breach of contract for which she could claim 
against Santander under section 75 of the CCA.
This doesnt mean to say that she or her mother might not have a claim directly against 
B for, for example, breaches of regulations applicable to the provision of assistance on 
flights to people with disabilities. I note that any such claim may be limited by the operation 
of international conventions relating to air travel. In any event, such a claim is not 
something which would be in the scope of section 75 of the CCA.
 
I then went on to consider whether Santander ought to have pursued a chargeback in an 
attempt to obtain a refund. I noted that chargeback was a mechanism for claiming a full or 
partial refund of an amount paid on a card, and that the process was governed by rules set 
by the relevant card scheme (Mastercard). There was no guarantee that a chargeback would 
be successful, and it could be contested by the other side to the dispute.
I observed that a chargeback could normally be pursued when goods or services had been 
purchased and had not been provided, or were not as described, or where services had 
been cancelled and a refund was due (but hadnt been provided). Santander had argued that 
because Miss Js mother had ended up using both flights, it wasnt possible for a chargeback 
to be pursued. I accepted that this would certainly have been the case under the Visa card scheme rules, but Miss Js transaction fell under the Mastercard scheme rules, in which I 
could not see an equivalent restriction. 
However, I noted that no monetary value had been attached to the special assistance which 
had not been provided to Miss Js mother. The tickets would have cost the same with or 
without this assistance. For the same reasons I had outlined when considering the facts of 
Miss Js section 75 claim, I didnt think she was due a refund under the conditions of carriage 
either, so it was difficult to see how a chargeback could have been successful. I concluded 
therefore that Santander had not acted unfairly or unreasonably in deciding not to pursue a 
chargeback.
Finally, I considered the matter of Santanders claims handling. I noted the bank had not 
acted very quickly in dealing with matters, nor had it considered whether Miss J had a claim 
under section 75 of the CCA until later on, choosing instead to focus on the question of the 
chargeback first rather than dealing with things together. It had also given Miss J some 
inconsistent information about why she didnt have a valid claim. Ultimately however, I 
thought the £75 Santander had already paid Miss J was a fair amount of compensation to 
reflect the impact of its poor claims handling. 
I invited both parties to respond to my provisional decision. Santander said it had nothing to 
add and Miss J did not reply, so the case has been returned to me to review once more.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Because I have received no new evidence, comments or arguments from either party, I see 
no reason to depart from the findings I made in my provisional decision as quoted and 
summarised above.
It follows that I do not think Santander treated Miss J unfairly or unreasonably by failing to 
honour her section 75 claim or pursuing a chargeback for her. The bank did make mistakes 
in its claims handling, but the compensation it has already paid is sufficient to reflect the 
impact of its errors.
My final decision
For the reasons explained above, I do not uphold Miss Js complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss J to accept or 
reject my decision before 29 December 2023.
 
Will Culley
Ombudsman