DRN-3392780
The complaint
Miss A has complained about the way National Westminster Bank Plc (NatWest) handled 
her payment holiday request on the two loan accounts held with them. She is unhappy with 
the support given to her following the impact the Covid-19 pandemic had. 
What happened
Miss A has two personal loans with NatWest. In May 2020, she was given a three-month 
Covid-19 relief payment holiday on them, after citing the impact the pandemic was having on 
her ability to repay. 
Miss A then extended the term of one of the loans before attempting to cancel this and apply 
instead for another three-month payment holiday. The extension couldnt be cancelled but 
the further payment holiday was given on both loans. 
Miss A complained to NatWest, saying she had been provided with incorrect information on 
several occasions regarding the payment holidays and when they would end, leading her to 
extending the term of the loan in error. NatWest responded in November 2020 
acknowledging incorrect information had been given and paid Miss A £250 compensation for 
the inconvenience caused. 
Miss A says that following another error by NatWest, her direct debit for repayments on one 
of her loans didnt restart after the payment holiday, meaning the November 2020 and 
December 2020 repayments werent made. This meant that Miss As attempt to consolidate 
the loans didnt go through as there were arrears on her account. NatWest credited the 
account with approximately £300 to cover the missed payments, refunded interest accrued 
and removed any adverse information. 
Miss A remained unhappy that the loans couldnt be consolidated and then complained 
further that she was given incorrect information that she could extend the second loan as 
she did the first. NatWest responded to apologise for the misinformation and said that this 
loan term couldnt be extended, due to its age and their system restraints. They offered the 
option to refinance it and paid Miss A £150 further compensation for the inconvenience. 
Miss A remained unhappy with the options available to her. She said she wouldnt have 
taken a payment holiday if she had known that one of her loans couldnt be extended. She 
brought her complaint to this service for an independent review. 
NatWest offered a further £100 compensation on top of the approximately £750 that had 
been paid. Our investigator looked into it. He said that NatWest had fairly compensated   
Miss A for the errors and misinformation. However, he didnt feel that there was any further 
support option available for the loan which couldnt be extended and felt NatWest had acted 
fairly here. 
As no agreement was reached, the case was passed to me for a final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I have come to the same conclusion as the Investigator. Ill explain why. 
Firstly, it is clear that NatWest have made errors here and provided Miss A with 
misinformation on several occasions, when she was already going through a difficult time 
due to the impact of the ongoing pandemic. Most of this isnt in dispute and has been 
acknowledged by NatWest. 
Miss A is particularly unhappy that she has only been able to extend the term of one of her 
loans. She says that she wouldnt have taken the payment holiday if she had known that she 
wouldnt be able to extend the term to pay the arrears. However, Im not persuaded that is 
the case. Miss A has said that she was in financial difficulty due to the impact of the 
pandemic on her earnings. Having considered this and reviewing her situation at the time, I 
am satisfied she would have taken the payment holiday regardless. 
I also havent seen anything to suggest that she was told when she took it, that the loan 
would be extended. Although I appreciate this is what has happened with her other loan and 
in other cases as she has mentioned.  I cant conclude from the evidence provided that she 
was guaranteed the loans would be extended and acted on this basis. 
NatWest have acted fairly regarding the options and support available for this loan. They 
have explained that the term cant be extended, due to the type and age of the loan and 
system restrictions. NatWest have confirmed they can go through a refinancing of the loan 
with Miss A, which would also see the arrears paid off too. I am satisfied that this is a 
reasonable option to offer Miss A as the term of the loan in its current format cant be 
extended. 
NatWest have paid Miss A approximately £750 in compensation and credit to the account 
and waived further interest. They have ensured there is no adverse credit file information 
relating to their errors and has also offered a further £100 compensation. Considering the 
errors and misinformation including dates the payment holiday would end, the direct debit 
not restarting and stating the loan term could be extended, Im satisfied is reasonable and 
fairly compensates Miss A for the distress and inconvenience caused. 
In summary, NatWest made mistakes. However, it has offered fair compensation and taken 
appropriate remedial action. Miss A may consider NatWest is being unhelpful by not 
providing a loan extension and/or consolidation loan, but in light of my findings above Im 
satisfied offering to refinance the loan with a new term to consolidate her payment holiday 
arrears is fair and reasonable in the circumstances. 
My final decision
 National Westminster Bank Plc has already made an offer to pay a further £100 to settle the 
complaint and I think this offer is fair in all the circumstances.So, my decision is that National Westminster Bank Plc should pay a further £100.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss A to accept 
or reject my decision before 7 July 2022.
 
Yoni Smith
Ombudsman