DRN-1681564
 
The complaint
 Mr and Mrs H complain that Santander UK Plc, trading as Abbey National at the time, mis-
sold them a payment protection insurance (PPI) policy.
What happened
 In 2003, Mr and Mrs H took out a PPI policy with a mortgage in a meeting at a branch. 
The policy covered them on a 50:50 basis for up to twelve months if they were unable to 
work because of an accident, sickness or unemployment.
Our adjudicator didnt think the PPI had been mis-sold. Mr and Mrs H disagreed with 
the adjudicators view, so the case has been passed to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website 
and Ive taken this into account in deciding Mr and Mrs Hs case. I know this will be a 
disappointment to Mr and Mrs H but, having done so, I dont think the PPI was mis-sold for 
reasons that Ill now explain.
This sale took place a long time ago. So, perhaps, its not that surprising the documentation 
likely to have been completed at the time isnt still available. Businesses arent required to 
keep these sort of records for such lengthy periods. In these circumstances, I need to decide 
what I think is most likely to have happened, based on the limited information available to 
me.
Although there isnt a copy of Mr and Mrs Hs PPI application form, Im aware that one would 
need to have been completed and sent to the insurer at the time of the sale. And from 
seeing such application forms for other consumers from around this time, together with this 
Services knowledge of the normal sales process that Santander used, I think it would have 
been clear from this application that the PPI was optional and separate from their mortgage 
application.
Ive also seen examples of Santanders mortgage application forms from this period 
and theres no mention of PPI being a requirement of the mortgage on these. And I think its 
likely that, following the sale, Mr and Mrs H would have received a welcome letter which 
also made it clear that the PPI cover was optional. I think Mr and Mrs H would have queried 
why theyd been sent this if they hadnt previously agreed to take PPI.
So, from what Ive seen, I think its most likely that Mr and Mrs H actively decided to take 
the PPI knowing they could choose not to. But I can understand why they may not be able 
to recall this now.Santander says that this was an advised sale where it recommended the PPI policy to Mr 
and Mrs H. And Ive taken this to be the case because this means that Santander had 
to ensure that it was suitable for them. 
Mr and Mrs H say Santanders advice to take out the PPI policy was wrong. I cant now know 
all the steps Santander took to ensure that the policy was suitable. But from what I know of 
Mr and Mrs Hs circumstances at the time, I cant see any reason why it wouldnt have been 
suitable. I say this because:
 
Mr and Mrs H appear to have been eligible for the policy and not affected by any of 
its main exclusions and limitations. Mr H says he had received treatment for a 
medical condition in 1998, following its diagnosis, which had caused him a significant 
period off work at that time. But although he says he was still receiving regular check-
ups and taking some medication at the time of this sale in 2003, it doesnt appear 
that it had caused him to have any further significant periods off work after 1998 - it 
seems to have been well controlled. So, although the policy includes an exclusion 
relating to pre-existing medical conditions which might not have been explained as 
well as it should have been to Mr and Mrs H, I dont think this would have put them 
off buying the policy or made it unsuitable for them.
 
 
Mr and Mrs H say that they had other means of making their mortgage repayments if 
one of them couldnt work. These included an entitlement to sick pay and access to 
their savings. But this policy would have paid out in addition to these other means. 
And a mortgage is a big financial commitment  where ones home is potentially at 
risk if the loan repayments cant be met. So I still think that they would have valued 
the extra security which the policy gave them.
 
Ive no reason to think the policy was unaffordable for Mr and Mrs H. And as the 
premiums were paid monthly, it could have been cancelled if it no longer met their 
needs.
 
Santander also needed to give Mr and Mrs H enough information for them to decide if 
they wanted to take the policy. I think its possible that the information Santander gave them 
could have been better than it was. But for much the same reasons that I dont think the 
policy was unsuitable for them, I dont think that better information would have changed their 
minds about taking it. I still think theyd have thought the policy gave them useful benefits at 
an affordable cost.
This means Santander doesnt have to pay back all of the cost of the PPI to Mr and Mrs H.
But Santander does have to pay back some of the cost of the PPI to Mr and Mrs H because:
 
Santander got a high level of commission and profit share (more than 50% of the PPI 
premium) - so it should have told Mr and Mrs H about that. Because Santander didnt 
tell Mr and Mrs H, that was unfair.
 To put that right, Santander has already basically offered to pay back the amount of 
commission and profit share that was above 50% of the PPI premium - and I think 
that offer is fair in this case.
 
 
What the business needs to do
Santander has to pay back to Mr and Mrs H any commission and profit share it got that 
was more than 50% of the PPI premium, if it hasnt already done so. Santander should also 
pay back to Mr and Mrs S any extra interest they paid because of that.
Santander should pay back to Mr and Mrs H the extra they paid each month because 
the commission and profit share it got was more than 50% of the cost of PPI. Santander 
should also pay Mr and Mrs H 8%* simple interest on each payment until the date this 
compensation has actually been paid to them. So, before payment is made, Santander 
should update any compensation offer it has previously made to reflect the additional 
interest that has since accrued on that offer.
*Businesses have to take basic rate tax off this interest. Mr and Mrs H can claim back the tax 
if they dont pay tax.
My final decision
The PPI policy wasnt mis-sold  so Santander UK plc doesnt have to pay back all of 
the cost of the PPI to Mr and Mrs H.
But Santander UK plc does have to pay back to Mr and Mrs H any commission and 
profit share it got that was more than 50% of the PPI premium, if it hasnt already done so.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr and Mrs H to 
accept or reject my decision before 11 May 2020.
Simon Furse
Ombudsman