DRN-3161875
The complaint
Mr L complains that Valour Finance Limited trading as Savvy.co.uk was irresponsible in its 
lending to him.
What happened
Mr L was provided with a loan for £1,000 by Savvy.co.uk in August 2020. The loan was 
repayable over 12 months. He says at the time of the loan he had several other debts 
outstanding including payday loans. He says he had to borrow to repay the loan and his 
credit file has been damaged. Mr L explained that the stress of the loan and Savvy.co.uks 
actions have affected his health.
Savvy.co.uk said that before the loan was provided it discussed Mr Ls income and 
expenses and clarified these where necessary. It carried out an automated income check to 
verify his income. It says that the credit check showed all his active accounts were up to date 
and that the amount included in its assessment for other credit commitments was accurate. 
It says it checks were proportionate and these suggested the loan was affordable for Mr L.
Our adjudicator didnt initially uphold this complaint, but after further consideration she 
thought the checks carried out before the loan was provided werent adequate given the size 
and term of the loan. She thought a full review of Mr Ls financial circumstances should have 
taken place to ensure the loan was sustainably affordable. She thought that had this 
happened, Savvy.co.uk would have realised that Mr L had several other debts outstanding 
and had accounts in arrears. Given this she didnt think the loan should have been 
considered sustainably affordable for Mr L.
Savvy.co.uk didnt agree with our adjudicators view. It reiterated that it had completed an 
automatic income validation for Mr L to ensure the income figure he had provided was 
accurate as well as gathering other information through the call. It said it was reasonable to 
rely on the information it gathered through its credit check and that our adjudicator had 
initially said this wouldnt have raised concerns about the lending. It said its checks didnt 
show that Mr L was in financial difficulty and it didnt think further checks  such as getting 
copies of bank statements - were required.
My provisional conclusions
I issued a provisional decision on this complaint. I concluded in summary
Mr L was only provided with one loan by Savvy.co.uk and so it may have been 
reasonable to accept that less thorough checks were reasonable at this stage. 
However, it was important to assess the information provided through the checks to 
see whether further checks were required.
Before the loan was provided, Savvy.co.uk spoke to Mr L and went through his 
income and expenses. I listened to the call and he confirmed his employment income 
and was asked whether he had been put on furlough which he confirmed he hadnt. 
He explained that he had a property without a mortgage and that he had included 
£250 as rent but this was for bills. Mr L then provided further details about his other 
bills, transport and credit commitments. 
Savvy said it verified Mr Ls income, but it didnt provide any details of this. But based 
on other information I saw I thought income checks would have confirmed the 
information Mr L had provided. Based on the income and expenditure information I 
thought it reasonable that the loan was considered affordable.
A credit check was carried out. This showed that Mr L had another unsecured loan 
outstanding at the time and four credit cards. While his credit cards were all within 
the limits at the time, he had been over his limit in some months leading up to the 
loan. The credit check showed Mr L had made previous use of short term loans 
however the results didnt show any of these outstanding at the time. 
The loan repayments were £167 compared to his monthly income of £1,900 and 
these repayments combined with Mr Ls other credit commitments shown in the credit 
check didnt suggest he was paying a significant portion of his income in debt 
repayments.
Overall, based on repayment amounts compared to Mr Ls income and the information from 
the credit check, I didnt think there was enough to say that further checks were required at 
this time. As the checks suggested the loan was affordable, I didnt find I could say 
Savvy.co.uk shouldnt have provided the loan.
 
Mr L didnt agree with my provisional decision. He said that he had been refused loans by 
Savvy.co.uk a few months before due to adverse information on his credit file. He says he 
was never asked if he had the mental capacity to form a legal relationship and said his 
mental health conditions made it hard for him to manage his money. He said his credit file 
would have shown arears on another short term loan, a history of short term loans, his bank 
account in overdraft, and his credit cards at the limit.
Mr L said that a telephone call wasnt a sufficient check as individuals desperate for loans 
would say what was needed to get the funds. He says he was trapped in short term loan 
debt for a long period of time before the loan from Savvy.co.uk was provided and this should 
have been taken into account. He said he still didnt have the mental capacity to enter into 
legal relations with a company.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As I set out in my provisional decision, we've set out our general approach to complaints 
about short-term lending - including all of the relevant rules, guidance and good industry 
practice - on our website.
Savvy.co.uk needed to take reasonable steps to ensure that it didn't lend irresponsibly. In 
practice this means that it should have carried out proportionate checks to make sure that 
Mr L could repay the loan in a sustainable manner. These checks could take into account a 
number of different things, such as how much was being lent the repayment amounts and 
the consumer's income and expenditure. With this in mind, in the early stages of a lending 
relationship, I think less thorough checks might be reasonable and proportionate.
Ive carefully considered all of the arguments, evidence and information provided in this 
context and what this all means for Mr Ls complaint.I appreciate Mr Ls honesty about his mental health conditions, and I am sorry to hear that 
how he has been affected. While I note his comments about his ability to enter into the 
agreement, having looked through the information gathered at the time I do not find there 
was anything that should have raised concerns which meant Savvy.co.uk should have 
realised Mr L didnt have capacity to enter the agreement. 
I appreciate that Mr L doesnt think that the call was enough to assess the affordability of the 
loan. In this case Savvy.co.uk says that it cross checked Mr Ls income and while evidence 
of this hasnt been provided I find that further checks would have confirmed his monthly 
income of around £1,900. Given this was Mr Ls first loan and noting the repayment amounts 
compared to his income, I think it was reasonable at this stage to rely on the information 
Mr L provided. As this didnt raise concerns about the affordability of loan I do not think that 
further checks were required.
A credit check was carried out and I have looked at the results received. While I note the 
comments Mr L has made, the results didnt suggest that Mr L wasnt managing his credit. 
Considering the amount he needed to repay for his other credit commitments at the time and 
the amount due under the loan with Savvy.co.uk I do not find that this suggested the 
repayments wouldnt be affordable.
I understand my decision is a disappointment to Mr L but in this case I do not find that I have 
enough to say that the loan shouldnt have been provided.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint against Valour Finance Limited
trading as Savvy.co.uk.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr L to accept or 
reject my decision before 21 December 2021.
 
Jane Archer
Ombudsman