DRN-1534643
The complaint
Mrs B complains Santander UK Plc has defaulted her credit card account and provided 
incorrect information about whether it would still pursue her for the debt. 
What happened
Mrs B transferred a £3,000 credit card balance to Santander in October 2018.  She made no 
repayments towards that balance.  Santander sent her arrears notices and asked her to get 
in touch about making repayments.
Mrs B contacted Santander in January 2019. She told it of her financial difficulties and that 
she was getting in touch with Stepchange. So Santander placed a temporary hold on 
collection activity and asked her to get in touch with an update in 30 days. At the end of 
January Mrs B got back in touch. She was arranging to send in income and expenditure 
information and told Santander she would be able to set up a payment arrangement after her 
February pay day. Whilst Santander was finding out where Mrs B could send the income and 
expenditure information the call disconnected. 
Mrs B didn't get back in contact with Santander to set up a payment arrangement. So it sent 
her arrears notices and default notices in advance of defaulting the account as arrears 
continued to build. Mrs B contacted Santander in May 2019 and was incorrectly told that she 
wouldn't be pursued for the debt. She then discovered it had been passed to a collection 
agent. 
Mrs B complained to Santander about the default and about being given wrong information. 
Santander said it had followed the default process correctly and so stood by its decision to 
default the account. But it did agree Mrs B had been given incorrect information about 
whether she would be pursued for the debt. So it offered £250 compensation for the error. 
Our investigator was satisfied Santander had fairly dealt with the complaint. He found 
Santander had followed the correct process when defaulting the account and that the offer of 
£250 for the wrong information was fair. 
Mrs B asked for the matter to be referred to an ombudsman. She doesn't think she should 
have to pay the outstanding balance when she was told she didn't have to. And she is sure 
that she set up a payment arrangement in January 2019 but this wasn't completed correctly 
by Santander. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I understand Mrs B feels very strongly about her complaint. But I would only make an award 
against Santander if it had caused her a financial loss, or material distress and 
inconvenience that it hadn't already fairly compensated her for. Mrs B transferred a £3,000 balance to a credit card account with Santander in October 2018. 
So from that point on she owed Santander that balance. I can't see that Mrs B made any 
payments towards the account. I therefore find Santander was correct to send her 
correspondence about the arrears; indeed it was a requirement for it to do so. It was also a 
requirement under the Consumer Credit Act 1974 for it to send a default notice in advance of 
defaulting the account. I'm satisfied Santander has followed the correct process. And as the 
default is a correct reflection of the running of the account, I won't be asking Santander to 
remove the default or otherwise amend her credit history. 
Mrs B is sure she set up a payment arrangement with Santander in January 2019. I have 
listened to the call, and she told Santander she couldn't set up an arrangement until after 
she had been paid in February. I'm therefore satisfied Santander didn't do anything wrong in 
relation to a payment arrangement; she hadn't made any proposals. Indeed, if Mrs B thought 
she had set up an arrangement I question why she didn't get in contact when she was sent 
further information about the arrears and a default notice.  
Finally, I turn to the incorrect information Mrs B was given about the debt and whether she 
still needed to repay it. I accept, as did Santander, that Mrs B was given the wrong 
information. But the correct way to redress that is to put Mrs B in the position she would 
have been in had she been given the correct information - not to make the incorrect position 
true. It seems to me that had the call handler given Mrs B correct information, her position 
would be no different to what it is now; she would have been told she would still need to 
repay the debt.  I follows that I find no basis on which to ask Santander to cease asking for 
repayment of the debt. 
I fully accept the wrong information gave Mrs B false expectations about the debt. And I can 
understand why she then shocked to find the debt had been passed to a collection agent. Its 
right that she is compensated for that error. In all the circumstances, I find the offer of £250 
is a fair reflection of the impact the error had. I understand that has already been paid to Mrs 
B and so I won't be asking Santander to do anything further. 
My final decision
For the reasons given, I don't uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs B to accept or 
reject my decision before 24 April 2020.
Claire Hopkins
Ombudsman