DRN-2317894
The complaint
Mrs T is unhappy that (the company now known as) Fairmead Insurance Limited recorded 
three separate claims in respect of matters relating to a flood claim under her home 
insurance. This meant she had to pay separate excesses. It has impacted her policy 
premiums, and policy excess and she has lost her no claims discount (NCD).
What happened
In August 2017 Mrs T made a claim to Fairmead following flooding of her property. This was 
following some drainage works the council had carried out near her property. The claim 
proceeded and after drying out Mrs T decided she wanted to use her own contractor to carry 
out the repairs. Fairmead agreed to this. Mrs T made a complaint to this service about the 
delays and the way the claim was dealt with. Mrs T accepted our adjudication of the matter 
in May 2018.
The contractor presented his various invoices for payment. Fairmead noted that three items 
relating to slabs hadnt formed part of the original scope. The contractor explained that the 
slabs had moved following further flooding which had occurred in January 2018. Fairmead 
explained to Mrs T that this would have to be the subject of a further claim, but in the 
circumstances it would waive any further excess. Mrs T agreed to this.
In December 2019 Mrs T reported a problem, with her drains. Fairmead investigated the 
matter and advised that the drains had been accidentally damaged due to ground 
movement, probably caused by the councils heavy lorries. Fairmead advised this would 
have to be registered as a new claim for accidental damage to underground services. A 
further excess was payable.
In January 2020 Mrs T received a notice of renewal from Fairmead. She was advised that 
the compulsory excess had increased and she had lost her NCD, due to her claims history. 
Mrs T felt this was unfair as all three claims related to the same incident and were due to the 
councils negligence. Fairmead explained that it had waived one excess and that recovery 
was still ongoing with its legal department. If this is successful, it would look to review her 
NCD.
On referral to this service our investigator said that he couldnt say that Fairmead had been 
unreasonable, the first two claims related to incidents that were some months apart and the 
third was a claim under a different part of her policy. 
Mrs T didnt agree and the matter has been passed to me for further consideration.  
 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I should say first of all that this decision relates only to Mrs Ts complaint about Fairmead 
registering three different claims. I havent considered the way the claims were handled. In 
any event the first claim has already been the subject of an adjudication by this service 
which Mrs T accepted.
The first claim was for flood damage. Mrs T instructed her own contractor who made 
requests for payment in the course of carrying out repairs. When Fairmead checked his final 
invoice it noted several items which hadnt been agreed. The contractor explained that this 
related to a new flooding incident which occurred in January 2018, some four months after 
ther original claim. Whilst this may have been related to the same work carried out by the 
council, it was clearly a different incident. It hadnt been reported to Fairmead at the time but 
it agreed to lodge a new claim so Mrs Ts contractor could be paid for the further work. It 
agreed to waive the excess which I think was fair. I think Fairmead acted reasonably in this 
respect.
As regards the third claim, this was for accidental damage to underground services which 
comes under a different part of the policy. The incident was also sixteen months after the 
first incident. Whilst it may have related back to the drainage works by the council, it again 
was clearly a separate incident. 
I can understand Mrs Ts frustration, as she probably quite rightly feels she isnt responsible 
for any of the claims and that the council should pay. Fairmead has confirmed it is pursuing 
recovery against the council, though these sorts of proceedings are complicated and can 
take a long time to resolve. I think Fairmeads actions in this respect and its agreement to 
look at retrieving her NCD if it makes recovery is fair and reasonable.
My final decision
I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs T to accept or 
reject my decision before 28 December 2020.
 
Ray Lawley
Ombudsman