DRN-3772135
The complaint
Mr M complains about the investment advisory service he received from Bradbury Hamilton 
Limited between 2017 and when he moved to a new adviser. 
What happened
Mr M had been a client of Bradbury Hamilton since 2013. He signed up to its Portfolio
Service, which involved Bradbury Hamilton providing Mr M with advice and 
recommendations in line with his objectives, attitude to risk and financial circumstances.
In 2019 Mr M complained. In short, he complained that following an annual review in 2017,
Bradbury Hamilton recommended that he sell certain investments worth £49,000 in order to
fund his pension and utilise his ISA allowance. The remainder was to be invested in a model
portfolio within Mr Ms general investment account. 
However, Mr M said that the recommendations werent followed, and the gains crystallised 
exceeded his annual Capital Gains Tax (CGT) allowance. As a result he was forced to pay 
over £1,500 in CGT which he had not been told about. Furthermore, he said that the money 
was never invested in his ISA or the model portfolio. He said that no money was transferred 
to his pension. Mr M also complained that recommendations which were made following a 
review of his portfolio in 2018 were not made  for example utilising his ISA allowance that 
year and his CGT allowance. He said that as the investment which was supposed to be sold 
was not, he missed out on using his CGT allowance for that year.
Finally, Mr M complained about the fees he had paid in 2017 and 2018 which he felt should
be refunded given the poor service he said he received. Bradbury Hamilton didnt think it had 
done anything wrong, so Mr M brought his complaint to this service. 
I issued a provisional decision in October 2022. In it I said:
Mr M has complained about a number of areas where he feels Bradbury Hamilton did not
deliver the service hed agreed to receive and was paying for.
The first of the issues is to do with the crystallisation of gains which exceeded his CGT
allowance in the 2017/2018 tax year, and what Bradbury Hamilton ended up doing with the
cash that was released.
In terms of the complaint about the CGT allowance, Im not persuaded theres much thats
gone wrong. I can see that the recommendation to sell down £49,000 was not in fact based
on a consideration of CGT  the report from June 2017 says that the recommendation was
being made to allow Mr M to use this money to continue [his] Pension contributions, make
the recommended NISA contribution and invest the balance into the Bradbury Hamilton
Model Portfolio. What the report said was that the advisor had calculated that he had
sufficient CGT allowance to facilitate the sell down. The report encouraged Mr M to seek
tax advice if he had any doubts. The report also says that by the time the recommendations
are implemented, the values of the investments will have fluctuated and therefore the
resultant tax liability could also be different.
In the end, Mr M was required to pay just over £1,500 in CGT for this transaction  my
understanding is that this was in part due to some potentially erroneous figures from the
platform where the investment was held. I should say that I dont agree with Bradbury
Hamilton or the investigator that what was said in the report was akin to tax advice or that
this is what Mr M was seeking. In my view a clear statement was made about CGT  if the
advisor was not confident in that position or making such a statement, then he simply
shouldnt have made it. If he was reliant on figures provided by the platform, he ought to
have ensured those were accurate  or refrained from giving his opinion on the CGT
position. From the moment he expressed that opinion Mr M was entitled to rely on it. In
addition, I dont agree that calculating potential CGT necessarily requires specialist tax
advice  particularly in circumstances where a caveat has already been given to the
consumer about disclosing other crystallised gains (which Mr M has said he did not have).
Clearly if Mr M incurred a CGT liability as a result of gains made elsewhere which he didnt
disclose, Bradbury Hamilton would not have had a case to answer.
All that being said, I cant see that the ability to encash an investment CGT free was
something that was critical to Mr M accepting the recommendation that was being made. I
say this because Mr M didnt query this again when he accepted the recommendation over a
month later  and yet clearly at this point the investments couldve fluctuated such that the
report was no longer accurate when it talked about the likely CGT. In my view if Mr Ms
objective was to only encash up to his CGT allowance, he wouldve ensured that he made
this clear when he emailed Bradbury Hamilton to accept the recommendation  but he didnt.
Instead, he focused on the reasons Bradbury Hamilton had recommended he encash
£49,000, namely to use this money to continue making Pension contributions, add to his
existing ISA and invest the rest.
For these reasons, Im not persuaded that the relatively small amount of tax which Mr M
ended up paying requires Bradbury Hamilton to pay compensation  in my view the
investment was encashed primarily for other reasons, and the possibility of a small amount
of tax to pay was outweighed by those considerations. Id also add that by contributing to his
pensions, as it did, there was also a tax benefit that was realised.
Theres some dispute between Mr M and Bradbury Hamilton, however, about whether it did
end up enacting the recommendations it made.
The report from June 2018 shows that £20,000 was added to Mr Ms ISA in the preceding
year and a further £20,000 was also added to his pension. So Im satisfied that those
recommendations were adhered to. However, the remaining cash was not invested  and it
is here Im currently minded to agree with Mr M.
Ive read the reasons Bradbury Hamilton has given for why it did not invest this money in the
model portfolio despite its recommendation, but Im not persuaded by its submissions. In its
final response letter it said that the £9,800 provided you with a bit of emergency fund but
this was not one of the recommendations, nor one of the reasons to encash £49,000. This
was never agreed by Mr M  he had specifically agreed for this amount to be invested in the
model portfolio. In my view, the fact that Mr M didnt query this when he received his next
report isnt relevant  given the size of his portfolio, Im satisfied that his assumption
wouldve been that Bradbury Hamilton had given effect to the recommendation it had made
and he had accepted. Im not persuaded he ought to be criticised for not identifying there
was around £10,000 additional cash in his account which shouldve been invested.
Ultimately, it was for Bradbury Hamilton to give effect to Mr Ms instructions and it failed to
do so.
Therefore I agree with him that he has lost out on potential growth, and for that he should becompensated.
Mr M also complains that in subsequent years the portfolio wasnt sold down in such a way
as to make use of his CGT allowance. He says this wasnt in line with what was agreed,
namely to manage his portfolio in as tax efficient a way as possible. On this complaint point,
Im not persuaded Bradbury Hamilton has done anything wrong.
Firstly, I agree with Bradbury Hamilton that whilst tax efficiencies are likely to be a
consideration, theyre not inherently the most important consideration even if a portfolio
carries gains. There will be circumstances where encashing an investment isnt the right
thing to do  and the time horizon is also important. The longer a consumer has to mitigate
CGT (not just by utilising any annual allowances, but also by offsetting other losses), the
more weight other considerations are bound to have.
In Mr Ms case, the review that was carried out in 2018 showed that a lot had changed in Mr
Ms circumstances  he had been made redundant from his job and was looking to spend 6
months abroad. Plans were put in place to stop his pension contributions  but Mr M also
had plans to rent his home in order to generate an income. Under suggested solutions I can
see that Mr M and his adviser agreed to stop his regular pension contributions and to move
a recently opened ISA to the same platform as his other investments  which Bradbury
Hamilton did. I can also see that Mr M and his advisor discussed what to do in the event that
on return from abroad, Mr M did not return to work. They agreed that Mr M should consider
taking income from his pension up to the personal allowance and possibly crystallising
further gains from his [] portfolio to use up the CGT nil rate band and the 10% CGT rate for
gains within the basic rate.
But crystallising further gains was dependent on decisions which Mr M would make during
the course of the year  and Ive seen insufficient evidence that on return from being abroad,
Mr M spoke to Bradbury Hamilton to ask for advice and explain what he was intending to do.
Unlike an ISA allowance, which simply needs to be used every year via cash subscription,
utilising a CGT allowance requires other considerations which go to the heart of what a
consumer wants from their investments. Mr M has made reference to his agreement that the
portfolio should be managed in as tax efficient a way as possible, but I dont agree that this
all boils down to making use of the CGT allowance every year  facilitating his pension
contributions and ensuring he maximised his ISA allowances were also part of this service.
However, whilst Im not persuaded Mr M was ultimately caused a loss in this instance, I am
satisfied that Bradbury Hamilton report from 2018 shows there was an intention to sell down
7% from two of Mr Ms funds in order to be able to fund his annual NISA contribution. Whilst
Bradbury Hamilton has explained that this turned out not to be necessary, because of the
amount of cash Mr M had, this does not appear to have been communicated to Mr M nor
was he asked for his instructions. I think this issue was made worse by Bradbury Hamilton
failing to invest the previously released £9,800  and so one error has been compounded by
another. In any event, whilst I can understand Bradbury Hamiltons reasons for not
encashing in 2018, in my view it ought to have reverted back to Mr M and asked for his
instructions. I dont agree it was good enough to have made this decision without advising
him or making him aware of what had happened. This wasnt an acceptable service and I
agree that Mr M wasnt treated fairly here.
Finally, Mr M has also asked for a refund of fees  both in relation to the period above,
during which he feels he didnt receive an acceptable service, and the fees he paid from
when he moved to his new financial adviser. In terms of the above, I dont agree it would be
fair to deduct the fees he paid. Overall Bradbury Hamilton clearly spent time, care and effort
in producing annual reports and commentary for Mr M, and giving him detailed advice. It
wouldnt be fair for it not to be remunerated for that. However, where a failure in service hascaused financial loss, Ive made a recommendation below. Where it has caused Mr M upset
or inconvenience, Ive also awarded some compensation.
In relation to the fees levied by Bradbury Hamilton after he moved to a new adviser, Im
persuaded by its explanations. It explained that Mr Ms new adviser didnt have access to the
same platform that Bradbury Hamilton used, and it wouldve been for Mr Ms new adviser to
initiate the transfer. Ive also seen the annual review from 2020 where it is clearly set-out that
Mr M had retained [his] General Investment Account with Nucleus where [he] had retained
Bradbury Hamilton as [his] adviser. Later the report also says that Mr M might wish to
transfer his General Investment Account to his new financial adviser rather than retaining
Bradbury Hamilton. I cant see that Mr M raised any queries in relation to this  and whilst I
acknowledge hes said he didnt read or access the reports, Im satisfied Bradbury Hamilton
was still carrying out the work it was contracted to at the time. So Im satisfied that Bradbury
Hamilton didnt do anything wrong in relation to this, and I agree with it that whilst it remained
Mr Ms adviser for the purposes of his General Investment Account, it continued to be
bound, as was Mr M, to the terms of the agreement they had with him. This means it was
also entitled to be remunerated.
I provisionally awarded the return on the £9,800 that wasnt invested and £750 
compensation for the trouble and upset the matter had caused him. 
Mr M agreed but Bradbury Hamilton did not. It said that Mr M had a minimal cash sum of 
£268 within his Nucleus General Investment Account at the time we carried out the in-specie 
funds sell of £49,000. It said a cash sum was required to cover the charges/fees on his 
investments. It acknowledged that he was advised to invest £9,800 in Bradbury Hamilton 
model portfolio and it did not do so. But Bradbury Hamilton said that if it had invested the 
£9,800 at the time, further in-specie funds would have to be sold to cover the cost of 
charges/fees.
It provided some charts which showed the performance of Mr Ms various investments, and 
concluded that Mr M would have utilised the £9,800 held in cash by 2 June 2019 for 
charges. It said this means that is the date that ought to be used for the calculation  and he 
wouldve made a gain of £940.63. However, it said I ought to take into account the fact that 
as this sum wasnt invested, some of his other investments werent sold down during that 
period  and based on the performance of his other investments, it concluded that Mr Ms 
losses were limited to circa £331. Finally, it disagreed with my award for trouble and upset 
on the basis that Mr M wasnt caused any. Bradbury Hamilton said that this complaint was 
encouraged by Mr Ms new adviser who sought to ingratiate himself with his new client and 
discredit Bradbury Hamilton in order to prove their competence. 
Before reaching my final decision, I agreed to amend my award for compensation to take 
into account the fees which Mr M would always have needed to pay during that period. As 
he wouldve had a limited amount of cash in his account had the £9,800 been invested, I 
agreed that I should take into account the effect of paying fees on the return he wouldve 
received on this sum. I wrote to both parties explaining that I would treat each payment 
towards the fees as a withdrawal for the purposes of the calculation of what return the 
£9,800 wouldve achieved had it been invested in the model portfolio. I asked Mr M and 
Bradbury Hamilton to comment. 
Mr M did not reply. Bradbury Hamilton did. In short, it said that it had already said that Mr M 
did not incur a loss due to the cash remaining uninvested, because it was used to pay for 
fees which would otherwise have been paid by disinvesting other investments which 
performed better than the model portfolio. It attached some charts to demonstrate this. 
It also continued to disagree with my award for trouble and upset  it said that the complaint 
was generated by Mr Ms new adviser who was seeking to create a problem with Bradbury Hamilton when there wasnt any. It queried why the ombudsman was looking to penalise 
Bradbury Hamilton, when its actions actually benefitted Mr M in terms of his fund growth and 
return. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Bradbury Hamiltons comments focus primarily on my findings on how to put things right. For 
the avoidance of doubt, I therefore confirm my provisional findings on the substance of Mr 
Ms complaint (set out in italics above) as final. 
Ive considered Bradbury Hamiltons comments very carefully. Whilst I understand the point 
it has made about the actual loss to Mr M, I dont agree its proposal for what should be taken 
into account when calculating that loss is fair. The starting point is that Bradbury Hamilton 
recommended that money be invested, and Mr M accepted that recommendation. There was 
no reason given by Bradbury Hamilton at the time for not enacting the recommendations it 
had made to Mr M  and Im not persuaded Bradbury Hamilton failed to enact this 
recommendation in order to benefit Mr M. It simply omitted to execute a clear instruction it 
receive from its client. 
I do accept that Mr M was always liable to pay for ongoing charges during this time, and I 
agree its fair and reasonable to take that into account when calculating what loss was 
caused to Mr M by Bradbury Hamiltons omission. 
However, Bradbury Hamiltons comments ignore the fact that fees were being paid regularly 
and not all in one go  this means that in between fees being incurred, the £9,800 was 
neither earning interest nor potentially growing in value, even though it shouldve been. So 
Bradbury Hamiltons comparison with Mr Ms other investments isnt relevant. What 
Bradbury Hamilton ought to do is assume that deductions wouldve been made from the 
investment in the model portfolio  and calculate what return, if any, wouldve been 
generated during the period in question. 
So in my view, the fair way to take this into account is to treat the payments of fees during 
this period as withdrawals from the investment that ought to have been made with the 
£9,800. In other words, each time Bradbury Hamilton deducted money from the cash in 
Mr Ms account to pay the ongoing charges, it should treat that as withdrawal from whatever 
the £9,800 wouldve been worth at the time when the fees were paid. 
Im also not persuaded by Bradbury Hamiltons comments about the trouble and upset Mr M 
has been caused by its failing. I dont agree its helpful to speculate on why Mr M has brought 
his complaint, other than to acknowledge that he wasnt satisfied with certain aspects of the 
service he was provided  and Ive agreed in part with his complaint. 
And Im satisfied finding out much later that a recommendation he had accepted had not in 
fact being implemented, despite the very significant fees he was paying for the service, 
wouldve been upsetting and worrying. 
Given the sums involved, and the lack of any acknowledgement of this error when Mr M 
raised the issue, Im satisfied that my award of £750 is fair and reasonable. Putting things right
I should make clear that in putting things right, my objective has not been to penalise 
Bradbury Hamilton  that isnt my role. But for the reasons Ive given above, Im satisfied that 
Mr M was let down by its service. 
And so in putting things right, my aim is to put Mr M in the position he wouldve been in had 
Bradbury Hamilton invested the original £9,800 in line with the model portfolio it 
recommended. However, I have also taken into account that during this time some cash 
would have needed to be released in order to pay Bradbury Hamiltons ongoing charges. 
In my view, the fair way to take this into account is to treat the payments of fees during this 
period as withdrawals. In other words, each time Bradbury Hamilton deducted money from 
the cash in Mr Ms account to pay the ongoing charges, it should treat that as withdrawal 
from the £9,800 that wouldve been invested in the model portfolio. 
Therefore, Bradbury Hamilton must:
Calculate how the Model 6 portfolio performed between 18 July 2017 (that is, the day 
after Mr M confirmed via email that he was happy with the recommendations) and 
when Mr Ms General Investment Account was moved to his new adviser. For the 
avoidance of doubt this means when Bradbury Hamilton was no longer an adviser on 
the platform and no longer had oversight of his investments.
 
Calculate how much Mr Ms £9,800 wouldve been worth at the point he moved to his 
new adviser if it had been invested in the Model 6 portfolio in line with the bullet point 
above. Bradbury Hamilton may deduct from the calculation those payments towards 
the ongoing annual management charge as and when they were paid out. 
Pay Mr M any loss.
In addition, I award Mr M £750 for the trouble and upset the matter has caused him. 
Ive considered what Bradbury Hamilton has said about this award, but for the reasons Ive 
given above Im not persuaded to change it. As Ive said, Bradbury Hamilton did fail in 
delivering the service which Mr M was paying for, and I think it wasnt upfront about the 
areas of its service which Ive identified above werent to the standard Mr M was entitled to 
expect. 
I can understand that having found recommendations he had accepted but were not 
implemented wouldve caused Mr M understandable upset  especially given that he was 
paying Bradbury Hamilton very significant sums for this service. 
For these reasons, Im satisfied that this award is fair and reasonable compensation for the 
trouble and upset he was caused by Bradbury Hamiltons actions.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold Mr Ms complaint. Bradbury Hamilton Limited must pay the 
compensation Ive outlined above within 28 days of when we tell it Mr M has accepted this final decision. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 6 January 2023.
 
Alessandro Pulzone
Ombudsman