DRN-1862821
The complaint
Mr M complains that Secure Trust Bank plc, (trading as Moneyway), unfairly terminated the 
hire purchase agreement he had in place for a car due to an alleged breach of the 
agreements terms and conditions.
What happened
In October 2016, Mr M entered into a five-year hire purchase agreement for a used car. Mr 
M says that, before he signed the agreement and took the car, he showed the dealership he 
had taken out insurance for the car so that the road fund licence could be arranged. The 
insurance policy taken out by Mr M was third party, fire and theft.
In August 2019, the car was involved in an accident. Mr M says the damage was only 
cosmetic in nature. The issue as to payment for repairs was considered by Mr Ms insurance 
company and the insurance company for the other driver. However, Mr M decided to contact 
the finance provider for his hire purchase agreement to discuss the options open to him 
should his car be considered a write off.
Mr M says he didnt receive a copy of the hire purchase agreement at the time he took the 
car and hadnt received any correspondence from the credit provider throughout the 
agreement. He was eventually able to contact the broker and was told that the finance 
provider for his agreement was Moneyway.
In December 2019, Mr M contacted Moneyway about the accident. He told Moneyway that 
the insurance cover he had in place for the car was third party and Moneyway advised him 
this was a breach of the agreements terms and conditions. It said that Mr M, under the 
terms of the agreement was obliged to have fully comprehensive cover in place for the car. 
Mr M said he had never received a copy of the hire purchase agreement, and the dealership 
hadnt told him he was required to have a fully comprehensive insurance policy in place. Mr 
M complained to Moneyway.
Moneyway didnt uphold Mr Ms complaint. It said that it was a term and condition of the 
agreement that Mr M had a valid fully comprehensive insurance policy for the car. It also 
said that it wasnt a requirement that the dealership ensured that this type of insurance policy 
had been taken out by Mr M.
Moneyway also issued an Enforcement and Termination Notice which it sent to Mr M. This 
notice set out that Mr M was in breach of contract as he didnt have the correct insurance 
cover for the car. It provided 10 days for Mr M to remedy that breach by providing proof that 
he now had fully comprehensive insurance for the car.
Mr M says he investigated taking out fully comprehensive insurance but found that it was 
more expensive than the third party cover he had, and that there would also be admin fees 
to pay. He decided not to purchase comprehensive insurance and contacted Moneyway to 
tell it of his decision.
In February 2020, Moneyway sent Mr Ms insurance provider the settlement figure for the 
hire purchase agreement in case there was to be a settlement made for the car, it also sent 
a copy to Mr M for information. Mr Ms insurance provider replied to Moneyway that it 
wouldnt be making any payment on the car and that any outstanding balance on the 
agreement remained Mr Ms responsibility.
In March 2020, Moneyway sent Mr M a Notice of Sum of Arrears which set out the balance 
due under the agreement. A week later it wrote to Mr M with a final settlement offer which 
offered him a 10% reduction of the outstanding balance if he paid the full amount by a set 
date. Mr M continued to pay the monthly instalments and the agreement was then 
terminated by Moneyway.
Mr M complained to this service. Our investigator didnt recommend that his complaint 
should be upheld. She said that she thought Moneyway had acted fairly in terminating the 
agreement, and that Mr M was liable for the outstanding balance under the agreement. She 
said the agreement had been clear that Mr M was required to have fully comprehensive 
insurance cover for the car, and he had signed that agreement to say he was happy to be 
bound by its terms. Moneyway had given Mr M time to remedy the breach of the agreement, 
but he had chosen not to do so.
Our investigator said it wasnt reasonable to expect the dealership to go through all the 
terms and conditions with a customer. And, as Mr M had signed the agreement, it was fair to 
have expected him to have read its terms and conditions.
Our investigator said that, although she appreciated Mr M had said he hadnt received any 
correspondence from Moneyway during the life of the agreement, shed seen that annual 
statements had been sent out to him. She said she didnt know why they hadnt been 
received, but she thought it was more likely than not that they had been sent. And even if 
they hadnt been received it didnt alter the requirement for the car to have been 
comprehensively insured. 
Mr M said that, as insurance was an important part of the contract, Moneyway should have 
made sure that the correct policy was in place. Our investigator said there were several 
important terms and conditions in the agreement and so she wouldnt expect Moneyway to 
proactively check compliance with the insurance requirement.
Mr M disagreed with our investigators view. He said it was for Moneyway to ensure he 
received a copy of the agreements term and conditions and that he was aware of the need 
to have comprehensive insurance in place for the car. 
As the parties were unable to agree the complaint has been passed to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr M queried whether there was any difference if the car had third party, fire and theft 
insurance cover rather than comprehensive insurance cover. As the car remains the asset of 
Moneyway until the final payment under the agreement is made, I think it is reasonable for it 
to require the car to be fully protected. Third party insurance doesnt offer the same level of 
cover as comprehensive cover does. For instance, if Mr M was found to be liable for an 
accident when using the car then the third-party insurance policy wouldnt pay out to have 
the car repaired or cover its value if it was written off. Im also aware that the requirement to have a car comprehensively insured, when purchased 
via a credit agreement, isnt unusual. So, I cant reasonably say that this particular term and 
condition is unreasonable or onerous for a consumer, even if it is more expensive.
Mr M is adamant that he did not receive a copy of the hire purchases terms and conditions. 
Ive seen in the contact notes kept by Moneyway that Mr M said he had sent an email three 
years ago requesting a copy of the terms but hadnt had a response.
I dont think it is disputed that Mr M signed the hire purchase agreement. And Ive seen that 
it sets out clearly what type of insurance must be taken out by the consumer, and that this 
level of cover must be maintained through the life of the agreement. It also says that if the 
terms of the agreement are breached then Moneyway is entitled to terminate it. 
By signing the agreement Mr M has shown that he agrees to abide by its terms and 
conditions. And Ive seen that above the signature box on the agreement there is a reminder 
not to sign unless happy to be bound by the terms and conditions. So, I think it is reasonable 
to have expected Mr M to have read the agreement before he signed it.
Mr M says the dealership should have pointed out the need for comprehensive insurance 
but, as I have said, this isnt an unusual term, so I dont think there was any requirement for 
it to have done so. I appreciate Mr M says he showed a copy of his insurance policy to the 
dealership before he signed the agreement, and so it should have been aware he had the 
wrong type of policy. But I dont know what happened when the policy details were provided 
to the dealership and I dont think it would be reasonable to say that it was the dealerships 
responsibility to make sure Mr M had the right cover under the agreement for the car.
I dont know why the dealership didnt provide Mr M with a copy of the hire purchase 
agreement at the time he signed it. And I think its reasonable for Moneyway to have 
expected that to have happened. Mr M told Moneyway that he had requested a copy by 
email about three years ago, though Im not sure who he made this request to. However, if 
hed received no response to this request, then I think it would have been reasonable for him 
to have made further enquiries as he was aware hed agreed to be bound by the terms and 
conditions for a five-year period. 
Mr M says that it was Moneyways responsibility to ensure he had a copy of the agreement, 
and that he was complying with the agreements terms and conditions. But I am afraid I 
disagree with this view. As set out above I think it is reasonable to have expected Mr M to 
have read the agreement before he signed it and so he should have been already been 
aware of the need to have comprehensive cover in place for the car when he acquired it. I 
dont think I can fairly say it is Moneyways responsibility to doublecheck that the terms are 
being adhered to. As set out by our investigator there are a number of important terms in the 
agreement, not just the requirement for the insurance. 
Mr M says he never received any correspondence from Moneyway during the life of the 
agreement, and so he had struggled to find out who the credit provider was for the hire 
purchase agreement. Moneyway says it sent out annual statements and has provided 
copies. These statements set out what had been paid and what was owing, and Ive seen 
these were correctly addressed, so I dont know why they werent received. I dont have any 
evidence that there was any fault in the correspondence system Moneyway had in place. So, 
from the evidence, I am satisfied it is more likely than not these letters were posted. I cant 
hold Moneyway responsible for Mr M having no contact from it.
Moneyway, when notified that Mr M had the wrong insurance cover in place, gave him an 
opportunity to rectify that breach. Mr M chose not to do so. He says this was because of the 
cost and he had never been aware he needed that level of cover. However, I dont think Moneyway acted unfairly in then terminating the agreement in these circumstances and 
requiring Mr M to clear the outstanding balance.  Mr M signed the agreement and agreed to 
be bound by its terms and conditions, one of which was to have comprehensive cover in 
place.
For the reasons set out above and, although I appreciate Mr M will be disappointed by my 
decision, I am not upholding his complaint. 
My final decision
For the reasons set out above Im not upholding Mr Ms complaint.
 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 30 November 2020.
 
Jocelyn Griffith
Ombudsman