DRN-3386252
The complaint
Mr Z complains that National Westminster Bank Plc didnt provide the service it should have 
in response to the issues he raised with a direct debit.
What happened
Mr Z was in dispute with a utility company as he said he had been overcharged. He asked 
NatWest to cancel his direct debit and raised a direct debit indemnity claim. This happened 
and he received a refund. Mr Z was then contacted to say the funds would be re-debited. He 
asked how he could prevent money leaving his account to pay the utility provider and says 
he was told that if a future payment was made he could call NatWest and the money could 
be recalled. When the refund was reversed, Mr Z called NatWest and says he was told that 
the money couldnt be recalled as it was a dispute. Mr Z says he has been provided with 
incorrect information by NatWest and call backs haven taken place. 
NatWest issued a final response letter dated June 2021. It said that Mr Z had set up a direct 
debit with his utility provider and that this was an arrangement to which it was a third party 
and had no control over the amounts taken. It said that a direct debit indemnity is a way of 
claiming back unauthorised direct debits not dealing with contractual disputes. It says Mr Z 
raised a direct debit indemnity claim and he received the refund on 12 May 2021. However, 
this was then recalled by the utility provider and the funds were re-debited on 2 June. 
NatWest said it had followed the correct procedure. It noted Mr Zs comments about future 
funds leaving his account and said that if he made contact on the same day then these could 
be recalled but that this could result in Mr Z going into arrears. Regarding the service Mr Z 
received it said it could have handled things better. It acknowledged that Mr Z had visited the 
branch and became frustrated by the service but said its staff shouldnt be spoken to in an 
aggressive manner. It said the staff tried to explain that Mr Z needed to take the issue up 
with the utility provider. 
After Mr Z referred his complaint to this service, NatWest offered to pay him £75 for the 
distress and upset he had been caused.
Our investigator didnt uphold this complaint. He said that NatWest applied the direct debit 
indemnity as requested, and the utility provider provided evidence of Mr Zs bills and so the 
funds were re-debited. He noted that although Mr Z disputed the bills, that was an issue for 
him to resolve with the utility provider and the direct debit indemnity guarantee couldnt be 
used as a tool for contractual disputes about payment amounts. Given this he didnt think 
NatWest had done anything wrong. He noted that NatWest had offered to pay Mr Z £75 as a 
gesture of goodwill for the inconvenience he was caused and said Mr Z could accept this if 
he wished. 
Mr Z didnt agree with our investigators view.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I can see this issue has been very frustrating for Mr Z but for me to uphold this complaint I 
would need to be satisfied that NatWest had done something wrong. In assessing this I have 
considered both the actions taken in response to Mr Zs requests regarding his direct debit 
and the service he received while this issue was ongoing.
Issues with the direct debit
The direct debit indemnity process has been explained and so I wont set this out again. 
Mr Z raised a direct debit indemnity claim on 12 May and his account was credited with 
£1,379. However as the utility provider refused the refund this was reversed on 2 June 2021. 
I appreciate that Mr Z was upset by this, but the utility provider gave evidence of the service 
provided and, as has been explained, the direct debit indemnity isnt a tool for contractual 
disputes about payment amounts. Therefore I cannot say that NatWest has done anything 
wrong in this process. 
When Mr Z contacted NatWest he asked how to prevent any further payments leaving his 
account to the utility provider. He was told his direct debit had been cancelled and it was 
explained that if future direct debit payments were taken he could call NatWest on the day 
for these to be recalled. While I understand why Mr Z thought on 2 June (when the refund 
was reversed) that he could have this payment recalled, this was different process and not a 
new direct debit payment.
Overall, I can understand why Mr Z has been frustrated and upset by this process but in this 
case I do not find that NatWest did anything wrong. The issue has arisen due to a dispute 
between Mr Z and the utility provider. NatWest took the actions required of it under the direct 
debit guarantee scheme and explained to Mr Z that he would need to resolve the issue with 
the utility provider. I find its actions reasonable and do not require to do anything further in 
response to this part of Mr Zs complaint.
Service
Mr Z doesnt think he was provided with the service he should have been. NatWest 
acknowledged this and has offered to pay Mr Z £75. I have listened to the calls and Mr Z 
was told what could be done in regard to the direct debit and the actions the utility provider 
could take. His direct debit was cancelled as requested. He was also told about recalling 
funds for future direct debit payments. I understand that he felt he wasnt provided with clear 
information and felt that NatWest should have done more to help him. However, while there 
were some instances where I think the information could have been clearer, overall, I think 
NatWest did try to assist Mr Z.
Mr Z attended a branch as he wanted to discuss the issue of his direct debit and I appreciate 
he was frustrated and felt the person at the counter wasnt helping him. However, based on 
the testimonies of the staff present at that time, it appears that Mr Z was behaving in an 
unacceptable way and that to resolve this a manager had to travel from another branch. I 
understand Mr Z had to wait for the manager to arrive but this was his choice and I think 
NatWest were taking action to try to resolve the issue for Mr Z. Mr Z didnt get the outcome 
he wanted but I find that the staff were trying to assist in what appears to have been a 
heated situation.
Overall, I do not uphold this complaint. NatWest has offered to pay Mr Z £75 for the issue 
with the service Mr Z received, if he wishes to accept this he should contact NatWest 
directly. My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint. NatWest has offered to pay Mr Z £75 
for the issue with the service he received, if he wishes to accept this he should contact 
NatWest directly
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr Z to accept or 
reject my decision before 25 May 2022.
 
Jane Archer
Ombudsman