DRN-2478386
The complaint
Mr O complains that Contis Financial Services Limited (Contis) terminated his agreement 
without notice and that it has discriminated against him. 
What happened
The background to this case is known to both parties, so I will only summarise events here.
In August 2018, Contis contacted Mr O to explain that it had been notified that there had 
been allegations of fraud, regarding funds transferred into his account for £120, and that a 
request had been made to recall these funds. Contis went on to say that if Mr O disputed this 
recall, he should provide it with evidence that the funds transferred were valid. And that, in 
the meantime, until it received evidence / or was satisfied there would be no further recalls, 
Mr Os account would remain suspended. It said that any money paid into his account will 
automatically be returned to the sender.
Following receipt of this communication, Mr O replied with evidence of the legitimacy of the 
funds. On receipt of this and with no further action received from the sending bank, Contis 
allocated the funds back to Mr Os account and the account was set back to live. I can see 
from looking at the statements for Mr Os accounts, that £120 left Mr Os account on 13 
August 2018, and that a credit was received back into his account on 15 August 2018.
In April 2019 a further recall was made on Mr Os account, this time relating to a payment 
that had been received into his account on 15 April 2019 for £450. Contis contacted Mr O 
again, with the same message as it had done previously.
In between Mr O receiving the funds and the recall being raised, the funds had been spent 
from Mr Os account  so Contis told the sending bank that no funds remained.
Mr O replied to Contis and provided evidence of his entitlement to the funds, by way of an 
invoice from the customer of the sending bank. He explained hed fallen out with the person 
whod sent the funds, which is why they had asked their bank to recall them. Mr O also 
raised with Contis that this was the second time hed had to provide evidence of having 
legitimate funds transferred into his account and that he felt discriminated against.
Following this Mr O made a number of calls to Contis, where he said he felt discriminated 
against. Contis denied these allegations and explained that a call it had with Mr O was 
terminated, due to the language Mr O was using.
Mr O raised a complaint with Contis on 4 May 2019 regarding the discrimination he had 
alleged. Mr O also spoke to Contis again a few days later regarding his account being 
frozen, as a result of the £450 payment being recalled.
On 8 May 2019, a further recall was made on Mr Os account, regarding a payment he had 
received for £330. It wasnt until 29 May 2019 that Contis made Mr O aware of this recall  
when it sent Mr O the same communication it had done for the two previous recalls. As with 
the second, by the time the recall was raised the funds had already been spent from Mr Os 
account  so there were no funds remaining to return to the sending bank.
Contis looked into Mr Os complaint and issued its final response on 5 June 2019. It said it 
couldnt find any calls where its staff had been racist, discriminatory or abusive to Mr O. It 
added that it had received three recalls on Mr Os account since August 2018 and on each 
occasion it had followed its normal process, as it would do for all accounts. Contis added 
that it had to warn Mr O about his behaviour during the calls he had with it.
On the same day, Contis sent Mr O a further communication. It said that following a review 
of his account, a decision had been made to terminate his agreement with immediate effect, 
as it had reason to suspect the account was not being used in accordance with the terms of 
the scheme. It asked Mr O to provide alternative details for a UK bank account, for any 
remaining balance to be transferred to.
Unhappy with the response from Contis, Mr O brought his complaint to our service. Mr O 
raised a number of complaint points. In summary he;
- was unhappy Contis had terminated his agreement without notice
- claimed it had taken his money and refused to send him statements
- said it had racially abused and discriminated against him
- said it had manipulated the statements that it had sent to him and;
- that his business has been damaged by what Contis did to him 
Mr O confirmed that the £120 had been returned to him, but the other money hadnt and that 
Contis letters said they had taken the money. Mr O went on to say that if he doesnt get the 
money back he wants £1,000 a day, because his business isnt fraudulent.
One of our investigators looked into things and upheld Mr Os complaint in part. In summary 
he said; 
- he couldnt see Mr O had suffered a financial loss, as Mr Os statements indicated 
that the payments for £450 and £330 werent debited from his account. 
- that Contis had followed its correct procedure, when investigating the recalls it had 
received and didnt consider Contis had discriminated against him when carrying out 
his investigation he has to trust what is sent by both parties. And with the allegation 
of the statements being changed, it would be an allegation Mr O would need to 
prove.
- regarding the account closure, that it would have been fairer to give Mr O two months 
notice when closing the account, as the reason for closure wasnt clear. He said this 
because Contis had indicated both that it had concerns about how the account was 
being run, as well as saying it was because of abusive behaviour towards its staff by 
Mr O.  
Our investigator recommended that, as Contis hadnt given two months notice, it should pay 
Mr O £150 for the distress and inconvenience caused.
Mr O didnt agree with our investigators opinion, he re-iterated that Contis took his £450 and 
£330 as its letters say they took it. Mr O also maintained that Contis had refused to send him 
statements and that it had racially discriminated against him. Contis replied to say there were elements of our investigators view that it didnt agree with, but didnt elaborate on this. 
But it agreed to the redress that our investigator had recommended.
As agreement couldnt be reached the case has now been passed to me for a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
 Mr O has raised a number of complaint points. Im very aware that Ive summarised this 
complaint briefly, in less detail than has been provided, and in my own words. No 
discourtesy is intended by this. Instead, Ive focussed on what I think is the heart of the 
matter here. If theres something Ive not mentioned, it isnt because Ive ignored it. I havent. 
Im satisfied I dont need to comment on every individual point or argument to be able to 
reach what I think is the right outcome. Our rules allow me to do this. This simply reflects the 
informal nature of our service as a free alternative to the courts. 
My role is to assess whether I think Contis made a mistake, or treated Mr O unfairly, such 
that it needs to now put things right. Our investigator directed Contis to pay £150 for the 
trouble and upset caused, by not providing two months notice when it terminated his 
agreement. But our investigator didnt think Contis had done anything wrong, when 
considering the other complaint points Mr O had raised. Having thought carefully about 
everything Mr O and Contis have said, Ive largely reached the same findings as our 
investigator and for broadly the same reasons. Ill explain why;
Recalls
From what Ive seen Contis received recalls for three payments that had been received into 
Mr Os account. On each occasion Contis contacted Mr O, to explain the recalls had been 
received and instructing Mr O on what to do if he wished to dispute them. Contis also told Mr 
O that the account would be suspended until it was satisfied there would be no further 
recalls from his account.
While I can understand Mr Os frustration and disappointment at receiving these recalls, 
Contis does have a responsibility to act on any such requests that may be raised with it by 
other banks and Im not persuaded it did anything wrong in taking the action it did.
I understand Mr O has said Contis has kept some of his money and that it said in its letters 
that they took it. But I dont agree this is the case. Typically, when a payment is recalled the 
funds will be returned to the sender while things are investigated  and then re-credited 
where appropriate after things have been looked into. I can see that was the case with the 
initial recall for £120. With £120 debiting Mr Os account when the recall was received, but 
then later being re-credited when Contis were satisfied Mr O was legitimately entitled to the 
payment.
But if the funds are no longer available in the account (in that they have already been spent 
before the recall is raised), then there will be times when funds are not debited on receipt of 
a recall. From what Ive seen, that is the case with the payments for £450 and £330. By the 
time the recalls had been received, it would appear that the money had already been spent  
so there were no funds to return to the sending bank. From looking at Mr Os statements, I 
can see the £450 and £330 crediting his account  but there is no evidence of Contis then 
debiting these amounts, rather the money appears to have been used through general 
spending. So, I cant fairly or reasonably say that Contis has taken Mr Os money and Ive not seen any evidence that Mr O has suffered a financial loss as the result of the actions 
Contis took when dealing with the recalls.
Mr O says Contis had said in its communication with him that it had taken the money. Mr O 
may be referring here to a sentence in the emails that Contis sent to him, when it advised 
him about the recalls. It said;
Any money paid into your account will automatically be returned to the sender.
I can understand having read this, why Mr O may have thought Contis had taken the money 
back. But for reasons Ive explained above, where the money had already been spent before 
the recalls had been raised, Contis was unable to do this for the payments of £450 and 
£330.
I understand that since the account has been closed a Loyalty Cash Back Rebate Top Up of 
£4.58 has been added to the account. Contis has confirmed that it is happy to send this over 
to Mr O on receipt of his new bank details.
Statements 
Ive thought carefully about what Mr O has said regarding Contis refusing to send him his 
statements and that the statements that were sent to him were manipulated.
I understand that Contis did send statements to the address that it held for Mr O, but 
unfortunately the address it held was incorrect. Mr O said he told Contis about his change of 
address, but Contis records indicate that it hadnt received a change of address request from 
Mr O.
In any event, Ive not seen any evidence to suggest that Contis has set out with any intent to 
not provide Mr O with his statements. It is unfortunate that there appears to have been 
confusion over Mr Os address and I cant know for sure whether Mr O did or didnt update 
his address. But I understand that Mr O has now received his statements.
Mr O has maintained that the statements sent to him, were manipulated by the business 
before they were sent. While I have no reason to doubt that his statements are genuine and 
have not been altered in any way, when we look at a complaint, we dont consider whether a 
business is acting fraudulently. That would be a criminal allegation, hence a police matter. 
Our remit is to look at the individual dispute and decide what a fair solution should be. In 
doing that, we consider whether theres been maladministration and/or unfair treatment by 
the business; which is what Ive done here.
Account closure
A business is entitled to close an account with a customer just as a customer may close their 
account with a business. However, once a business has made a decision to close an 
account, it must do so in a way, which complies with the terms and conditions of the 
account. Contis has shared the terms and conditions of Mr Os account and these say;
We may cancel your card and this agreement by giving you at least two months notice.
Reasons for cancellation may include: 
-if this agreement or your card expires; 
-If your membership of the Credit Union is cancelled or terminated for any reason; -If you are no longer an active member of the Credit Union due to non-payment of a 
loan or other funds issued by the Credit Union; 
-if you break an important part of this agreement, or repeatedly break the agreement 
and fail to resolve the matter in a timely manner; 
-if you act in a manner that is threatening or abusive to our staff, or any of our 
representatives; or 
-if you fail to pay fees or charges that you have incurred or fail to pay back any 
negative balance on your card. 
We may also cancel your card immediately if we: 
-suspect unauthorised or fraudulent use of your card or account; 
-have any other security concerns; or 
-need to do so to comply with the law. 
-
We may also deny access to your card and/ or account where we consider it to be at risk of 
money laundering or terrorism financing, fraud or other criminal activity. Should we need to 
take these actions and where possible, we will give reasons for doing so except where 
restricted by law. 
In these circumstances, you must tell us what you want us to do with any unused funds. You 
must do this within 3 months of the date we tell you that your card is cancelled.
When Contis wrote to Mr O terminating its agreement with him, it said that it had done so as 
it had reason to suspect that the account was not being used in accordance with the terms of 
the scheme. But it has also later added that Mr O had been abusive to its staff.
Based on the evidence Ive seen, I cant reasonably find that Contis was wrong to terminate 
Mr Os account in line with its terms and conditions. But Im mindful there are a number of 
scenarios within the terms and conditions under which Contis would be entitled to terminate 
Mr Os account immediately and others where it would be expected to give at least two 
months notice. But where Contis has indicated that there may have been a number of 
reasons for the account being terminated, when considering the terms and conditions, I 
think, while it is finely balanced, that it may have been fairer for Contis to have given Mr O 
two months notice.
I think by not doing so, Mr O may have needed to make alternative banking arrangements 
more quickly than he would otherwise have needed to. In recognition of the distress and 
inconvenience I think this caused him, I think Contis should pay Mr O £150.
Mr O suspects Contis is discriminating against him and says Contis has been racist. Whilst I 
recognise his strength of feeling, Ive not seen any evidence to show any discrimination on 
the part of Contis. From looking at the evidence Im satisfied that Contis acted in accordance 
with the terms and conditions when it actioned the recalls and when it terminated Mr Os 
agreement.
I dont underestimate Mr Os strength of feeling, and I dont doubt my decision will come as a 
disappointment. And I can see Mr O has previously mentioned that he may consider taking 
matters through the courts. Mr O doesnt have to accept my final decision, and if he doesnt 
it wont be binding on him. Subject to any time limits or other restrictions a court might 
impose, Mr Os right to pursue a legal remedy wont have been prejudiced by our 
consideration of this complaint.
Putting things rightFor the reasons set out above I direct Contis Financial Services Limited to:
- Pay Mr O £150 for the distress and inconvenience caused
My final decision
My final decision is that I partially uphold this complaint against Contis Financial Services 
Limited. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr O to accept or 
reject my decision before 27 October 2021.
 
Stephen Wise
Ombudsman