DRN-2947035
The complaint
Mr and Mrs F complain about the performance of their home plan, and that HBOS 
Investment Fund Managers Limited (HBOS) didnt keep them adequately updated about this.  
What happened
Around 1999, Mr and Mrs F took out a home plan with HBOS as a repayment vehicle for 
their mortgage. The investment portion of the plan aimed to build up a lump sum to repay 
their mortgage at the end of its term.
Over the years, Mr and Mrs F received letters from HBOS about the performance of the 
plan. Around 2017/2018, these letters confirmed that the plan was on track to repay the 
target amount. But following this, at least one annual update wasnt sent.
Around May 2020, Mr and Mrs F received a letter from HBOS advising there was a high risk 
that the plan wouldnt pay out enough to cover the target amount when it matured in 2021. 
They complained to HBOS about the plan performance and lack of updates. They also 
complained about the sale of the plan  which is the subject of a separate case that has 
been referred to our service.
HBOS didnt uphold their complaint about the performance of the policy. It said this was 
down to a period of market volatility outside its control. It also explained that, although it 
didnt send updates for a period, the plan had been on track prior to 2020  at which point 
they were updated. But it sent them £100 compensation for the missed update(s), as well as 
£150 for how long it took to respond to their complaint. Unhappy with this, Mr and Mrs F 
referred the matter to our service. They said their financial loss would be much higher. 
Our investigator explained that we couldnt comment on the £150 compensation HBOS paid 
for how it handled the complaint. And he didnt recommend that it should do anything further 
to put things right for the other aspects. Mr and Mrs F have appealed the investigators view. 
They say some companies havent lost money, and some factors could have been 
anticipated  so HBOS could have put precautions in place to protect their investment. And it 
didnt do enough to help them understand the position their investment was in. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im not directing HBOS to do anything further to put things right. Ill explain 
why.
Investment performance
Im conscious that, when the estimated maturity value of the plan dropped in May 2020, 
there was a market downturn. And since then, there has been an ongoing period of market 
volatility. I know Mr and Mrs F say that other companies have managed to avoid losses, 
albeit without providing examples to show how directly comparable these are to their 
investment. And they say some market forces  such as Brexit  could have been 
anticipated and planned for. But other forces, such as the pandemic, were less foreseeable. 
And HBOSs opportunity to balance out this period of downturn was limited by how late on 
it occurred within the term of the plan. Ultimately, this was an investment product  so it was 
subject to risk. The fact it didnt perform well enough to reach the target doesnt necessarily 
mean that HBOS did anything wrong. In all the circumstances, Im persuaded that the drop 
in performance was a result of market forces, rather than negligence by HBOS in how it 
managed the investment. 
Information about the plan 
HBOS acknowledges that it didnt always send Mr and Mrs F a yearly update about how the 
investment was performing. But during any missed years, the plan was still on track to reach 
its target amount at maturity. That limits the impact of these not being sent  as even if they 
had been, Mr and Mrs F would still have experienced the shock and upset of finding out in 
2020 that the plan was no longer on track. And Id also point out that, when the updates 
were sent, they complied with the format set by the regulator about what information they 
should include. Overall, I do think it was inconvenient for Mr and Mrs F that they didnt 
receive all the updates they should have. But Im satisfied that the £100 compensation 
HBOS has sent them for this fairly reflects the impact of the error. 
I appreciate this will be disappointing for Mr and Mrs F, who clearly feel strongly about their 
complaint. But Im not persuaded that HBOS has negligently managed their plan. And Im 
satisfied that its fairly compensated them for the error with their update letters. As our 
investigator explained, complaint handling isnt a regulated activity, so Im not able to 
comment on, or amend, the compensation awarded for the time taken to investigate this 
complaint. Overall, Im not directing HBOS to award further compensation on this case. 
My final decision
For the reasons given above, my final decision is that HBOS Investment Fund Managers 
Limited doesnt need to do anything further to resolve this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr F and Mrs F to 
accept or reject my decision before 12 November 2021.
 
Rachel Loughlin
Ombudsman