DRN-3099231
The complaint
Miss S complains that Amtrust Europe Limited withdrew cover under its credit protection
insurance policy, causing her to be chased for car hire charges.
What happened
Miss S was involved in a collision in her car with another driver. Rather than claiming on her 
car insurance policy she was referred to an accident management company (AMC) as she 
said she wasnt at fault for the accident.
The AMC provided Miss S with a hire car and a credit protection insurance policy. The credit
protection insurance policy is designed to cover the hire car charges if the AMC is unable to
reclaim them back from the third party responsible for the accident.
When the AMC tried to recover its costs for the hire car it was told Miss S had been using 
her own car when she also had the hire car. Because of this third partys insurer said it 
wouldnt cover the hire car charges. 
The AMC contacted Miss S about this and asked the reason the car had been used twice 
during the time she had the hire car. Miss S explained it was over a year ago and she must 
have been taking it to the garage or for its MOT. The AMC asked Miss S for details of this so 
it could go back to the third-party insurer to cover the hire car costs. Miss S refused to 
provide the information and said the AMC should get it from her insurer. 
Amtrust wrote to Miss S to let her know it was withdrawing cover under the credit protection 
insurance policy. It said this was because Miss S wasnt cooperating with the AMC to help it 
recover its hire car charges, and she was therefore in breach of the terms and conditions of 
the policy. 
Miss S didnt think this was fair and complained. She said shed had the car MOTd over a 
year ago and didnt think it was fair for her to be asked to provide details of why her car had 
been used. 
Amtrust reviewed the complaint and didnt uphold it. It said that Miss S had breached the 
terms of the hire car by not mitigating her losses. Amtrust also said it had tried to help Miss S 
by asking her for evidence as to why her car had been used when she had the hire car. But 
as Miss S hadnt been able to provide evidence which would assist the AMC, it didnt think it 
had done anything wrong by withdrawing cover. Miss S didnt agree and referred her 
complaint here. 
Our investigator reviewed the complaint and didnt recommend it was upheld. He found the 
AMC had written to Miss S to try and evidence why shed used her car when she had the 
hire car. He also found that as Miss S hadnt provided the evidence asked for, he didnt think 
Amtrust had done anything wrong. 
Miss S didnt agree, she said she didnt remember the dates shed used the car and thinks 
the AMC should have checked if she needed the car before giving it to her. 
As Miss S didnt agree the complaint has come to me to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Miss S has also complained about the AMC and her insurer. In this decision Im only able to 
consider the actions of Amtrust in regard to withdrawing cover. The concerns Miss S has 
with the AMC and her insurer will need to be dealt with separately. 
Amtrust has said Miss S has breached the terms of the credit protection insurance policy as 
she hasnt co-operated with the AMC to recover the hire car charges. In particular its 
referred to a term which says Amtrust wont be liable for the hire car charges if Miss S: 
wilfully or negligently prejudices the Third Party Claim and, in particular, their ability 
to recover the Credit Agreement Charges from the defendant in a Third Party Claim;
Ive therefore looked at whether Amtrust has acted in a fair and reasonable way when it 
withdrew cover under the policy. Having done so Im satisfied it has. I say this because the 
AMC wrote to Miss S to let her know the third party insurer had raised that Miss Ss car had 
been used during the hire period. It asked her for the reasons for this and Miss S said her 
car would have been taken for repair and for its MOT. The AMC asked Miss S for more 
details of this to verify whether this was when the third party insurer had evidenced her car 
being used. 
Miss S hasnt verified the dates or reasons why her car was used while she had the hire car. 
Because of this Amtrust withdrew its cover as it means the AMC isnt able to dispute the 
reasons her car has been used while she had the hire car. As Amtrust has tried to work with 
Miss S to allow the AMC to dispute the hire car costs, Im satisfied its acted fairly and 
reasonably and Im therefore not going to interfere with Amtrusts decision to withdraw cover.   
My final decision
For the reasons explained above, I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss S to accept 
or reject my decision before 15 November 2021.
 
Alex Newman
Ombudsman