DRN-4212526
The complaint
Mr B complained that PDL Finance Limited trading as Mr Lender (Mr Lender) gave him 
loans without carrying out sufficient affordability checks.  
What happened
Mr B was advanced five loans and a summary of his borrowing can be found below.
loan 
numberloan 
amountagreement 
daterepayment 
datenumber of 
instalmentslargest 
repayment per 
loan
1 £120.00 26/01/2013 14/02/2013 1 £156.00
Gap in lending 
2 £250.00 20/02/2017 10/03/2017 3 £120.66
3 £300.00 24/04/2017 11/09/2017 6 £124.40
Gap in lending 
4 £400.00 31/10/2020 27/05/2021 6 £149.86
5 £1,500.00 27/05/2021 24/02/2022 12 £322.76
Following Mr Bs complaint about the sale of the loans, Mr Lender wrote to him to explain 
that it wasnt going to uphold the complaint. Unhappy with this response, Mr B referred the 
complaint to the Financial Ombudsman. 
An adjudicator then considered the complaint and in his latest assessment he concluded 
Mr Lender had carried out proportionate checks which showed it each loan was potentially 
affordable. And so, he didnt uphold the complaint. 
Mr B didnt agree, saying that had Mr Lender checked his bank statements it wouldve seen 
that he was gambling which led to Mr B having to work overtime to get on top of this debts. 
Mr B also said that he had to enter debt management plans to repay debts and finally, he 
said he has suffered as a result of the high interest rates applicable to the loans. 
As no agreement has been reached, the case has been passed to me to resolve.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about this type of lending - including all 
the relevant rules, guidance and good industry practice - on our website. And Ive used that 
to help me decide this complaint.
Mr Lender had to assess the lending to check if Mr B could afford to pay back the amounts 
hed borrowed without undue difficulty. It needed to do this in a way which was proportionate 
to the circumstances. Mr Lenders checks couldve taken into account a number of different 
things, such as how much was being lent, the size of the repayments, and Mr Bs income 
and expenditure. 
With this in mind, I think in the early stages of a lending relationship, less thorough checks 
might have been proportionate. But certain factors might suggest Mr Lender should have 
done more to establish that any lending was sustainable for Mr B. These factors include:
Mr B having a low income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make any
loan repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income);
The amounts to be repaid being especially high (reflecting that it could be more
difficult to meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income);
Mr B having a large number of loans and/or having these loans over a long
period of time (reflecting the risk that repeated refinancing may signal that the
borrowing had become, or was becoming, unsustainable);
Mr B coming back for loans shortly after previous borrowing had been repaid
(also suggestive of the borrowing becoming unsustainable).
There may even come a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly 
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable for Mr B. The adjudicator didnt think this 
applied to Mr Bs complaint and I agree, considering the number of loans and the number of 
separate lending chains. 
I should add that Mr Lender was required to establish whether Mr B could sustainably repay 
the loans  not just whether he technically had enough money to make his repayments. 
Having enough money to make the repayments could of course be an indicator that Mr B 
was able to repay his loans sustainably. But it doesnt automatically follow that this is the 
case. 
Ive considered all the arguments, evidence and information provided in this context, and
thought about what this means for Mr Bs complaint.
Having thought about these checks Im satisfied they were proportionate, and the checks 
showed the loans to be potentially affordable. Ive explained why below. 
Loan 1
Loan one was a payday loan with one payment due of £156 and so I do think a proportionate 
check wouldve included asking Mr B about his income and expenditure.
Mr Lender says some of the information gathered from Mr B at the time about his outgoings 
is no longer available due to the amount of time that has passed since the application 
which I dont consider to be unreasonable. But Mr Lender did know he received a net 
monthly income of £1,700 and the credit check it carried out didnt show any adverse 
information such as insolvency. 
For a first loan, with a modest repayment amount I consider the checks that Mr Lender 
carried out to be proportionate and which showed Mr B could potentially afford his 
repayments. I therefore do no not uphold his complaint about this loan. 
Loans 2 and 3 
There was then a break in lending of around four years before loan 2 was granted, so it was 
entirely reasonable for Mr Lender to have treated Mr Bs application afresh for these loans 
and so treated him as a new customer. This means while these were Mr Bs second and third loans, they were in effect loans 1 and 2 in a new chain of borrowing. Ive kept this in 
mind when thinking about whether Mr Lenders checks went far enough. 
For these loans Mr B declared that his net monthly income was £876 for loan two and 
£1,300 for loan three. Given these were the first two loans of a new lending chain I think it 
was reasonable and proportionate for Mr Lender to have relied on what Mr B had declared.  
Mr B was asked to declare monthly outgoings across a number of different categories 
including mortgage / rent, credit commitments, utilities and travel to name a few. For loan 
two Mr B declared these costs came to £282 per month and then £898 when loan three was 
approved. Based solely on the income and expenditure information Mr Lender gathered 
Mr B had enough disposable income to afford the largest repayment for each loan. 
Mr B didnt declare any housing costs for either loan. But Mr B declared he lived at home 
with parents so that may explain why his costs were so low compared to someone with rent 
or a mortgage. I see no reason as to why Mr Lender couldnt rely on what it was told, so I 
dont think it needed to have verified what Mr Bs living arrangements were or ask further 
questions about his low housing costs. 
Before the loans were approved Mr Lender also carried out credit searches and it has
provided the Financial Ombudsman with a summary of the results it received from the credit 
reference agency. I want to add that although Mr Lender carried out a credit search there 
isnt a regulatory requirement to do one, let alone one to a specific standard. 
Having looked at the credit results, there wasnt anything in my view, that wouldve led 
Mr Lender to have carried out further checks. It knew Mr B wasnt insolvent either through an 
Individual Voluntary Arrangement, bankruptcy or a County Court Judgement within the three 
years preceding the loans. 
In addition, it was given information to suggest he had no outstanding payday loans at the 
time either of the loans were taken. There were also no triggers in the way loan 2 was repaid 
or in the loan values to have prompted Mr Lender to do better checks, such as reviewing 
Mr Bs bank statements. So, while Mr B has provided copy bank statements to us it wouldve 
been, in my view disproportionate for Mr Lender to have asked for them at the time.   
Overall, it was reasonable for Mr Lender to have relied on the information that Mr B provided 
about his income and expenditure as well as the credit check results that 
Mr Lender received. The checks Mr Lender carried out were proportionate and showed 
Mr B should be able to afford the repayments.  There also wasnt anything else to suggest 
the loans would either be unaffordable or unsustainable for him. 
I am not upholding Mr Bs complaint about loans 2 and 3.  
Loans 4 and 5 
Once again there was a significant break in borrowing of around 3 years, so as before I think 
it wouldve been reasonable for Mr Lender to have treated Mr Bs application afresh and Ive 
kept that mind when thinking about this chain of borrowing.  
For these loans Mr B declared that his income was £2,800 per month. For loan 5, 
Mr Lender says Mr Bs income was also verified through a report provided by a credit 
reference agency. For loan 5, Mr Lender also made enquires with Mr B to establish the purpose of the loan and 
it was told it was needed for home improvements, I think making enquires with Mr B as to 
why he needed such a large loan was reasonable and proportionate. 
Mr B was once again asked the same questions as before about his outgoings, this time he 
declared these to be £660 per month for loan 4 and £1,660 for loan 5. There is quite a large 
difference between the loans. 
However, this variation appears to be explained by for loan 5 Mr B now declaring he had 
£550 per month of housing costs and his credit commitments being higher as well. For loan 
5 only Mr Lender in addition to using the information Mr B declared it used credit file 
information as well as data provided by the Office of National Statistics.  
So, it does seem for loan 5, further checks were carried out. But as before, based solely on 
the income and expenditure information Mr Lender gathered Mr B had enough disposable 
income to potentially afford the largest repayment for each loan. 
Mr Lender also carried out credit searches and the same caveats apply to the searches 
carried out for loans 2 and 3. Ive looked at the credit results and as before there wasnt 
anything in my view, that wouldve led Mr Lender to have carried out further checks and it 
was aware there hadnt been any insolvencies within the previous three years. 
Mr Lender did know that when loan 5 was granted there was one outstanding payday loan. 
But the presences of one other payday loan wouldnt, in my view have prompted 
Mr Lender to have either carried out further checks or to have declined the application, this is 
because payments towards other loans were factored into the expenditure assessment 
which suggested each loan was affordable. 
The way loan 4 was repaid also wouldnt have prompted Mr Lender to think that Mr B was 
having or likely having financial difficulties. And while loan 5 was taken on the same day as 
loan 4 was repaid, this was the first time it had happened and so I dont think this, on its own, 
when there were no other indicators of difficulties ought to have led Mr Lender to have 
carried out further checks. This also means, that I dont think Mr Lender needed to have 
verified the information Mr B provided and so it didnt need to review his bank statements. 
Taking everything into account, Mr Lender carried out proportionate checks before these two 
loans were granted which demonstrated that Mr B would likely to be able to afford his 
repayments. There also wasnt anything else in what Mr Lender was told and gathered to 
have given it cause for concern that Mr B may have been having or was having financial 
difficulties. 
I am not upholding Mr Bs complaint about loans 4 and 5.  
Other considerations 
I know Mr B considers the interest to be high  and it is fair to say that these loans attract a 
higher rate of interest than loans that can be typically provided from a high street bank. 
However, since 2015, there has been a cost cap that was put in place by the industry 
regulator. Simply put, it means a lender cant collect more than 100% of the amount 
borrowed so for example, loan 4 would mean Mr Lender couldnt collect more than £800 in 
capital, interest and charges for this loan. 
Having looked at the amounts Mr B repaid to Mr Lender; the loans covered by the cost cap  
didnt exceed the cost cap neither did it go beyond what was stipulated in the credit agreements. Therefore, while the costs of these loans maybe high, that isnt a reason on its 
own to uphold Mr Bs complaint. 
I appreciate Mr B will be disappointed by my decision and Im sorry to hear about the impact 
these loans had on him. But having looked at all the evidence provided by both parties I am 
not able to uphold his complaint. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive outlined above, I am not upholding Mr Bs complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 5 December 2023.
 
Robert Walker
Ombudsman