DRN-1731549
 
The complaint
Ms M says Lloyds Bank PLC (Lloyds) mis-sold her a payment protection insurance (PPI) 
policy.
background
Ms M took out a credit card in April 1995.
When looking at the very limited information (I have not been able to see any original sales 
documentation or read a detailed recollection of how the PPI was sold), I cant be sure of 
when or how PPI was sold. Lloyds has provided records that go back to January 2000 and 
the PPI is on the account at this stage. So I cannot be sure how or when the PPI was sold to 
Ms M but I do know it was sold at some point between April 1995 and January 2000.
Our adjudicator didnt uphold the complaint. Ms M disagreed with the adjudicators opinion, 
so the complaint has been passed to me, an ombudsman, to make a decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding Ms Ms case.
Ive decided not to uphold Ms Ms complaint. Ill explain why.
As I have already mentioned neither Ms M nor Lloyds can give me much information about 
the sale. This is not surprising given the amount of time thats passed. Ive looked at what 
Ms M has said about how the policy was sold  that the PPI policy was applied to her 
account without her knowledge. But it has been very difficult for me to understand how this 
would have happened with so little information available about this sale. And in the absence 
of relevant documentation, a more detailed recollection or further information to support what 
Ms M has said, I cannot fairly conclude on this occasion that the policy was sold as she 
suggests it was. I would need to see more information to support what Ms M has said to 
conclude otherwise. 
Lloyds isnt sure how the policy was sold, so to be fair to Ms M, I will proceed that it likely 
provided a recommendation to her to buy the policy. This placed more responsibility on 
Lloyds and it meant it had to make sure it was right for Ms M.
Based on what Ive seen of Ms Ms circumstances at the time, I think the PPI seems to have 
been suitable for her. I say this because whilst Ms M says she received 6 to 12 months sick 
pay from her employer and £3000, the PPI would have paid out at the same time as she 
received any sick pay and for longer. It would have covered 10% of the outstanding credit card balance for up to 12 months per claim if she was unable to work or if she lost her job. 
So I think the policy could have been useful to her.
Lloyds also had to provide Ms M with clear, fair and not misleading information about the PPI 
so that Ms M could make up her mind as to whether she felt the policy would have been 
useful to her.
Its possible the information Lloyds gave Ms M about the PPI wasnt as clear as it should 
have been, like explaining the cost of the policy. Lloyds hasnt been able to confirm the exact 
cost of the policy. But due to the amount of time thats passed since the sale its not 
surprising Lloyds doesnt have this information. Lloyds say the cost of the policy would have 
been 79p per £100 of the outstanding monthly balance. This is in line with what I know about 
how Lloyds priced other policies at around the same time.
Ive carefully thought about the cost of the policy and even looking at the higher price of 79p 
and taking into account Ms Ms circumstances at the time, I still think she would have bought 
it. I say this because as I explained above I still think the policy would have been useful if Ms 
M was out of work for a lengthy period.
Ms M also doesnt appear to have been affected by any of the main things the policy didnt 
cover. So I dont think better information about this wouldve stopped her buying the policy.
Finally Ms M says she was told by a representative from Lloyds that the card ended in May 
2008 and not May 2005 (the date given in our adjudicators view). Having the card open for 
longer could have potentially meant that Lloyds would need to consider giving back some of 
the commission it received with the sale of this policy. I cant be sure what was said between 
the representative from Lloyds and Ms M in the phone call that she refers to. But I do not 
need to make a conclusion on what was said as I have been provided with evidence from 
Lloyds regarding when the card account was closed. It has provided screen shots that show 
the card account was closed by it on 09 May 2005. Our adjudicator explained in their view 
that businesss will sometimes need to give back some commission paid in certain PPI 
policies if they were taken out after certain dates but from what Ive seen this wouldnt apply 
in Ms Ms complaint.
In conclusion, based on the available information I have regarding the sale and Ms Ms 
circumstances, I dont think this PPI policy was mis-sold.
my final decision
For the reasons set out above, I dont uphold Ms Ms complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms M to accept or 
reject my decision before 30 June 2020.
Mark Richardson
Ombudsman