DRN-1877873
The complaint
Mr H is unhappy with the service he received from Clydesdale Bank Plc trading as Yorkshire 
Bank when his mortgage was due to complete.
What happened
Mr H was due to complete on his house purchase on 11 February 2019 and so Yorkshire 
Bank said it would send the funds to his solicitor on 8 February 2019 in readiness.
Unfortunately, due to an administrative error on the part of Yorkshire Bank the funds werent 
sent until the afternoon of 11 February 2019. The funds were received by Mr Hs solicitor in 
time for completion that day.
Unhappy with what had happened, Mr H complained to Yorkshire Bank. In a follow-up letter 
Mr H gave a list of questions he wanted answered, and said:
I would like compensation for;
1. Emotional stress and loss of 3 people's day's holiday;
2. [The individual staff member] to be reprimanded and retrained in her communication 
skills with clients and Solicitor;
3. A system to be put in place where computer details are updated immediately that 
there is a notification of change (this is not the first time this has happened to my 
family);
4. An apology which is still not forthcoming.
Yorkshire Bank acknowledged the service had fallen short of what it would expect and 
apologised for that. It also paid £200 compensation.
Our investigator thought Yorkshire Banks offer was fair. Mr H didnt agree and so its been 
passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr H has set out his account of events in considerable detail. I trust he wont take it as a 
discourtesy that Ive condensed his complaint in the way that I have. Ours is an informal 
dispute resolution service, and Ive concentrated on what I consider to be the crux of the 
complaint. Although Ive read and considered the whole file Ill keep my comments to what I 
think is relevant. If I dont comment on any specific point its not because Ive not considered 
it but because I dont think I need to comment on it in order to reach the right outcome. 
This service is impartial between, and independent of, consumers and businesses. What this 
means is that we dont represent either party, and I dont act under eithers instructions or 
take directions on how a complaint will be looked at, what information will be obtained and 
what questions should be asked or answered. For that reason, I wont be listening to all the 
calls that day or contacting his solicitor as Mr H has said we should, nor will I be answering 
Mr Hs questions or ordering Yorkshire Bank to.
As our investigator explained, this is Mr Hs complaint so we can only consider what 
happened to him. I have no doubt his solicitor found matters very trying, but I simply cant 
consider that here as weve no power to do so. For the same reason we cant consider the 
fact people took time off work to help Mr H move. In any event, I would say here that even if 
the funds had been with Mr Hs solicitor first thing in the morning, theres no guarantee that 
he would have had the keys any sooner than he did as the nature of property chains means 
there will sometimes be delays.
The mortgage completed and there was no penalty for breach of contract, nor did Mr H lose 
the property. So his mentions of what nearly happened or what could have happened, and 
his question about what compensation hed be due if it had fallen through are irrelevant here.
Mr H has commented on the staff member not returning calls and taking her lunch break 
when Mr H wanted her to focus on ensuring his property purchase completed that day. Mr H 
has said he wants the staff member to be reprimanded and retrained. But this service isnt a 
regulator, so we cant tell a business to take action against - or retrain - its employees. Id 
expect Yorkshire Bank to decide how best it should deal with these sorts of issues internally 
and decide whether it takes any action or not. But Id generally expect such internal 
investigations to remain confidential. 
In any event, in its final response letter in April 2019, Yorkshire Bank said I also note you 
were unhappy with the level of communication you had with the bank and specifically, [the 
staff member], regarding the release of your mortgage funds. I would like to take this 
opportunity to personally apologise for this and ensure [sic] you I have now sent feedback to 
[the staff members] team to ensure this will be avoided in the future.
That leads me onto what Mr H has said:
The bank have never even admited [sic] fault yet
But I have not had any feedback after I sent the letter and not even an apology.
By the letter Im assuming Mr H is referring to his letter dated 3 March 2019 which he 
provided to this service in September 2019 along with his complaint form, which contained 
the second statement. The first statement was made in an email to us on 6 May 2020.
But Mr H sent us a copy of the final response letter that Yorkshire Bank sent to him on 
4 April 2019, and that says:
I am sorry you are unhappy with the delays experienced when attempting to take out 
a new mortgage with us.
After checking our systems, I am upholding your complaint. It is clear there has been 
a delay as a result of human error and I have now sent feedback to the team 
responsible to ensure this will be avoided in the future.
I would like to take this opportunity to personally apologise for thisI know this has caused you much inconvenience and stress to deal with. By way of 
an apology, I have arranged for £200.00 to be sent to your account
Its clear from this letter that Yorkshire Bank admitted fault, said it would feedback to the 
areas concerned and apologised to Mr H. Mr H wont be receiving a call from the staff 
member directly as he seems to believe, and I wouldnt expect her to call Mr H personally to 
apologise. The apology has come from Yorkshire Bank as a business, and thats what Id 
expect. It would be entirely inappropriate for Yorkshire Bank to tell its individual staff member 
to phone a customer and apologise personally as whilst dealing with Mr H she was acting as 
the banks representative, not in a personal capacity. Any failings on her part are considered 
to be failings on Yorkshire Banks part, so the apology will (and did) come from the business.
Whilst I acknowledge how frustrating it is when a business makes mistakes, mistakes do 
happen. Buying a house is a stressful time and its understandable to want it to go as 
smoothly as possible. Yorkshire Bank has accepted it let Mr H down here and has 
apologised for that.
Mr H says £200 isnt enough compensation. Its not our role to fine or punish a business and 
our awards arent punitive. Clearly no amount of compensation can change what happened. 
Having looked at the awards of compensation weve made in other similar cases Im 
satisfied that £200 compensation is fair.
Were not the regulator and its not within my remit to tell Yorkshire Bank what it should do to 
prevent anything similar happening again. We look at each complaint individually and what 
may - or may not - happen in the future to other customers isnt something I can consider 
here when deciding Mr Hs complaint about what happened to him.
Although I recognise Mr Hs strength of feeling I consider the payment of £200 compensation 
to be fair.
My final decision
My decision is that I dont uphold this complaint, in the sense I consider Clydesdale Bank Plc 
trading as Yorkshire Bank made a fair payment of compensation when it dealt with this 
complaint. Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to 
accept or reject my decision before 29 December 2020. 
Julia Meadows
Ombudsman