DRN-1572230
 
The complaint 
Mr T says Lloyds Bank Plc mis-sold him a payment protection insurance (PPI) policy.
Background
Mr T bought the single premium policy when he took out a loan in 1995. The loan included 
an amount to pay for the policy. 
Our adjudicator didnt think we should uphold the complaint. Mr T disagreed with the 
adjudicators opinion so the complaint has been passed to me.
My findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Weve set out our general approach to 
complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding 
Mr Ts case.
Having done this, Ive decided not to uphold Mr Ts complaint. Ill explain why.
Mr T cant remember where the policy was sold.  Lloyds says the policy was sold in during a 
meeting in branch. As I havent got anything to say otherwise, I will treat it as a branch sale. 
However, the policy was sold, Lloyds shouldve taken reasonable steps to make Mr T aware 
he had a choice about buying the PPI. 
Mr T says he wasnt aware the policy had been added so it must have been done without his 
knowledge. Lloyds says Mr T wouldve been given a choice. Ive thought about Mr Ts 
comments alongside the limited documents Lloyds has been able to provide. Ive also 
considered what I know about the way Lloyds sold these policies in general, to decide whats 
most likely to have happened. 
Although Lloyds cant give me copy of the loan agreement Mr T completed, it has been able 
to give me a copy of the type of agreement it was using at the time. This sets out the cost of 
the PPI under the heading Optional Loan Repayment Protection. And it shows tick boxes to 
indicate whether PPI should be included in the loan or not. I think its likely Mr T would have 
seen this and any conversation he had with a Lloyds representative would have been 
reflected in this document. So, I think, overall, its most likely that Lloyds made it clear this 
was an optional policy and  at the time  Mr T chose to buy it. 
Mr T says he cant remember if Lloyds recommend the PPI to him. Lloyds has told us this 
was a branch sale and that it provided advice during loan applications that took place in 
branch during this period. Taking everything into account, I think its more likely Lloyds did 
recommend the PPI to Mr T.If Lloyds recommended the policy to Mr T, it shouldve made sure it was right for him. From 
what Ive seen of his circumstances at the time, I think it was right for Mr T. I say this 
because:
Mr T was eligible for cover under the policy.
Mr T says he had some sick pay and redundancy benefits from his employer. But the 
policy would have covered his loan repayments for up to 12 months if he was made 
unemployed and for the term of the loan if he was too unwell to work. And this would 
have paid out alongside any employee benefits he got. 
Mr T also says his family couldve helped him with the repayments if he couldnt 
work. Whilst I dont doubt his family wouldve wanted to help, peoples situations can 
change. So, I dont think Mr T couldve necessarily relied on their help. 
Looking at Mr Ts circumstances, I dont think there was anything else that wouldve 
made it difficult for him to make a claim. For example, he didnt have any existing 
health concerns or unusual working patterns. 
There isnt anything Ive seen that indicates the policy was unaffordable for Mr T.    
Mr T wouldve got back only a limited refund of the PPI premium if he cancelled the 
policy early. But I havent seen anything to suggest he thought hed repay the loan 
early. So, I dont think this meant the policy wasnt right for him.
 
Ive also considered the information Mr T was given about the policy. Looking at this I think 
its possible Lloyds didnt point out the main things the policy didnt cover. But  as Ive 
mentioned above - Mr T doesnt appear to have been affected by any of those things. 
And I think Lloyds couldve explained the costs of the plan more clearly. The sample loan 
agreement didnt show how much interest would be incurred on the policy. But it looks like 
the missing cost information was for a reasonably low amount. And given how long the 
policy couldve paid out for, Mr T would have got back quite a bit more than he paid for it.
Overall, even if Lloyds had given Mr T clearer, or more complete, information about the 
policy, I still think he wouldve taken it. And I say this for the same reasons I think the PPI 
was right for him. 
Ive thought carefully about everything Mr T has said, but taking all of this into account, I 
dont think Mr T has lost out because of anything Lloyds mightve done wrong. 
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I dont uphold Mr Ts complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr T to accept or 
reject my decision before 2 June 2020.
Claire Marchant-Williams
Ombudsman