DRN-3904626
The complaint
Mr and Mrs H are unhappy that Vitality Health Limited (Vitality) provided poor service during 
their claim process. They say their call wait times were long, they couldnt get through to 
anyone and the links provided for the consultants didnt work.
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again 
here. The facts are not in dispute, so Ill focus on giving my reasons for my decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the conclusions reached by the investigator for these reasons:
On the evidence available, it seems Vitality accepted the claim on 27 May 2022. It 
sent an email to Mr H and provided links to consultants that he could contact. Mr H 
says the links didnt work. Vitality says it checked the links and they did work and 
apologised as it was likely a one-off error. 
I appreciate its not ideal that the links didnt work for Mr H, but I also dont think there 
was necessarily a failing on Vitalitys part as when it tried, the links did work. 
I can see Mr H managed to see a specialist on 7 June 2022. The invoice for this 
appointment was paid by Vitality. I cant therefore agree that Mr H couldnt have 
surgery and that compromised his eyesight. He chose to see the consultant and 
while he couldnt help him, I understand that Mr H is now on the NHS list awaiting 
surgery. Mr H also made no further contact with Vitality regarding seeing another 
consultant. Instead, Mr H cancelled his policy.
Vitality has apologised for its long call wait times. I appreciate having to wait a long 
time for a call to be answered isnt good customer service. However, Vitality has 
admitted this and apologised. It says its addressing the issues. And I can see also 
that Vitality did provide call backs to Mr H even though Mr H says it didnt. 
For these reasons, although I understand Mr Hs frustrations, I do not uphold this complaint. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint about Vitality Health Limited.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs U and Mr U to 
accept or reject my decision before 15 February 2023.
 
Nimisha Radia
Ombudsman