DRN-2940466
The complaint
Miss E is complaining Hedgehog Limited cancelled her car insurance policy.
What happened
In March 2020 Miss E took out a car insurance policy through Hedgehog  a broker. The 
insurer required her to pay an annual premium and Miss E needed to pay this at the start of 
the policy. Miss E wanted to pay for the policy through monthly instalments. To enable her to 
do so, she took out a finance agreement with a third-party finance provider  who I shall 
refer to as P. P paid the annual premium on Miss Es behalf and Miss E agreed in return to 
repay this in line with the terms of the finance agreement. 
However, shortly after the policy started, Miss E lost her job due to the impact caused by 
COVID-19. Miss E cancelled her direct debit and in April 2020 the monthly payment failed. 
Hedgehog wrote to Miss E to say it would cancel the insurance policy if she didnt reinstate 
the direct debit mandate and pay the missed payment. Miss E made a manual payment and 
reinstated the direct debit. So the policy continued.
In May 2020 Miss Es monthly payment didnt go through again and in June 2020 Hedgehog 
sent Miss E another cancellation notice due to the missed payment. Miss E made a further 
payment and the policy continued.
In June 2020 Miss Es monthly payment didnt go through again. P attempted to take the 
payment again on 1 July 2020 but it didnt go through. On 8 July 2020 Hedgehog sent 
Miss E another cancellation notice due to the missed payment and it said it would cancel the 
insurance policy on 15 July 2020 if Miss E didnt make the payment. Hedgehog says it also 
sent Miss E a text message advising the same. It said it didnt hear anything from Miss E so 
it cancelled the insurance policy.
Miss E contacted Hedgehog the following day asking to have the policy reinstated as she 
said shed made the payment. But Hedgehog said it couldnt reinstate the policy once it was 
cancelled. Miss E complained as she felt Hedgehog should have done more to support her. 
She said shed spoken to P whod said it would reinstate her direct debit and had advised 
her to speak with Hedgehog to get her policy reinstated. She thinks its unfair Hedgehog 
wouldnt reinstate the policy.
Hedgehog didnt uphold Miss Es complaint as it said it had given her notice it would cancel 
the policy and it said she didnt make contact until after the policy was cancelled. It said it 
had issued three notice of cancellations in the four months the policy was active. And it said 
it would be out of pocket if Miss E continued to remain in arrears.
Our investigator didnt uphold this complaint. He sympathised with Miss Es financial 
situation, but he was satisfied Hedgehog had acted in line with the terms of her insurance 
policy in cancelling it when it did.
Miss E didnt accept the investigators opinion. She said Hedgehog didnt support her as she 
thinks it should have done due to the impact COVID-19 had had on her. 
As Miss E didnt agree with the investigators opinion, the complaints been passed to me to 
decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive decided to not uphold this complaint and Ill now explain why. 
I should first set out that Hedgehog was acting as an insurance broker in this matter. Its 
responsibility was to arrange and administer the contract of insurance. Miss E also entered 
into a separate contract with P to finance the annual premium. It was Ps responsibility  as 
the finance provider  to consider Miss Es ability to keep up with her monthly finance 
payments. It was also Ps responsibility to assist Miss E if she came into financial difficulties 
and couldnt keep up with her monthly payments.
Miss E is unhappy she wasnt given any support when she got into financial difficulties. And 
she highlighted that the regulator had set out a number of measures that should be used 
where consumers are financially impacted by COVID-19. 
I naturally sympathise with the situation Miss E found herself in. But the insurance policy was 
cancelled due to her being unable to keep up with her monthly payments. Hedgehog wasnt 
responsible for the administration of the finance agreement  including assessing whether 
there was anything that could be done to assist Miss E with repaying her finance agreement. 
As I said above, responsibility for that rested with P. And I cant hold Hedgehog responsible 
for anything P may or may not have done. Miss E will need to raise this with P directly if she 
wishes to take this matter further.
Ive now considered whether Hedgehog acted fairly in cancelling the insurance policy when it 
did. Generally speaking, I dont think its fair for an insurer or broker to look to cancel an 
insurance policy as soon as a payment is missed. A finance provider can ask for an 
insurance policy to be cancelled as a means to recover outstanding arrears on the finance 
agreement. But cancellation can have severe implications on a consumer, as it invariably 
results in charges being incurred due to the cancellation. It can also lead to further difficulties 
in getting replacement insurance. This is likely to then put the consumer in a worse position 
than they were in before the cancellation. And this doesnt seem in keeping with regulatory 
requirements to treat customers fairly. Further to this industry regulations sets out a number 
of options finance providers should consider where a consumer is in financial difficulties. I 
think cancellation should be a last resort after other avenues had been explored.
However, in this case, Miss E had missed three monthly payments and I understand had 
cancelled her direct debit mandate twice. I think its clear Miss E was going to struggle to 
keep up with monthly payments going forward. I also have to take into consideration 
Miss Es own responsibility to mitigate her own losses. She was aware her payment hadnt 
gone through and had also received numerous correspondence from both Hedgehog and P 
regarding this. And these messages asked her to make contact if she needed support with 
making her payments. But she didnt do so.
Im satisfied Hedgehog had informed Miss E by both email and text message that it would 
cancel the insurance policy if she didnt make the monthly payment by 15 July 2020 and it 
didnt receive anything to say shed done so. Hedgehog instigated the cancellation 
procedure in line with the terms and conditions of the insurance policy and I dont think it 
acted unfairly in doing so in the particular circumstances of this complaint.Ive also considered the fact Miss E is unhappy Hedgehog wouldnt reinstate her insurance 
policy. I appreciate P may have told her it was willing to reinstate the credit agreement if the 
insurance policy was reinstated. But its not unusual that motor insurance policies arent 
reinstated after theyre cancelled. Hedgehog cancelled the insurance policy in line with its 
terms and conditions and it wasnt required to reinstate it after doing so. So I cant say it 
acted unfairly in this respect. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive set out above, its my final decision that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss E to accept 
or reject my decision before 3 December 2021. 
Guy Mitchell
Ombudsman