DRN-4263558
The complaint
Ms C has complained that Link Financial Outsourcing Limited are pursuing her for a debt 
which she feels they havent sufficiently proven she owes.
What happened
Both sides are most familiar with the case, so Ill summarise things in brief.
This complaint surrounds an overdraft for a current account which was opened in 2015. In 
2022, the debt was sold to a new owner, who appointed Link to service the account.
Ms C has disputed the debt. Link provided documents to show she owed it, but she feels 
they are not sufficient. She also questions its ownership. She says Link harassed her.
Our investigator looked into things independently and didnt uphold the complaint. Ms C 
didnt agree, so the complaints been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In doing so, I have taken into account everything which both sides have said and provided. 
However, we are an informal alternative to the courts, so I will not go through every single 
point on a point by point basis. Instead, I will focus on what I have found to be the key points.
I can appreciate why Ms C would want to make sure she really does owe this money  she 
wouldnt want to pay the wrong people.
Ive looked carefully at the evidence here. I can see that the current account in question was 
opened using Ms Cs photo ID and proof of her address from her council, by someone who 
the branch staff confirmed matched Ms Cs photo. While Link havent been able to provide a 
separate credit agreement, thats not cause for concern  sometimes overdrafts dont have 
separate agreements. The statements show how Ms C ran up an overdraft, and confirm that 
the balance owing is correct. The notice of assignment confirms that the original lender sold 
the account to the new owner. The available evidence supports this being Ms Cs debt, and 
Ive not seen anything which would make me think it was anyone elses debt.
Link provided the relevant notice of assignment, which I think was enough to show who now 
own the account. Its not clear why Ms C would also like the deed of assignment, which is a 
private document between the new and old owner. The deed would contain commercially 
sensitive information, but would not contain anything that Ms C needs to see, and none of 
the parties involved were required to give that document to her. So I think its reasonable 
that Link didnt.
I appreciate that Ms C felt confused about who the new owner really was. I appreciate that 
the relationship between these companies can seem complex, and I can see that some of 
the correspondence Ms C got  especially from some other businesses  could be seen as 
confusing. As our investigator found, the debts owner is LC Asset 2 S.a.r.l. This is confirmed 
on the notice of assignment. The fact that there is not a wet signature on the provided copy 
is not relevant. I find that Ms C owes this debt to LC Asset 2 S.a.r.l., who have appointed 
Link to service the account.
Ms C made some arguments about the enforceability of the debt. Whether or not the debt is 
legally enforceable is something for a court to decide  I dont have the power to determine 
that. With that said, Im aware there are websites and forums which make big promises 
about clearing ones debts using obscure legal arguments. Just in case Ms C has been 
relying on those, I would warn that if something seems too good to be true, it usually is. Id 
strongly recommend seeking legal advice from a properly qualified and verified professional 
before attempting to use those arguments in a court.
Since Ive found that this was a genuine account of Ms Cs, which Link were managing, 
I think it was fair for them to contact her about it  they were entitled to do so. Ive looked at 
Links communication, and I dont think theyve corresponded with Ms C excessively or 
unreasonably. Ms C said they didnt take account of her health situation, but I cant see she 
told them about it. And while I understand she preferred communication to be by email, 
when Link couldnt get constructive responses by email it doesnt seem unreasonable that 
they tried the other methods of communication on file.
I appreciate that Link initially sent their final response to the wrong address. It seems this 
was a genuine mistake, as they were ultimately trying to find the right address. Were not 
here to issue fines or to punish businesses. And I cant see that Ms C was caused any 
significant detriment by this. So I dont make an award there.
I hope I can assure Ms C that its normal for debts to be sold on like this. I do appreciate that 
her contract was originally with the original lender. But now that LC Asset 2 S.a.r.l. have 
bought the debt, it means she really does owe the money to them instead, and Link really 
are dealing with things on their behalf. Of course, Ms Cs repayments should be based on 
what she can actually afford  and I can see thats what Link have asked for. Ms C may want 
to get back in touch with Link to see what assistance they can give her in repaying the 
money she owes. I can see theyve also sent her the details for charities who can give her 
free, impartial advice about dealing with debt. And Ms C can get back in touch with our 
service in future for a separate case if she later feels that Link arent taking account of what 
she can afford when working out a payment plan.
But as things stand now, I think its reasonable for Link to ask Ms C for repayment of the 
money she owes. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, I do not uphold this complaint.
This final decision marks the end of our services consideration of the case.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms C to accept or 
reject my decision before 20 September 2023.
 
Adam Charles
Ombudsman