DRN-3802666
The complaint
Mrs P and Mr P complain about Hastings Insurance Services Limiteds (Hastings) refusal 
to refund an arrangement fee after they cancelled their car insurance policy.   
What happened
Mrs P and Mr P took out a multicar policy online using Hastings as the broker. Mrs P and   
Mr P reviewed their policy documents and noticed the details for one of their vehicles was 
incorrect. They called Hastings the following day to raise this as it wasnt something which 
they were asked about online. They say Hastings informed them their system wouldnt allow 
them to amend it, but it wouldnt affect them if they were to ever make a claim. Mrs P called 
Hastings to ask for confirmation of this in writing. They say they were assured they would get 
this in writing within 24 hours. Mrs P and Mr P never received this, so they cancelled the 
policy. Hastings refunded the premium after deducting a £40 arrangement fee. Mrs P and  
Mr P felt this was unfair as they were cancelling the policy due to their system not being able 
to amend details and also not providing the email theyd promised, so they complained. 
Hastings responded and offered £20 compensation for not sending the email but explained 
they wouldnt be refunding the arrangement fee.   
Our investigator looked into things for Mrs P and Mr P. He thought Hastings offer was 
reasonable and wouldnt be asking them to take any further action. Mrs P and Mr P 
disagreed so the matter has come to me for a decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided not to uphold the complaint. I understand Mrs P and Mr P will 
be disappointed by this but Ill explain why I have made this decision. 
My starting point is Hastings website which sets out their fees. This refers to an 
arrangement fee of £20 for each policy and also says this fee is non-refundable if the policy 
is cancelled. I can see from the welcome pack sent to Mrs P and Mr P, this also refers to the 
arrangement fee of £20 and again confirms this is non-refundable in the event of 
cancellation. The welcome pack contains a payment summary section which shows a £20 
arrangement fee was charged on both policies.  
Hastings say, after purchasing the policy, Mrs P contacted them to explain some information 
was incorrect  and after shed entered information about her own car, this appears to have 
copied over to Mr Ps policy. Hastings say this meant both policies were showing Mr P was a 
named driver of another car and both policies showed Mr P owned another car. Hastings say 
Mrs P wanted her policy to remain the same but for Mr Ps policy to be amended to show he 
was a named driver on another policy and she owned another car. Hastings say they 
explained their system wouldnt be able to process this as both policies had to reflect the 
same information. Hastings say they explained this wouldnt have any impact on any claim 
and the information wasnt mandatory to the policy. Hastings say they agreed to note this on 
the policy and send an email to Mrs P and Mr P confirming this.  
My role requires me to say how a complaint should be settled quickly and with minimal 
formality and so Ill focus on what I consider to be the crux of the complaint. The key facts 
about the complaint arent in dispute. Hastings accept they got things wrong by not sending 
the email as promised. Hastings have paid £20 compensation to Mrs P and Mr P. The only 
issue I have to decide is whether this is fair and reasonable in the circumstances.
I think its right that Hastings should compensate Mrs P and Mr P for the upset and 
inconvenience caused. To help decide what a fair and reasonable level of compensation 
should be, Ive looked at the error by Hastings and the impact it has had. I can see Mrs P 
asked for confirmation in writing and she says she was told this would be sent within 24 
hours. As this wasnt sent, Mrs P cancelled the policy a day later. Mrs P says she had to 
make the last phone call from her parents house and was on the phone for over an hour. In 
the circumstances, I understand why this has upset Mrs P and I acknowledge the 
inconvenience caused to her. That said, I do think the impact was over a limited period of 
time as Mrs P decided to cancel the policy a day after the agreed email didnt arrive. So, I 
think the £20 paid to Mrs P and Mr P is fair and reasonable in the circumstances. 
I note Mrs P and Mr P feel Hastings should refund the £40 arrangement fee  and receiving 
£20 means theyre still out of pocket by £20. I understand Mrs P says she ensured all details 
entered on the website were correct and it was Hastings system which led to incorrect 
information appearing on the policy documents. Insurers encourage customers to check the 
policy documents to ensure all information is correct, so I think Mrs P took the right steps to 
contact Hastings about this. I understand Hastings system wouldnt allow them to process 
the changes, but I also fully acknowledge why Mrs P and Mr P wanted something in writing 
to protect them should they ever want to claim. So, I think it was a reasonable compromise 
for Hastings to agree to confirm this in writing. 
I understand Mrs P and Mr P feel £20 isnt sufficient compensation for Hastings system 
being unable to process the changes and not sending the email. I am sorry to disappoint  
Mrs P and Mr P, but I dont think its reasonable to expect Hastings to refund the 
arrangement fee. I say this because it doesnt appear the information on the policy 
documents was down to an error on the part of Hastings. Hastings say both policies had to 
reflect the same information and, while I acknowledge this meant the information didnt fully 
reflect Mrs P and Mr Ps circumstances, it appears the same information being copied to      
Mr Ps policy was an intended feature of Hastings system. 
Mrs P says she cancelled the policy due to Hastings not sending the email. Mrs P and Mr P 
have decided to cancel the policy and the website and policy documents do confirm the 
arrangement fee is non-refundable in such circumstances. I acknowledge they didnt get the 
email Hastings had promised but Ive seen no evidence to suggest that the information and 
reassurance Hastings had given them about any claim not being impacting was incorrect. 
Ive also seen no evidence that the policy was unsuitable for Mrs P and Mr P or that it should 
never have been offered in the circumstances. 
So, given the arrangement fee relates to Hastings charge for setting up a new policy  
which has happened here - it follows that I dont believe its reasonable for Hastings to 
refund the arrangement fee.         
My final decision
For the reasons I have given, it is my final decision that the complaint is not upheld. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs P and Mr P to accept or reject my decision before 9 January 2023.
 
Paviter Dhaddy
Ombudsman