DRN-3312550
The complaint
Mr U has complained about the transfer from his Standard Life Assurance Limited 
stakeholder pension to another pension scheme in 2013.
Mr U says Standard Life failed in its responsibilities in allowing the transfer. It has since 
come to light that Mr U, and many others like him, was the victim of a pension liberation 
scheme  pension liberation being the process by which individuals can be tempted to 
access part of their pension before the age of 55. This can lead to a severe tax charge and 
is sometimes linked with fraudulent activity and high-risk investments. Entire pensions can 
be lost as a result, which could be the case with Mr Us pension. Mr U says he wouldnt have 
transferred, and therefore wouldnt have put his pension savings at risk in this way, if 
Standard Life had acted in line with its legal and regulatory responsibilities when he 
requested the transfer.
What happened
On 27 March 2013, Mr U signed documents requesting Standard Life transfer his 
stakeholder pension. The documents recorded the receiving scheme as being The 
Merseyside Care Ltd Retirement Benefits Scheme and the schemes administrators as being 
IMAC Pension Scheme Services. On 2 April 2013, Mr U signed an application form to join 
his new scheme. All these documents were forwarded on to Standard Life on 17 April 2013, 
along with a copy of a HMRC certificate for Mr Us new scheme showing it had been 
registered on 21 March 2013. Standard Life processed the transfer, paying the transfer value 
on 23 April 2013.
Mr U says he was told transferring would allow him to release some cash from his pension. 
He says he wanted to do this to fund some home improvements. He says he was told he 
would recover any released funds through better returns. He was 47 at the time. 
In September 2013 an independent trustee was appointed by court order to The Merseyside 
Care Ltd Retirement Benefits Scheme. Another order was also issued freezing the assets of 
the previous trustees and those associated with the administration of the scheme. The 
independent trustee was appointed because of concerns that the scheme was being used as 
a vehicle for pension liberation. The value of Mr Us pension is now uncertain. 
In 2020, Mr U complained to Standard Life about its decision to allow him to transfer. 
Standard Life didnt think it had done anything wrong. It said Mr U had a statutory right to 
transfer and that it had ensured the receiving scheme had been properly registered with 
HMRC. It said appropriate due diligence had been done. 
Mr U, who is represented by a firm of solicitors, referred his complaint to us. His 
representatives said, in summary, that Standard Life had failed to act in Mr Us best interests 
and didnt treat him fairly. They said Standard Life was the only regulated party in the 
transaction and, as such, shouldnt have allowed an inherently risky transfer to proceed. And 
they said Standard Life didnt check Mr U had taken appropriate advice before making the
transfer. 
Our investigator originally upheld Mr Us complaint because he thought Standard Life hadnt 
followed industry guidelines in place at the time. Specifically, he pointed to anti-liberation 
guidance launched by The Pensions Regulator (TPR) on 14 February 2013. This is often 
referred to as the scorpion campaign or scorpion guidance because of the imagery it 
used. One of its requirements was for ceding schemes to send a member an insert when a 
transfer was requested warning them of the dangers of pension liberation. Standard Life 
didnt send this insert. Our investigator thought it should have done because enough time 
had elapsed since the launch of the scorpion campaign for Standard Life to have updated its 
processes. Our investigator thought that the messages of the scorpion insert would have 
resonated with Mr U and he would have decided against the transfer if it had been sent. 
In response, Standard Life sent us two recordings of telephone conversations it had with 
Mr U in the run-up to his transfer. In the first of those calls, on 27 February 2013, Standard 
Life asked Mr U why he was thinking of transferring. He said he was looking to withdraw 
cash from his pension in order to fund home improvements. Standard Life warned Mr U 
about the potential dangers of taking cash from a pension before the age of 55 (Mr U being 
47 at the time of the call). Standard Life advised Mr U to be cautious and to take 
independent financial advice before proceeding.
Our investigator changed his mind. He thought, in brief, that the telephone call showed 
Standard Life had warned Mr U about the potential dangers of pension liberation. He didnt 
uphold Mr Us complaint. Mr Us representatives asked for an ombudsmans decision. They 
said, in brief, that Mr U cannot recall the telephone calls and that he wouldnt have 
transferred had Standard Life provided sufficient warnings about the risks of doing so. 
In my provisional decision, I concluded Standard Life hadnt done anything wrong. I repeat 
what I said here so that it forms part of this final decision: 
My starting point here is TPRs scorpion campaign, which was launched on 14 February 
2013. The aim of the campaign was to raise awareness of pension liberation activity and to 
provide guidance for transferring schemes dealing with transfer requests in order to prevent 
liberation from happening.
The key features of the campaign were as follows:
An action pack for scheme administrators highlighting the warning signs of liberation 
present in several sample scenarios. It suggested transferring schemes should look out 
for particular liberation warning signs. If any of the warning signs applied, the action pack 
provided a checklist schemes could use in order to better establish the liberation threat of 
the receiving scheme.
A Pensions Advisory Service insert (the scorpion insert) to issue to members following a 
transfer request. The insert warns the reader about offers to cash-in pensions early, cash 
incentives, cold calling, being put under pressure to transfer and the potential tax 
consequences of accessing pensions early.
A longer Pensions Advisory Service leaflet which gives more information, including real 
life examples, about pension liberation. This was intended to be used to help educate 
members who had raised concerns about pension liberation.
Several bodies including the FSA (the Financial Services Authority which had been 
succeeded by the Financial Conduct Authority, the FCA, by the time of Mr Us transfer) were 
part of the scorpion campaign so its a relevant consideration for personal pension providers 
like Standard Life which come under FSA/FCA regulation, rather than TPR regulation.The scorpion insert and the February and March 2013 telephone calls
Standard Life didnt send the scorpion insert to Mr U. It was remiss of it not to do so. Mr U 
submitted his transfer papers on 17 April 2013. This was just over two months after the 
launch of the scorpion guidance  time enough, in my view, for Standard Life to have 
updated its processes in light of that guidance given its importance. However, I wont be 
upholding Mr Us complaint on this point.
Already on 27 February 2013, Mr U had called Standard Life for a transfer value and for 
information on how he could go about transferring. The Standard Life call handler gave Mr U 
his transfer value and then asked him why he wanted to transfer. Mr U said he was looking 
to release funds from his pension. The call handler asked whether Mr U had been 
approached by a company about doing this. Mr U said he had contacted a company which 
said it could help him. The call handler said:
Mr U should act with caution.
Government legislation means pensions cant be surrendered or cashed-in before the 
age of 55, despite what some companies are claiming.
Even if the transfer looks attractive, people can still end up losing quite a lot of their 
pension.
BBC news had recently highlighted problems with people transferring in order to release 
cash from their pensions.
Mr U responded by saying that he was planning on doing more research and was going to 
take a lot of financial advice. But he also said he wanted to proceed because he really 
needed the money. Standard Lifes call hander said taking advice was a good idea but that 
Mr U should ensure his adviser was registered because many advisers werent regulated. 
The call handler then went on to outline what Mr U needed to do if he still wanted to proceed 
with the transfer.
With the above in mind, Im satisfied Standard Life warned Mr U about the potential dangers 
of pension liberation in the February call. It also made it clear that Mr U should seek financial 
advice from a registered individual.
I recognise that the telephone call didnt cover exactly the same ground as the scorpion 
insert. For instance, the insert warned specifically about people being offered loans. In the 
telephone call, Mr U said he was being offered a loan but the call handler didnt warn him 
about this specific threat. Nevertheless, Im satisfied Mr U was strongly warned about the 
dangers of trying to take funds from his pension before the age of 55, including the potential 
to lose considerable sums from his pension. He was warned about the unregulated 
organisations operating in this area. He was told seeking independent financial advice from 
a registered individual was a good idea. And he was told to act with caution. As such, Im 
satisfied the telephone call adequately replicated the scorpion insert.
In short, I think Mr U would have got as least a good an understanding of the dangers he 
was facing through the telephone call than he would have got through the scorpion insert. So 
I dont think it would be fair and reasonable to uphold Mr Us complaint on this point alone.
On 18 March 2013, Mr U called Standard Life again. He asked for the value of his pension 
and requested a transfer. Again, the call handler (a different one) asked Mr U why he was transferring. He said he had taken financial advice and was looking to consolidate his 
pension pots. He then gave Standard Life details of the scheme and firm he was looking to 
transfer to. This was a SIPP with an FCA-registered firm. 
Standard Life didnt warn Mr U about the dangers of pension liberation in this second call. 
However, the call handler did ask Mr U why he was transferring. And instead of saying he 
was looking to release funds from his pension because he needed the money  which, given 
the facts of the case, still appeared to be the case  he instead said he was looking to 
consolidate his pensions in a SIPP. He also said he had received financial advice. In the 
circumstances, I dont think Standard Life needed to do more, especially as it had given 
Mr U a comprehensive warning about pension liberation just three weeks earlier.
The scorpion action pack
The scorpion action pack provided several examples of pension liberation activity to help 
transferring schemes identify potential threats in this area. The action pack went on to list six 
specific warning signs for transferring schemes to look out for:
A receiving scheme not registered, or only newly registered, with HMRC.
A member attempting to access their pension before the age of 55.
A member pressuring a scheme to carry out a transfer quickly.
A member who was approached unsolicited.
A member informed that they can benefit from a legal loophole.
A receiving scheme that was previously unknown to the transferring scheme but suddenly 
involved in multiple transfer requests.
The action pack said if any of the above statements applied then the transferring scheme 
could use the action packs check-list in order to investigate the receiving scheme more 
thoroughly.
Mr Us receiving scheme was registered on 21 March 2013, so just over three weeks before 
he sent in his transfer request. So at least one item from the above list should have been 
apparent to Standard Life  the scheme was newly registered. Arguably, Standard Life 
should also have been aware that Mr U was attempting to access his pension before the age 
of 55 given the telephone conversation it had with him about this not long beforehand. 
The action pack should therefore have led Standard Life to conduct further due diligence on 
Mr Us receiving scheme so that it could assure itself that Mr U wasnt exposing himself to a 
potential pension liberation scheme. Standard Life didnt undertake any such due diligence. 
Although the specific nature of that due diligence is for the transferring scheme, I consider 
the action packs check-list is a useful guide in this respect. It prompts transferring schemes 
to check sources such as Companies House, and to speak to transferring members, in order 
to establish the nature of the receiving scheme, how it was promoted, what advice the 
member had taken and what investments were likely to be made.
In September 2013, an independent trustee was appointed by court order to The Merseyside 
Care Ltd Retirement Benefits Scheme because there were concerns it was being used as a 
vehicle for pension liberation. Ive therefore considered the possibility that the same things that concerned the authorities in the run-up to September 2013 should also have been 
apparent to Standard Life at the time of the transfer. However, Im not persuaded Standard 
Life should, reasonably, have been suspicious that Mr U was transferring to a liberation 
scheme and/or his proposed investment was fraudulent.
I say this because even though the receiving scheme was recently established, the 
sponsoring employer had been incorporated in 2007, several years before Mr Us transfer. 
This is unusual for a liberation scheme  the scorpion guidance warns about newly 
registered sponsoring employers. Mr U also lived relatively close to Merseyside. So given 
that the scheme was correctly registered with HMRC, the sponsoring employer was long 
established and there was no obvious reason to believe Mr U wasnt working for that 
employer, I dont think Standard Life would have considered there to have been a liberation 
risk. I also havent seen anything that makes me think Standard Life should, reasonably, 
have been aware that Mr Us intended investments were fraudulent.
Its true that Mr U had previously told Standard Life he was thinking of accessing his pension 
before the age of 55. But in the same conversation, Standard Life told Mr U that he should 
seek regulated financial advice. Mr U told Standard Life that he was intending to do so. I 
think this would have reassured Standard Life. Of course, its doubtful that Mr U did actually 
take regulated financial advice because a regulated financial adviser would have been very 
unlikely to recommend Mr Us transfer. I think this points to Mr Us willingness to transfer  a 
point I expand upon below  and strongly suggests Mr U would have answered any due 
diligence questions posed by Standard Life in a way that best ensured the transfer went 
ahead.
Given the above, I dont think a more thorough due diligence process along the lines of the 
scorpion guidance would have made a difference here. For similar reasons, Im satisfied 
there wouldnt have been sufficient evidence for Standard Life to have denied Mr U his 
statutory right to transfer.
Separately, another possible outcome of a due diligence process is that the member 
unilaterally decides against the transfer as a result of the prompts given by the ceding 
scheme and before the ceding scheme has decided whether it should process the transfer. 
For example, if the ceding scheme requests marketing literature about the receiving scheme, 
this may well highlight to the member the paucity of any such literature which may prompt 
second thoughts about the transfer. Likewise, questions relating to what advice someone 
has taken may lead someone to seek independent financial advice.
However, on this point, given the conversation the parties had in February 2013, I dont 
consider it likely that Mr U would have unilaterally changed his mind even if Standard Life 
had engaged further directly with him. Its difficult to see how requesting further information 
from Mr U about his new scheme or his reasons for transferring would have made a 
difference to Mr U given more explicit warnings about pension liberation just a few weeks 
earlier had been unheeded by him. Furthermore, Mr U transferred without taking regulated 
financial advice even though Standard Life encouraged him to take advice. I think 
transferring without advice is further evidence of Mr Us commitment to the transfer and 
further evidence that he wasnt minded to take on board what Standard Life was saying.
Ultimately, Mr U was committed to transferring. By his own admission, he had sought out a 
transfer in order to access cash from his pension before the age of 55. He did so because he 
needed the money having embarked on house renovations and having exhausted other 
sources of finance. He wanted to proceed even after being warned about the dangers of 
doing so. It looks like he explored different options too, including transferring to a SIPP. 
Given all this, it seems likely to me that Mr U would have wanted to continue with his transfer
whatever Standard Life said.On balance therefore, I dont think a more thorough due diligence process along the lines of 
the scorpion guidance would have made a difference here. And in the absence of compelling 
evidence to show why a statutory right to transfer wouldnt have applied, Im satisfied 
Standard Life didnt act incorrectly in allowing the transfer. 
Standard Life didnt have any further comments in response to my provisional decision. Mr U 
disagreed with my provisional findings. I address his comments below.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In response to my provisional decision, Mr U said, in brief, that he would never have moved 
his pension if he knew he was going to lose it and that Standard Life:
didnt give him enough information or warnings;
should have stopped the transfer;
made it too easy for him to transfer;
should have completed further checks before allowing the transfer.
Ive considered Mr Us comments carefully, but Im not persuaded to change my mind. 
As I said in my provisional decision, Standard Life warned Mr U about what he was intending 
to do. When Mr U called Standard Life about transferring, the call handler told him that he 
should act with caution. She warned him that government legislation meant pensions 
couldnt be accessed before the age of 55. She said people can lose significant amounts of 
money by transferring to schemes that appear attractive. She referred Mr U to BBC news 
which had warnings about transferring in order to release cash from a pension. And she said 
Mr U should take regulated financial advice. Mr U proceeded with the transfer despite these 
warnings. It also looks like he transferred without taking regulated advice. So my view was  
and remains  that further information or warnings wouldnt likely have made a difference to 
Mr Us decision to transfer.
On the issue of whether Standard Life should have done further checks, my view remains as 
it was in my provisional decision which is that Ive seen no persuasive reason why Standard 
Life would have thought Mr U was transferring to a liberation scheme given the information it 
had at the time and should, reasonably, have gathered. And I dont think further questions to 
Mr U would have prompted him to have unilaterally changed his mind either given his 
evident interest in transferring, as outlined above and in my provisional decision.
As for whether Standard Life should have stopped the transfer, as I said in my provisional 
decision, I havent been provided with any persuasive evidence or arguments to show on 
what basis Standard Life should have done this  and thats still the case. With this in mind, I 
also see no reason why Standard Life should have made it less easy for Mr U to transfer. 
Im sorry for the position Mr U has found himself in. But for the reasons given above and in 
my provisional decision, I dont uphold his complaint.My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold Mr Us complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr U to accept or 
reject my decision before 20 April 2022.
 
Christian Wood
Ombudsman