DRN-3160753
The complaint
Mr A complains that Inter Partner Assistance SA (IPA) have refused to cover repairs to his 
shower under his home emergency policy.
What happened
Mr A took out home insurance and added home emergency as an extra to his policy in 
March 2021. 
In April 2021 Mr A called IPA to report a leak in his bathroom and made a claim under his 
home emergency policy. He said that couldnt see where the leak was coming from, but had 
stopped using the bathroom to prevent any further damage. IPA arranged for a plumber to 
attend the following day. The plumber inspected the shower and thought that the leak was 
coming from the shower tray and waste pipe. He advised that IPA would be in touch to sort 
out what would happen next.
The following day Mr A called IPA to find out what was happening. He was told that the leak 
wasnt covered under his home emergency policy. IPA said the leak was only coming from 
the shower when in use and as Mr A had other bathroom facilities, this was not classified as 
an emergency. He was advised to arrange the repairs himself.  
Mr A was not happy with this and complained to IPA. He felt that he had paid for a home 
emergency policy and that this should be covered. IPA advised Mr A that as he has other 
bathroom facilities the leak was not classified as an emergency and therefore not covered 
under the policy. They did not uphold his complaint. Mr A then arranged for his own plumber 
to repair the waste pipe for a fee of £50. 
Mr A was not happy that his claim has been refused and brought his complaint to this 
service. He wanted the cost of the repairs to be refunded to him. Our investigator looked into 
the matter but didnt think the complaint should be upheld. She thought that the claim wasnt 
covered under the home emergency policy. Mr A didnt agree and asked for the matter to be 
considered by an ombudsman.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
My starting point is to look at the terms and conditions of Mr As policy. His policy covers 
home emergencies including those relating to internal plumbing and drainage. The policy 
booklet defines a home emergency as an event that happens suddenly and unexpectedly 
and needs immediate action to: a) prevent damage or further damage to your home; and/or 
b) make your home safe, secure and habitable. The booklet gives an example of a situation 
which would be classed as an emergency - where a water pipe suddenly starts leaking 
uncontrollably and theres nothing you can do to stop it. 
When Mr A reported the leak to IPA they sent out a plumber to inspect the shower. The 
plumbers view was that the leak only happened when the shower was being used. Mr A 
doesnt appear to disagree with this, and told IPA during the initial call with them that he had 
stopped using the shower to minimise damage. 
Ive looked carefully at IPAs terms and conditions to consider whether they applied the 
definition of an emergency fairly. I think the terms and conditions are clear. The policy 
booklet also gives some helpful examples of what would and what wouldnt be considered 
an emergency. At page 14 of the booklet it says that a leak from shower fixtures and fittings 
which cannot be controlled would be covered. Mr As leak came from his shower - but it was 
able to be controlled by not using the shower. As the leak was controllable, Im satisfied that 
IPA applied the definition of an emergency fairly.
IPA asked Mr A not to use the shower. They also asked him whether he had another 
bathroom that he could use. Mr A confirmed that he did although it was on the ground floor. 
Whilst I understand that this would have been an inconvenience for Mr A, Im not aware of 
any reason why he couldnt use this bathroom. In the circumstances, I cant see that IPA 
have acted unreasonably. 
I know that Mr A will be disappointed, but I dont think IPA have done anything wrong. Home 
emergency policies dont cover all situations. They are only intended to be used as an 
emergency response. As Mr As shower leak was controllable and he had alternative 
bathroom facilities, I dont think it was unreasonable for IPA to decline his claim under the 
terms and conditions of his policy.  
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision before 4 January 2022.
 
Elizabeth Middleton
Ombudsman