DRN-4037894
The complaint
Mr S has complained that HSBC UK Bank Plc (HSBC) mis-sold him a packaged bank 
account. In addition, Mr S has complained that HSBC incorrectly reported when he opened a 
current account. Finally, Mr S says that he applied for a £100,000 agreement in principle for 
a mortgage but instead HSBC ran the application for £10,400.
What happened
One of our investigators looked into this complaint already and they did not think that HSBC 
had done anything wrong in relation to this.
In summary they concluded that Mr S was not sold a packaged bank account, the date of the 
opening of the current account was correct and finally that the £10,400 was likely the amount 
of loan that had been agreed rather than a mistake from HSBC.
Mr S did not agree with this and therefore this complaint has been passed to me to issue a 
final decision. I should explain that this complaint will only address the above, I note that Mr 
S is also unhappy with a mis-sold credit card and protection policy this is being dealt with 
separately.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve explained how we handle complaints about packaged bank accounts on our website. 
And Ive used this approach to help me decide Mr Ss complaint. Ive carefully thought about 
everything Ive seen on this complaint. Having done so and while I know that this will be 
disappointing for Mr S, Im not upholding this complaint. Id like to explain why in a bit more 
detail.
In relation to the mis-sold packaged bank account I have carefully looked at Mr Ss account 
history and I cant see that he has ever held a fee paid account with insurances. Due to this I 
cant conclude that any such account was mis-sold to him.
In relation to the dates of when his current accounts were opened I can see that Mr Ss 
account history is as follows;
Opened as a fee free basic bank account in March 2005
Changed to a normal fee free bank account with full banking service in July 2005
Changed to a fee free HSBC Advance account in April 2015
Mr S seems concerned that a credit check was performed in August 2005, but given that he 
was at the time changing his account from a basic account to a current account with full 
features a credit score would normally be carried out. If Mr S is claiming that he did not 
agree to the current account I find it unlikely he would not have queried this at the time 
especially as we have a copy of the welcome letter he wouldve received. Mr S seems 
concerned that the credit check in question was in August rather than in March. Firstly I think 
that the credit check would have been carried out when the account was being changed 
from a basic account to a normal current account. Secondly even if I was convinced that 
date was incorrect, and I am not, I cant see how the difference would have negatively 
affected him.
Mr S has said that he applied for an agreement in principle for a mortgage of £100,000 with 
HSBC but they incorrectly made an application for £10,400. I have carefully considered this 
but on balance I think that the figure of £10,400 is what was agreed when the application 
was made rather than an error on HSBCs part. In addition, given the timescales involved 
even if the wrong amount had been applied for, and again I dont think that this was the 
case, I cant see how this has negatively affected Mr Ss credit file.
Overall, I dont think that HSBC has done anything wrong in relation to the above and it 
follows that I do not uphold this complaint.
My final decision
For the reasons explained above, I do not uphold Mr Ss complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 12 July 2023.
 
Charlie Newton
Ombudsman