DRN-3506262
The complaint
Mr M complains that Royal & Sun Alliance Insurance Plc trading as More Th>n (RSA) have 
charged far higher premiums for many years on the renewal of his buildings and contents 
policy than were available to a new customer. He would like a refund of the overpayments.
What happened
Mr M took out his policy with RSA in 1996 and says he was a loyal customer. Hed been 
happy with the way it handled claims and thought he was being offered a competitive 
premium at renewal. He says he queried the renewal price in 2018 and was given a 
discount. He contacted RSA again in 2020 to discuss the renewal price which had increased 
to £1,024.08. Mr M says he decided to make further enquiries and was able to arrange 
another policy with RSA, offering similar cover for only £368.04. Mr M thought hed been 
overcharged in the past and complained to RSA.
RSA didnt accept the complaint. It said it hadnt made an error in pricing his renewals. It 
said it regularly reviewed its prices which altered to reflect changes in the insurance market. 
It said Mr M had been free to shop around elsewhere. It said the terms and pricing structure 
of the new policy may differ from the old one and new business quotes included an 
introductory discount. Mr M decided to refer his complaint to our service.
Our investigator looked into it and she decided to uphold it in part.
Our investigator said records were only available from 1998. These showed premiums had 
increased over the period, but that Mr M had only queried the renewal price twice in 2018 
and 2020. But she didnt think his lack of engagement, or inertia, over much of the period 
had led to RSA treating him unfairly. As RSA appeared to have priced his policy in the same 
way as for other customers. And, it hadnt taken advantage of his loyalty by increasing his 
premiums to boost profitability.
However, she said when Mr M queried the premium in 2018, RSA should have gone further 
than offering a discount. It should have discussed whether any cheaper alternative policies 
were available. RSA said it would only have offered an alternative policy if Mr M had asked, 
because, it didnt offer advice. Our investigator said RSA hadnt treated Mr M fairly. She said 
it should calculate the difference Mr M had paid between his policy and the alternative for the 
years 2018 and 2019 and refund this to him with 8% interest.
RSA accepted this view. It said that an alternative policy was available with a premium of
£808.49. This was around £100 less than the renewal price Mr M paid in 2018.
Mr M disagreed. He said he recalled calling RSA more often about the premium than just in 
2018 and 2020. And, sometimes his renewal premium had reduced, he felt because hed 
contacted RSA to discuss it. And, when he took out the new policy it was around £650 
cheaper than the old one, not the £100 RSA was claiming.
As Mr M doesnt agree it has come to me to decide.
I issued my provisional decision on 2 May 2022. I explained the reasons why I was planning 
to uphold the complaint in part. I said:
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide (provisionally) whats fair 
and reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Having done so, Im planning to 
uphold the complaint in part.
After our investigator gave her view both Mr M and RSA raised further points. And I 
requested more information about how RSA had calculated the premiums for the alternative 
policy. Having considered everything, Ive come to a different conclusion about how the 
complaint should be resolved. So, this decision is provisional in order to give both Mr M and 
RSA the opportunity to make any further comments.
RSA has provided much information about the policy and premium changes over the years. 
Much of this has been shared with Mr M, and I wont repeat it here. As he knows some of the 
information is confidential as it is commercially sensitive. Having looked at all the evidence I 
dont think RSA treated Mr M unfairly in the period up until 2018. But I dont think it treated 
him fairly in 2018 and he has a financial loss as a consequence. Ill explain why.
The period before the 2018 renewal
As Mr M wasnt engaging with RSA there was a risk that this inertia resulted in him paying 
more for his cover than if hed shopped around instead. But that doesnt necessarily mean 
RSA was treating him unfairly if his premiums did increase over the period.
Our service usually considers a customer to have become inert if they havent engaged with 
their insurer by the time of the fifth renewal of the policy. By then wed expect the insurer to 
have recovered any initial discount it offered when the policy started. After this, wed expect 
the insurer to be able to justify increases in premium as being reasonable.
When was Mr M inert
Mr M recalls calling RSA about the renewal price on several occasions, but doesnt have any 
other evidence about this, which isnt surprising given the timeframe involved. RSAs records 
go back to 1998. These note Mr M called it in 2006 and 2007 to make changes to the policy 
and over several claims made. But there arent any discussions recorded about cost until 
2018 and again in 2020.
I havent seen anything to make me question the accuracy of RSAs records. So, in the 
absence of other evidence that Mr M engaged with RSA at other times, Im satisfied that he 
was inert for two periods, between 2001-2007 and 2012-2018.
Many factors influence insurance pricing, which change over time. The insurers view on risk 
may change, costs might rise, or claims may have been made on the policy. Factors like 
these are fair reasons why premiums might increase. But, raising premiums just to boost the 
insurers profit margin would be unfairly taking advantage of the customers loyalty.
So, Ive considered the premiums Mr M paid and RSAs profit margins on the policy. Whilst 
premiums increased there isnt any evidence RSA was treating him unfairly with it able to 
explain why his premiums increased overall.
In summary, there were three significant changes to the way RSA viewed risk, as well as 
increases in claims costs and insurance premium tax. Mr M also changed from paying 
premiums annually to monthly from 2008. This added a charge for finance, partly explaining 
the increase in premium for that year.
Both the pricing of and the profit margin on Mr Ms policy appears to be typical to that of 
other customers with the same policy in similar circumstances. So, whilst the price of the 
policy increased, I dont think RSA treated Mr M unfairly between 2001-2007 and 2012-2018, 
when he was inert.
After the 2018 renewal invitation
After Mr M contacted RSA in 2018 I think it should have discussed any alternatives it had in 
case a saving was available, not just a discount on the existing policy.RSA says it would only offer a new quote if Mr M specifically requested one, because it 
doesnt offer advice. I dont consider discussing possible alternatives would have been 
providing Mr M with advice. Mr M would be the one making any decision to change just as 
he did in 2020, having made his own enquires. By not mentioning there were alternatives I 
think RSA treated Mr M unfairly as concluded by our investigator.
RSA accepted this conclusion and the proposal it should calculate the alternative premium 
for 2018 and 2019 and reimburse the difference to Mr M, with interest added at 8% per year 
simple.
But when RSA provided the alternative premium for 2018 Mr M said this was still much more 
than hed actually paid in 2020. I queried this with RSA. It said the calculations were correct 
and it also provided alternative premiums for 2019 and 2020. These were also considerably 
higher than what Mr M had paid in 2020.
RSA said that it had worked out the alternative premiums 2018 and 2019 mapped as best 
we can the old product against a like for like  product. It also said:
I know questions will be asked on why Yr2020 premiums shared above are different 
to the new policy that the customer is on 
These differences will be to differences in cover, channel and mapping differences 
used from the old policy and assumptions when calculating new business premiums 
and what has been actually used for the new policy.
I considered this and I dont think its fair for RSA to base the alternative premium 
calculations on the old policy conditions and pricing factors.
It has confirmed that the new policy Mr M arranged in 2020 was available in 2018. Mr M 
dealt with his old policy by telephone and was able to arrange the new policy the same way. 
It doesnt appear that different sales channels or other marketing considerations would have 
prevented RSA from dealing with this in 2018.
Ive considered the cover offered by the two policies. This isnt identical but it is very similar. 
The new policy has a higher excess but offers more contents cover overall, though less for 
some individual items. I dont think the differences between them are material. Mr M certainly 
didnt as he went ahead and took out the new policy due to the significant saving it offered.
The new policy reflects Mr Ms home benefitting from burglar and smoke alarms where the 
old one didnt. This isnt something Id expect Mr M to realise might be costing him money 
under his old policy, unless it was pointed out to him. But even allowing for such factors, the 
difference between the back calculated and the actual new policy premiums remains 
substantial.
I think the difference can only be explained by a significant discount (that RSA suggests 
would be available on a new policy) being given on the policy Mr M took out in 2020. But 
then not being allowed for in the back calculations.
Because Mr M didnt specifically ask for a new policy quote in 2018, he wasnt offered one. 
When he did, comparing the actual 2020 premium to the back calculated premium provided 
by RSA suggests he obtained a new business discount of around 43%.
I think RSA should have told Mr M there were alternative products available. Had it, I think 
he would have asked for a quote. And as a new business discount appears to have been 
given in 2020, I think its fair that a comparable discount be applied to the historic premium 
calculated for 2018.
Putting things right
So, at this stage I think its fair that RSA calculates what it owes Mr M overall by applying this 
level of discount to the 2018 back calculation. As RSA would have planned to recover the discount over a four to five-year period its reasonable that the premiums it calculates for 
2019 and 2020 reflect this.
This means its likely that the premium calculated for 2020 would be higher than what Mr M 
actually paid in 2020, but those for 2018 and 2019 should be significantly lower than he did 
pay. I also think it fair that RSA should add interest at 8% per year simple on the additional 
premiums that Mr M has paid.
I asked both parties to let me have any further information or comments they wanted me to 
consider.
Response to provisional decision
Mr M said he was pleased I was planning to uphold his complaint but made a number of 
points. For ease I will set these out below.  
RSA acknowledged my provisional decision and said it was reviewing it but hasnt 
commented further.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided to uphold the complaint in part, along the lines set out in my 
provisional decision.
I understand Mr M feels strongly about the matter, but I dont think there is evidence that 
RSA has taken advantage of his loyalty in the period up to 2018. At that point as Mr M had 
clearly engaged about price, I think it should have done more than it did and discussed 
alternatives in order to treat him fairly.
Ive considered the additional points Mr M has made. Ive set these out below followed by my 
comments in italics. 
He said he did recollect contacting RSA in the past to discuss price and questioned 
the accuracy of its records. He said RSA had subsequently confirmed he did have 
building insurance in 2004 rather than this being added in 2007 as it had initially said 
in explaining a price increase. This showed its records werent reliable. But they are 
the only records available. Older records are commonly deleted, in part to comply 
with data processing regulations. 
He asked as hed contacted RSA in 2006 and 2007, why hadnt alternatives been 
discussed then if he was inert. There was some engagement and the premium did 
reduce in this period, but it isnt clear why. RSA says changes were made to the 
policy in 2007 with an additional premium raised during the policy year but hasnt 
been able to expand further on why this was. This engagement ended the period of 
inertia, but there isnt any evidence that Mr M was expressing dissatisfaction with the 
premium. That means theres no evidence RSA were aware or should have been 
aware that Mr M might have been interested in hearing about an alternative policy if 
one were available. Ive asked RSA to demonstrate that the renewal premiums it 
offered in subsequent years were reasonable and there isnt any evidence they 
werent. This includes years where the premium both increased and decreased on 
the prior year and RSA has been able to explain what factors were causing 
premiums to change.  
He said the premium history showed a number of reductions, with significant ones in 
2014 and 2015. He was sceptical that RSA offered these as part of its standard 
process offered to all customers against a backdrop of rising premiums generally. He 
said, on balance, these reductions were due to him calling RSA to challenge the renewal premium. And if he had called, should alternatives not have been discussed 
then. But, unfortunately, there isnt any evidence that Mr M did call to discuss the 
premium. The reduction in 2014 was 10% and only 2% in 2015. As Mr M points out 
neither he nor RSA can provide copies of the original renewal documents for the 
years in question, so the initial renewal premium offered isnt known. I agree this 
means its possible that the reduction to the prior year might have been larger than it 
appears. However, we do have evidence of RSAs profit margin on the premium 
charged for each year. It is reasonably consistent until 2015 and in fact declines from 
2016 onwards despite premiums increasing more rapidly. This suggests that the 
premiums being offered werent unfairly being increased to grow profits on the policy 
but reflect RSAs claims experience and changes to how it assessed risk and other 
factors impacting pricing over a long period of time.
He said he understood the earlier policy was a closed product and if the profit margin 
for his policy was typical didnt this mean RSA was overcharging all the customers 
with the policy, given the staggering discounts available on new policies. The profit 
margin on Mr Ms policy suggests RSA wasnt profiteering and there will be 
differences between the exact cover each individual customer had. RSA wasnt 
obliged to offer the lowest premium in the market. That discounts were offered to new 
customers was both common practice in the industry, and I think common knowledge 
to consumers. Mr M wasnt tied into the policy and could have shopped around, he 
chose not to, but RSA doesnt appear to have taken advantage of this to increase its 
profit. 
He was confused by the comparison of premium and cover offered by the old and the 
new policies where I had said the cover was broadly the same. Why were there 
material differences (in cost) unless inert customers were being taken advantage of? 
The level of cover isnt identical but is broadly similar and reflects newer underwriting 
processes. Im only considering the circumstances of Mr Ms complaint here. And in 
his case, these new processes seem likely to have reduced the premium. But this 
might not have been the case for all customers with this policy. In some areas the 
replacement policy offered less cover, which might be an important differential to 
some customers. RSA wasnt giving a recommendation about the policy or cover 
level, thats for the consumer to decide. And renewal documents issued from around 
2012 would have prompted customers to shop around for alternative quotations 
which might have offered cost savings. Once Mr M engaged about price had RSA 
made him aware of alternatives it had available via the same sales channel we think 
it would have treated him fairly. 
The discount offered on taking out a new policy does appear to account for most of 
the difference in price. Recent rule changes mean an insurer should offer the same 
price on renewal that it would offer a new customer on the date of the renewal. 
Historically some insurers attracted new customers with discounts, hoping to recover 
the discount at future renewals - typically over the next four years or so if the 
customer didnt arrange their cover elsewhere. 
So, taking everything into account I dont think RSA treated Mr M unfairly in the period up 
until the 2018 renewal. But at that point it should have discussed available alternatives with 
him and failed to do so. Had it done so it seems likely that a cost saving would have been 
available to Mr M whilst still providing appropriate cover for his requirements, so its fair that 
the extra premiums he has paid are reimbursed.
Putting things right
I think its fair that RSA calculates what it owes Mr M overall by applying the 43% discount 
Mr M secured to the 2018 back calculated premium, reflecting any underwriting advantages 
the replacement policy would have offered. As RSA would have planned to recover the discount over a four to five-year period its reasonable that the premiums it calculates for 
2019 and 2020 reflect this.
This means its likely that the premium calculated for 2020 would be higher than what Mr M 
actually paid in 2020, but those for 2018 and 2019 should be significantly lower. I also think 
its fair that RSA should add interest at 8% per year simple on the additional premiums that 
Mr M has paid.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above and in my provisional decision, my final decision is that I 
uphold this complaint against Royal & Sun Alliance Insurance Plc trading as More Th>n.
I direct Royal & Sun Alliance Insurance Plc trading as More Th>n to calculate the premiums 
for the alternative policy in 2018 with the same level of discount he obtained in 2020 and the 
appropriate renewal premiums it would have offered in 2019 and 2020. The difference 
between these and what Mr M has actually paid should be refunded with interest at 8% 
simple per year.  
If Royal & Sun Alliance Insurance Plc trading as More Th>n considers that its required by 
HM Revenue & Customs to deduct income tax from that interest, it should tell Mr M how 
much its taken off. It should also give a certificate showing this if Mr M ask for one, so he 
can reclaim the tax from HM Revenue & Customs if appropriate.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 16 August 2022.
 
Nigel Bracken
Ombudsman