DRN-3029054
The complaint
This complaint is about a mortgage payment protection insurance (PPI) policy taken out in 
1995. Mr O says Bank of Scotland plc, trading as Halifax (Halifax), mis-sold him PPI.
What happened
The background and circumstances leading up to this complaint, which includes Mr Os 
circumstances at the time of the sale as well as the PPI policy benefits, limitations and 
exclusions of cover, arent disputed. So, I havent repeated all of this information here.
Our adjudicator did not uphold the complaint.
Mr Os representative disagreed with the adjudicators opinion  they didnt raise any new or 
additional points but repeated the same complaint points and arguments theyd previously 
made. 
As the complaint couldnt be resolved informally, it has been passed to me for a final 
decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Although I have only included a summary of the complaint, I have read and considered all 
the evidence and arguments available to me from the outset, in order to decide what is, in 
my opinion, fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of this complaint. 
When considering what is fair and reasonable, I am required to take into account relevant: 
law and regulations; regulators rules, guidance and standards; codes of practice; and, 
where appropriate, what I consider to have been good industry practice at the time. 
Weve set out our general approach to PPI mis-sale complaints on our website and 
published some example final decisions that set out in detail how these relevant 
considerations may apply to PPI sales like Mr Os. I havent set out that detailed information 
here, but Ive taken into account all relevant considerations in deciding Mr Os complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided not to uphold this complaint and Ive summarised my reasons 
for this conclusion below:
 
Mr O has said the PPI was included as part of the mortgage package, but I think it more 
likely Halifax made it clear to Mr O that he didnt have to take out the PPI and he chose 
to take it out. Ill explain why. 
Neither Halifax or Mr O have been able to provide any of the documents from the time of 
the sale. But I dont find this surprising bearing in mind how long ago the sale took place 
and the mortgage being redeemed. And as a business, Halifax is not obliged to keep 
paperwork indefinitely. But where I have limited information about a sale, I have to 
decide what I think is more likely based on the available evidence including Mr Os 
testimony. 
Mr O has said the PPI was sold over the phone and he didnt receive advice, but Halifax 
has given us evidence to show that it was an in-branch sale and that it recommended the 
policy. And Ive been given a screenshot of Halifaxs computer record which show Mr Os 
responses a series of questions checking his suitability and eligibility for the policy, so it 
must have been discussed in the branch meeting to some degree. 
Halifax says it wouldve made the optional nature of the PPI clear and not added it 
without Mr Os explicit consent as part of its usual process  and I havent seen any 
evidence to the contrary. Taking everything into account, I think its more likely that Mr O 
knew the policy was optional and he agreed to take it out without undue pressure.
Halifax recommended the PPI to Mr O, so it had to check that the PPI was right for him. 
And the evidence about Mr Os circumstances at the time, shows that the policy wasnt 
fundamentally wrong or unsuitable for him. For example, Mr O was eligible for the cover 
and he didnt have any means such as employee sick pay or savings to fall back on, so 
he had a need for cover. 
There was nothing about Mr Os employment or occupation which would have made it 
difficult for him to claim. And he hasnt told us about any pre-existing medical conditions 
that could affect his ability to claim. 
Its possible the information Halifax gave Mr O about the PPI wasnt as clear as it 
shouldve been. But Ive found that he chose to take it out  so it looks like he wanted 
this type of cover. The cover wasnt fundamentally wrong for Mr O as I concluded above, 
or too dissimilar to what he reasonably thought he was buying from the information he 
was given. It also looks like it was affordable  so it seems like it would have been useful 
for him if something went wrong. Because of this I dont think Mr O would have declined 
the cover had Halifax done anything more.
While the policy contained limitations on claims relating to back and mental health 
conditions, in light of Mr Os circumstances at the time of sale and despite its limitations, 
the policy wasnt fundamentally wrong or unsuitable for him. So, I think he would have 
still thought he had some good reasons to take the policy out.
Overall, I consider that Mr O would have still taken out PPI. I think the policy could provide a 
useful benefit in a difficult time, given his circumstances at the time. I also think the policy 
was sufficiently close to what its likely he thought he was getting. And in those 
circumstances, I think that he would have taken out the policy in any event.
Mr Os representative has raised a number of what I consider to be general complaint points, 
which it says apply to all PPI complaints. These general points include: a claim that the 
Financial Ombudsman Service is not correctly applying the regulators rules and guidance 
for handling PPI complaints; these policies represented poor value because of the number of 
significant exclusions and limitations of cover coupled with the low claims ratio; and the duty 
of utmost good faith meant Halifax should have disclosed the poor value and explained the 
significance of the limitations and exclusions and the impact it had on the chances of making 
a claim.
But Mr Os representative has not said how these points apply to the specific facts and 
circumstances of Mr Os individual complaint  just that they apply to all PPI complaints.I have thought about these things and how they might apply in Mr Os particular case. But 
these points dont persuade me to alter my conclusions about what is fair and reasonable in 
all the circumstances of the complaint  for the reasons Ive set out above I dont uphold this 
complaint.
This means Halifax doesnt have to do anything to put things right.
My final decision
Overall, having considered all the evidence and arguments to decide what is, in my opinion, 
fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of this complaint and for the reasons I have set 
out above, I dont uphold Mr Os complaint  so I make no award.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr O to accept or 
reject my decision before 25 November 2021.
 
Catherine Langley
Ombudsman