DRN-2513164
The complaint
Mr M has complained that Fairmead Insurance Limited (trading as Legal & General 
Insurance Limited) L&G has unfairly increased the cost of his pet insurance policy. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In general, the cost of insuring a pet will increase each year as the pet gets older and the 
cost of medical treatment rises. Standard pet insurance policies also usually wont cover any 
medical conditions the pet had or had received treatment for when the policy was taken out 
or renewed. So ongoing or recurring medical conditions wont be covered.
But some pet insurance policies, like the one Mr M took out, will continue to cover any 
medical conditions claimed for in previous years, provided the policy is renewed each year. 
These are sometimes referred to as lifetime policies, as ongoing or recurring conditions will 
continue to be covered for the lifetime of the pet, if premiums carry on being paid. The yearly 
cost of these lifetime policies can go up significantly at renewal, particularly if claims are 
made. And that there is no limit to how much the premium could be.
L&G should have made these longer-term cost implications clear to Mr M. It has accepted 
the information it gave Mr M about the policy wasnt as clear as it should have been. And 
L&G has now offered to pay him £250 compensation for the trouble and upset hes been 
caused as a result of this. 
Mr M hasnt accepted the offer and asked for an ombudsman to review the complaint. 
I think this offer is fair and reasonable compensation in the circumstances of Mr Ms 
complaint and Ill explain why. 
Its important to be clear that businesses are entitled to decide how much to charge for the 
insurance cover they provide. I dont have the power to tell a business what its insurance 
should cost, or how they should be calculating risk. I would be, in effect, determining or 
telling a business how it should operate  and thats not my role. So I cant say the cost of Mr 
Ms policy is too high, he should have been charged less for the policy or that he should be 
charged less in the future.
Although Mr Ms policy is a lifetime policy its an annually renewable contract. So like most 
policies of this type, L&G will reassess the risk they are taking in providing the insurance 
each year. With this type of insurance claims made will often affect the premium price as 
the claims history might indicate a greater likelihood of an animal needing further treatment 
in the future. We wont interfere with an insurers assessment of risk or the calculation they 
do to determine what the premium will be.
While Mr Ms premium has seen a significant increase, I havent seen any evidence to 
suggest L&G has treated him differently to how it would have treated any other policyholder 
in the same position. So I cant tell L&G to charge him a lower premium going forwards.
I understand Mr M will be disappointed with this as this was the outcome he had hoped for. I 
recognise that the situation has caused him upset. Due to the medical conditions his dog 
now has, he is unlikely to find cover for the treatment needed elsewhere. And I recognise the 
likely continuing increases in the premium in future years means he may not be able to 
afford to continue with the policy.
But the thing L&G did wrong was not give Mr M the information he needed to understand he 
could end up in the position he now finds himself in. Where I find something has gone 
wrong, Ill look at whats likely to have happened if it hadnt, to see if a consumer has lost 
out.
Mr M chose to take out pet insurance, so he wanted some type of cover for his pet. And, as 
he chose to take out a lifetime policy, he clearly had some interest in the greater level of 
cover it provided. If Mr M hadnt taken a lifetime policy, he wouldve either had no cover at 
all, and would have had to pay for all his pets treatment himself, or a reduced level of cover, 
where he would still have found himself in a situation where his pets conditions were no 
longer covered. So I think its likely he would still have gone ahead with the lifetime policy, 
even if hed known the premium could increase significantly in the future. 
I recognise that its possible Mr M may have gone with a different provider offering a similar 
policy. But its impossible to know what policy Mr M would have ended up with  it might 
have been cheaper, but it might also have been more expensive. I think its unlikely better 
information about the possible future costs of the policy would have resulted in Mr M paying 
a significantly lower amount. I say this as providers that offer this type of insurance tend 
operate in a similar way  taking the same sort of factors into account when the premiums 
are calculated at renewal. And there are policies available where claims dont affect the 
premium  however these are usually more expensive from the outset. 
But I do think better information about the policy wouldve meant that Mr M wasnt so 
surprised and upset when the cost increased significantly  instead this would have been 
something he was aware could happen. 
The compensation L&G has offered recognises that better information about the longer-term 
costs of the policy could have avoided some of the trouble and upset Mr M has experienced. 
And I think it fairly compensates Mr M.
I also note Mr Ms comments about the reduction of his premium this year and I see this has 
now been clarified by L&G who explained an error was made which resulted in a larger price 
drop than expected. However as this happened some months ago, they do not intend to 
rectify their mistake and Mr M can keep this years lower premium.  
My final decision
Fairmead Insurance Limiteds offer to pay Mr M £250 compensation is fair and reasonable. 
Fairmead Insurance Limited should now pay Mr M £250. I dont require it to do anything 
further.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 18 March 2021.
 
Hannah Eykel
Ombudsman