DRN-4222697
The complaint
This complaint is about an equity release mortgage that Mrs B holds with more 2 life Ltd 
(M2L). Mrs B is represented by a court-appointed deputy who complains that the mortgage 
should not have been agreed, as Mrs B lacked capacity.
 
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties so I wont repeat them again in 
detail here. Instead Ill give a brief summary (in my own words and rounding the figures 
involved) and then focus on giving the reasons for my decision. 
The mortgage began in November 2015, with a facility of just over £296,000 and an initial 
drawdown of around £148,000. A second drawdown followed in 2017, increasing the drawn 
funds to £200,000. A third drawdown was requested in 2018 but not agreed.
In 2019, the Court of Protection appointed a deputy to manage Mrs Bs affairs. In 2022, the 
deputy raised a complaint with M2L that it should not have lent the money to Mrs B. M2L 
rejected the complaint and it was referred to this service. Our investigator wasnt persuaded 
M2L had done anything wrong. Mrs Bs deputy has asked for the complaint to be reviewed 
by an ombudsman.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
If I dont comment on any specific point its not because Ive failed to consider it but because 
I dont think I need to comment on it in order to reach what I think is the right outcome in the 
wider context. My remit is to take an overview and decide whats fair in the round. 
Were not the regulator of financial businesses, and we dont police their internal processes 
or how they operate generally. Thats the job of the Financial Conduct Authority.  We deal 
with individual disputes between businesses and their customers. In doing that, we dont 
replicate the work of the courts. Were impartial, and we dont take either sides instructions 
on how we investigate a complaint, or when we have enough information on file to decide it.
If the available evidence is incomplete and/or contradictory, we reach our findings on what 
we consider is most likely to have happened, on the balance of probabilities. Thats broadly 
the same test that the courts use in civil cases. 
In this decision I have to look at the provision of the mortgage (in terms of regulatory 
requirements and what was regarded as good industry practice at the relevant time) and 
considered generally whether M2L did anything wrong when the mortgage was taken out 
and the drawdown permitted. In doing that, I can give no regard to the regulatory standards 
as they are today, or to any hindsight that the intervening years might have brought.
Ive considered all of this very carefully; its for us to assess the reliability of evidence and 
decide how much weight should be attached to it. When doing that, we dont just consider 
individual documents in isolation. We consider everything together to form a broader opinion 
on the whole picture.
Our investigators conclusion was that M2L had followed its standard procedures correctly. 
Thats fine as far as it goes, but the true test  and what the outcome turns on  is whether 
M2L had (or should reasonably have had) any reason to suspect all might be well, such that 
it needed go beyond its normal procedures and make further enquiries that might have 
resulted in it deciding it should not lend. 
As part of the evidence to support her case, Mrs Bs deputy has provided copies of two 
assessments of Mrs Bs capacity, conducted in August 2015 and December 2018 
respectively. Both assessments concluded that she was unable to make decisions about her 
circumstances and affairs. The 2018 report post-dates the two transactions Im looking at 
here, so is not relevant to my decision. 
The August 2015 report, however, predates the first drawdown, by about three months, so is 
relevant. However, M2L didnt know it existed at the time. Bearing in mind the approach I set 
out above, I have to decide whether there were reasonable grounds for M2L to have made 
enquiries that might have resulted in the August 2015 capacity report coming to light.
M2L was only one of three separate parties involved in Mrs B taking out the mortgage in 
November 2015. The other two were: 
a third party intermediary Ill refer to as K that advised Mrs B to take out the 
mortgage and recommended it as being suitable for her needs and circumstances; 
and
a firm of solicitors Ill refer to as A that certified that having met Mrs B face to face, it 
had fully explained the nature of the transaction and that she had confirmed her 
desire to go ahead with it. 
It wasnt M2Ls role to replicate the work of K or A; provided the application met M2Ls 
lending criteria  which Im satisfied it did  M2L wasnt required to make its own judgement 
on whether the mortgage was suitable and whether Mrs B knew what she was doing in 
applying for it. In both cases, those assessments had already made by the parties required 
to make them. M2L would therefore have had no reason to insist on further enquiries or 
investigations that may, or may not, have resulted in the August 2015 capacity report coming 
to light.
As far the 2017 drawdown is concerned, its important to remember that this did not involve a 
new underwriting decision by M2L on whether and how much it was willing to lend. The 
lending decision already made in 2015 was that M2L was willing to lend Mrs B a little under 
£300,000. All M2L was being asked in 2017 was for some more of the money it had already 
agreed to lend to be released.
Im aware that in this instance, Mrs Bs daughter initiated the first contact with M2L. She 
called M2L to say Mrs B wanted to draw some more money; M2L did the right thing by 
saying it could not agree to release funds on the say-so of Mrs Bs daughter. Instead, it 
posted out an application form, which Mrs B then signed and returned. Satisfied that the 
signature was Mrs Bs, M2L released the second drawdown.
Theres nothing untoward in that; its quite common for an elderly person to have a relative 
or friend assist them informally in the organisation of their affairs, of itself, thats not indicative of a lack of capacity. In such informal situations, the third party assists, but only 
the principle party can transact; and thats exactly what happened in the case of Mrs Bs 
2017 drawdown. 
I dont know, and wont speculate on, whether the involvement of Mrs Bs daughter in this 
transaction (or indeed the abortive attempt at a third drawdown in 2018) was any less benign 
than merely helping Mrs B. The test for me, again, is whether there was any reason for M2L 
to suspect it might be, at least as far as the 2017 transaction is concerned. 
In all the circumstances, Im not persuaded there was. Based on the available evidence, and 
without the aid of hindsight, I find that M2L acted reasonably and fairly in respect of both the 
original advance and the later drawdown.
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint. My final decision concludes this services consideration of this 
complaint, which means Ill not be engaging in any further discussion of the merits of it.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs B to accept or 
reject my decision before 9 August 2023. 
Jeff Parrington
Ombudsman