DRN-3268532
The complaint
Mrs H complains about the advice given by Sterling Wealth Ltd (Sterling) trading via its 
appointed representative PH7 Wealth Management (PH7) to transfer the benefits from her 
defined-benefit (DB) occupational pension scheme to a self-invested personal pension 
(SIPP). 
She says that she wasnt provided with full information about the transfer before it went 
ahead. She says that now she has seen these documents she thinks the advice was 
unsuitable for her. She believes she has given up valuable benefits and this has caused her 
a financial loss.
What happened
Mrs H approached PH7 in late 2019 to discuss her pension and retirement needs. 
PH7 completed a fact-find to gather information about Mrs Hs circumstances and objectives. 
PH7 also carried out an assessment of Mrs Hs attitude to risk, which it deemed to be Low 
end Moderate to Adventurous for this part of her pension planning. It said that Mrs H was 
able to take a higher than average investment risk in order to potentially increase returns, for 
this smaller part of her capital. 
On 13 December 2019, PH7 advised Mrs H to transfer her pension benefits into a SIPP. 
Mrs H transferred around £63,500 and she invested the proceeds using a discretionary fund 
manager (DFM). 
The suitability report said the overarching reason for the pension transfer was to increase 
flexibility. As Mrs H, and her husband, had enough income at retirement they could use the 
transfer value of Mrs Hs DB scheme to meet some of Mrs Hs other aims. These aims were: 
Mrs H wasnt working, so she wanted to use the proceeds from this pension to 
provide an income from age 60 (at the time of advice) to her state pension age of 66.
She could take lump sums as required until her full retirement later on.
Her partner, and her children, could have full access to this money in the event of her 
death.
Mrs H complained in 2020 to PH7 about the suitability of the transfer advice. She said at this 
point that she hadnt received full information about the transfer before it went ahead. 
PH7 didnt uphold Mrs Hs complaint. It said she was provided with full information prior to 
the transfer and this would have been fully discussed. The advice to transfer was suitable for 
her. This was, essentially, because she wanted to use the funds held in her DB scheme to 
provide flexibility over the next five years or so and the transfer to the personal pension 
allowed her to do this. 
Mrs H referred her complaint to our service. An investigator upheld the complaint and said 
that PH7 should pay compensation. He said that the transfer wasnt viable financially and did 
leave Mrs H worse off. And the flexibility that she wanted didnt outweigh this. It was likely 
she could have met her aims and still kept her deferred DB scheme benefits. 
PH7 disagreed, it said that:  
Mrs H had a full understanding of the advice and she agreed with it at the time. She 
also confirmed that she had received the point of sale information. 
It thought the advice was valid as Mrs H felt the guaranteed income from her DB 
scheme wouldnt make a great deal of difference so she could give it up.  
She felt the flexibility the transfer gave her was more beneficial and prudent. 
She took a lump sum from the SIPP but no income, which demonstrates she wanted 
to make the transfer.  
The investigator wasnt persuaded to change their opinion, so the complaint was referred to 
me to make a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
When considering what is fair and reasonable, I am required to take into account relevant 
law and regulations; regulators rules, guidance and standards; codes of practice; and,
where appropriate, what I consider to have been good industry practice at the time.
Having done so, Ive decided to uphold the complaint for largely the same reasons given by 
the investigator. 
The regulator, the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA), states in its Conduct of Business 
Sourcebook (COBS) that the starting assumption for a transfer from a DB scheme is that it 
is unsuitable. So, PH7 should have only considered a transfer if it could clearly demonstrate 
that the transfer was in Mrs Hs best interests (COBS 19.1.6). And having looked at all the 
evidence available, Im not satisfied it was in her best interests.
Mrs Hs complaint about the information she received at the time of sale
Mrs Hs complaint was initially that she didnt receive the documentation, and other 
information she should have, at the time of sale. Both parties to the complaint have 
presented differing opinions about what happened here.  
Similar to our investigator, I cant say for certain whether Mrs H did, or didnt, receive all of 
the information she should have done at the time of sale.  But I dont need to reach a firm 
conclusion about this issue to consider the complaint. This is because Ive found that the 
advice wasnt suitable for Mrs H. So, Im upholding the complaint for this reason. 
If Mrs H did receive all of the information about the advice, this wouldnt change my opinion 
that it wasnt suitable for her. And similarly, if she didnt receive all the information she 
should have about the advice my decision about the suitability would still be the same. 
Financial viability 
The advice was given after the regulator gave instructions in Final Guidance FG17/9 as to 
how PH7 could calculate future 'discount rates' in loss assessments where a complaint 
about a past pension transfer was being upheld. Prior to October 2017 similar rates were 
published by the Financial Ombudsman Service on our website. Whilst PH7 wasn't required to refer to these rates when giving advice on pension transfers, they provide a useful 
indication of what growth rates would have been considered reasonably achievable for a 
typical investor.
The critical yield required to match Mrs Hs benefits at age 66 was 14.19% if she took a full 
pension with spouses provision, and 13.07% if she took pension on a single life basis tax 
free cash and a reduced pension. 
The relevant discount rate closest to when the advice was given which I can refer to was 
published by the Financial Ombudsman Service for the period before 1 October 2017, and 
was 3.3% per year for six years to retirement. For further comparison, the regulator's upper 
projection rate at the time was 8%, the middle projection rate 5%, and the lower projection 
rate 2% per year.
PH7 also produced some cashflow models which it says indicate Mrs H wouldve been able 
to withdraw from the fund on a regular basis. Ive considered these, and PH7s models show 
that if Mrs H was to drawdown from her pension fund the same benefits she would have 
received from the DB scheme, and assuming a medium rate of return, the fund would run 
out at her age 81. Which is below her expected life expectancy. 
And PH7 also did a transfer value comparator (TVC). It said that this was the estimated 
replacement cost of the benefits that Mrs H was giving up. This showed that to purchase the 
same benefits as the DB scheme would provide, at age 66, would cost Mrs H £131,980.21. 
So, to match that, she would need the amount transferred to grow by around £70,000 in the 
next six years. 
I've taken all of these factors above into account, along with the composition of assets in the 
discount rate, Mrs Hs recorded attitude to risk and her term to retirement. There would be 
little point in Mrs H giving up the guarantees available to her through her DB scheme only to 
achieve, at best, the same level of benefits outside the scheme. 
But here, I think Mrs H was likely to receive benefits of a substantially lower overall value 
than the DB scheme at retirement, as a result of investing in line with her attitude to risk. 
There seems very little prospect, if any, of the transfer providing better pension benefits than 
the DB scheme. For this reason alone, a transfer out of the DB scheme wasnt in Mrs Hs 
best interests. 
Of course, financial viability isnt the only consideration when giving transfer advice, and PH7 
has said that Mrs H wanted flexibility above maximising the amount of pension she would 
receive. It is fair to say that the advice was given on the basis that the transfer would reduce 
her income overall, but this was reasonable as there were other advantages to the transfer. 
So, I accept there might be other considerations which mean this transfer was suitable, 
despite it providing overall lower benefits. Ive considered these below.
Flexibility and income needs
As a starting point, if the DB scheme benefits are surplus to requirements, as PH7 said they 
were, then it doesnt necessarily follow that she should give them up. Its equally valid that 
this guaranteed, and increasing income, could form a cornerstone of Mrs H retirement 
income, and she could use the other assets, both her and Mr H had, to provide the flexibility 
they wanted.  
To give suitable advice PH7 would need to look at all of her retirement provision, and 
determine if this transfer was in her best interests. And in this case PH7s felt that Mrs H could transfer her DB scheme as she didnt really need, or want, a pension from it. What 
PH7 are essentially saying here is that it was better to give up this increased pension to 
obtain other benefits, such as flexibility. But Mrs H was giving up benefits that PH7 said were 
worth around £70,000. So, I think PH7 needed to have established a genuine need to do 
this, rather than it just being what Mrs H wanted. 
Having looked at everything I dont think there was a genuine need for this flexibility. Ive 
said why below.  
It was established that Mrs and Mr H could meet their retirement income needs from both 
their state pensions and a private pension that Mr H was receiving. Mr H was due to receive 
his state pension in around two years.  And Mrs H was due to receive her state pension in 
around six years. I understand these would provide enough for them to live off in the longer 
term. 
Mrs and Mr H were both not working, and so they did have a need for an income over the 
time between the advice and full retirement. But I dont think Mrs H had a genuine need to 
access her tax-free cash earlier than the normal scheme retirement age and could leave her 
funds invested until a later date due to this. 
This is because Mr H had recently taken the cash transfer value from an occupational 
scheme himself and realised a significant amount of money, I understand this was around 
£250,000. And whilst some of this was earmarked for a property, there was enough to meet 
Mr and Mrs Hs shorter-term needs. So, Mr and Mrs H already had arrangements in place up 
to full retirement. And I dont see why Mrs H would need to risk her DB pension when this 
was in place. 
I do note that Mrs H took some cash from her pension. But his was relatively modest amount 
and I dont think it changes my findings above. 
I also cant see evidence that Mrs H had a strong need for variable income throughout her 
retirement. This doesnt seem to have been discussed.
Furthermore, I dont see why Mrs H needed to make any kind of decision about transferring 
out of the DB scheme at this time, given the arrangements she and Mr H had in place. So, I 
dont think it was a suitable recommendation for Mrs H to give up her guaranteed benefits. If 
Mrs H later had reason to transfer out of her DB scheme she could have done so closer to 
retirement.
And for all of the above reasons Mrs H also didnt need to consider early retirement from the 
DB scheme. 
Death benefits
Death benefits are an emotive subject and of course when asked, most people would like 
their loved ones to be taken care of when they die. The lump sum death benefits on offer 
through a personal pension was likely an attractive feature to Mrs H. But information from 
the point of sale does show that Mrs H felt that she had other assets to provide for her family 
on death, and she didnt have any dependents. 
I appreciate that allowing her family to access her pension fund on her death was a feature 
she may have seen the value of. And Mrs H might have thought it was a good idea to 
transfer her DB scheme to a personal pension because of this. But the priority here was to 
advise Mrs H about what was best for her retirement provisions. A pension is primarily designed to provide income in retirement. And I dont think PH7 explored how not 
transferring could also have met her overall aims. 
Overall, I dont think the different death benefits available through a transfer to a SIPP 
justified the likely decrease of retirement benefits for Mrs H. 
Control or concerns over financial stability of the DB scheme
It was documented at the time of sale that Mrs H wanted a clean break from her employer 
and control over her pension fund. But I think Mrs Hs desire for control over her pension 
benefits was overstated. There is space on the point of sale paperwork where Mrs H could 
have said why this was but this wasnt completed. So, its not clear why she wanted to do 
this. 
Mrs H was not an experienced investor and I cannot see that she had an interest in or the 
knowledge to be able to manage her pension funds on her own. So I dont think that wanting 
to cut ties with her employer was a genuine objective for Mrs H. And the funding of her 
employers DB scheme was not in a position such that she should have genuinely been 
concerned about the security of her pension  if she was. 
Use of DFM 
PH7 recommended that Mrs H use a DFM to manage her pension funds. As Im upholding 
the complaint on the grounds that a transfer out of the DB scheme wasnt suitable for Mrs H, 
it follows that I dont need to consider the suitability of the investment recommendation. This 
is because Mrs H should have been advised to remain in the DB scheme and so the DFM 
would not have had the opportunity to manage her funds if suitable advice had been given.
Summary
I dont doubt that the flexibility, control and potential for higher death benefits on offer 
through a personal pension would have sounded like attractive features to Mrs H. But PH7 
wasnt there to just transact what Mrs H might have thought she wanted. The advisers role 
was to really understand what Mrs H needed and recommend what was in her best interests.
Ultimately, I dont think the advice given to Mrs H was suitable. She was giving up a 
guaranteed, risk-free and increasing income. By transferring, Mrs H was very likely to obtain 
lower retirement benefits and in my view, there were no other pressing reason which would 
justify a transfer and outweigh this. Mrs H shouldnt have been advised to transfer out of the 
scheme just to gain some short-term flexibility. I dont think this was worth giving up the 
guarantees associated with her DB scheme.
So, I think PH7 shouldve advised Mrs H to remain in her DB scheme.
Of course, I have to consider whether Mrs H would've gone ahead anyway, against PH7's 
advice. 
Ive considered this carefully, but Im not persuaded that Mrs H wouldve insisted on 
transferring out of the DB scheme, against PH7s advice. I say this because Mrs H was an 
inexperienced investor and this pension accounted for the majority of Mrs Hs retirement 
provision outside of her state pension. So, if PH7 had provided her with clear advice against 
transferring out of the DB scheme, explaining why it wasnt in her best interests, I think she 
wouldve accepted that advice.In light of the above, I think PH7 should compensate Mrs H for the unsuitable advice, using 
the regulator's defined benefits pension transfer redress methodology. 
Putting things right
A fair and reasonable outcome would be for the PH7 to put Mrs H, as far as possible, into 
the position she would now be in but for PH7s unsuitable advice. I consider Mrs H would 
have most likely remained in her DB scheme if suitable advice had been given.
PH7 must therefore undertake a redress calculation in line with the regulators pension 
review guidance as updated by the Financial Conduct Authority in its Finalised Guidance 
17/9: Guidance for firms on how to calculate redress for unsuitable DB pension transfers.
For clarity, Mrs H has not yet retired, and she has no plans to do so at present. So, 
compensation should be based on her normal retirement age of 65, as per the usual 
assumptions in the FCA's guidance. 
This calculation should be carried out as at the date of my final decision and using the most
recent financial assumptions at the date of that decision. In accordance with the regulators 
expectations, this should be undertaken or submitted to an appropriate provider promptly 
following receipt of notification of Mrs Hs acceptance of the decision.
PH7 may wish to contact the Department for Work and Pensions (DWP) to obtain Mrs Hs 
contribution history to the State Earnings Related Pension Scheme (SERPS or S2P). These 
details should then be used to include a SERPS adjustment in the calculation, which will 
take into account the impact of leaving the occupational scheme on Mrs Hs SERPS/S2P 
entitlement.
If the redress calculation demonstrates a loss, the compensation should if possible be paid 
into Mrs Hs pension plan. The payment should allow for the effect of charges and any 
available tax relief. The compensation shouldnt be paid into the pension plan if it would 
conflict with any existing protection or allowance.
If a payment into the pension isnt possible or has protection or allowance implications, it 
should be paid directly to Mrs H as a lump sum after making a notional deduction to allow for 
income tax that would otherwise have been paid. Typically, 25% of the loss could have been 
taken as tax-free cash and 75% would have been taxed according to her likely income tax 
rate in retirement - presumed to be 20%. So, making a notional deduction of 15% overall 
from the loss adequately reflects this.
The payment resulting from all the steps above is the compensation amount. This amount 
must where possible be paid to Mrs H within 90 days of the date PH7 receives notification of 
her acceptance of my final decision. Further interest must be added to the compensation 
amount at the rate of 8% per year simple from the date of my final decision to the date of 
settlement for any time, in excess of 90 days, that it takes PH7 to pay Mrs H.
Its possible that data gathering for a SERPS adjustment may mean that the actual time 
taken to settle goes beyond the 90 day period allowed for settlement above - and so any 
period of time where the only outstanding item required to undertake the calculation is data 
from DWP may be added to the 90 day period in which interest wont apply.
Where I uphold a complaint, I can award fair compensation of up to £355,000, plus any
interest and/or costs that I consider are appropriate. Where I consider that fair compensation
requires payment of an amount that might exceed £355,000, I may recommend that the
PH7 pays the balance.My final decision
Determination and money award: I uphold this complaint and require Sterling Wealth Ltd to 
pay Mrs H the compensation amount as set out in the steps above, up to a maximum of 
£355,000.
Where the compensation amount does not exceed £355,000, I would additionally require
Sterling Wealth Ltd to pay Mrs H any interest on that amount in full, as set out above.
Where the compensation amount already exceeds £355,000, I would only require Sterling 
Wealth Ltd to pay Mrs H any interest as set out above on the sum of £355,000.
Recommendation: If the compensation amount exceeds £355,000, I also recommend that
Sterling Wealth Ltd pays Mrs H the balance. I would additionally recommend any interest 
calculated as set out above on this balance to be paid to Mrs H.
If Mrs H accepts this decision, the money award becomes binding on Sterling Wealth Ltd.
My recommendation would not be binding. Further, its unlikely that Mrs H can accept my 
decision and go to court to ask for the balance. Mrs H may want to consider getting 
independent legal advice before deciding whether to accept any final decision.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs H to accept or 
reject my decision before 18 July 2022.
 
Andy Burlinson
Ombudsman