DRN-2836939
The complaint and what happened
Mrs F complains that TransferWise Ltd wont refund money that she lost when she fell victim 
to a scam. 
The full details of the complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them here. 
Instead, Ill recap the key points and focus on giving reasons for my decision:
Mrs F wanted to spend some time away and found accommodation she liked on-line. 
She made enquiries and was told the accommodation was available and if she 
confirmed her booking within 24 hours, she would receive a 10% discount. Mrs F 
also need to provide her name and address, along with a copy of her passport or ID 
card and her phone number. 
Mrs F was sent a holiday letting agreement which detailed the dates of her stay, the 
price of the rental and applicable terms and conditions.  
On 16 December 2019, following further exchanges, Mrs F sent money from her 
sterling bank account held in the UK to her TransferWise account. She then 
transferred out £1,123.16 (1,342 EUR) to pay for the holiday let. 
In February 2020, Mrs F realised she had become the victim of a scam when she 
received no response to her queries about checking in and the website she had 
used was no longer active.
TransferWise has declined to reimburse the lost funds. 
Our investigator didnt uphold the complaint as she didnt think the transaction was 
one which ought to have flagged concerns. Mrs F believes TransferWise should 
have acted on notification of the scam in February 2020 and had it done so she 
believes her funds would have been recovered. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Under the Payment Services Regulations 2017, and in accordance with account terms and 
conditions, payment services providers should execute an authorised payment instruction 
without undue delay. The starting position is that liability for an authorised payment rests 
with the payer even if they were duped into giving that authorisation or it was obtained by 
third-party fraud. 
However, in accordance with the law, regulations and good industry practice, payment 
services providers have a duty to protect their customers against the risk of fraud and scams 
so far as is reasonably possible. If, in breach of that duty, a payment services provider fails 
to act on information which ought reasonably to alert a prudent banker to potential fraud or 
financial crime, it might be liable for losses incurred by its customer as a result. 
The first question I therefore need to consider is whether TransferWise breached that duty 
when exercising Mrs Fs payment request?
There is no dispute that Mrs F was duped into authorising a payment of £1,123.16 for a 
holiday. This payment took place on 16 December 2019 and was for what Mrs F believed to 
be a legitimate holiday let. Although this was for a fairly substantial sum, there is no dispute 
that Mrs F authorised the payments using her usual credentials. So I conclude this was an 
authorised payment  for which Mrs F is liable unless there is evidence TransferWise could 
and should reasonably have done more to protect her, which issue I now turn to. 
I have considered whether Mrs Fs payment request ought to have triggered TransferWises 
alert systems such that it ought to have questioned whether she was the victim of a scam 
and intervened. Contrary to what the investigator said, Mrs F has made higher payments in 
the six months prior to this transaction. In November 2019, she made a payment of over 
£6,000 from her account. This is a significantly higher sum that Mrs F hadnt queried  and 
therefore appears legitimate. In the circumstances, and regardless of that prior payment, Im 
not persuaded the payment for £1,123.16 was so unusual or uncharacteristic that it ought to 
have triggered and alert or given TransferWise grounds for suspecting fraud. 
It follows that I find no persuasive evidence TransferWise breached its duty to Mrs F or that it 
shouldnt have executed without undue delay the payment request she had made and 
authorised. 
I turn now to whether TransferWise took reasonable steps to try and recover Mrs Fs funds 
once it knew of the scam. Mrs F says she notified TransferWise of the scam in February 
2020. Whereas TransferWise says it wasnt notified until we told it of the complaint in July 
2020. TransferWise has provided evidence that Mrs F tried to email a no-reply email address 
in February 2020 which was why nothing was investigated sooner. And it tried to recover the 
funds a few weeks after we told it of the complaint, to no avail.
Its my understanding recovery attempts should usually be made within 48 hours. Mrs F says 
she told TransferWise of the scam by telephone in February 2020. I havent been provided 
with any persuasive evidence in support of that. But even if I accept she did, and so 
conclude TransferWise should have attempted recovery far sooner, I dont think Mrs Fs 
position would be any different to what it is now. I say this because in my experience 
scammers usually withdraw the money within a matter of hours. Its common knowledge this 
is typical behaviour by scammers to avoid detection and recovery. Whilst I cant know for 
certain, as the overseas recipient bank hasnt provided much by way of information, its 
highly unlikely that any of Mrs Fs money remained in the scammers account by the time she 
realised she had been scammed, nearly two months later. 
My final decision
For ther reasons given, I dont uphold this complaint. Under the rules of the Financial 
Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs F to accept or reject my decision before 
4 November 2021. 
Claire Hopkins
Ombudsman