DRN-1662073
 
The complaint
Mr M complains about the charges he was invoiced by Volkswagen Financial Services (UK) 
Limited (VWFS) at the end of his car hire agreement.
What happened
Mr M signed a car hire agreement with VWFS in June 2017. When the car was returned at 
the end of the contract, it was independently inspected and Mr M received an invoice for 
£246 for damages as follows:
Scratches to left hand front wheel £36.00
Scratches to right hand front wheel £36.00
Scratches to left hand right wheel £36.00
Dent in right hand rear quarter panel £138.00
Total: £246.00
Mr M complains that:
He was given no photographic evidence of the damage.
He was given no evidence that the refurbishment had been carried out.
During the inspection his wife, who had taken the car on his behalf, was told to wait 
inside.
The inspector told Mr Ms wife that VWFS wouldnt ask Mr M to pay anything if the 
damages totalled less than £500.
VWFS threatened him with legal action while his complaint was being investigated.
VWFS said the damage to the car was not within the British Vehicle Renting & Leasing 
Associations (BVRLA) fair wear and tear tolerances, so the charges were correct. It said it 
would pass Mr Ms comments about the inspection back to the inspector.
Mr M referred his complaint to this service, but our investigator didnt recommend that it 
should be upheld. He concluded that the charges were fair and reasonable and in line with 
BVRLA guidelines.
Mr M didnt agree saying, in summary, that:
Theres no evidence of the damage and the inspector didnt allow the inspection to be 
witnessed.
He would have accepted the damage to the three wheels. But because of VWFSs 
treatment of him and his wife, he wants the damage costs written off in full.
VWFS should take responsibility for the inspectors actions, not simply pass Mr Ms 
concerns on.
He is prepared to pursue this matter through the courts.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr M says he wants everything fully investigated. Id like to reassure him that, in coming to 
my decision, I have considered everything both parties have provided and told us. But our 
role is to provide an independent and informal dispute resolution service. We arent a court 
of law. And if Mr M wants to call VWFS to account under the law, he would need to do so 
through the courts.
Nor is it our role to take action to force VWFS to change the way it operates. That would be 
for the regulator, the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA), if it saw fit.
Our very specific role is to take a view on whether Mr M was treated unfairly in all the 
circumstances of this particular case.
The terms and conditions of the hire contract say that the hirer must:
keep the Vehicle in good repair and condition. You will be responsible for any damage to or 
deterioration of the Vehicle (including repairs) except through wear and tear
And I know Mr M is familiar with his responsibilities here, having had several hire 
agreements in the past.
During the inspection, photographs were taken and, having considered these, Im satisfied 
that Mr M hasnt been unfairly charged. I say this because:
The photographs of three of the alloy wheels show scratches of more than 50mm 
which is outside of the BVRLAs fair wear and tear guidelines.
There are photographs from different angles which show a dent in the right rear 
quarter panel. BVRLA guidelines say that dents on the roof or on the swage line of 
any panel are not acceptable. The dent here is on the swage line.
So I think its fair for VWFS to charge for these items.
But Mr M raises concerns about the inspection process, so I have carefully considered what 
hes said. 
Firstly, Im satisfied that VWFS has provided evidence of the damage  in the form of 
photographs in the vehicle inspection report  and that Mr M has now seen this. I accept he 
wasnt provided with a copy of the report before he brought his complaint to us, but that 
doesnt make a difference to my overall conclusion about whether the charges are fair.
Mr M says he hasnt seen evidence that the refurbishment has taken place. But I dont find 
theres any obligation on VWFS to either provide this evidence or to carry out the 
refurbishment. The charge for damages covers the cost of repair, should VWFS choose to 
carry out repairs to the car. But it also covers the reduced value the car may attract, should 
VWFS choose to sell it.
Mr M says his wife was told to wait inside while the inspection was carried out. Whilst I dont 
doubt what he says, I cant say for sure that she was told she had to wait inside; its possible 
the inspector thought she might want to. And I wouldnt find this unusual  often an 
inspection will take place and then the inspector will talk the owner, or their representative, through it afterwards, drawing their attention to the items theyve reported. And that seems to 
be what happened here. Ive not seen anything to persuade me that Mr Ms wife not being 
present during the inspection made any difference to the outcome. Mr M suggests the dent 
wasnt present before the inspection. But the inspector was independent of VWFS and 
theres no evidence to show he damaged the car during the inspection.
Mr M says his wife was told by the inspector that, in his experience, VWFS wouldnt seek to 
recover the cost of the damage if it was less than £500. This was wrong. There is nothing in 
the hire terms and conditions to suggest there is any minimum damage charge. But I dont 
find Mr M has been disadvantaged  he was given wrong information, which would have 
been disappointing, but the charges for damage have been raised in line with the terms and 
conditions which he agreed. VWFS agreed to feedback to the inspector, to make sure he 
understands he provided the wrong information. I dont find that VWFS needs to do anything 
more.
Whilst I understand it will have been upsetting for Mr M to receive a demand for payment 
when he had disputed VWFSs invoice, I dont find there was any obligation on VWFS to 
suspend its collections activity.
For the reasons Ive explained, I dont think VWFS has treated Mr M unfairly. I appreciate 
Mr Ms strength of feeling on this matter and he is free, should he wish to do so, to reject my 
decision and pursue this matter through other means.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 10 August 2020.
 
Elizabeth Dawes
Ombudsman