DRN-3118774
The complaint
Mr W complained that Everyday Lending Limited trading as Everyday Loans lent to him 
irresponsibly and provided him with a loan that was unaffordable.
What happened
Everyday Loans provided a loan to Mr W as follows: 
Date taken Loan status Number of monthly 
instalmentsLoan 
amountMonthly  
repayment
July 2016 Not known 24 £3,300 £265.37
Mr W complained about irresponsible lending by Everyday Loans and said that he was in no 
position to repay the loan when it was provided to him. He told us he was unhappy that 
Everyday loans kept calling him to offer top up loans and that phone calls chasing him for 
payment were aggressive and made his depression and anxiety worse. 
One of our investigators looked into the complaint. He didnt think Everyday Loans should 
have provided Mr W with the loan and he asked Everyday Loans to pay redress for this. 
Everyday Loans didnt agree with the investigators assessment. 
It mainly said that:
its loan was taken out exclusively to consolidate (in other words, repay) other 
outstanding credit 
Mr Ws debt to income ratio wasnt excessive
as part of its borrower focussed assessment it had discussed Mr Ws use of payday 
loans  and he had confirmed he no longer intended to use this type of credit
Mr Ws payment problems were due to him losing his job  which was an unforeseen 
change in circumstances and not a consequence of the loan repayments being 
unsustainable. 
The complaint came to me to decide. I issued a provisional decision. 
What I said in my provisional decision
Here are some of the main things I said. 
There are some key questions I need to consider in order to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this particular complaint:
Did Everyday Loans complete reasonable and proportionate checks to satisfy itself 
that Mr W would be able to repay the loan in a sustainable way? If so, did Everyday 
Loans make a fair lending decision?
If not, what would reasonable and proportionate checks have shown at the time?
Did Everyday Loans act unfairly or unreasonably in some other way?
Everyday Loans needed to take reasonable steps to ensure that it didn't lend to Mr W 
irresponsibly. The lender was required to carry out an affordability check. The checks had 
to be borrower focussed  so Everyday Loans had to think about whether repaying the loan 
sustainably would cause difficulties or adverse consequences for Mr W.
Everyday Loans had to carry out reasonable and proportionate checks to satisfy itself that 
Mr W would be able repay his loan sustainably. There was no set list of checks that 
Everyday Loans had to do, but it could consider a number of different things such as the 
loan amount, the length of the loan term, the repayment amounts and the borrowers overall 
financial circumstances.
I think that a reasonable and proportionate check ought generally to have been more 
thorough:
the lower a customers income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
make any repayments to credit from a lower level of income)
the higher the amount due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more 
difficult to meet higher repayments from a particular level of income)
the longer the period of time a borrower will be indebted (reflecting the fact 
that the total cost of the credit is likely to be greater and the customer is required to 
make repayments for an extended period).
Everyday Loans was required to establish whether Mr W could sustainably repay his loan  
not just whether the loan payments were affordable on a strict pounds and pence 
calculation. Of course, the loan payments being affordable on this basis might be an 
indication a consumer could sustainably make their repayments. But it doesnt automatically 
follow this is the case.
This is because the regulations define sustainable as being without undue difficulties and in 
particular the customer should be able to make repayments on time, while meeting other 
reasonable commitments, as well as without having to borrow to meet the repayments. And 
it follows that a lender should realise, or it ought fairly and reasonably to realise, that a 
borrower wont be able to make their repayments sustainably if theyre unlikely to be able to 
make their repayments without borrowing further.
Ive carefully considered all of the arguments, evidence and information provided in this 
context and what this all means for Mr Ws complaint. 
Everyday Loans gathered information that showed Mr Ws disposable income was at least 
£2,059 and verified his employment. It carried out credit checks to see what he was paying 
to service his existing debts and noted his creditor repayments were around £807. 
Everyday Loans relied on statistical information to assess what someone in Mr Ws particular 
situation would be likely to spend each month and allowed for him spending around 35% of his take home pay on general living costs  a figure of £720.88  which seems reasonable to 
me. And I think these checks were broadly proportionate in the circumstances.
Everyday Loans calculated that Mr W would most likely have had around £501 spare cash 
each month after taking out the loan and using it as he told Everyday Loans he planned to in 
order to repay three other credit accounts. 
So, I think it mightve looked like the loan was potentially affordable for Mr W. But Everyday 
Loans had to consider more than just a pounds and pence approach to this lending and think 
about whether it could safely say that the loan looked sustainably affordable for Mr W over 
the whole three year loan term. 
And whilst I've thought carefully about what Everyday Loans has said, I dont think that 
Everyday Loans made a fair lending decision on this occasion. 
As far as I can see, Everyday Loans used the bulk of the loan (£2,470) to clear one of 
Mr Ws credit cards and it sent a cheque for £406 to another lender to clear the debt Mr W 
had with it. It paid the loan balance (£424) into Mr Ws bank account on 7 July 2016.
In the event, it appears that the £406 cheque from Everyday Loans wasnt acceptable to the 
lender so Everyday Loans cancelled that cheque and paid the balance of £406 direct to Mr 
Ws bank account on 18 July 2016.  
But looking at the information Everyday Loans had gathered when assessing Mr Ws loan 
application, even if he had used its loan to repay the accounts he said he would, I think 
Everyday Loans could see that he would still have had to pay at least two other providers of 
high cost credit monthly repayments that totalled £338 as well as a hire purchase agreement 
that cost £215 per month. 
So given his new loan with Everyday Loans would cost him approximately £265 per month, 
by my reckoning C needed to spend around 39% of his take home pay just servicing these 
items alone. 
I think that this was such a significant proportion of Mr Ws monthly income Everyday Loans 
couldnt reasonably say that it was likely that Mr W would be able to repay its loan in a 
sustainable way over the whole two year loan term. 
As well as this, I think Everyday Loans was able to see that Mr W had already been 
struggling to manage his money. The information Everyday Loans saw on Mr Ws credit 
report showed that Mr W had an established track record over the previous couple of years 
of extensive reliance on expensive credit - short-term loans/high cost credit/ credit card 
usage all featured on the credit checks Everyday Loans carried out. 
And although Everyday Loans has said it saw no evidence that Mr W was living beyond his 
means I think it was aware that he was supplementing his income with credit to fund his day 
to day spending. 
Everyday Loans knew about Mr Ws living arrangements, which meant Mr W paid no rent or 
mortgage, and that Mr W had been in reasonably well paid work for a number of years, so 
I think Everyday Loans should have been concerned about Mr Ws apparent reliance on 
expensive credit. I think Everyday Loans, as a responsible lender, ought to have realised that Mr Ws use of 
credit was significantly at odds with what it might have expected to see for someone whose 
spending and use of credit was under control. So to my mind, it was reasonably foreseeable 
that Mr Ws spending and borrowing habit was likely to continue, irrespective of what he told 
Everyday Loans about his plans to not borrow any more - and thats borne out by what 
happened.
Ive seen information showing that the same day Everyday Loans paid the balance of its loan 
into his bank account on 7 July 2016, Mr W took out a new £100 loan (with the same 
provider of expensive short-term loans that he had previously told Everyday Loans he would 
be repaying before starting his new loan with Everyday Loans.) 
On 18 July 2016, when Everyday Loans cancelled the £406 cheque and paid that money 
into Mr Ws bank account, Mr W took a further £50 loan from another short-term lender the 
same day. Out of the £406 that Mr W had told Everyday Loans he intended to use to clear 
an account it looks like Mr W in fact paid just £150 to the account that month  and a few 
days later, just a week after receiving the £406 credit into his account, Mr W took a further 
£100 loan with another expensive lender - on the same day his pay was credited into 
account. 
I dont think that the fact Everyday Loans provided the loan for debt consolidation means it 
was fairly provided. I acknowledge that Everyday Loans made a direct payment to one of 
Mr Ws credit cards in order to clear the outstanding balance. But it would have known this 
was likely to make credit available on the card, unless Mr W closed the card account and 
took out no new credit. Everyday Loans hasnt shown me that this was ever particularly 
discussed and theres nothing in the contact notes it has sent me that suggests Everyday 
Loans considered this or factored this possibility into its lending decision. 
Although Everyday Loans said there was no evidence that Mr W was living beyond his 
means that isnt borne out by what its own credit checks showed about his credit history, and 
I think it was reasonably foreseeable that his apparent dependency on using expensive 
credit was likely to continue - despite what Mr W told Everyday Loans. 
And thats borne out by what Ive seen on Mr Ws credit report which shows that whilst the 
loan from Everyday Loans (paid direct) cleared his £2,470 credit card balance in full in July 
2016 Mr W ran up credit again immediately. 
In September 2016, the balance on the card was £2,442  less than £30 short of the 
settlement figure Everyday Loans had paid to clear card balance just 2 months previously. 
So effectively the loan provided by Everyday Loans simply added to Mr Ws overall 
indebtedness. 
Its my view that Everyday Loans ought reasonably to have been aware that taking 
further, costly lending was unlikely to help Mr W and more likely to potentially increase 
his indebtedness over the longer term. 
I've taken into account that Everyday Loans says Mr W ran into payment problems 
because he lost his job. But I can see its contact notes record that although within a 
month or so Mr W seems to have found a new job he was also planning to file for 
bankruptcy. That suggests to me that his financial difficulties were already so overwhelming at that 
point there was no realistic prospect of Mr W being able to agree arrangements to pay 
with creditors  and it looks like IVA plans were later rejected by Everyday Loans a few 
months later when the extent of Mr Ws debt and his ability to pay became apparent to 
Everyday Loans. 
So, I am planning on upholding Mr Ws complaint that he should not have been given the 
loan.
I've also thought carefully about whether Everyday Loans acted unfairly or unreasonably 
some other way. Mr W complained about the way Everyday Loans tried to sell him top up 
lending and the way it chased him for payment. 
It doesnt appear to me that Everyday Loans sales tactics were problematic for Mr W at the 
time  its notes suggest he simply told Everyday Loans that he was ok for funds at the 
moment. 
And I havent seen enough to make me think that Everyday Loans efforts to contact Mr W 
when he ran into payment problems were unreasonable or excessive. 
I can completely understand that Mr W found it very stressful having to negotiate with 
Everyday Loans (and his other creditors) whilst at the same time dealing with problems at 
work and then finding himself in a lower paid job. 
But I can see that Everyday Loans appears to have engaged in discussions with Mr W and 
also with Mr Ws representative after he sought professional help with his financial situation. 
As far as I can see, Everyday Loans put things on hold pending a creditors meeting in 
December 2017  this seems to have resulted in Mr W entering into an individual voluntary 
arrangement with creditors (IVA)  although it broke down subsequently and Everyday 
Loans notes record that notice of bankruptcy was received in November 2019.  
Looked at overall, whilst I sympathise with the challenges Mr W faced dealing with his 
financial situation, and I plan to uphold his irresponsible/unaffordable lending complaint, 
I dont feel that I've seen enough to be able to say that Everyday Loans acted unfairly or 
unreasonably some other way.
As Mr W has been further indebted with an expensive loan that he shouldnt have been 
provided with, Im satisfied that he has lost out as a result of what Everyday Loans did 
wrong.  So, as things stand, I think Everyday Loans needs to put things right.
What the parties said in response to my provisional decision 
Mr W told me he had nothing further to add.
I have heard nothing further from Everyday Loans and the deadline for responses has now 
passed so I think its reasonable for me to proceed with my review of this complaint. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our approach to unaffordable/irresponsible lending complaints on our 
website and Ive kept this in mind while deciding this complaint.Id like to thank both parties for all the information that has been provided about this matter 
and Mr W for responding to my provisional decision. Given that Ive not received any further 
evidence or comment that changes my mind about this complaint, I confirm the conclusions 
I reached in my provisional decision.
Putting things right
I think it is fair and reasonable for Mr W to repay the capital amount that he borrowed, 
because he had the benefit of that lending. But he has paid extra for lending that should not 
have been provided to him. In line with this Services approach, Mr W shouldnt repay more 
than the capital amount he borrowed. 
Everyday Loans should: 
add up the total amount of money Mr W received as a result of having been given the 
loan. The repayments Mr W made should be deducted from this amount.
If this results in Mr W having paid more than he received, then any overpayments 
should be refunded along with 8% simple interest* (calculated from the date the 
overpayments were made until the date of settlement). 
If any capital balance remains outstanding, then Everyday Loans should attempt to 
arrange an affordable/suitable payment plan with Mr W keeping in mind its obligation 
to treat him positively and sympathetically in those discussions.
Remove any negative information recorded on Mr Ws credit file regarding the loans.
*HM Revenue & Customs requires Everyday Loans to deduct tax from this interest. 
Everyday Loans should give Mr W a certificate showing how much tax has been deducted if 
he asks for one.
My final decision
I uphold this complaint and direct Everyday Lending Limited trading as Everyday Loans to 
take the steps I've set out above to put things right for Mr W. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision before 19 November 2021.
 
Susan Webb
Ombudsman