DRN-2543325
The complaint
Mr D is unhappy that Tandem Bank Limited, trading as Tandem, didnt notify him that they 
were making changes to his account which needed to be accepted by him in order for his 
account to continue. This led to Mr Ds account being closed and the account information no 
longer being available on the online app. 
What happened
Mr D had an account with Tandem. In January 2020, Tandem wrote to its customers, 
including Mr D, to let them know that the terms and conditions of their agreement would be 
changing. One change was that a monthly fee of £5.99 was being introduced. Tandem 
advised its customers that they would need to opt-in to these changes, and that if they didnt 
their account would stop working in March 2020.
Mr D didnt opt-in to the changes and so his account stopped working when Tandem had 
said it would. Mr D had an ongoing dispute with Tandem at that time which meant that he 
was expecting refunds to be credited to the account after the time that the account stopped 
working. This meant that Mr D wanted to continue to be able to view the account in order to 
monitor the ongoing status of these expected refunds.
However, in July 2020, Mr D found that he was unable to access the Tandem app to monitor 
his account. Mr D contacted Tandem about this and was told that this was because his 
account information had been removed from the online app automatically after his account 
had been closed for 120 days, in line with Tandems process. Mr D wasnt happy about this 
and said that hed previously been told by Tandem that hed be able to monitor his account 
via the app indefinitely, and also that he hadnt been given any warning that his account 
information would be removed from the app. So, Mr D made a complaint.
Tandem responded to Mr Ds complaint in August 2020. They said that they had removed Mr 
Ds information from the online app after 120 days as per their process, and that Mr D could 
continue to monitor the account via monthly paper statements. So, they didnt uphold Mr Ds 
complaint.
Mr D wasnt satisfied with Tandems response, and he also wasnt happy that a paper 
statement hed been promised by Tandem previously hadnt arrived. So, he referred his 
complaint to this service.
One of our investigators looked at this complaint. Our investigator acknowledged that 
Tandem were within their rights to change the terms of the account and to remove Mr Ds 
information from the online app after 120 days. But our investigator was concerned about the 
impact that Tandem not providing the paper statement in a timely manner had on Mr D, in 
that it restricted his ability to monitor his account, and so they initially recommended that 
Tandem pay some compensation to Mr D because of this.
However, in response to the initial view of this complaint put forward by our investigator, 
Tandem noted that while the statement was late, it only provided information about the 
account on the date of the statement. So, if Mr D wanted up to date information about his 
account, he would have to contact Tandem directly, regardless of when the paper statement 
had been received. Because of this, while tandem acknowledged that statement had been 
late, they didnt feel that this had a material impact on Mr D which warranted the payment of 
compensation. And our investigator agreed with Tandem on this point, and so didnt uphold 
Mr Ds complaint.
Mr D remained dissatisfied, so his complaint was escalated to an ombudsman for a final 
decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Its clear that Mr D feels strongly about this complaint and I can understand his frustration at 
not being able to monitor the account for the refunds he was anticipating in the manner that 
he wanted to. But, having considered this complaint in detail, I find that Ive reached the 
same outcome as our advisor, and for the same reasons. And, while I can understand why 
Mr D feels unhappy about the standard of service that he received from Tandem, I dont 
think that there was sufficient inconvenience to Mr D to warrant asking Tandem to 
compensate him for this in this instance.
To begin, Ill address Mr Ds complaint that he didnt receive any notice from Tandem that 
the terms of his account were changing and that he would be required to opt-in to these 
changes in order for his account to continue. 
Tandem have provided this service with account notes which state that notification emails 
were sent to Mr D on 8 January and 4 March 2020 which advised about the upcoming 
changes to Mr Ds account and the need for him to opt-in to these changes if he wanted to 
continue using the account. 
Tandem have not been able to provide copies of the emails themselves. However, these 
emails were sent via an automated process, and its not unusual that copies of automated 
emails are not retained by a business. In such circumstances it would be expected that the 
business provides the template used for the automated email along with system notes which 
confirm that the emails were sent, and also confirmation of the email address held for the 
customer to confirm that they were sent to the correct address. Tandem have done this in 
this instance, and I note that the email address that Tandem hold for Mr D is one which this 
service has used successfully to communicate with Mr D.
Mr D has advised that he never received these emails and doesnt think that the information 
provided by Tandem is sufficient proof that he did receive these emails. I can understand Mr 
Ds frustration here, and I have no reason to doubt the testimony of either Mr D or Tandem in 
this regard. In situations where there is disagreement about whether something did or didnt 
occur, I have to make a decision about what I think is most likely to have happened, on the 
balance of probabilities, considering all of the information I have available to me. 
In this instance I think its more likely than not that Tandem did send the emails to Mr Ds 
email address in the way that the information provided by them suggests. I understand that 
Mr D will disagree with this point and has asked for proof that the emails were received by 
himself. But this service would only expect to see confirmation that the emails were sent and 
wouldnt hold a business responsible for whether an email has been received or read by an 
intended recipient, as such matters are beyond the control of the business in question.Mr D has also expressed dissatisfaction that he was not told by Tandem that he would 
effectively have no access to the online app to monitor his account after 120 days had 
passed following the closure of his account. Its regrettable that this wasnt made clearer to 
Mr D by Tandem and I can understand Mr Ds frustration at this, especially as the refunds he 
was anticipating hadnt yet reached his account which meant that the wanted to continue to 
monitor the account for their arrival. 
However, while I understand that it would have been preferable for Mr D to have continued 
being able to monitor his account via the online app, I think that its reasonable that Tandem 
should have such a policy in place. I also note that Mr D was able to access information 
about his account either via monthly paper statements or by contacting Tandem directly 
either online or by telephone, and so his access to his account information wasnt completely 
withdrawn  rather, Mr Ds preferred method of access was no longer available to him.
Finally, Mr D is unhappy that a paper statement he requested wasnt sent to him in a timely 
manner and he had to contact Tandem to let them know that it hadnt been received. Again, I 
can understand Mr Ds frustration here, especially as when his did contact Tandem again he 
discovered that the request for the statement to be posted to him hadnt been actioned 
correctly by Tandem in the first instance. 
Our investigator initially considered asking Tandem to pay Mr D compensation for this 
statement not being sent, but subsequently reconsidered, and did so because they felt that 
the lateness of the statement had not had a material impact on Mr D that would warrant such 
compensation.
I can understand that Mr D would disagree with the conclusion of our investigator here, but I 
think that a reasonable outcome has been reached. Its not the remit of this service to punish 
or fine businesses for their actions or inactions, but rather to work toward ensuring that a fair 
outcome is achieved. In this instance, while it must have been frustrating for Mr D to have 
had to call Tandem again in order to chase the paper statement that he had requested, I 
dont feel that his receiving this statement late had an impact on Mr D that would cause me 
to consider that an award of compensation would be merited.
I say this because the statement provided a snapshot of the account on the date that the 
statement was produced, and so didnt provide Mr D with an at-the-moment description of 
the balance of his account. If Mr D had wanted an up to date account balance, he would 
have had to request that from Tandem either via telephone or online chat. So, while it was 
inconvenient for Mr D that the statement didnt arrive when he was expecting it to, I dont feel 
that compensation is warranted because of this in this instance. Its also notable that 
Tandem provided Mr D with the information on the statement when he contacted them to 
advise that the statement hadnt been received. 
So, it follows that I wont be upholding this complaint. I know that this wont be the outcome 
that Mr D had wanted, but I hope he can understand, while I empathise with Mr D to certain 
extent, why I dont feel that Tandem have acted unreasonably here, and why I wont be 
asking them to take any further action at this time.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision before 10 March 2021.
 Paul Cooper
Ombudsman