DRN-2412439
The complaint
Mr A complains that Calpe Insurance Company Limited (Calpe) settled a claim under his
policy for an unreasonably high amount, which it is now trying to claim back from him.
What happened
I set out the background to this complaint and my initial findings in my provisional decision, 
as below:
What happened
Mr As car was involved in an accident on 26 May 2019. On 30 May 2019 Calpe was
contacted by a credit hire company (CH), CH wanted to register a claim on behalf of 
the other driver. CH told Calpe the name of the person driving Mr As car was not Mr 
A, but another name which Ill refer to as AB for the purpose of this decision.
Calpe contacted Mr A to ask him about the accident, Mr A denied any involvement 
and said he was unaware of any accident. So, Calpe went back to CH and disputed 
the claim. CH were able to provide Calpe with images of Mr As car at the scene.
In the meantime, Calpe also asked Mr A if he knew who AB was, or if he had loaned 
the car to anyone else. Mr A confirmed he hadnt loaned the car to anyone and again 
denied he was involved in the accident.
Mr A agreed to have his car inspected. The inspection report said there was no 
damage to his car and no signs of recent repair.
When Calpe received the photos of Mr As car at the scene, showing his car in 
contact with the other drivers car  it forwarded them on to Mr A. Mr A continued to 
deny involvement in the accident, he said that nobody else had access to his car and 
he did not know who AB was.
Mr A also completed and signed an accident report form on 7 June 2019, in which he 
writes:
I have no idea about any incident
Calpe decided, based on the evidence that it had been presented in the form of the
photographs, and Mr As denial of involvement -meaning the driver was unknown, 
that it would have to deal with the claim. It also decided to cancel Mr As policy as it 
felt he was refusing to cooperate with the investigation.
Calpe sent Mr A a 7 day cancellation notice and cancelled the policy as of 19 June 
2019. It also told him it would be dealing with the accident under the Road Traffic Act 
1998 (RTA)  and would be looking to claim the costs of this back from him.
Mr A spoke to Calpe following this, and again denied any involvement in the 
accident. He also told it that he wouldnt be able to afford to pay the claim. Calpe told 
him told him to wait until he received a letter regarding this, as it couldnt advise him 
of the costs at that time
.
Calpe eventually settled the claim for a total amount of £14,496.65, this was made up 
in the following way:
£1,450  other drivers excess
£1,132.20  repair to other car
£8,020.45  car hire costs
£78  Assessors fees
£3,816  personal injury claim
It then wrote to Mr A to let him know its outlay and inform him that it was looking to 
recover the costs from him.
When Mr A received the letter, he called Calpe and told it that he was unhappy 
because he wasnt involved in an accident. He then called back on the following day 
and said he now remembered he was the driver of the car at the time of the accident, 
but that no contact was made between the cars. He raised a complaint with Calpe as 
he didnt think he should have to pay the claim and felt that the settlement was 
disproportionate.
Calpe investigated the concerns but didnt uphold them, saying he had consistently 
denied involvement in the accident, even when presented with photographic 
evidence, and so had failed to cooperate with its investigation and prejudiced its 
position by withholding pertinent information. Mr A was unhappy with this so brought 
his complaint to this service.
The investigator that looked into the case partially upheld it. In summary he said:
Calpe had fairly cancelled Mr As policy based on the information he had 
given them, and his lack of cooperation with the claim
Calpe had dealt with the claim fairly and in line with the policy, and it was 
entitled to recover all of the costs apart from the car hire ones from Mr A.
Calpe hadnt shown the car hire was required for the full length of time, and 
so it should reduce the cost of the car hire from the amount it was seeking to 
recover
Neither party fully agreed with the investigators findings and so the matter has been 
passed to me to decide.
What Ive provisionally decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I have to tell Mr A that I dont think Calpe has done anything wrong 
here and so I dont intend to ask it to make a reduction in the monies it is seeking to 
recover from him, Ill explain.
The terms and conditions of the policy say:
We, the underwriters or your broker have the right to cancel your policy at anytime by
giving you seven days notice in writing where there is an exceptional or valid reasonfor doing so. The cancellation letter will be sent to the latest address we have for you
and will set out the reason for cancellation. Exceptional or valid reasons may include
but are not limited to:
i. 
ii. Where you are required in accordance with the terms of this policy
booklet to co-operate with us, or send us information or
documentation and you fail to do so in a way that significantly hinders
our ability to process a claim, or our ability to defend the underwriters
interests we or your broker may issue a cancellation letter to advise
you we will cancel your policy if you fail to co-operate with us or
provide the required information or documentation within the seven
day notice period.
Calpe has shown that Mr A failed to cooperate with its investigation, by constantly 
denying any knowledge of the accident, even when presented with photographic 
evidence of his car at the scene. Given that Mr A has since admitted involvement I 
think its fair to say this caused unnecessary steps in Calpes investigation of the 
claim, for example had Mr A cooperated with Calpe, his car would not have needed 
inspection. So, Im satisfied that it acted fairly and in line with its terms and conditions 
when cancelling Mr As policy.
Calpe had to, under the RTA, deal with the other drivers claim. Because the policy 
was cancelled, Calpe is entitled to recover the costs of the claim from Mr A. When 
this happens, we still expect an insurer to deal with the claim as if the policy was in 
place and try to mitigate the costs it incurs.
Calpe has provided evidence to show the costs it paid associated with the claim. I 
can see from the information provided, it interrogated the costs making sure that the 
repairs it was paying for were in line with the damage it could see in the photographs.
The other driver was placed in a hire car by CH. The car they were provided was of a 
similar make, model and specification to their own, and the hire period was for 32 
days in total.
To ensure that the car hire costs were fair in this claim, I need to be satisfied that:
The car hire is needed and necessary
The daily hire rate is in line with those set out by the Association of British 
Insurers (ABI)
The car hire is for an appropriate length of time 
CH provided Calpe with a mitigation questionnaire completed by the other driver, 
setting out why they needed the car hire. In the form, the other driver gave his 
reasons for needing car hire, this is enough to satisfy the first point.
The ABI set out General Terms of Agreement (GTA) between subscribing insurers 
and credit hire organisations, part of these terms set limits on the daily rates a credit 
hire company can charge for car hire. Provided the car hire charge is equal to or less 
than that daily rate we accept the charge to be a fair one.
The car that was provided to the other driver was of a similar make, model and 
specification as their own one and this falls under group P8 in the GTA. The daily 
rate for this type of car is £220.73 excluding VAT and I have seen from the evidence 
that Calpe provided, it paid a lesser daily rate of £208.86 excluding VAT. So, Im 
satisfied that the rate it paid was in line with what wed expect.The other driver had the hire car for 32 days which does seem excessive at first 
glance but, upon looking into this further I can see that Calpe contacted CH, 
throughout the 32 days to make sure that the hire car wasnt being used for longer 
than necessary. It has also provided me with a copy of correspondence from CH 
explaining that the hire lasted longer than was originally intended, as the repairing 
garage needed to order parts it didnt have available. So, I think Calpe did all it could 
to keep the hire costs to a minimum.
Having considered everything, Im satisfied that Calpe acted fairly and in line with its 
terms and conditions when cancelling Mr As policy, and when dealing with the other 
drivers claim. And so it follows, Im not intending to recommend it does anything in 
order to put things right here for Mr A.
In my provisional decision I explained why I was minded to not uphold Mr As complaint. I 
invited both parties to let me have anything in response they thought was relevant.
Calpe said it accepted the findings and had nothing further to add.
Mr A responded and said Calpe only called him once when he said he wasnt involved in the 
accident. He also said that he cannot afford to pay Calpe.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I think I must offer reassurance to Mr A here that I have considered all contact between him 
and Calpe when reaching my decision. Calpe has provided contact notes for calls that have 
taken place and an accident report form that he has completed and signed and in all of these 
he maintains that he was not involved in the accident. So, Im satisfied that he did fail to 
cooperate with the investigation in the way I have described above.
As Mr A has said that he is unable to afford to pay Calpe the costs its seeking to recover I 
suggest that Calpe arrange a suitable payment plan that is affordable for Mr A.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, my final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision before 12 January 2021.
 
Amber Mortimer
Ombudsman