DRN-3883737
The complaint
Mr G complains about the way Haven Insurance Company Limited has settled a claim under 
his motor insurance policy. 
What happened
In July 2022, Mr G made a claim under his motor insurance policy for a replacement 
windscreen. He was put in touch with a third-party repairer, who Ill refer to as A. 
After A had replaced the windscreen, Mr G found that it didnt have the manufacturers 
artwork on it. He raised a complaint on the basis that A had told him the windscreen would 
be a like for like replacement. He said the windscreen didnt match the other window glass 
on the vehicle and this would impact its value.
Haven didnt uphold the complaint. It said Mr G hadnt specifically mentioned the artwork or 
that he wanted an Original Equipment Manufacturer (OEM) screen and, if he had, A 
wouldve informed him of the additional cost of £272. It has offered to replace the screen 
provided Mr G pays this amount. 
As he wasnt happy with this response, Mr G brought his complaint to our service. Our 
investigator was satisfied that Haven had made a fair offer to replace the windscreen on 
receipt of the additional cost. As Mr G didnt agree, the complaint has been passed to me to 
decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr Gs motor insurance policy has the following condition:
Where we or another repairer carry out work on your car, parts and accessories 
(including green recycled parts) that are not made or supplied by the vehicle 
manufacturer but are of similar type and quality, may be used.
Im satisfied the policy terms are clear that Haven has a choice on how it wishes to settle a 
claim, and that it may choose to use non-OEM parts. 
Mr G says he was told by A that it would be a like for like part. Ive listened to this call and 
the advisor says:
It will be like for like so whatever youve got in there now, it will be the same again 
going in. Whatever it came off the factory floor with, is what well replace it with. 
After this, the conversation changes to how the crack in the windscreen occurs. Mr G 
believes the call recording has been tampered with due to the sudden change of 
conversation. 
In any event, from the quote above I think its reasonable for Mr G to assume it was going to 
be an OEM part and that it would have the artwork. Whilst Haven say Mr G shouldve 
specifically mentioned the artwork and specifically asked for an OEM, Im not sure he had 
cause to when the advisor said it would be the same part it left the factory with. And Mr G 
isnt the windscreen expert here, A are  so its fair for him to rely on what they told him. 
But where I find that a business has done something wrong, my role is to ensure the 
customer is put back in the position they wouldve been in had everything been done 
correctly. It isnt to fine or punish the business for a mistake or, in this case, a 
miscommunication. 
If A had done everything correctly, it wouldve informed Mr G that this was an aftermarket 
part and not an OEM. This wouldve prompted Mr G to ask more questions and on doing so, 
he wouldve realised this wouldnt include the artwork that the original had. He wouldve 
been informed of his option to have an OEM part but that hed have to pay an additional cost 
of £272 for it.
As such, Im satisfied Havens offer to replace the windscreen on receipt of the additional 
cost is fair. I say this because Haven has already settled the claim and it will have to bear 
the additional cost for A to do the work, and Mr G will only pay for the OEM windscreen 
which he wouldve always had to pay for  therefore putting Mr G back in the position he 
wouldve been in had nothing gone wrong. So I dont think Haven needs to do anymore here. 
My final decision
Haven Insurance Company Limited has already made an offer to replace Mr Gs windscreen 
with an OEM part on receipt of the additional cost. I think this offer is fair in all the 
circumstances. 
So my decision is that Haven Insurance Company Limited should take this action should 
Mr G decide to pay the additional cost of £272.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 15 February 2023.
 
Sheryl Sibley
Ombudsman