DRN-1713801
The complaint
Miss G has complained that Haven Insurance Company Limited have turned down her claim 
under her car insurance policy with them. 
What happened
Miss C made a claim under her policy after she drove her car into the front of a van. She 
said her foot had slipped onto the accelerator and this was why shed hit the van. Haven 
took a little while to collect Miss Gs damaged car and eventually refused her claim after 
reviewing video evidence of the incident. This was on the basis Miss Gs policy didnt provide 
cover for deliberate damage caused by anyone insured by the policy. They subsequently 
returned her car and cancelled her policy. 
Miss G complained to Haven, but they didnt alter their decision. So Miss G asked us to 
consider her complaint. One of our investigators reviewed her case and said she thought 
Havens decision to decline her claim was reasonable. Miss G didnt accept our 
investigators view on the case, so the complaint was referred to me for a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive checked Miss Gs policy document and it does say that Haven will not provide cover for 
deliberate loss or damage caused by anyone insured under the policy. Ive watched the 
video evidence showing Miss G driving her car into the front of the van. And, while I 
appreciate Miss G was clearly in a very stressful situation and shes said her foot slipped 
onto the accelerator, I think its most likely she deliberately drove her car at speed into the 
front of the van. This is because of the distance she drove the car before it hit the van and 
the speed at which she drove into it. In view of this, I think Havens decision to decline Miss 
Gs claim was reasonable. I also realise Miss G has said the video evidence was provided 
by the person who racially abused her. But, it shows the incident which led to her claim, so I 
need to take it into account when deciding what the  fair and reasonable outcome to her 
complaint is. 
I also think, bearing in mind what happened, Havens decision to cancel Miss Gs policy was 
reasonable. And I also think the initial delay in collecting Miss Gs damaged car before they 
declined her claim was understandable, as it looks like they had some problems trying to 
arrange this.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, Ive decided not to uphold Miss Gs complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss G to accept 
or reject my decision before 12 December 2020.
 
Robert Short
Ombudsman