DRN-2585102
The complaint
 A company which Ill refer to as F complains that it received poor service from Barclays 
Bank UK Plc when it began experiencing financial difficulties and consequently was placed 
on the market for sale. 
In bringing this complaint M is represented by one of its directors who I refer to as Ms M.
  
What happened
 The background to this complaint goes back many years. But for reasons I explain later, our 
investigation has focussed on the events that took place after 1 April 2019. Inevitably, that 
has meant some of Fs concern about Barclays conduct were excluded from our 
investigation and therefore my review. However, where relevant, I briefly mention what 
happened before April 2019 by way of context to the complaints weve been able to 
consider. 
F was bought in 2013 with the help of two commercial loans totalling around £1,550,000 
repayable over a 15-year term. Unfortunately, not long after the loans were granted, F began 
experiencing financial difficulties. Although Barclays extended Fs overdraft facilities and 
agreed various loan capital repayment holidays, there were no material improvements in Fs 
financial position. It therefore continued operating at a loss. So, in 2017, F was placed on the 
market for sale. 
There were a number of interested parties, some of whom made offers to purchase F. But, 
none of the proposed purchases progressed to completion. In particular, and somewhat 
disappointingly, although contracts were exchanged in relation to one of the proposed 
purchases, with completion scheduled for March 2019, the sale fell through leaving F to 
serve Notice of Completion on the proposed purchaser. 
These events also coincided with the coming to an end in April 2019 of a previously agreed 
capital repayment holiday aimed at providing some respite to Fs financial difficulties. Against 
that background, and after two meetings between Barclays and F at the beginning and 
middle of April 2019, on 26 April 2019 Barclays wrote F with a list of proposals. They 
included the requirement that F engaged with a member on the banks Accountancy Panel - 
who Ill refer to as B, to help F and the bank better understand the available options going 
forward.  
Barclays told F that in the event the sale transaction did not complete in the coming month 
and F wasnt prepared to work with them along the lines theyd suggested, they would 
consider taking appropriate action to protect their position. Barclays said that might include 
the appointment of administrators under the banks floating charge security.
In July 2019 there was a further meeting between Barclays and F. And following that 
meeting the bank again wrote to F confirming their shared assumption the outstanding sale 
would not now go ahead. Barclays said it had therefore become critical for F to engage with 
B given the strain on its cashflow. 
In August 2019 F signed Bs terms of engagement. Afterwards B carried out an independent 
business review which was shared with the bank. On receiving Bs report Barclays agreed to 
increase Fs overdraft limit by a further £100,000 as well as granting it a further extension to 
Fs loan capital repayment holiday.  
Further attempts, however, to market and sell F continued to be problematic and F believed 
Barclays were partly to blame. So, on its behalf, Ms M formally complained to the bank. 
As well as various historic matters, including the alleged mis-sale of the loans in 2013, Ms M 
also complained about events that took place in 2019. In particular she complained that 
Barclays: 
forced F to appoint B; 
disclosed confidential information to prospective purchasers of F with a view to it 
being secured at a reduced price;
 breached the Data Protection Act; and 
failed to act professionally on the basis that members of their staff were threatening 
and rude when dealing with Ms M.  
Barclays issued a number of final response letters which covered Fs complaint issues both 
before and after 1 April 2019. Overall, Barclays didnt think theyd done anything wrong. 
They didnt agree that Bs appointment was forced onto F. And they pointed to the further 
help they provided to F after receiving Bs independent business review. Nor did they agree 
they disclosed confidential information about Fs financial position to potential purchasers 
and they didnt think theyd been in breach of the Data Protection Act. They also disagreed 
that staff members acted unprofessionally when dealing with Ms M. 
F didnt agree with Barclays conclusions and referred its complaint to this service. 
After making clear to F the scope of her investigation, our investigator considered Fs 
complaint. But she didnt uphold it. She said - in summary - that: 
F signed Bs terms of engagement. And she agreed with Barclays that the 
independent business review which B carried out afterwards ultimately benefitted F 
because Barclays felt able to provide further financial assistance. 
Notes of the meetings and the calls that took place between Ms M and the bank after 
1 April 2019, didnt demonstrate poor behaviour towards Ms M. 
F had been on sale for a number of years. So, information was likely to be in the 
public domain about F including its financial position. Potential buyers would most 
likely have tried to find out as much as they could about the circumstances of the 
sale. And in any case, it wouldnt have been in the banks interest to allow F to be 
sold at a reduced price by disclosing confidential information about its financial 
position.
Having regard to the example F gave as proof Barclays breached Data Protection 
legislation  in other words that F had a second charge registered against it - that 
information was publicly available. So, she was unpersuaded this information had 
been disclosed by the bank to any third party. 
F didnt agree with the investigators conclusions. Although on its behalf Ms M didnt provide 
further detailed evidence, she nonetheless explained that the root cause of the position F 
later found itself in stemmed from the unaffordability of the loans Barclays granted in 2013. 
And in relation to Barclays general conduct throughout the process of trying to sell F, Ms M 
said that whilst the bank has given a plausible response to Fs complaint about that, 
nonetheless its possible for a bank to behave in ways that arent easily detected.  
    What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ill come to the substance of my findings in a moment. But first I acknowledge this has been 
a difficult time for F. Attempts to sell it has gone on for a long time and Ms M has explained 
that at times during the process she has been very emotional, and her health has been 
impacted. I am sorry to hear that. 
Secondly, as Ive already noted Fs general unhappiness with Barclays stemmed from the 
banks decision in 2013 to grant to F loans it believes were unaffordable at the time. And F 
has argued the events that have subsequently became the subject matter of its complaint 
are rooted in that 2013 decision. 
Why I can only look into complaints about events that happened after 1 April 2019
1 April 2019 is our starting point for the consideration of this complaint. Thats because F 
satisfies our criteria for a small business. Our investigator pointed out that when it came to 
small businesses our rules changed on 1 April 2019 to allow us to consider complaints 
brought to us by such businesses. Crucially, however, as she also made clear the 
application of the change to our rules isnt retrospective. So, like the investigator Ive focused 
my review on F complaints about the events that have happened since 1 April 2019 - to 
which I now turn.   
The appointment of B 
Barclays suggested it was in Fs best interest to engage B. And Barclays email to F dated 
26 April 2019 indicates Ms M was reluctant to do so. Ms M says that although initially she 
refused, Barclays told her F would be placed in administration if she didnt agree to the 
appointment. This too is largely supported by the 26 April 2019 email. 
I can understand why Ms M might well have concluded she had little choice but to agree to 
the appointment of B. But I think this falls short of being forced to do so. Indeed, I note that a 
meeting took place between Barclays and F on 1 April 2019, so in advance of the banks 26 
April 2019 email. And the meeting notes records the relationship manager in attendance 
saying specifically the bank couldnt force Ms M to engage with B if she didnt want to do so. 
But its important to observe that the discussions that took place in April and July 2019 
between F and the bank about Bs appointment happened against the background of the 
recently aborted purchase of F. And Barclays felt this had the effect of increasing the 
pressures on Fs finances. Indeed, notes of the 1 April 2019 meeting record some of the 
banks immediate concerns  including the likelihood the business may not last another 
month especially given that staff salaries were due at the end of April 2019 and cashflow 
forecast was pointing towards a £400,000 overdraft position by June 2019.  
F needed the banks continued financial support. Barclays made it clear the steps F needed 
to take so they could more confidently decide whether to continue to provide that support. 
The appointment of B was an important component and Barclays did make clear the 
consequences if B wasnt appointed.
In the circumstances Im not persuaded that the position the bank adopted was 
unreasonable. Barclays also suggested a number of areas B would be able to provide value 
to F beyond simply conducting the independent review into its financial position. The bank 
also indicated B might be able to provide assistance and support in the management of the 
sales process going forward and, should F wish, operational support prior to the sale a being 
agreed.So, although I appreciate F was reluctant to appoint B ultimately the overall effect was to Fs 
advantage because, as Barclays has pointed out, the report B produced after conducting its 
independent business review persuaded the bank to continue with further measures aimed 
at providing yet further financial support to F.  
Disclosure of confidential information to a potential purchaser 
It is Fs case that its former relationship manager told potential purchasers that F was 
experiencing financial difficulties and about to enter into administration. So, by sitting tight, 
theyd be able to purchase F at a reduced price. Much of Fs evidence in this regard has 
focussed on one potential purchaser in particular. 
So, in relation to that purchaser, I have considered very carefully Ms Ms evidence for 
coming to that conclusion. 
Ms M has told us that, in January 2020 the sales agent F had personally engaged secured 
an offer to buy F at a price close to £3,000,000 which F accepted. The purchaser was 
apparently a friend of the sales agent. Ms M has told us that after solicitors were instructed, 
and a completion date agreed in February 2020, the period of due diligence began. It was 
during that period, according to Ms M that the agent informed her that Barclays had 
disclosed confidential information about Fs financial position to the purchaser. Ms M has 
shared the contents of an email dated 2 February 2020 that the agent sent to Barclays in 
connection with the disclosure  saying among other things:
Its really important that the buyer isnt aware of the sellers financial position. First of all [Fs 
former relationship manager] advised the buyer that the sellers were going into 
administration and advised them [B] had been brought in.
Ms M says she believes the agents statement is enough to prove insider information had 
been disclosed by Barclays and in particular by Fs former relationship manager. She says 
the agent did not know B had any connections with F or that Barclays were insisting, they 
worked together. 
Barclays deny they disclosed any information to the purchaser. 
But leaving that aside, it is difficult in the circumstances, not only to substantiate the account 
given by the agent to Ms M but also to attribute the same weight Ms M has attached to it. I 
say that especially having regard to what Ms M has told us about how she came to conclude 
the disclosure was made by Fs former relationship manager. Ms M says that when the 
purchaser told the agent about the disclosure, the purchaser: 
used the word He when referring to the former relationship manager 
referred to allegations that the former relationship manager had made about 
her
gave an account of an incident in which Ms M had complained about him, 
which led to his replacement as Fs relationship manager. 
Ms M says before the former relationship manager was removed, F only ever had a 
male relationship manager - the person named in the agents February 2020 email to 
Barclays. Ms M says the terminologies that she understood were used in the 
conversation between the purchaser and the person with whom he was speaking 
could only have come from that former relationship manager.
Ms M has acknowledged that the confidential information she believes was disclosed 
happened when the purchaser was carrying out his own due diligence. In advance of 
completion which Ms M says had been scheduled for February 2020, detailed pre-
completion enquiries would have had to be made by the solicitors acting for the purchaser. 
Inevitably Fs finances and profitability would have come under close scrutiny. At the time of the agreed sale in January 2020 F had been on the market for about three years. Indeed, Ms 
M has acknowledged F had not been profitable and it is my understanding that by and large 
this had been the position since it was bought in 2013. I agree with the investigator therefore 
that information about F was likely to have been in the public domain.
More importantly, its not my understanding F was sold to the purchaser at a price below the 
offer price. So, there is nothing to suggest the purchaser relied on unauthorised information 
to secure a better deal. Indeed, recent Companies House searches appear to show that F 
remains unsold.    
Breach of the Data Protection Act (DPA) 
Separately from the alleged disclosure to Fs purchasers, Barclays said they asked F for 
specific examples of the data breach for which F felt the bank was responsible. And F 
confirmed Barclays had disclosed information to the effect a second charge was registered 
against F. 
But the DPA was intended to cover personal data. In other words, more generally, data 
protection legislation which at different times included both the Data Protection Act and the 
General Data Protection Regulations (GDPR) only applied to data relating to individuals. So, 
in relation a limited company which F is, personal information cannot be released about it. 
But, in any case as the investigator observed, the information allegedly disclosed about F is 
public information that is freely available at Companies House. 
Failure by staff members to act professionally.    
Im aware some of Ms Ms allegations of poor conduct by Barclays predate 1 April 2019. But 
for reasons already explained Ive not considered those. 
The evidence available to me after 1 April 2019 is fairly limited and essentially comprises the 
notes of the meetings that took place between F and Barclays on 1 and 9 April 2019 as well 
as the letters dated 26 April and 18 July 2019 that were sent by the bank to F following their 
meetings.  
I agree with the investigators comment that it is often difficult to get a proper sense of the 
tone of a meeting from the written notes. But having read them carefully, Ive found no 
persuasive evidence the banks employees who participated in those meetings were rude or 
unprofessional in their conduct towards Ms M. Ive come to the same conclusion in respect 
of the correspondence that was sent to F after those meetings. 
No doubt the meetings were difficult given the financial pressures F was experiencing at the 
time. Notes of the 1 April 2019 meeting for example records that Ms M was agitated because 
she believed the bank had been interfering in the running of the business  especially in 
matters concerning the retention of particular members of Fs staff.  And the notes also 
record a point in the meeting where Ms M is said to have displayed antipathy towards all 
parties associated with F who she believed were responsible for the position it found itself in. 
One of the relationship managers in attendance is said to have responded that it wasnt 
constructive to pick a fight with the bank when it was trying to be supportive and had the 
same objective as F. Perhaps that was a show of impatience, but I find it difficult to conclude 
it was rude. 
The 26 April and 18 July 2019 letters were business-like. They dont appear to me to be 
unprofessional in any way. Indeed, the 18 July 2019 letter shows concern and empathy by 
the relationship manager towards Ms M. He explained hed he come away from the meeting 
with F feeling concern about Ms Ms wellbeing and welfare and that the bank appreciated 
how difficult, challenging and emotional the events were. He explained that in similar 
circumstances other customers found it helpful to speak to one of the banks Partner 
Agencies for additional support details of whom hed be willing to pass on to Ms M. So, I am not persuaded that members of the banks staff acted unprofessionally towards Ms 
M.
My final decision
 For the reasons Ive explained above I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask F to accept or 
reject my decision before 17 March 2022.
 
Asher Gordon
Ombudsman