DRN-4402141
The complaint
Mr C complains about how esure Insurance Limited trading as esure (esure) handled a 
claim under his motor insurance policy. 
What happened
Mr C had a motor insurance policy with esure covering his car. 
He was involved in a serious collision with a third-party vehicle, which was a lorry registered 
in a foreign country. Mr C contacted esure and made a claim. He had a partial registration 
number for the lorry.
esure discussed the claim with him. Mr C said he didnt want to claim until liability for the 
collision had been decided. esure said it would close his claim as he couldnt provide the full 
registration number of the third party.
Mr C wasnt happy with how the claim progressed and he complained. 
esure didnt respond. So Mr C brought his complaint to this service. esure then responded. It 
paid Mr C £100 as a gesture of goodwill because it hadnt responded to his complaint. But 
esure thought it hadnt done anything wrong with his claim. Claims against foreign vehicles 
can take longer to settle and Mr C had told it he didnt want the claim progressing until 
liability was settled.
Our investigator looked into it and thought his complaint would be upheld. He thought esure 
should have done more to deal with Mr Cs complaint. He thought esure should pay £100 
compensation for his distress and inconvenience. This is separate to the gesture of goodwill 
mentioned above.
Mr C agreed with the view, but esure didnt. It explained that it wasnt able to progress the 
claim at all, due to the partial registration number, and because of Mr Cs refusal to allow it. 
Because esure didnt agree, this complaint has been passed to me to make a final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im upholding Mr Cs complaint and Ill explain why.
Its esures position that it couldnt progress the claim against the third party because it didnt 
have the full registration number for the third-party vehicle. 
Mr C has pointed out that he provided esure with details of a witness, and the police (and 
other emergency services) were involved. From the details I have, esure didnt contact either 
of these to investigate whether more details were available. 
What esure did do was seek to close his Mr Cs claim and didnt reply to his further 
enquiries.
As Mr C says, esure only seemed to respond to him when he started to raise his complaint 
through this service and in its correspondence with him it then says it would look to gather 
the information from the police. He also pointed out that esure didnt recover his car after it 
was taken to a storage area.
From the information I have, I can see that the foreign insurer has now been in contact with 
esure and Id expect that his claim will progress and be settled by esure. 
Id also point out to Mr C that the procedures insurers follow for international claims like this 
one are complex. I know hes found it suspicious that the other insurer made contact with 
esure when his complaint was with this service, but these matters do, unfortunately, take 
time. Mr Cs choice to tell esure to effectively put his claim on hold while liability was decided 
meant that he didnt receive a settlement for his claim, or any assistance that may have been 
available. I cant fairly say that esure is responsible for most of Mr Cs distress and 
inconvenience.
That said, I dont think esure did enough to investigate his claim and seems to have been 
content to wait until a third party contacted it. And I dont think that service is good enough. 
Mr C has talked about his distress caused solely by esures handling of his claim and I think 
it should pay him £100 compensation for this. I can see Mr C has already agreed with this. 
For the avoidance of doubt, this amount is in addition to the £100 gesture of goodwill its paid 
him for its handling of his complaint.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, my final decision is that I uphold this complaint. esure 
Insurance Limited trading as esure should pay £100 compensation to Mr C for his distress.
esure Insurance Limited trading as esure must pay the amount within 28 days of the date on 
which we tell it Mr C accepts my final decision. If it pays later than this, it must also pay 
interest on the amount from the date of my final decision to the date of payment at 8% a year 
simple.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 29 December 2023.
 
Richard Sowden
Ombudsman