DRN-3790356
The complaint
Mr D complains that Everyday Lending Limited trading as Everyday Loans irresponsibly 
granted him a loan he couldnt afford to repay. 
Mr D has brought his complaint to us via a claims management company but I will refer to 
him throughout for simplicity. 
What happened
EDL agreed a loan of £3,050 for Mr D in September 2017. The total amount owed was 
£6,329 to be repaid at £211 a month over 30 months (all figures rounded).  
Mr D said EDL was irresponsible to have agreed to lend to him because the loan was 
unaffordable. 
EDL didnt uphold Mr Ds complaint. It said that it asked him about his income and estimated 
his expenses based on national statistical datasets. It also checked his credit file and two 
months bank statements. EDL found that the loans repayments would be affordable for him. 
Mr D referred his complaint to us. Our investigator didnt recommend that the complaint be 
upheld. They found that EDL didnt act unfairly or unreasonably by approving the credit 
agreement. Mr D didnt agree with this recommendation and asked for his complaint to come 
to an ombudsman to review and resolve. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive also had regard to the regulators rules and guidance on responsible lending (set out in 
its consumer credit handbook  CONC) which lenders, such as EDL, need to abide by. EDL 
will be aware of these, and our approach to this type of lending is set out on our website, so I 
wont refer to the regulations in detail here but will summarise them. 
Before entering into a credit agreement, EDL needed to check that Mr D could afford to meet 
his repayments out of his usual means for the term of the loan, without having to borrow 
further and without experiencing financial difficulty or other adverse consequences. The 
checks needed to be proportionate to the nature of the credit (the amount borrowed, for 
example) and to Mr Ds circumstances.
EDL asked Mr D about his income which he said was £2,031 a month. Mr D said he was 
living with his parents and had no rent to pay. EDL estimated that Mr Ds living costs were 
£711 and recorded his monthly financial commitments as £306. This left him over £1,000 
disposable income to cover his loan repayments of £211 along with any other unaccounted 
for expenses. EDL concluded that the loan was affordable for Mr D. 
EDL provided copies of the credit file information and the bank statements it relied on and 
Ive reviewed these. The credit file information shows that Mr D had a hire purchase 
agreement with monthly payments of £190 and a loan with payments of £115. It also shows 
that he had a current account with an overdraft of £250 which was fully utilised. Mr Ds credit 
file information didnt show problems with his active debt so I dont think EDL had any reason 
to think he was experiencing financial difficulty at that time. 
The bank statements show that Mr Ds income was as recorded, at a minimum, and that he 
received expense payments of several hundred pounds from his employer each month. The 
identifiable expenses shown on these statements dont suggest that EDLs estimate of 
Mr Ds expenses was wrong. I have noticed a returned payment charge, several cash 
withdrawals and bank transfers, and I can see that Mr D took out a loan of £1,000 the week 
prior to this one with repayments of £64. However, I havent seen anything which makes me 
think the loan would be unaffordable for Mr D or that he was having problems managing his 
money to the extent that EDL should have declined to lend to him.
Ive concluded that the checks EDL carried out on this occasion were reasonable and 
proportionate. I havent seen anything in the information EDL had about Mr Ds 
circumstances that should have prompted it to complete further checks before lending to 
him, and it didnt do anything wrong by lending to Mr D on the basis of the information it had. 
I appreciate that this will be disappointing news for Mr D but, having considered everything 
carefully, I have concluded that EDL wasnt irresponsible when it lent to him on this occasion 
and so I am not upholding his complaint. 
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I am not upholding Mr Ds complaint about Everyday Lending 
Limited trading as Everyday Loans and dont require it to take any action. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision before 5 December 2022.
 
Michelle Boundy
Ombudsman