DRN-4230430
The complaint
X is unhappy that Barclays Bank UK PLC, trading as Barclaycard, reduced the credit limit on 
his credit account.
What happened
X has a Barclays credit account which had a credit limit of £7,800. In May 2023, Barclays 
wrote to X and explained that theyd taken the decision to reduce the credit limit on his 
account from £7,800 to £4,100. X wasnt happy about this, especially as the reduction in 
available credit left him in financial difficulty. So, he raised a complaint.
Barclays responded to X and explained that the terms and conditions of the credit account 
included that they could reduce the credit limit on the account if they chose to do so. As 
such, Barclays didnt feel theyd done anything wrong by reducing the credit limit of Xs 
account because their doing so was permitted by the account terms. X wasnt satisfied with 
Barclays response, so he referred his complaint to this service.
One of investigators looked at this complaint. But they didnt feel that Barclays had acted 
unfairly by managing the situation as they had, and so didnt uphold the complaint. X 
remained dissatisfied, so the matter was escalated to an ombudsman for a final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
It must be noted immediately that a credit limit isnt a right that a customer has, and the 
provision of a credit limit to a credit account holder  in this instance, X  is entirely at the 
discretion of the credit provider  in this instance, Barclays.
This is confirmed in the terms and conditions of the credit account, notably sections 6 and 
12, which state as follows:
Well tell you what your credit limit is when we first open your account. Well then 
review it from time to time. If we change your credit limit, well write to let you know.
And:
If we reduce your credit limit based on an assessment of risk of your ability to repay, 
we have the right not to give you any notice beforehand We wont reduce your 
credit limit to less than your total outstanding balance.
In this instance, Barclays wrote to X and explained that they were reducing his credit limit 
without notice and had done so because they had conducted a review of his account and 
had concerns that X might be borrowing more than he could comfortably afford.
This seems reasonable to me, and Im satisfied that by reducing Xs credit limit as they did, 
that Barclays have acted within the terms of the account.
Additionally, X has explained that by reducing his credit limit to £4,100 as they did, Barclays 
left him in financial difficulty. I can only conclude from Xs statement here that X was 
financially dependent on the credit that Barclays were previously providing to him. But if that 
was that case, then it seems clear that X was borrowing more than he comfortably afford, 
because I feel its reasonable to state that if X could comfortably afford the prior level of 
credit, then he wouldnt be in a position of financial difficulty without it.
It therefore seems that Barclays concerns that X might have been borrowing credit beyond 
his financial means was justified here. And given that credit providers such as Barclays have 
an obligation to not provide credit to account holders that cant reasonably afford it, I feel that 
Barclays were justified in acting on their concerns and reducing the amount of credit 
available to X as they did  so that X isnt now able to take on the potentially unsustainable 
amount of debt that he previously had.
I can appreciate that X might now be in a difficult financial position as he has explained. But 
if that is the case, I can only encourage X to contact Barclays and discuss his position with 
them. But it wouldnt be expected that Barclays would provide any further credit to X to help 
him with his financial difficulty, because as explained, credit providers have an obligation to 
only provide a level of credit to an account holder that is affordable and sustainable for that 
account holder.
All of which means that I dont feel that Barclays have done anything wrong or acted unfairly 
here. And it follows from this that I wont be upholding this complaint or instructing Barclays 
to take any further or alternative action. 
This is because, as explained, its entirely at Barclays discretion as to how much credit theyll 
provide to a customer, and because it seems that Barclays may have held valid concerns 
about the affordability of the prior credit limit for X.
I realise this wont be the outcome X was wanting, but I trust that theyll understand, given 
what Ive explained, why Ive made the final decision that I have.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask X to accept or 
reject my decision before 20 December 2023.
 
Paul Cooper
Ombudsman