DRN-3820765
The complaint
Mr T complains that Skrill Limited unfairly charged him inactivity fees which depleted the 
balance of his digital wallet account.
What happened
Around March 2016, Skrill restricted Mr Ts access to his account and later decided that it 
could no longer offer its services to him. Skrill also informed Mr T that it would later advise 
him on how he could withdraw his funds  at the time, the balance in Mr Ts account was 
well over $4,000. Mr T says he never received information on how to withdraw his funds. He 
says he since tried to log into his account several times but was unable to do so, even after 
contacting Skrill for help.
Earlier this year, Mr T contacted Skrill and says he found out that the business had been 
charging him inactivity fees for several years. As a result, Mr Ts account had been reduced 
to a nil balance. After he complained, Skrill responded that it had charged Mr T the fees in 
line with its terms. Skrill says it didnt receive any contact from Mr T until January 2022 and 
could see only one log in attempt in 2019.
Mr T asked this service to get involved  he wants the funds returned to him. Our 
investigator decided to uphold the complaint, asking Skrill to refund Mr Ts balance and pay 
him £150 compensation. The investigator couldnt see that Skrill had followed up with Mr T 
as agreed and said that it was Skrills actions that led to Mr Ts account becoming inactive. 
Although the investigator acknowledged that Mr T didnt chase up the withdrawal of his 
balance with urgency, he concluded that Skrill shouldve done more to arrange the return of 
the funds. The investigator added that Skrill shouldve contacted Mr T about the inactivity on 
his account, to let him know that hed incur fees.
Skrill didnt agree so the complaint has been passed to me to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Its apparent that it was Skrills decision to stop providing its services to Mr T. In its 
notification, Skrill told Mr T that it would contact him to explain how he can withdraw his 
funds. I cant see that it did. In its final response, Skrill said it asked Mr T to provide a copy of 
his identification so that he could withdraw his funds. Skrills submissions to this service 
includes an email Mr T seems to have sent around the time, suggesting hed sent a copy of 
his passport and a utility bill. So it seems to me that Skrill had been given the information it 
needed at the time to release Mr Ts funds back to him. In my opinion, Skrill shouldve 
allowed Mr T to have access to these funds as quickly as possible and it acted unfairly by 
failing to do so.
Skrill says it charged Mr T inactivity fees in line with its terms. I can see from the copy of the 
terms Skrill has sent us that it does set out when such a fee would be charged. Skrill says its 
terms dont require it to notify Mr T before charging inactivity fees. I should point out that, as 
much as the terms are relevant here, my powers require me to consider what is fair and 
reasonable. 
As Skrill says, it hadnt heard from Mr T since its email of March 2016 until January this year. 
Skrill says it began charging inactivity fees from around August 2016. I think it was 
unreasonable for Skrill to have done so without informing Mr T and giving him the 
opportunity to take steps to prevent the charges. I say this because it was Skrills decision to 
stop providing a service to Mr T and, around this time, it restricted Mr Ts access to his 
account. So Mr T couldnt access his account to carry out any transactions or, more 
importantly for him, arrange to move the funds himself. Therefore, in essence, Skrills actions 
were what caused the account to become inactive.
Skrill shouldve recognised that it needed to do something, given it hadnt heard from Mr T 
since its last communications with him. And it shouldve taken steps to reach out to him and 
continue the process of giving him access to his funds. I find it unreasonable that Skrill made 
no attempt to contact Mr T at all. Had it done so, its likely Mr T wouldve withdrawn his funds 
and could have avoided being charged inactivity fees. Instead, Skrill unfairly charged him the 
fee over several years without any notification, until his account reached a nil balance.
I acknowledge Skrills submission that its terms do not require it to notify Mr T. But, in my 
opinion, the absence of such a requirement in its terms doesnt make it reasonable for Skrill 
to avoid contacting Mr T. And, although Skrill sent Mr T a general letter about changes to its 
inactivity fee, I dont think this was specific enough for Mr T to have been reasonably made 
aware that Skrill had been charging him an inactivity fee. So I cant agree that this approach 
was fair. 
Skrill suggests that Mr Ts limited attempts to log into his account or contact Skrill himself 
demonstrates a lack of interest in the funds that remained. Mr T says he tried multiple times 
to log in and reached out to Skrill for support when his log in attempts failed. Skills records 
suggest that Mr T only attempted to log in once since 2016. I cant say for certain which 
version of events is accurate, but I have seen copies of emails from 2017 and 2019 between 
Mr T and Skrill, indicating hed attempted to get support from the business. 
Nevertheless, I dont think that Mr Ts alleged lack of interest in the funds is important to my 
decision. Although its possible Mr T couldve acted with more urgency, I still think Skrill 
shouldve done more to help Mr T withdraw his funds as well as avoid inactivity fees. 
So Ive decided to uphold this complaint because Skrill acted unfairly when it failed to help 
Mr T withdraw his funds and because it didnt do enough to prevent his balance being lost to 
inactivity fees.
Putting things right
To put things right, Skrill should refund Mr T the balance of his account as it was before it 
began charging an inactivity fee. Based on the account history Ive seen, I understand this to 
be $4,448.98. I havent seen anything that makes me think theres good cause for asking 
Skrill to pay interest on top of this, so I wont be making an interest award.
Skrill should also pay £150 compensation to Mr T for the inconvenience caused.My final decision
Im upholding this complaint. Skrill Limited should settle this complaint in line with what Ive 
set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr T to accept or 
reject my decision before 10 January 2023.
 
Abdul Ali
Ombudsman