DRN-3396197
The complaint
Mr S complains about Lloyds Bank General Insurance Limited (Lloyds) who declined his 
claim under his home insurance policy. 
What happened
Mr S held a home insurance policy with Lloyds. Following bad weather, Mr S submitted a 
claim for a damaged roof. During the claim process, Lloyds appointed a surveyor to establish 
the cause of damage to the roof. The surveyor determined in his report, that the cause of 
damage was due to wear and tear. And as the roof had perished around the edges and the 
timber underneath had also deteriorated, this wasnt consistent with storm damage. 
The report also said that pre-existing damage can be highlighted by poor weather, which 
would cause a higher level of damage, than if the roof had been in a good state of repair. 
And as wear and tear wasnt covered under the policy the claim would be declined. 
Mr S was unhappy and complained to Lloyds. Not least as he felt the surveyor hadnt been 
thorough in his inspection of the roof, as he had used a drone, rather than climbing onto the 
roof. Mr S felt that his roof was in a good state of repair and couldnt understand why Lloyds 
accepted the internal damage that had been caused by the storm, as well as damage 
caused to some guttering, given that it had declined the damaged roof. 
In its final response, Lloyds maintained that the claim should remain declined to the roof as 
the main cause of damage wasnt the storm. It said that the cause of damage to the roof was 
wear and tear and as this wasnt covered under the policy, the decision to decline this part of 
the claim, was correct. 
Mr S was given his referral rights and referred the complaint to our service. One of our 
investigators considered the complaint and didnt think it should be upheld. He said that he 
hadnt seen enough evidence to show that Lloyds acted unreasonably in declining the claim 
for the roof. Particularly as the surveyor had determined that the main cause of the damage 
was due to wear and tear. And because of this, he wouldnt be asking Lloyds to do anything 
further to resolve the complaint. 
Lloyds accepted the view, Mr S did not. He said that our investigators view was that he 
hadnt provided any evidence that the roof was in good condition, which Mr S felt was 
impossible to do, as he wouldnt be able to take photos of his roof. Ms S also said that just 
because a roof looks in poor condition from a photo taken by a drone, this doesnt mean it is. 
He maintained that had the surveyor inspected the roof manually, he couldve checked to 
see if the wood was rotten, which he didnt do. So, he asked for a decision from an 
ombudsman.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I wont uphold this complaint. I realise this will be a disappointment to Mr S, 
but I hope my findings go some way in explaining why Ive reached this decision.
There are three questions we take into consideration when determining whether an event 
can be classed as a storm. These are: 
Do we agree that storm conditions occurred on or around the date the damage is said to 
have happened?
Is the damage claimed for consistent with damage a storm typically causes?
Were the storm conditions the main cause of damage? 
If any of the answers to the above questions are no, then an insurer can reasonably decline 
a claim. 
Lloyds determined that there were storm conditions, given that it noted that there were 
strong winds. And I agree that there were storm conditions on or around the date the 
damage is said to have occurred. 
I have next looked at whether the damage claimed for was consistent with damage a storm 
typically causes. I have seen photographs of the damaged caused internally, which show 
water coming through the ceiling. Also, the surveyors report confirms that the damage 
inside, was caused because of the storm. So, Im satisfied that the damage caused internally 
could be consistent with damage a storm typically causes.
The final question that will need to asked is were the storm conditions the main cause of 
damage. As Ive already mentioned, Im satisfied that the storm conditions were the main 
cause of the internal damage. But having reviewed the evidence from the surveyor (who is 
considered an expert) he explains that the damage caused to the roof was due to wear and 
tear. In the report, it says:
 The flat roof is at the end of its serviceable life, the drip edges are perishing, the mineral 
has weathered and deteriorate around the drip edges. The rear side to the roof is in a worse 
condition than the front, the customer advised that the back corner had lifted but all the 
surveyor can observe is that the drip edges have perished and the timber underneath has 
deteriorated this is not consistent with storm.
I understand that Mr S said that he believed that the roof was in good condition and he felt 
that the surveyor ought to have inspected the roof whilst being on top of it. But Mr S hasnt 
provided any expert evidence that could refute what the surveyor has concluded in his 
report, namely that the roof had deteriorated and that felt had reached the end of its 
serviceable life. Nor has he provided any expert evidence that his roof was in perfect 
condition before the storm. 
Also having considered the photographs of the roof, I have seen, can see the damage as 
described by the surveyor. So, I dont think that because the surveyor used a drone, 
detracted from the evidence that was captured by way of the photographs. And I cant agree 
that Lloyds were unreasonable or unfair to rely on the experts evidence when it declined the 
claim. I have next considered the policy terms and conditions and under the section that deals with 
storm, it makes it clear that damage caused by wear and tear is not covered: A storm can 
highlight damage rather than cause it and damage that happens gradually through wear and 
tear or due to lack of maintenance is not covered. I understand that Mr S said that the roof 
was around 12 years of age and would be expected to last at least 20 to 30 years, but he 
has not provided any expert evidence to show that the roof hadnt reached the end of its life. 
And as Ive said, I think the photos show the deteriorated roof. 
Under the exclusions in the policy, it confirms: damage that naturally and inevitably occurs 
as a result of normal wear or ageing. Mr S said that a contractor who came to his home told 
him that the damage was caused by a storm. But Mr S hasnt provided any evidence of the 
expertise of the contractor nor has he provided formal report that could disprove Lloyds 
assessment of the cause of damage.  
Consequently, Im satisfied that the main cause of damage to the roof was not storm related. 
And I dont think that Lloyds were unreasonable or unfair to rely on the exclusion clause 
when it declined to repair the roof. 
Finally, as to the guttering that Lloyds accepted to replace, the damage of this was caused 
by a storm. Lloyds accept that there were storm conditions and the main reason for the 
damage to the guttering was due to the storm. 
I realise that this is not the outcome that Mr S wouldve liked. But, in the circumstances of 
this complaint, Im not satisfied that Lloyds were unfair or unreasonable in declining the 
claim. And I wont be asking it to do anything further to resolve the complaint. 
My final decision
For the reasons given, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 6 May 2022.
 
Ayisha Savage
Ombudsman