DRN-3826066
The complaint
Mr C is complaining Sainsbury's Bank Plc hasnt refunded payments he made on his credit 
card for some doors and windows. He brings the claim under Section 75 of the Consumer 
Credit Act 1974 (Section 75).
What happened
The facts of this complaint are well known to all parties, so I wont set them out in detail. But, 
in summary, in 2019 Mr C entered into three separate contracts with a third-party company  
who I shall refer to as H  to supply and install some doors and windows. The contracts were 
as follows:
1. £5,400  two bay windows, four windows and one door (invoice one);
2. £1,350  one French door and one window (invoice two); and
3. £1,000  one French door (invoice three)
Mr C was unhappy with the quality of the products and the installation. He initially looked to 
resolve it with H but was unhappy with Hs response so he referred his dispute to 
Sainsburys. Over the preceding two years Mr C arranged for a number of inspections to be 
carried out on the doors and windows, which he says shows the work carried out wasnt of a 
satisfactory nature. He says hes approached a number of companies to do the rectification 
work, but theyre not willing to do so. So he says the only way to put things right is to have 
everything replaced.
Sainsburys accepted that there were some issues with the work carried out. But it didnt 
agree with Mr C about the extent of the work needed. It also didnt think it was necessary to 
replace everything. It offered to refund the £480 Mr C paid for the independent report and 
offered a further 5% price reduction - £387.50. Mr C didnt accept this and maintained the 
only way to put things right was to replace everything. Sainsburys offered a 20% refund to 
resolve the complaint, but Mr C says he was entitled to a full refund. Sainsburys didnt 
agree, so Mr C referred his complaint to this service.
I issued a provisional decision upholding this complaint and I said the following:
I should first say, Im aware Ive summarised this complaint in a lot less detail than both 
parties have set out. I dont mean any discourtesy by this but this simply reflects the informal 
nature of this service. I assure all parties Ive read and considered everything theyve 
provided. However, in this decision Ive focussed on what I consider to be the key issues. 
Our rules entitle me to do this.
Mr C paid for the doors and windows on his Sainsburys credit card. Section 75 sets out that 
in certain circumstances, as the finance provider, Sainsburys is jointly liable for any breach 
of contract or misrepresentation by H. Im satisfied those circumstances apply here. 
Under the contact with Mr C, H had agreed to supply and install some doors and windows. 
Legislation  in this case the Consumer Rights Act 2015 (CRA)  implied a term into the 
contract that H had to supply goods that were of satisfactory quality and then fit them with 
reasonable care and skill.
Mr C has raised a number of issues with the doors and windows H supplied and installed. In 
particular, but not limited to, hes raised the following:
Windows and sills dont colour match
Internal glazing beads in the windows arent connected correctly
Lead on the front elevation has patches that are peeling/discoloured
Metal is showing on the kitchen front door
Metal bars on the French doors have small areas of rust
Front door is not flush
The front door furniture is brass, but the door stay is chrome
Window frames and glass were supplied by different suppliers
The windows are supposed to have a standard glass depth of 28mm, but its actually 
only 26mm
Mr C has arranged for a number on inspections of the work carried out by different 
companies  some independent and some from the manufacturers of the goods. However, 
Im particularly persuaded by the report carried out by RISA as they specialise in providing 
independent and impartial inspections. Ive also found their report to be the most detailed. It 
seems to me that RISA have concluded that the issues are generally aesthetic in nature. It 
also didnt agree with Mr C that all the issues hed raised were faults. However, there are 
issues with the quality of some parts and with the way the goods were installed. So Im 
satisfied that H has breached the terms of the contract and neither party disputes this. The 
issue for me to decide is what should be done to put things right. I shall address the material 
points separately.
Windows and sills
Initially RISA said it considered any colour difference to be within expected tolerance. But 
following a further inspection it said it could see that, in bright sunlight, there was a clear 
difference in colour between the window frames and sills. Im satisfied from reviewing this 
report and other reports that this is not what a reasonable person would expect to see. 
In thinking about how Sainsburys should remedy this, Ive taken into consideration what the 
CRA says. Where the goods are found to not conform with the terms of contract  i.e. theyre 
not of satisfactory quality, as described or fit for purpose  Mr C had the right to require the 
merchant  H  and in turn Sainsburys to rectify the issue. But, where it fails to do so or do 
so in a reasonable time, the CRA sets out he has the right to reject the goods.
Mr C has raised issues with the windows and sills from the start and this has been ongoing 
for over three years. So, I think its fair to say that this hasnt been resolved in a reasonable 
time. Mr C has continually asked to reject the goods, but hasnt been able to do so. As I said 
above, I think the CRA sets out he should have been entitled to do so. So I think Mr C now 
has the right to reject the goods and I think thats the fair and reasonable thing to do too. 
As a result, I think Sainsburys should refund everything Mr C has paid for the windows. I 
also intend to say it should pay 8% simple interest on what he paid for them  which I 
understand to be the contract totalling £5,400 - from the date he paid for them (31 October 
2019) until he gets it back. Sainsburys should arrange to remove and collect the windows at 
a time suitable to Mr C  i.e. allow him an opportunity to organise replacement windows. But 
it should do so within 12 weeks of Mr C accepting my decision.
Mr C has raised other issues regarding the windows. But I dont think I need to make a finding regarding this as Ive already said Sainsburys should allow him to reject this. 
French doors
Mr C has raised a number of issues with the French doors. However, unlike what Ive said 
about the windows and sills, I dont think there are issues with the quality of the doors 
provided, but the RISA report sets out that there are issues with the installation of the goods 
here. However, I think the RISA report sets out that the majority of the issues raised are 
within the range of a reasonable tolerance  i.e. the following:
Cosmetic flaw from the welding process showing the effect of metal showing; and
Front door not sitting flush.
The question is whether the installation was carried out with reasonable care and skill. 
Ultimately RISA has set out that some imperfections are common and said it was the 
inspectors professional opinion that they fell within the range of tolerance. I dont think I can 
reasonably say this wasnt the case for the above issues, given the comments on the RISA 
report.
However, RISA did agree with Mr C that there were small areas of rust on the kitchen door. 
The inspector said this was caused by metal swarf when fixing had been drilled. However it 
said this can be easily cleaned. I think the fair way to resolve this is that Sainsburys 
arranges to have the rust cleaned away.
I dont think Sainsburys has any further liability regarding the doors.
Lead on front elevation has patches that are peeling
I think its accepted that there is some issue with the paintwork here. But Im not persuaded 
this is down to the actions of H. Im conscious RISA said this could have been caused by 
either a faulty batch of coating, but it could also have been caused by using incorrect 
cleaning methods using abrasive chemicals. Other inspection reports also commented on 
this issue and suggested it could have been caused by using an adhesive  such as 
Sellotape  to attach something. I understand H advised Sainsburys that Mr C had advised 
that he'd had things sellotaped to his door, although I havent seen anything to support this. 
Ive thought about everything that all parties have said on this issue, but Im not persuaded 
Ive seen enough to say the issue in respect to the peeling on the front elevation is down to 
anything H has done wrong. So I dont think Sainsburys needs to do anything to put things 
right regarding this.
Summary
For the reasons Ive set out above, I think Mr C has the right to reject the goods purchased 
on invoice one and Sainsburys should refund what he paid for these goods  £5,400  plus 
8% simple interest. It should also arrange with Mr C a time to collect the goods. Mr C has 
also raised issues regarding the goods supplied and fitted in invoices two and three. But I 
think the only issue Sainsburys needs to put right regarding this is to clean the rust of the 
kitchen door. I think Sainsburys should also refund any costs Mr C has incurred in obtaining 
the independent reports, plus 8% simple interest. I dont think it needs to do anything 
further.
Mr C responded and, in summary, set out the following:
1. Sainsbury's never offered him a 20% refund  only £387.50 and he said it declined to 
refund the cost of the two reports he obtained.2. He said the items listed as French doors are actually in effect full height windows with full 
height openers and the colour difference of the sills and trims is evident on these as well. 
He believes RISA's comment about the difference in colour also applies to the kitchen 
French door, the living room French door and the front door. He also said that he would 
have mismatched windows and doors if everything isnt replaced. 
3. Invoice two includes the kitchen window and that hasn't been included in the windows 
that need replacing.
4. He said its now impossible to replace the windows for anywhere near the original 
purchase price due to the effects of Covid-19 and inflation. He said he would have been 
able to replace the doors and windows at a similar price to the purchase price if 
Sainsbury's had acted fairly with us and dealt with this matter three years ago correctly. 
He said it would be impossible to replace them not and he can't make up the 
considerable shortfall due to his and his wifes personal situation. 
Sainsburys didnt accept my provisional decision either and raised the following:
1. It said the CRA gives Mr C a final right to reject, but it said he only has this right once H 
have had the opportunity to fix the issues. It doesnt believe Mr C has given H this 
opportunity as he has disputed the scope of the works. It said some works were carried 
out prior to the RISA report, but it doesnt believe Mr C allowed any further works to be 
carried out. It said the last remedial visit from H was in September 2020 and a number of 
problems were satisfactorily remedied at this time.
2. It doesnt believe a full refund is warranted and maintains that a price reduction is fair. It 
still believes the most economical option is to repair the issues. It said it hasnt seen 
anything to show that Mr C couldnt colour match the windows and sill.
3. It said the rust has been caused by Mr C not cleaning or sweeping the metal debris that 
was left behind following the installation. So it doesnt believe the merchant should be 
held liable for Mr C not adequately cleaning and maintaining the door and surrounding 
area.
4. Its not its area of expertise to collect the windows. So it said, if I was still of the opinion 
that the doors and windows should be replaced as I set out previously, it proposed 
instead that Mr C either disposes or sells the windows. It said it would cover the costs, of 
disposing the goods subject to an invoice being provided, if Mr C chooses to do this. 
Alternatively, if he chooses to sell them it would deduct the proceeds from the 
settlement.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive taken everything all parties have said in response to my provisional decision, but Ive 
come to the same conclusion as I did previously for the same reasons. But both parties have 
raised some further considerations which I shall address now.
Sainsburys has said Mr C hasnt given H an opportunity to put things right. Under the CRA 
Mr C has the right to ask H to resolve the issues, but if that repair is unsuccessful, he has 
the right to reject it. But its important to note that the CRA gives one right to resolve the 
issues as a whole, not a separate right to repair for each individual fault. Its not entirely clear 
who is at fault for the issues not being rectified after RISAs report, but the issue is that there 
are still issues and H had carried out repairs at least twice before to rectify the issues. So I 
still believe Mr C is entitled to reject the goods I set out in my provisional decision if he wants 
to do so.
I note Mr C has said there is colour mismatch on all the doors and windows. But, as I set out in my provisional decision, Im most persuaded by the contents of the RISA report. And this 
hasnt highlighted the additional issues Mr C has referred to. Ive reviewed the photographs 
Mr C has provided but I dont think this shows that they should be replaced.
I note Mr C says hell have mismatched doors and windows and highlighted the increased 
cost of replacing them, but I dont think this is a sufficient reason to require Sainsburys to 
refund everything hes paid or pay more than the cost of the windows. I also dont think Ive 
seen anything to show that the sills cant be changed to match the doors. So, if Mr C doesnt 
want to replace the doors, a price reduction is fair. Sainsburys has offered a 20% price 
reduction off the total invoice price and I think thats fair if Mr C doesnt wish to replace the 
goods. So, if Mr C chooses to not replace the windows, then Sainsburys should give Mr C a 
20% price reduction off the cost of the goods as it previously offered.
Sainsburys has said its unable to collect the goods. I think its proposition  either Mr C pays 
for them to be disposed of Sainsburys  refunds the cost, or Mr C sells them and Sainsburys 
deducts the amount he receives from the refund  is fair.
Mr C says invoice two contains the cost of one of the windows that need replacing. But 
invoice one also contains the door combo that I dont think needs replacing. So I remain of 
the opinion that the fairest way to resolve this complaint (if Mr C wants to reject the windows) 
is refunding the amount paid on invoice one - £5,400.
Finally, Ive thought about Sainsburys comment that said the rust has been caused by Mr C 
not cleaning or sweeping the metal debris that was left behind following the installation. But 
this is contrary to what RISA has said. But, even if that wasnt the case, it was the suppliers 
responsibility to clean the debris. However, Im satisfied that, on balance, the rust is down to 
the installation work.
Putting things right
For all the reasons Ive set out above, I remain of the opinion that the redress I proposed in 
my provisional decision is fair. So I think Sainsburys should do the following to put things 
right:
If Mr C wants to reject the windows
Sainsburys should either arrange to collect the windows, or refund any cost Mr C incurs 
in replacing them. Alternatively, if Mr C sells them to a third party, Sainsburys can 
deduct the amount he receives for the windows. Sainsburys can require Mr C to provide 
evidence of what he does with the windows.
Sainsburys should refund £5,400 plus 8% simple interest from 31 October 2019 until he 
gets it back.* 
If Mr C doesnt want to reject the windows
Sainsburys should give a 20% price reduction of the cost of the goods (as it offered in 
the call on 13 September 2019) plus 8% simple interest from 31 October 2019 until he 
gets it back.*
In addition to this, Sainsburys should arrange to have the rust cleaned away or refund any 
cost Mr C incurs in cleaning it away. 
Finally Sainsburys should also refund any costs Mr C has incurred in obtaining the 
independent reports, plus 8% simple interest from when he paid them until he gets it back*. * If Sainsburys thinks that its required by HM Revenue & Customs to deduct income tax 
from this interest, it should tell Mr C how much its taken off. It should also give him a tax 
deduction certificate if he asks for one, so he can reclaim the tax if appropriate. 
I dont award anything further.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive set out above, its my final decision that I uphold this complaint and I 
require Sainsbury's Bank Plc to compensate Mr C in line with my instructions above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 3 January 2023. 
Guy Mitchell
Ombudsman