DRN-3861159
The complaint
Miss B complains that her bank Lloyds Bank PLC (Lloyds) has refused to refund the money 
she has lost following her falling victim to a scam. 
What happened
The background to this complaint is well known to all parties, so I wont repeat what 
happened in detail.
In summary, Miss B was browsing the internet for information about Bitcoin and as a result 
received communication from a business called Swiss BTC (X). X appeared to be a 
legitimate business and persuaded Miss B to make an initial deposit of £250.
Miss B was able to see her investment online and could see her funds growing. X persuaded 
Miss B that she could increase her profits if she deposited more funds, and after completing 
some online research Miss B agreed. 
X explained Miss B would need to make her further investments via the cryptocurrency 
exchange Coinbase. X explained how to open an account with Coinbase, and Miss B made 
her further payments via this method.
When Miss B attempted to make a withdrawal from her investment X told her she would 
have to make additional payments first. When Miss B refused to make any further payments, 
X stopped communicating with her and she was unable to retrieve any of the funds she had 
invested.
Miss B made the following payments into the investment:
Date Merchant Payment Method Amount
22 July 2021 Allprimepay Debit card £250
23 July 2021 Coinbase Transfer £2
27 July 2021 Coinbase Transfer £1,000
4 August 2021 Coinbase Transfer £1,000
17 August 2021 Coinbase Transfer £6,000
Miss B also set up a standing order to Coinbase of £100 on 5 August 2021 and received 
some smaller credits from Coinbase in October 2021.
Our Investigator considered Miss Bs complaint and didnt think it should be upheld. Miss B 
disagreed she said Lloyds should have done more to protect her from the scam. 
As Miss B disagreed her complaint has been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
It has not been disputed that Miss B has fallen victim to a cruel scam. The evidence provided 
by both Miss B and Lloyds sets out what happened clearly. What is in dispute is whether 
Lloyds should refund the funds Miss B lost due to the scam.
Recovering the payments Miss B made
Miss B made her initial payment of £250 by debit card. Lloyds only method of recovery for 
this type of payment is via chargeback.
The chargeback scheme is a voluntary scheme set up to resolve card payment disputes
between merchants and cardholders. The card scheme operator ultimately helps settle 
disputes that cant be resolved between the merchant and the cardholder.
Such arbitration is subject to the rules of the scheme, meaning there are only limited
grounds and limited forms of evidence that will be accepted for a chargeback to be
considered valid, and potentially succeed. Time limits also apply.
From the information provided its clear that Miss B believes the account she made the 
payment to Allprimepay was Xs account, however this doesnt appear to be the case. 
Allprimepay appear to have been a separate business that offered a money transfer service 
at the time.
The service provided by Allprimepay would have been to convert or facilitate conversion of
Miss Bs payment. Therefore, Allprimepay provided the service that was requested.
The fact that the currency was later transferred elsewhere  to the scammer  doesnt
give rise to a valid chargeback claim against the merchant Miss B paid. As Allprimepay 
appears to have provided the requested service to Miss B any chargeback attempt would 
likely fail.
 
The remaining payments Miss B made to X were made via the cryptocurrency exchange 
Coinbase. As the payments Miss B made from her Lloyds account were to another account 
in her own name Lloyds has no method of recovery for these payments.
Should Lloyds have reasonably prevented the payments Miss B made?
Miss B has accepted she authorised the payments that were made from her account with 
Lloyds, albeit on Xs instruction. So, the starting point here is that Miss B is responsible. 
However, banks and other Payment Services Providers (PSPs) do have a duty to protect 
against the risk of financial loss due to fraud and/or to undertake due diligence on large 
transactions to guard against money laundering.
I have looked at the payments Miss B made in relation to the scam.
The first payment Miss B made on her debit card was in line with other spending on her 
account and there was nothing to say Allprimepay were not a legitimate business at the time, 
so I dont think it was unreasonable that Lloyds fraud prevention systems were not triggered 
by this payment and that it didnt step in to prevent it.
The remaining payments were made to Coinbase via the method of transfer. The payments 
Miss B made between 23 July 2021 and 4 August 2021 were for reasonably low amounts to 
the cryptocurrency exchange Coinbase. It would not be reasonable for me to say Lloyds 
should step in every time one of its customers makes relatively small payments to a new payee that appears to be a legitimate business. So, I think it was reasonable that Lloyds 
fraud prevention systems were not trigger by these payments either and that it didnt stop 
any of these payments from being processed.
The final payment Miss B made for £6,000 to Coinbase was a larger amount however by the 
time Miss B made this payment she had already made three previous payments to Coinbase 
(a payee she appeared to trust). Miss B had also setup a standing order to the same payee 
suggesting she was intending to make further payments to the business and trusted it to be 
safe. 
In addition to the above Miss B had made larger payments out of her account in the previous 
12 months. While Miss B has explained these payments were to a family member, I still think 
this shows it was not out of the ordinary for Miss B to make one off larger payments from her 
account.
Overall, I dont think it was unreasonable that Lloyds fraud prevention systems were not 
triggered by this payment and that it didnt step in to prevent it.
As I dont think it was unreasonable that Lloyds fraud prevention systems were not triggered 
by any of the payments Miss B made into the scam, I dont think Lloyds missed an 
opportunity to step in and prevent it. So, it is not responsible for refunding the amount Miss B 
lost.
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss B to accept 
or reject my decision before 26 May 2023.
 
Terry Woodham
Ombudsman