DRN-2663483
The complaint
Mr P complains that the payments he is being quoted on his hire agreement with 
Volkswagen Financial Services (VWFS) are not being reduced fairly. He is requesting to 
reduce his permitted mileage on the contract, but feels the payments are not being reduced 
by a fair amount if he does this. 
What happened
In May 2019, Mr P took out a hire agreement for a new car. The agreement was for 3 years, 
with a monthly payment of around £367 per month.  The permitted mileage was 14,000 
miles per annum, so total mileage maximum of 42,000. 
In March 2020, Mr P contacted VWFS and requested a new quote if he reduced his mileage 
and was quoted for 36,000 total miles. This would reduce his monthly payments by just over 
£5 per month. Mr P commented that he felt the reduction should be more, because if he did 
6,000 miles over his limit, it would cost him the equivalent of £20 a month extra. 
In April 2020, and then again in July 2020, Mr P asked for updated quotes, to reduce the 
agreement to 33,000 total miles and then in July to 30,000 total miles. The July quote was 
for £355 per month, and VWFS confirmed there would be a £60 administration fee if Mr P 
wanted to go ahead and change the contract. 
Mr P queried this quote, and VWFS explained that when rewriting a contract, they use an 
updated residual value for the vehicle, so if the car value is holding up better or worse than 
the expectations at the beginning of the contract, it can impact on the quote. Mr P wasnt 
happy with this response from VWFS, so he complained. 
VWFS rejected his complaint in September 2020, explaining that the residual value of the 
car is updated each month, so any quotes they supply are only valid for that month, and then 
subject to change if the valuation of the car changes. They also explained that at the 
beginning of the contract, there might be incentives provided to them which have helped to 
reduce their purchase price and therefore the rental charges. But during a re-write, its based 
solely on the vehicle residual value at that point, and the mileage. 
Mr P did not think this was fair and brought the complaint to us. He said he also felt the 
administration fee was too high. An investigator here did not uphold his complaint, saying 
that there was nothing in the contract to provide for a mileage reduction, so what VWFS had 
done was not covered by the original contract, and felt fair. They also said that the 
administration fee was not a term of the existing contract and also felt fair. 
Mr P does not agree so has asked for an Ombudsman review of this.  He said the VWFS 
calculations are unfair, and not in line with their excess mileage charges in the contract. He 
does not feel updating the residual value is fair as that is the risk to the finance company, not 
himself. He commented that they dont carry out an annual review of the residual value to 
increase or decrease his monthly payments. And he still feels the £60 administration fee is 
excessive and asks for it to be justified. He also mentioned that his partner similarly reduced 
their agreed maximum mileage with a different finance company and got a reduction in line 
with the excess mileage charges, and no admin fee. He feels the requirement to treat 
customers fairly should mean he gets a similar outcome. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr P took out the hire agreement in 2019. At that time, VWFS had set out terms of the 
agreement for Mr P to consider before deciding whether he wanted to enter into the 
agreement. That was essentially that in return for paying £367 per month he would be able 
to use the car up to 14,000 miles per year and 42,000 miles overall. 
I have looked at the hire agreement and confirmed that there are contract terms which lay 
out what the costs will be if the mileage is exceeded. But there are no terms to provide for a 
customer who does less miles than the agreed maximum. In fact, the contract signed 
between Mr P and VWFS does not lay out any method by which Mr P can reduce the agreed 
maximum mileage, or how this would be calculated.  
This means that under the terms of the contract, VWFS are not required to offer any 
reduction or requote for a reduced mileage. They have said that this is an additional service 
they offer, and they feel that they have acted fairly and in line with their policies and 
procedures in working out the quotes for him. 
Ive then looked at the description provided by VWFS about how they have worked out this 
rewritten quote. I cant say that using an updated residual value for the vehicle is unfair. 
There is no provision to reduce the mileage within the existing contract, so they are re-
writing the contract. When doing this, it doesnt feel unfair for them to re-assess the residual 
value of the vehicle if they choose to do so. 
The original contract will have considered the forecast of the cars residual value at the end 
of the contract, as part of working out the monthly payment which would be charged. These 
calculations also included working out excess mileage charges in advance which form part 
of that contract. This ensured that Mr P knew up front what extra charges could apply and 
means that VWFS cant change what they charge for excess mileage based on the actual 
value of the vehicle at the end of the contract. 
VWFS has estimated the value of the vehicle at the end, and if that value turns out to be 
lower, WWFS will have done less well on this deal. Similarly, if the vehicle value holds up 
well and is higher than their estimates, they may have done better on this deal.  
Mr P has said that he doesnt think using the residual value now in his circumstances is fair.  
He has said that the finance company dont amend the residual value of the vehicle during 
the contract and increase or reduce his monthly payments in line with changes. 
This comment highlights an important issue here. Both Mr P and VWFS have signed a 
contract for 3 years of fixed payments for the car. If the value of the vehicle changes 
compared to predictions, theyve agreed a set payment structure, meaning that neither side 
can change what that payment is, or any excess mileage charges, irrespective of the cars 
future value. 
This allows a customer to plan secure in the knowledge that they can meet the payments, 
whatever happens with the value of the car. And it means the business will try to forecast the 
value of the car as accurately as they can, to set the monthly payments at the right amount. Mr P has agreed to a contract with no provision for reducing the mileage part way through 
the contract. The only way this can be done is if the finance company chooses in effect to 
set out new contract terms including mileage limits and offers the new terms to the customer 
for acceptance, as previously done in 2019.  
If the residual value of the car was holding up better than predicted at the start of the 
contract, this would most likely have produced a better quote for Mr P. In this instance, 
unfortunately it seems that the value of the vehicle has not held up as well as expected so 
far. It would seem this has contributed to the quotes they have provided being less attractive 
to Mr P. But that doesnt mean that using a residual value is unfair. 
It wouldnt be fair to expect VWFS to produce a new quote, in effect to rewrite the contract, 
but to only use the predictions of the cars value that applied when the original contract was 
written. Ultimately, this is a business decision for VWFS. It is about how they choose to deal 
with this kind of customer request. But I am satisfied that what theyve done in this case is 
fair. 
Im also satisfied that the administration fee of £60 feels fair.  This fee is for a service which 
is not part of the original contract, so there is nothing set out in that contract about this sort of 
charge. And for the work of rewriting the contract to change the mileage limits, on balance, 
£60 doesnt feel an unfair amount to charge. 
Mr P has also compared the offering from VWFS to a similar situation that his partner 
encountered with a different finance provider. As Ive explained above, this is a business 
decision for VWFS as to whether they offer the service to rewrite the contract and reduce the 
mileage or not. Theyve decided to offer this option, and the method they have chosen to 
work out the quotes feels fair. 
It may be that the company Mr Ps partner used chose a different method which benefitted 
the customer more in their circumstances, but this doesnt impact on this case. That is a 
business decision for each business to choose how they approach this situation, and I am 
satisfied that the method chosen by VWFS is fair. 
There is no requirement for VWFS to reduce the mileage on the contract by mirroring how 
they would charge for excess miles on the contract. That is one method that a company 
could choose to approach this situation. But in different circumstances, mirroring the excess 
mileage charges might be worse for a customer than recalculating the residual value of the 
vehicle. There isnt one single right answer here that can be adopted for all customers by 
all businesses. As such, it is the businesses choice how they approach this. I am satisfied 
that in this instance, what VWFS have offered as a service is fair, and I wont be asking them 
to do anything more here. 
My final decision
I am not upholding Mr Ps complaint. Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, 
Im required to ask Mr P to accept or reject my decision before 14 May 2021.
 
Paul Cronin
Ombudsman