DRN-3879744
The complaint
Mr C has complained to Quilter Mortgage Planning Limited (Quilter) about advice he says 
he was given to re-mortgage his home to make an investment which failed, meaning he was 
forced to sell his home to repay the mortgage.
What happened
Mr C says he was introduced to an adviser from Quilter in 2013 by a mutual friend, but he 
didnt receive the advice complained about until 2017.  He says that advice was to invest all 
his savings and take out a mortgage to generate funds to invest in what he now knows were 
high-risk property investments.
The Quilter adviser recommended an interest only mortgage with BM Solutions for £600,000 
over a 20-year term.  The mortgage suitability report was completed on 6 May 2017 and 
records that an existing mortgage would be redeemed and the additional £273,000 raised 
would go towards a property purchase.  It also stated that if Mr C had to repay the loan, hed 
use the proceeds from the sale of his property.
Mr C says that he took out the mortgage to raise capital for the investments made, but he 
was told the investment returns could be used to repay the loan before the end of its term.
Quilter didnt uphold Mr Cs complaint and said the adviser had not been responsible for 
having given any investment advice.
One of our investigators reviewed the complaint. She said there was no evidence to suggest 
the adviser gave advice about the investment  and focussed her review on the mortgage 
advice.  In summary, she concluded that the advisers recommendations were suitable 
based upon the information available to them at the time  and agreed it was likely that the 
sale of Mr Cs property was intended to the method of repaying the mortgage.
Quilter didnt provide any further information.
Mr C disagreed with the investigators assessment and asked for a review by an 
ombudsman.  His representative confirmed there were no further comments, other than to 
highlight that the fact the investment was made immediately after the mortgage shows the 
investment was the intended repayment vehicle.
As no agreement could be reached the complaint has now been passed to me to review 
everything afresh and decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive reached much the same conclusion as the investigator, and for much 
the same reasons.
I should highlight that Im aware it was recorded that Mr C intended to rent out his home 
once it was mortgaged.  The Financial Ombudsman can only consider complaints about 
regulated activities.  The investigator had noted Mr C was living at his home at the time the 
mortgage was taken out, and so the mortgage would have been a consumer buy-to-let.  Im 
similarly minded and so am satisfied the mortgage was regulated.
The key issues for me to decide are whether the Quilter adviser made recommendations to 
Mr C about the mortgage and investment, and if he did, whether they were suitable for his 
circumstances.
Scope of advice
Its been accepted by Quilter that its adviser gave mortgage advice to Mr C, and the 
documentation supports that.
However, Quilter has also explained that it has no record of its adviser giving investment 
advice, and as a mortgage adviser he didnt have permissions to give investment advice.  
Ive reviewed everything and on balance I cant reasonably conclude investment advice was 
given by the adviser.  The mortgage suitability report says that the property was to be a buy-
to-let intended to generate cashflow, but that the capital repayment would come from the 
sale of the property by the end of the 20-year term.
Mortgage suitability
Although Im not persuaded the adviser was responsible for any investment advice given to 
Mr C, he did have a responsibility to ensure the mortgage advice was suitable.  The rules 
setting out what the adviser was required to consider are set out in MCOB in the FCA 
Handbook. 
MCOB 4.7.2R required the adviser to ensure any recommendation was suitable, and in 
deciding that 4.7.4R states that the adviser should reasonably conclude that:
(a) The customer can afford to enter into the regulated mortgage contract;
(b) The regulated mortgage contract is appropriate for the needs and 
circumstances of the customer.
The suitability report explains that Mr C took the mortgage on an interest-only basis to keep 
the costs of servicing it low and to generate cashflow  so Im satisfied it was affordable  
particularly given that income was intended to be generated as a buy-to-let.
An important part of assessing mortgage suitability is considering how the capital borrowed 
will be repaid.  There was already an outstanding mortgage on the property and Mr C was 
borrowing more to generate proceeds to invest in another property investment.
MCOB 4.7.8G says that A firm may generally rely on any information provided by the 
customer for the purposes of MCOB 4.7.4R.  I understand Mr C says that the investment 
was always intended to be used as the repayment vehicle for the mortgage  but on balance 
I dont think was likely to have been the advisers understanding.
The mortgage was being taken on the basis Mr C would be renting out the property, and a 
repayment vehicle would have needed to allow for repayment of the full £600,000  not just 
the additional £273,000 borrowed.  The documentation from the time refers to the fact the 
property would be sold to repay the mortgage  and ultimately that is what Mr C did.I have no doubt Mr C expected any investment he made to perform well, and hes been let 
down by that.  But in this complaint, Im specifically considering the mortgage advice  and 
based upon everything Ive reviewed, it wouldnt be fair and reasonable for me to say it was 
unsuitable for Mr Cs circumstances as were recorded at the time.
I realise Mr C will be disappointed, but I must assure him that I have reviewed everything 
impartially and having taken everything into account.
My final decision
My decision is that I dont uphold Mr Cs complaint against Quilter Mortgage Planning 
Limited.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 28 April 2023.
 
Ross Hammond
Ombudsman