DRN-1206900
 
The complaint
This complaint is about a regular premium payment protection insurance (PPI) policy taken 
out in October 1999. Ms W says Bank of Scotland plc (BOS) mis-sold her the PPI. 
What happened
This complaint is about a credit card PPI policy taken out in October 1999. The policy was 
added to Ms Ws credit card account when she applied for the card by post. The policy cost 
73p per £100 of the outstanding card balance and following a successful claim, it would 
repay 10% of the outstanding balance at the point of claim, for up to twelve months.
Our adjudicator didnt uphold the complaint. Ms W disagreed with the adjudicators opinion 
so the complaint comes to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Weve set out our general approach to 
complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding 
Ms Ws case.
Ive decided the policy wasnt mis-sold because:
I think BOS made it clear that Ms W didnt have to take out the PPI and that she 
chose to take it out  although I can understand why she cant remember this. Ive 
seen a copy of the application form that Ms W completed more than 20 years ago 
and I can see she signed the section to confirm she wanted PPI before she checked 
and signed the credit agreement. And as the PPI appeared on her monthly credit 
card statements, then I think if the policy had been added to her account without 
either her knowledge or her consent, Ms W wouldve complained about this in the 
first few months after the account opened in 1999.
BOS didnt recommend the PPI to Ms W so it didnt have to check if it was right for 
her. But it did have to make sure Ms W got the information she needed to decide if it 
was right for her. 
Its possible the information BOS gave Ms W about the PPI wasnt as clear as it 
shouldve been. But she chose to take out the PPI - so it looks like she wanted this 
type of cover. Based on what Ive seen of her circumstances at the time it doesnt 
look like she was affected by any of the exclusions to or limits on the PPI cover  she 
told us she was employed and in good health  so it wouldve been useful for her if 
something went wrong. It also looks like the PPI was affordable. So I dont think 
better information about the PPI would have put her off taking out the cover. 
 
Ive thought about everything Ms W has said, but these points dont change my decision.
My final decisionFor the reasons set out above, I dont uphold Ms Ws complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms W to accept or 
reject my decision before 27 February 2020.
Andrew Macnamara
Ombudsman