DRN-3616458
The complaint
Mrs CJ and Mr J complain that Santander UK Plc (Santander) wont refund them money 
they lost, which they believe was the result of a scam.
What happened
The background to this complaint is well-known to both parties, so I wont repeat it all in 
detail here. However, in summary:  
In August 2019, Mrs CJ and Mr J were looking to have some work completed on their roof 
when they were recommended a tradesman by a work colleague of Mr J. Mr J contacted the 
tradesman and arranged for him to come to their home to provide a quote. 
Following the visit and having received a quote, Mrs CJ and Mr J decided to go ahead and 
agreed a price of £9,000, with the work scheduled to start soon after. The tradesman asked 
Mrs CJ and Mr J for a deposit of £4,000, explaining this was for scaffolding and a skip for the 
waste. On 2 August 2019, they made a payment for £4,000, via bank transfer, to the account 
details the tradesman provided. A further two payments were also made to the tradesman on 
12 August 2019 and on the 15 August 2019 - taking Mrs CJ and Mr Js total outlay to £5,500.
Mrs CJ and Mr J say some work was carried out, but it was not to the expected standard and 
then the tradesmen stopped turning up all together. There was no skip as agreed and lots of 
mess. Mr J exchanged messages with the tradesman who made lots of excuses as to why 
the work was not going ahead as planned but promised his men would return and compete 
the work. But by September 2019, Mrs CJ and Mr J gave up hope - their property was now 
leaking after some bad weather and they decided to employ another firm to come and 
complete the necessary works. The new firm accessed the work that had already been 
completed and confirmed lots of remedial action was needed due to its poor quality which 
Mrs CJ and Mr J would need to pay for.
Mrs CJ and Mr J now believe that they were the victims of a scam. Mrs CJ has said she 
discovered, via Trading Standards, that there have been others who have paid for work to be 
carried out, but that wasnt completed to the required standard. Trading Standards have 
however declined to take any further action. 
Mrs CJ raised the matter with Santander in October 2019. She said she believed that her 
and Mr J had been scammed and that Santander should offer them a refund of the monies 
paid. Santander looked into the concerns that Mrs CJ and Mr J had raised. It considered its 
obligations under the Contingent Reimbursement Model (CRM) Code, of which it is a 
signatory and sent its final response not upholding Mrs CJ and Mr Js complaint. It deemed 
the matter to be a civil dispute between Mrs CJ, Mr J and the tradesman. It said some works 
had been carried out and it wasnt now possible to quantify Mrs CJ and Mr Js exact losses 
or the quality of the work completed.
Unhappy with Santanders response, Mrs CJ and Mr J brought their complaint to our service 
and one of our investigators looked into things. 
Our investigator didnt uphold Mrs CJ and Mr Js complaint, as she considered this was a 
civil dispute between them and the tradesmen who theyd had made the payment to. In 
summary, she said that it appeared that some works had been carried out and that Mr J had 
been told by the tradesman that he would return to complete the work. She considered that it 
would be unusual for a scammer to complete some work and remain in contact with a victim 
after they had left the property. While she didnt doubt the agreement Mrs CJ and Mr J 
entered into with the tradesman hadnt gone to plan, she agreed with Santander that the 
case should be treated as a civil matter. 
As an agreement has not been reached, the case has been passed to me for a final 
decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In deciding whats fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of a complaint, Im required to 
take into account relevant: law and regulations; regulators rules, guidance and standards; 
codes of practice; and, where appropriate, what I consider to have been good industry 
practice at the time. 
Im very aware that Ive summarised this complaint briefly, in less detail than has been 
provided, and in my own words. No discourtesy is intended by this. Instead, Ive focussed on 
what I think is the heart of the matter here. If theres something Ive not mentioned, it isnt 
because Ive ignored it. I havent. Im satisfied I dont need to comment on every individual 
point or argument to be able to reach what I think is the right outcome. Our rules allow me to 
do this and this simply reflects the informal nature of our service as a free alternative to the 
courts. 
Having thought very carefully about Santanders actions, Im not intending to uphold Mrs CJ 
and Mr Js complaint. I do appreciate how disappointing this will be for them, but I dont think 
I can fairly say Santander should reimburse them. Ill explain why. 
I understand entirely why Mrs CJ and Mr J feel so strongly that his money should be 
returned to them. I also understand why they feel they have been the victims of a scam. But 
not all cases where individuals have lost significant sums are in fact fraudulent and/or a 
scam. When considering what is fair and reasonable in this case, Ive also thought about the 
Lending Standards Boards voluntary Contingent Reimbursement Model, which Santander 
has signed up to and that was in force at the time Mrs CJ made these payments. 
Under the CRM Code, the starting principle is that a firm should reimburse a customer who 
is the victim of an APP scam. Ive thought about if the CRM code applies in the 
circumstances of the payments Mrs CJ and Mr J made and, in particular, whether Santander 
ought to reimburse them under the provisions of the Code. But the Code is quite explicit that 
it doesnt apply to all push payments. It says: 
DS2(2) 
This code does not apply to: (b) private civil disputes, such as where a Customer has paid a legitimate supplier for goods, 
services, or digital content but has not received them, they are defective in some way, or the 
Customer is otherwise dissatisfied with the supplier 
Subsections (a) and (c) have been omitted as they are not relevant to this complaint. 
Both the bank and our investigator felt the payments Mrs CJ and Mr J made formed part of a 
private civil dispute and, as such, are not covered by the Code. Mrs CJ and Mr J disagree. 
Its clear the agreement Mrs CJ and Mr J entered into with the tradesman did not go as 
planned, the work has not been completed and the work that was carried out was sub-
standard. And I can understand entirely why Mrs CJ and Mr J feel so strongly about what 
has happened. But I cant safely say with any certainty that the tradesman set out with an 
intent to defraud Mrs CJ and Mr J. I say this because there appears to be a number of 
factors, in the circumstances of this case, that dont carry the typical hallmarks of these 
particular types of scam or of a trader setting out with an intent to defraud; 
In this case, work was undertaken from August 2019. While there were clearly 
concerns about the progress and amount of work undertaken and the 
professionalism and the quality of work carried out, some work was still carried out. I 
have seen photos Mrs CJ has provided, and whilst these may show, on the face of it, 
that the work may not have been up to the standards Mrs CJ and Mr J were 
expecting, it does not show what amount of the overall work was completed for the 
amount paid. Mrs CJ and Mr J at this point, had paid for just over half the work to be 
completed based on the overall cost. 
The builder was still contactable after Mrs CJ had made the payment and after his 
workmen failed to turn up. This is not typically the case with fraudsters, who more 
often than not are not able to be contacted after they have taken a victims money.
Mr J and the tradesman continued to exchange messages. Mr J complained about 
the work carried out and about the tradesmen having not returned to the property. Mr 
J was told the workmen intended to return to finish the work. I understand that this 
didnt happen but Im not persuaded that its usual behaviour for a scammer to agree 
to return to a property having received all the payments they are likely to get from 
their victim.  
I understand that Mrs CJ and Mr J raised the matter with Trading Standards, but Im 
not aware of any ongoing investigations by Trading Standards, or any other authority, 
which would lead me to safely conclude there was an intent to defraud. I do 
understand that Mrs CJ and Mr J have been told that others have also said they 
didnt get the service they paid for/expected. However, this in and of itself, isnt 
enough for me to safely say there was an intent for the builder to defraud Mrs CJ and 
Mr J from the outset. 
Taking the CRM Code into account, Im satisfied that any dissatisfaction with the lack of 
completion of the contract or the quality of the work that was carried out amounts to a civil 
dispute rather than a scam. This type of dispute isnt something that the CRM Code was 
designed to cover. The reason being that a dispute like this is more appropriate to be looked 
at potentially through civil means, such as court. A court would be best placed to determine 
what materials and labour costs have actually been incurred and the amount of work carried 
out to date against what has been paid, in order to determine what is still outstanding or 
what amount(s) is possibly owed  with both Mrs CJ, Mr J and the tradesman having the 
chance to provide their evidence to support their positions.
So, after taking everything into careful consideration, on balance, I cant safely say this meets 
the high legal threshold and burden of proof for fraud. Rather, this appears to be a case of a tradesman failing to honour their agreement by completing work to a sub-standard and not 
finishing the job. This being the case, Im satisfied the CRM Code doesnt apply. And I cant 
fairly ask Santander to refund the money Mrs CJ and Mr J have lost, as I dont think Santander 
has treated them unfairly when it said the payments they made were not covered by the CRM 
Code. And I dont think there was anything else Santander could have done to prevent their 
loss either. 
I realise that my decision will be disappointing for Mrs CJ and Mr J and I dont underestimate 
the impact this matter has had on them. But overall, for the reasons Ive explained, I cant 
fairly or reasonably ask Santander to refund the money they have lost. 
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, my final decision is that I dont uphold Mrs CJ and Mr Js 
complaint against Santander UK Plc. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs CJ and Mr J to 
accept or reject my decision before 25 October 2022. 
Emly Hanley
Ombudsman