DRN-3684080
The complaint
A company, which Ill refer to as C, complains that Advanced Payment Solutions Limited 
(trading as Cashplus) has been unable to restore access for its managing director to its main 
bank account through Cashpluss mobile banking app.
Mrs R, the managing director of C, brings the complaint on C s behalf.
What happened
In January 2022, following a technical issue at Cashplus, Mrs R lost access to Cs main bank 
account through Cashpluss mobile banking app. Although Mr R, another director in C, 
retained access through the app, the problem inconvenienced C as Mrs R handled most 
banking matters for the business, and typically did so using the app. Mrs R continued to 
have access through the app to Cs second account with Cashplus, which indicated that the 
problem wasnt caused by her phone or use of it.
Cashplus sought to rectify the problem, but without success. So, in February, it provided 
Mrs R with a code key which enabled her to access Cs bank account through Cashpluss 
website, but Mrs R still couldnt use the app.
Mrs R complained. Cashplus upheld the complaint, apologised for the inconvenience the 
technical problem had caused, and offered C £30 as compensation. Cashplus believed at 
this point that there would be no further issues for Mrs R in accessing Cs account through 
the mobile app, and that the code key provided a working alternative. However, although the 
code key solution did enable Mrs R to access the account through Cashpluss website, the 
issues with the mobile app remained. Therefore, Mrs R rejected Cashpluss offer and 
brought C s complaint to our service. 
Our investigator looked into things and sought to mediate a solution. He engaged Cashplus 
to get the issue with the app resolved  but, unfortunately, the issue remained. Our 
investigator said Cashplus should pay C £150 to compensate for the inconvenience caused.
Mrs R continued to be disappointed that the issue was unresolved but agreed with this 
outcome. However, Cashplus didnt agree. It said that it couldnt find any technical errors 
preventing Mrs R from accessing Cs account through the app. It also said the account was 
being accessed through its website using the code key and by Mr R using the mobile app. It 
clarified that there was nothing stopping Mrs R accessing Cs account on her mobile through 
Cashpluss website using the code key even if the app was unavailable.
As the matter was unresolved, it was passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Cashplus has said that it is not aware of any technical reason why Mrs R cannot access Cs 
account through its mobile app. However, Mrs R has said that, despite following all the 
guidance provided by Cashpluss customer services representatives through many calls, the 
problem remains. Given she successfully uses the app on the same mobile device to access 
Cs other account with Cashplus, and given she was able to use the app to access Cs main 
account prior to January 2022, I have no reason to doubt her.
However, it also appears to me that Cashplus has made reasonable efforts to resolve 
matters. I can see that at the end of January 2022 and start of February, Cashpluss IT 
department tried various measures to restore Mrs Rs connectivity to her account through 
the app. These proved unsuccessful. It did also provide a code key generator to enable 
access through its website.
Mrs R would have liked to speak directly to someone in Cashpluss IT department rather 
than through its customer services team, but there is no basis for me to say that Cashpluss 
procedures in this regard are unreasonable or that this would have brought an effective 
resolution. 
Through the course of our investigation, Cashplus has repeatedly confirmed that it is not 
aware of any reason why Mrs R should be unable to access Cs bank account using the app, 
so it does not believe there is any more it can do. But Mrs R has repeatedly confirmed that 
she still unable to make the app work. This deadlock has now persisted for many months. 
Cashplus has pointed out that the code key it provided enables Mrs R to access Cs bank 
account through Cashpluss website from any device, including from a mobile phone. 
However, Mrs R has said that she doesnt want to carry a laptop around with her, which is 
cumbersome, and doesnt want to carry a code key token, which is small and could be easily 
lost. In my view, while this was a good alternative solution for Cashplus to provide, I can 
appreciate that it doesnt provide Mrs R with the mobile customer experience she expected.
Overall, while its disappointing Cashplus hasnt been able to resolve the issue and I 
acknowledge Mrs Rs frustration, I also acknowledge that Cashplus has tried to resolve the 
issue  both before and since our involvement in this complaint. 
Our investigator recommended that, in these circumstances, Cashplus should pay C £150 to 
compensate for the inconvenience and bring closure to this dispute. I think this is fair. I am 
aware that Cashplus may be disappointed with this outcome given its efforts, but I believe 
Mrs R is receiving from Cashplus a lower quality of service than she might reasonably 
expect. For this reason, I think this amount is reasonable.
My final decision
I uphold this complaint and require Advanced Payment Solutions Limited to pay C £150.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask C to accept or 
reject my decision before 24 March 2023.
 
Andy Wright
Ombudsman