DRN-1633586
The complaint
Ms H complains that items removed from her home by Zurich Insurance PLC (Zurich) after a 
water leak havent been returned.
What happened
In June 2016 Ms H contacted Zurich to make a claim on her insurance policy. She said there 
had been a major water leak in the flat above hers and it had caused damage to her lounge 
and its contents. Zurich accepted the claim and sent contractors in to take the damaged 
items  furniture and personal possessions  into storage so they could be either repaired 
or, if that wasnt possible replaced.
That was only a few days later. Some months after the contractor reported that it had 
restored or cleaned what it could, and Ms H was to go and look at anything that couldnt be 
repaired before things were disposed of.
Ms H didnt get her possessions back for about a year  but that seems to have been 
because she was ill and couldnt manage their return. Zurich paid for the items to be stored 
during that period.
The items were returned in November 2018. In October 2019 Ms H complained to Zurich 
that some particular items  mostly of great sentimental value  had gone missing.
Zurich contacted the contractor and the company that had done the restoration, but couldnt 
find any of the missing items. They werent listed on either the inventories of items removed 
from her home or a second inventory done whilst the items were in storage. 
Zurich said that it couldnt help Ms H  but if she had any more information it would revisit 
the complaint.
Ms H asked us to review her complaint. Our investigator said that without any evidence 
showing Ms H owned any of the items shed listed, she couldnt ask Zurich to do any more.
Ms H says shes sure the boxes had been tampered with, and Zurich is being unfair. She 
says she has a police report/letter to support her claim.
Ive been asked to decide this claim.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im very sorry Ms H has been through such a difficult time, and suffers from ill health. 
Dealing with the disruption the leak and claim caused must have been hard.
We did ask Ms H on several occasions to send us a copy of the police report/letter she 
mentioned, but we havent received it. So I cant take that into consideration in this decision.
Ms H says shes sure that her belongings were taken out of the boxes they were originally 
packed in. I dont doubt that  but given they were being taken for either repair or 
replacement I dont think its unreasonable for them to be taken out of boxes and later re-
packed.
Ive looked at the lists of items removed and I agree that they dont list every single item, and 
instead refer to things such as books etc. That isnt ideal, and I appreciate Ms H is upset 
that Zurich doesnt believe her statements about missing items. But  in the absence of a 
detailed list, I do think its reasonable for Zurich to want to see some evidence that Ms H 
owned the items before it agrees to do something about them. None of the items Ms H says 
are missing are on any of the photos Ive seen. Nor has Ms H provided any receipts for 
them, although I can understand she might not have these if shes owned the items for a 
long time. Without some evidence of ownership I cant ask Zurich to do more than it has. I 
can see it has said it will re-consider the complaint if Ms H does find more evidence and 
thats a fair offer. I think Ms H needs to do that within a reasonable time (say three months 
from this decision) if she wants Zurich to look at the complaint again.
Taking everything into account, I think Zurich has acted fairly and I cant ask it to do more.
My final decision
My decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms H to accept or 
reject my decision before 24 February 2021.
 
Susan Peters
Ombudsman