DRN-4235513
The complaint
Mr O complains that the investment recommended by Quilter Wealth Ltd (Quilter) did not 
match his attitude to risk and his pension has reduced in value as a result.
Mr O also complains that he believed that the adviser would have maintained a watching 
brief over his pension, which has not been the case.
What happened
In August 2015, Mr O met with his adviser to discuss planning for retirement. At that time, he 
had a Retirement Annuity Contract (RAC) which would pay him £1,726 at retirement and a 
personal pension, with a fund value of £16,756 with Prudential. A risk profiling questionnaire 
was completed, and Mr O was assessed as having a dynamic attitude to risk.
On 10 November 2015, a suitability report was issued to Mr O, outlining the 
recommendations for his pension arrangements. The adviser recommended that he retain 
his RAC, due to the guaranteed income available, and transfer his personal pension from 
Prudential to a personal pension with Royal London to be invested in the Governed Portfolio 
1. The fund fact sheet produced at the time describes the fund objective as This portfolio 
aims to deliver above inflation growth in the value of the fund at retirement, whilst taking a 
level of risk consistent with a cautious risk attitude over a long time period.
The suitability report confirmed Mr Os attitude to risk as being dynamic, and included an 
explanation of this level of risk. It included the recommendation for Mr O to transfer to the 
Royal London Portfolio in their Governed Portfolio 1 in order to benefit from lower charges, 
and stated that although the volatility of the fund was lower than would normally be 
acceptable for a dynamic risk investor, Mr O was happy to accept this lower volatility given 
that you are only 8 years from your proposed retirement date and would despite your attitude 
to risk not [want] to see too greater fluctuations in the value of these pension benefits. The 
report included an overview of the asset allocation at that time and confirmed the fund was 
consistent with Mr Os attitude to risk profile. 
In 2022, following a period of market uncertainty, Mr O attempted to contact his adviser. 
However, he says that he was unable to contact him. He subsequently engaged a different 
adviser, who recommended that he retain his pension with Royal London, but switch the 
fund to the Governed Portfolio 6. 
In January 2023, Mr O complained to Quilter that his pension had been invested at the 
wrong risk level, and that he had understood that the adviser would have a watching brief 
over the investment which has not been the case.
Quilter did not uphold the complaint. They stated that the adviser had followed their 
processes and procedures, and believe that the advice to invest in the Governed Portfolio 1 
was made in Mr Os best interests and suitable for his circumstances at that time. They have 
stated that although the Governed Portfolio 1 was stated in the fund factsheet as being 
suitable for cautious investors, the asset allocation at the time of the advice was more 
appropriate for a higher risk investor. They stated that in relation to Mr Os understanding 
that the adviser would maintain a watching brief, he had declined the offer of ongoing advice 
and not paid any ongoing charges, therefore there was no agreement or obligation for the 
adviser to review Mr Os plan.
Mr O was not happy with this outcome and referred the complaint to this service. Having 
reviewed the information available, the investigator did not disagree with the transfer of Mr 
Os pension to Royal London, but came to the view that the portfolio choice was not a 
suitable recommendation. 
Quilter did not agree with this. They stated that although Royal London badge Portfolio 1 
as suitable for a cautious investor, this is not the case. They stated that the asset allocation 
was in line with other moderate portfolios and pointed out that it contained approximately 
60% in equities (and currently still includes approximately 55% equities). Therefore the 
complaint has been passed to me for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Although the event complained of happened more than six years before Mr O complained, I 
havent seen anything that makes me think he complained more than three years after he 
was aware (or ought reasonably to have been aware) of having cause for complaint. Im 
therefore satisfied Mr O did complain in time and that this is a complaint I can consider. 
Having reviewed the information available, it appears that the parties to the complaint agree 
that the advice to transfer Mr Os pension from Prudential to Royal London was a suitable 
recommendation. The main question to be determined is whether the portfolio selected was 
appropriate. Mr O was recommended to invest in the Royal London Governed Portfolio 1, 
one of a suite of nine portfolios, each designed to be appropriate for investors at various risk 
profiles and with differing timescales to retirement. As stated above, the Governed Portfolio 
1 was designed to be appropriate for cautious investors with a long timescale to retirement. 
Within their product literature, Royal London indicate short, medium and long term to be five, 
ten and fifteen years respectively. 
An attitude to risk report was produced on 26 August 2015, resulting in Mr O being assessed 
as a dynamic investor. The risk profile report on file includes the responses Mr O had 
provided when completing the questionnaire. I note that there are a number of 
inconsistencies in his responses. There are responses which indicate Mr O was comfortable 
with a relatively high level of risk, for example;
I prefer the safety of keeping my money on deposit  disagree
When it comes to investing Id rather be safe than sorry  disagree
People who know me would describe me as a cautious person  disagree
However, in contrast to this, a number of the responses indicate that he was more 
comfortable with a more cautious approach;
I feel comfortable investing in the stockmarket  no strong opinion
I am willing to take substantial financial risk to earn substantial returns  strongly 
disagree
Id rather take my chances with high risk/high return investments than to have to 
increase the amount I am saving  strongly disagree
I am concerned by the uncertainty of stockmarket investment  agreeThere is no evidence of the adviser having discussed these inconsistencies with Mr O in 
order to ascertain the level of risk he was willing and able to take. I have therefore 
considered whether the assessment of dynamic was correct for Mr O.
Mr O had limited assets, and there is no evidence of him having any particular level of prior 
investment experience or knowledge, both factors which should be taken into account when 
assessing an investors attitude to risk profile. However, although Mr O had limited other 
assets, I note that a high proportion of his income requirement in retirement was due to be 
met by his state pension and a Retirement Annuity Contract (RAC) which was being 
retained. It is reasonable to consider that he would be willing and able to take a level of risk 
with this pension in order to meet his objectives. I therefore believe that taking all these 
elements into account, a balanced level of risk would have been likely to be a more 
appropriate outcome for Mr O.
The suitability report provided at the time of the recommendation confirms that Mr Os 
attitude to risk for his retirement objective was dynamic, albeit that it acknowledged that Mr 
O was happy to accept a lower level of volatility given his relatively short term (eight years) 
until retirement. The report included a description of a dynamic investor, and stated that 
given his secure alternative sources of income in retirement, he was able to accept some 
degree of volatility in the value of the proposed transferred pension benefits. The 
recommendation was a Personal Pension with Royal London, invested in the Governed 
Portfolio 1. The report also states that the fund is consistent with Mr Os agreed attitude to 
risk profile. This is not the case. 
I note that although the Governed Portfolio 1 was defined by Royal London as taking a level 
of risk consistent with a cautious risk attitude, at the time of the recommendation it was 
invested towards the high end of this remit with;
62.26% RLP Global Managed
1.0% RLP Short Duration Global High Yield
8.87% RLP Long (15yr) Corporate Bond
8.87% RLP Long (15yr) Index Linked 
17.5% RLP Property and 
1.5% RLP Long (15 yr) Gilts. 
In their correspondence, Quilter have stated that they believe that the investment 
recommended was appropriate for Mr O at the time of the advice, because Royal London 
may badge Portfolio 1 as being for a cautious investor, but based on its asset allocation it is 
not, hence the reason it was deemed suitable by the Defaqto report. This is supported by 
the asset allocation outlined above.
Quilter have made the point that although the portfolio purports to be suitable for a cautious 
investor, the asset allocation both at the time of the advice and to date, suggests it is more 
aligned to the level of risk accepted by a moderate investor. Having reviewed the asset 
allocation, I agree that the investments held within the portfolio appear to attract a higher 
level of risk than I would expect for a cautious investor. However, whilst this was the case at 
the time of the advice, it would not have been possible to forecast that the asset allocation 
would remain at this level during the term to Mr Os retirement. I think there was a likelihood 
of the funds asset allocation changing over time to reflect its objective of taking a cautious 
attitude to risk meaning a likelihood that it wouldnt have been suitable for Mr O over 
anything but the short term. 
The investigator recommended that Quilter carry out a calculation comparing the 
performance of Mr Os fund in the Governed Portfolio 1 against the Governed Portfolio 5, which she thought was a better match for Mr O. This is stated within the fund factsheet as 
taking a level of risk consistent with a moderately cautious, balanced or moderately 
adventurous risk attitude over a medium time period. Taking all the above into account, I 
agree with the investigator that the Governed Portfolio 1 was not appropriate for Mr O at the 
time of the advice, and that the Governed Portfolio 5 would have been more aligned with Mr 
Os objectives and circumstances at the time.  I therefore uphold this element of Mr Os 
complaint.
Mr O has also complained that he understood his adviser would maintain a watching brief 
over his investment, which has not been the case. On 12 October 2015, an engagement 
letter was issued and signed by Mr O, which outlined the charges, and explained the on-
going service provided by the adviser. The letter states you have advised me that you do 
not wish to accept our ongoing advice service. This was reiterated in the suitability report 
provided at the time of the advice. 
Mr O has not stated that he has been paying for an ongoing advice service that he did not 
receive, therefore I agree that the adviser could not be expected to monitor the investments 
on an ongoing basis to ensure suitability. I do not uphold this element of Mr Os complaint.
Putting things right
Fair compensation
My aim is that Mr O should be put as closely as possible into the position he would probably 
now be in if he had been given suitable advice.
I take the view that Mr O would have invested differently. Ive seen nothing to make me think 
the advice to switch to the new provider was unsuitable, but I think Mr O should have been 
recommended to invest in the Royal London Governed Portfolio 5. Im satisfied Mr O would 
have accepted that recommendation. However, I cannot be certain that a value will be 
obtainable for what this policy would have been worth. Im satisfied that what Ive set out 
below is fair and reasonable given Mr O's circumstances and objectives when he invested.
What must Quilter do?
To compensate Mr O fairly, Quilter must:
Compare the performance of Mr O's original investment into the Royal London 
Governed Portfolio 1 with the notional value if it had had been invested into the Royal 
London Governed Portfolio 5 fund. If the actual value is greater than the notional value, 
no compensation is payable. If the notional value is greater than the actual value, there 
is a loss and compensation is payable.
If there is a loss, Quilter should pay into Mr O's pension plan to increase its value by 
the amount of the compensation and any interest. The amount paid should allow for the 
effect of charges and any available tax relief. Compensation should not be paid into the 
pension plan if it would conflict with any existing protection or allowance.
If Quilter is unable to pay the compensation into Mr O's pension plan, it should pay 
that amount direct to him. But had it been possible to pay into the plan, it would have 
provided a taxable income. Therefore, the compensation should be reduced to notionally 
allow for any income tax that would otherwise have been paid. This is an adjustment to 
ensure the compensation is a fair amount  it isnt a payment of tax to HMRC, so Mr O 
wont be able to reclaim any of the reduction after compensation is paid.The notional allowance should be calculated using Mr O's actual or expected 
marginal rate of tax at his selected retirement age.
Its reasonable to assume that Mr O is likely to be a basic rate taxpayer at the 
selected retirement age, so the reduction would equal 20%. However, if Mr O would 
have been able to take a tax-free lump sum, the reduction should be applied to 75% of 
the compensation, resulting in an overall reduction of 15%.
In addition, Quilter should pay Mr O £200 for the distress caused due to his fund 
being invested in a way that did not match his attitude to risk.
Income tax may be payable on any interest paid. If Quilter deducts income tax from the 
interest, it should tell Mr O how much has been taken off. Quilter should give Mr O a tax 
deduction certificate in respect of interest if Mr O asks for one, so he can reclaim the tax 
on interest from HM Revenue & Customs if appropriate.
Portfolio 
nameStatus Benchmark From ("start 
date")To ("end 
date")Additional 
interest
Royal 
London 
PensionStill exists Royal London 
Governed 
Portfolio 5Date of 
switch from 
Prudential 
to Royal 
LondonDate that 
Mr O 
switched to 
Governed 
Portfolio 68% simple per 
year on any 
loss from the 
end date to the 
date of 
settlement
Actual value 
This means the actual amount payable from the investment at the end date. 
Notional value
This is the value of Mr O's investment had it been invested in the Royal London Governed 
Portfolio 5 until the end date. Quilter should calculate this value.
Any withdrawal from the Royal London pension should be deducted from the notional 
value calculation at the point it was actually paid so it ceases to accrue any return in the 
calculation from that point on. If there is a large number of regular payments, to keep 
calculations simpler, Ill accept if Quilter totals all those payments and deducts that figure 
at the end to determine the notional value instead of deducting periodically.
If Quilter is unable to calculate a notional value, they will need to determine a fair value for 
Mr O's investment instead, using this benchmark: FTSE UK Private Investors Income 
Total Return Index. The adjustments above also apply to the calculation of a fair value 
using the benchmark, which is then used instead of the notional value in the calculation of 
compensation.
Why is this remedy suitable?
Ive decided on this method of compensation because:
Mr O wanted Capital growth and was willing to accept some investment risk.The Royal London Governed Portfolio 5 more closely meets Mr Os attitude to risk 
and timescales for investment as outlined at the time he switched to Royal London 
from Prudential.
If Royal London are unable to calculate a notional value, then I consider the 
measure below is appropriate.
The FTSE UK Private Investors Income Total Return index (prior to 1 March 2017, 
the FTSE WMA Stock Market Income total return index) is made up of a range of 
indices with different asset classes, mainly UK equities and government bonds. It 
would be a fair measure for someone who was prepared to take some risk to get a 
higher return.
Although it is called income index, the mix and diversification provided within the 
index is close enough to allow me to use it as a reasonable measure of comparison 
given Mr O's circumstances and risk attitude.
My final decision
I uphold the complaint. My decision is that Quilter Wealth Ltd should pay the amount 
calculated as set out above.
Quilter Wealth Ltd should provide details of its calculation to Mr O in a clear, simple format. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr O to accept or 
reject my decision before 5 October 2023.
 
Joanne Molloy
Ombudsman