DRN-3801893
The complaint
Mr and Mrs F complain that Clydesdale Bank Plc trading as Virgin Money has failed to 
refund over £21,000 they lost as part of a scam. 
For ease of reference, I will refer only to Mr F throughout my decision as the lead 
complainant.
What happened
Mr F received a call on 4 June 2021 from someone purporting to be from Virgin Money (the 
scammer) saying that their account had been compromised and was at risk from rogue staff 
who worked for the bank. They were asked to try and help catch the fraudsters by making 
payments to particular targets. 
Mr F said he was told to grant the scammer remote access to his computer via Anydesk. He 
says he recalls seeing his statements on screen, and that it also went blank at times. He 
said he could see £15,000 had been deposited into his account (which turned out to be a 
simulation as no such money was credited) and he was also asked to read out codes from 
his phone. The scammers said they would set up a new account  and told him to leave his 
computer on while he was away on holiday so they could transfer all his funds to the new 
account and work on his old account to catch the fraudsters. 
Mr F eventually discovered he had been scammed after he contacted Virgin Moneys fraud 
department on 27 July 2021 asking to be put back in contact with the people he had been 
talking to higher up the chain, whereupon the bank took action to restrict access to his 
account. 
There was a total of seven faster payments made to another bank account and four debit 
card payments made to Binance/Coinjar between 7 June and 24 July 2021 (according to the 
dates on Mr Fs statements). However, Mr F says he only made the £300 faster payment on 
7 June 2021 and one debit card payment of £200 to Binance on 25 June 2021. He says he 
did not make any of the other payments made from his account and debit card during this 
period, and neither had he set up any online banking facility. 
Virgin Money refused to provide Mr F with a refund. It said it had called Mr F when he made 
the first £300 payment to question him about its purpose, and then again to question him 
about a £200 card payment made to Binance. On both occasions, Mr F had confirmed that 
the payments were genuine and being made by him, but he did not disclose the true nature 
of what he thought the payments were for. So, Virgin Money was satisfied he had likely 
authorised the payments made from his account and declined to offer a refund. 
Our investigator didnt uphold the complaint. They were satisfied that Mr F had likely 
authorised the scammer to execute the transactions from the account on his behalf. And 
while the investigator thought Virgin Money could have potentially asked further questions 
when it intervened, they didnt think this would have ultimately prevented the scam as Mr F 
wouldnt have been forthcoming about the true nature of the payments when asked. Mr F 
disagreed, so the matter has been escalated to me to determine.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the conclusions reached by the investigator and have decided 
not to uphold it. 
Mr F has made considerable submissions in relation to this complaint and Virgin Moneys 
obligations. Ive read and considered everything that hes provided, but I dont intend to 
respond in similar detail. So, if I dont mention a particular point or piece of evidence, it isnt 
because I havent seen or thought about it. Its just that I dont feel I need to reference it to 
explain my decision. This isnt intended as a discourtesy and is just a reflection of the 
informal nature of our service. 
When considering whats fair and reasonable, I am required to take into account relevant law 
and regulations; the regulators rules, guidance and standards, the codes of practice; and, 
where relevant, what I consider to have been good industry practice at the relevant time.
The disputed transactions complained about took place from June 2021, so of particular 
relevance to my decision are the Payment Services Regulations 2017 (PSRs)  which apply 
to transactions like the ones made from Mr Fs account.
Authorisation
The PSRs say that a payment transaction is authorised by the payer where they have given 
their consent to the execution to the payment transaction. Such consent must be given in the 
form and in accordance with the procedure agreed between the payer and the payment 
service provider.
Unless the payment service provider can show consent has been given, it has no authority 
to make a payment or debit the customers account. Where a payment service user denies 
having authorised a payment transaction, it is for the payment service provider to prove that 
the payment transactions in question were authorised by the customer.
Having considered the facts before me as well as the relevant law, the first question I need 
to determine here is whether it is more likely than not that Mr F authorised the transactions. 
In other words, I need to decide whether he made the transactions himself or gave someone 
permission to do so.
Mr F says he was only aware of the £300 faster payment made on 7 June 2021, and the 
£200 card payment made to Binance on 25 June 2021. He had consented to them being 
made (and he told Virgin Money this was the case when it called him on both occasions), so 
Im satisfied these payments were authorised by him.
Mr F says he was not aware of any other payments being made from his account, however, 
and says he did not authorise them as he was on holiday at the time. But I can see he said 
that the fraudsters told him they would be targeting other rogue agents at the bank. And I 
can see from the testimony he gave to Virgin Money that the scammers said they would set 
up a new account, and told him to leave his computer on while he was away on holiday so 
they could transfer all his funds to the new account and work on his old account to catch the 
fraudsters. He was also under the impression that they were transferring money into his 
account (such as the £15,000 he thought had been credited) and then using this to make the 
payments out of it to catch the fraudsters. The PSR 2017 do allow for payment transactions to be initiated by someone acting on behalf 
of the account holder, which can be agreed informally (e.g. by the account holder asking or 
permitting a third party to undertake a task on their behalf). And if the account holder has 
permitted a third party to appear as if they have the consumers authority to make payment 
transactions, those payment transactions will likely be authorised, even where the consumer 
didnt ask the third party make any payments or know about them.
In this instance, Mr F knew the scammers would be transferring money out of his account  
whether it was transferring it to a new account or sending payments under the guise of 
catching other fraudsters. So, I think its likely Mr F knew that other payments were going to 
be made from his account as part of the faux sting operation, and that he had given 
permission/consent for those payments to be made on his behalf.  
Mr F confirmed that at least two of the disputed payments were genuine when Virgin Money 
called him, although I note that he initially told it he did not remember doing this. But having 
listened to the calls, theres nothing to suggest that it was anyone else talking to Virgin 
Money on the phone to discuss these payments. So, I accept its possible he may also not 
remember agreeing to all the other payments being made as well. But nonetheless, I think 
its more likely than not that he gave the scammers authority for them to be made from his 
account on his behalf. Indeed, if he did not, then it wouldve been very unlikely that he 
wouldve confirmed some of the payments as genuine on the occasions he was contacted by 
the bank. 
I have therefore treated all of the disputed payments as having been authorised by Mr F. 
And the starting position in this scenario is that banks ought to follow the instructions given 
by their customers in order for legitimate payments to be made as instructed, with Mr F 
being presumed liable for the loss in the first instance.
Could Virgin Money have prevented the loss?
Taking into account the law, regulatory rules and guidance, relevant codes of practice and 
what I consider to have been good industry practice at the time, I consider Virgin Money 
should fairly and reasonably:
Have been monitoring accountsand any payments made or receivedto counter 
various risks, including anti-money-laundering, countering the financing of terrorism, 
and preventing fraud and scams;
Have had systems in place to look out for unusual transactions or other signs that 
might indicate its customers were at risk of fraud (amongst other things). This is 
particularly so given the increase in sophisticated fraud and scams in recent years, 
which banks are generally more familiar with than the average customer; and
In some circumstances, irrespective of the payment channel used, have taken 
additional steps, or made additional checks, before processing a payment, or in 
some cases declined to make a payment altogether, to help protect customers from 
the possibility of financial harm from fraud..
It isnt in dispute that the first £300 payment Mr F made on 7 June 2021 was unusual given 
that it did trigger Virgin Moneys fraud prevention systems and was automatically blocked 
pending further enquiry. Accordingly, its just a question of whether the bank went far enough 
in all the circumstances with that intervention.
When Virgin Money spoke to Mr F about this payment, it asked him about its purpose. Mr F 
said it was a personal payment that he had been trying to make to Bangkok. He said it was someone he knew, and that he had got the payment details directly from the payee. Virgin 
Money explained that if the money was lost to a fraud or scam that he would not get the 
money back, but Mr F assured the agent that it was not a scam. 
Having considered the extent of Virgin Moneys intervention, Im not persuaded it asked 
enough relevant and probing questions to determine whether or not Mr F was at risk of 
falling victim to a scam. However, even if it had asked further probing questions about the 
nature of the payment Mr F was making, Im not persuaded it would have likely stopped him 
from proceeding or have ultimately prevented his loss. 
Mr F was under the illusion that he was helping the NCA catch fraudulent agents from within 
Virgin Money, which is why he wasnt honest about the purpose of the payment when 
questioned by the bank. He assured it that he knew the individual and was simply making a 
personal payment. So, even if Virgin Money had asked further probing questions, I think he 
would have stuck to his story and wouldnt have revealed the true nature of the payments he 
was making. Therefore, Im not persuaded there was anything further the bank could have 
done to have prevented his loss.
I also dont think Virgin Money ought to have intervened in any of the subsequent faster 
payments made from Mr Fs account. Mr F had already confirmed the nature of the 
payments he was making to the individual, so further payments to the same person wouldnt 
have appeared suspicious given she was then an established payee that had been verified 
by the account holder.
Virgin Money did, however, speak to Mr F again on 25 June 2021 as it had blocked an 
attempted debit card payment of £200 to Binance. He said he was making a payment for 
cryptocurrency and said he had been dealing in this sort of thing for ages. He was told the 
fraud team had flagged it as high risk as it was being made to Binance. Virgin Money went 
through some security questions and told him the block on his card had been released and 
that he could make the payment.
Given that Virgin Money had identified the transaction as high risk, I again think it could have 
asked further questions at this point, as it didnt actually ask why Mr F was making the 
payment to Binance or how he came to be making it. However, even if it had asked further 
questions, Im not persuaded it would have ultimately unravelled the scam and prevented the 
loss, for the same reasons Ive set out above. 
So, in these circumstances, I dont consider it would be fair and reasonable to hold Virgin 
Money liable for Mr Fs loss, because it seems more likely than not that he would have 
always made the payment to the scammers, notwithstanding the extent of any intervention 
made by the bank.
Internet banking 
Mr F also says that he has never registered for internet banking, and that he wasnt informed 
by Virgin Money that this had been set up. Virgin Money has confirmed that the online 
banking facility was set up on 5 June 2021, which would have required a onetime passcode 
(OTP) to be entered from a registered device. 
I accept its likely that the scammers set up the online banking facility through gaining remote 
access to Mr Fs computer, and that he likely shared the OTP sent to his registered device in 
order to enable them to do so, as he says he recalls sharing several codes from his phone. 
However, I note that during the first call Mr F had with Virgin Money about the £300 
payment, the agent told him the bank was carrying out a routine security check on his internet banking. He also asked about different limits, to which the bank confirmed that with 
his internet banking, he had a £500 transaction limit. Internet banking was mentioned a few 
times during this call, and Mr F never questioned it or said that he had not registered for this 
facility.
I can also see from his testimony that the scammers told him they had set up an internet 
banking facility, and even gave him the login details. So, on balance, I think its more likely 
than not he was aware that an online banking facility had been set up, albeit I appreciate this 
would have been under the guise of him thinking he was helping to catch dishonest staff 
from the bank. 
I also dont consider Virgin Money were under any obligation to write to him to confirm that 
such a facility had been set up either, as internet banking can often be set up online using 
the account holders security credentials (which it appears Mr F inadvertently shared with the 
scammer in this instance) without the need for any interaction with the bank.  
Recovery
Ive also thought about whether Virgin Money could have done more to recover the funds 
after Mr F reported the fraud, as in some circumstances the money can be recovered via 
different means, such as contacting the beneficiary bank or raising a chargeback dispute for 
debit card payments. 
In terms of the faster payments, I can see that Virgin Money reached out to the beneficiary 
bank once the fraud had been reported, but it was unable to recover the money as no funds 
remained in the receiving account. So, I dont think the bank could have done anything more 
to try and recover these payments. Virgin Money are also under no obligation to refund 
these payments to Mr F under the Contingent Reimbursement Model (CRM) Code either, as 
Virgin Money was not signed up as a registered firm to the Code at the time the payments 
were made.
In terms of the debit card payments, Mr F used his card to pay legitimate crypto-exchange 
platforms before the funds were subsequently transferred on to the scammer. So, he 
wouldnt be able to make a successful chargeback claim in these circumstances because 
the company he paid had provided the services as intended (i.e. the purchase of 
cryptocurrency). Therefore, I do not think Virgin Money were under any obligation to raise a 
chargeback for Mr F either.
Trading account
I note that Mr F considers he has also suffered a loss from his GTLot trading account, where 
he had been placing trades on CFDs, as he says his trades were cancelled as a result of 
the fraud.  
Its not exactly clear what is meant by this, but Im not persuaded that Virgin Money could 
fairly or reasonably be held responsible for the performance of his investments in these 
circumstances in any event. I understand they have lost a lot of money though this company, 
and I note that several online reviews state that it is a scam itself. 
Should Mr F wish to dispute the payments he has made to this trading platform from his 
Virgin Money account, he should raise this with the bank in the first instance, who can then 
investigate whether he has fallen victim to another scam, and whether this could have been 
prevented. But if this wasnt a scam itself, there is no reasonable basis in which Virgin 
Money could be held liable for Mr Fs lost trades. Conclusion
I appreciate this will likely come as a disappointment to Mr and Mrs F, and Im sorry to hear 
they have fallen victim to such a cruel scam. However, while I accept that Virgin Money 
could have potentially done more here, Im not persuaded it would have ultimately prevented 
their loss. So, I wont be asking the bank to take any further action in these circumstances.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I do not uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr and Mrs F to 
accept or reject my decision before 24 April 2023.
 
Jack Ferris
Ombudsman