The complaint
Mr Y complains that Barclays Bank UK PLC sent him five years of paper statements, which 
were left on his doorstep whilst he was away.
What happened
Mr Y switched his bank account from Barclays to another provider. After closing his account, 
Barclays posted him copies of his statements, covering the previous five years. 
But Mr Y was on holiday when the statements were delivered and says the package was left 
on his doorstep. Mr Ys daughter found it whilst she was checking his property and left it 
inside, for Mr Y to open when he returned. 
Mr Y complained to Barclays. He said he didnt ask them to send his statements and felt his 
data had been breached. Mr Y was also unhappy Barclays had posted his statements using 
Royal Mails standard delivery service and not a more secure form of delivery.
Barclays didnt uphold Mr Ys complaint. They said they had a regulatory requirement to 
provide the statements after a customer switches their account.  Theyd sent Mr Y a letter 
telling him this would happen, unless he contacted them to say the statements werent 
required. 
Barclays further said it was their policy to send all statements by standard mail. They didnt 
think they were responsible for the package being left on the doorstep. Mr Y would have to 
raise that issue with Royal Mail directly. 
But Barclays also explained that, even if his statements had fallen into the wrong hands, the 
information they contain is limited and not sufficient to enable a potential fraudster to pass 
the banks security systems. 
Mr Y remained unhappy, so referred his complaint to our service. He acknowledged hed 
received Barclays letter advising him the statements would be sent. But he said hed missed 
it at the time, due to the volume of paperwork associated with the account switch and his 
sight impairment. 
But Mr Y thought Barclays shouldve sent the package via special delivery or at least marked 
it private and confidential. Mr Y also found Barclays comments about the limited value of 
the statements to a potential fraudster insulting and said he was entitled to his privacy.
One of our investigators looked into things. She said Barclays had alerted Mr Y they would 
be sending the statements and thought the letter set out clearly that hed need to let them 
know if he didnt want them. Our investigator said Barclays choice of delivery service was a 
matter for them and once the statements had been sent, she couldnt hold Barclays liable for 
Royal Mails decision to leave them on the doorstep.
DRN-1926373Mr Y disagreed. He didnt think him missing the letter from Barclays made a difference, as 
the letter didnt say how the statements would be sent. And he thinks Barclays should 
change their processes to ensure statements of large volumes are sent via registered post. 
Mr Y also thinks that as it was Barclays who used Royal Mail to deliver his statements, it 
should be Barclays responsibility to raise the delivery issue with them, not his. As Mr Y 
asked for a final decision, his complaints come to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im not upholding Mr Ys complaint. Ill explain why.
Barclays let Mr Y know they had a regulatory requirement to send him five years paper 
statements following the switch of his account to another provider. The letter explaining this 
told Mr Y if he didnt require the statements, he needed to let them know. Otherwise, theyd 
be sent following the closure of his account. They also advised Mr Y this may result in a 
large volume of paper.
Mr Y has confirmed he received the letter but that he didnt note it at the time, so he was 
unaware Barclays would be sending the statements. I can understand there may have been 
reasons that contributed to Mr Y missing the letter. But in the absence of a response from 
him, Barclays were right to send the statements and meet their regulatory obligations. 
Mr Y says that even if hed read Barclays notification letter, it wouldnt have stopped the 
problem happening, because it didnt tell him how the statements would be sent or that the 
letter wouldnt be marked private and confidential.  
Mr Y feels strongly Barclays should make changes to their processes and use a registered 
postal service when sending statements of this volume. Barclays have confirmed they dont 
send statements, regardless of the volume, via special delivery. 
My role is to decide individual disputes, not to tell a business what procedures and 
processes it should adopt. But I have thought about whether any special measures 
shouldve been anticipated in Mr Ys case, in light of his sight impairment and requirement 
for large print documents. And Ive also thought about the timing of the delivery of the 
statements. Barclays notification letter says that the statements will be sent within ten 
working days of account closure. Mr Y didnt receive his statements until about eleven weeks 
after account closure, possibly related to the need for them to be converted to large print. So 
the information in the letter didnt match what happened in Mr Ys case. But Mr Y didnt read 
the notification letter, so was unaware that statements would be sent, whether in ten working 
days or some weeks later. 
Having thought about these issues, and whether Barclays ought fairly to have done 
something different in Mr Ys situation, I dont think theyre central to my ultimate decision. I 
say this because in order to uphold the complaint and potentially award compensation, Id 
need to be satisfied that Mr Y lost out as a result of Barclays actions. And given what 
actually happened, I dont think he did. 
Its regrettable that Royal Mail left Mr Ys statements on his doorstep. Every consumers 
information and privacy is important, and I can understand why this may be particularly so 
for Mr Y. But Mr Y opened the statements upon his return from holiday. So he knew 
straightaway his information was safe. His distress and frustration relate to what couldve 
happened, not what actually did. So regardless of whether Barclays ought to have thought about special measures for Mr Y and given more tailored information in the notification letter, 
I dont think the circumstances here suggest I should make an award for a loss Mr Y cannot 
show he incurred, or was likely to incur. It wouldnt be right to compensate for worry about 
something that Mr Y knew immediately hadnt happened.
Finally, I can appreciate why Mr Ys was unhappy with Barclays comments as to the limited 
information statements would offer a fraudster if they fell into the wrong hands. But Im 
satisfied their intention wasnt to cause offence, but rather to offer reassurance to Mr Y about 
the security measures they have in place, should a breach have happened. Regardless, Im 
pleased that on this occasion Mr Y received his statements intact. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive set out above, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr Y to accept or 
reject my decision before 14 July 2020.
Jo Chilvers
Ombudsman