DRN-1211810
The complaint
Ms S and Mr S are unhappy about the way in which Ecclesiastical Insurance Office Plc (EIO) 
handled a claim they made on their legal expenses insurance (LEI) policy. All references to 
EIO include the administrator of the policy, and its claims handlers.
What happened
Ms S and Mr S have the benefit of a home insurance policy which includes LEI. They 
encountered a problem with their neighbour. In mid-2018 they sought to make a claim on 
their LEI policy to cover the cost of bringing a legal claim. EIO agreed to appoint one of its 
panel law firms (the panel firm) to look into that claim and assess whether the prospects of 
it succeeding were at 51% or above.
Ms S and Mr S were unhappy with the service and advice they received from the panel firm 
and they raised concerns with EIO in September and October 2018. They were also 
unhappy that the advice received from the panel firm was inconsistent with the advice theyd 
received from the legal helpline policyholders have access to under the policy, which theyd 
contacted.
Ultimately, the panel firm advised that Ms S and Mr S didnt have reasonable prospects of 
succeeding in their claim. So, EIO didnt agree to fund their claim going forward. Unhappy, 
Ms S and Mr S complained to EIO. 
They were also unhappy with the way in which their claim had been handled by EIO 
including delays responding to communications. They also said that one of EIOs 
representatives had offered to appoint a second law firm to reassess the prospects of them 
succeeding in their claim (at no cost to Ms S and Mr S) but this offer had been withdrawn 
without reason.
EIO accepted that it couldve provided a better service to Ms S and Mr S, and that 
they'd unreasonably delayed responding to certain communications. It offered them £100 
compensation by way of an apology. However, it said it was entitled to rely on the advice of 
the panel firm when withdrawing cover and the legal advice received was that the claim 
didnt enjoy reasonable prospects of success, which was one of the requirements for cover 
under the policy. It didnt accept that its representative offered to refer their claim to another 
legal firm for a second assessment. 
Ms S and Mr S brought a complaint to us. Our investigator didnt think EIO had to do 
anything more, so didnt uphold their complaint. Ms S and Mr S disagreed. They raised 
further points in reply and asked for their complaint to be passed to an ombudsman to 
decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.Having done so, I dont uphold it. I know Ms S and Mr S will be very disappointed with my 
decision but hopefully they will understand the reasons for it, when I explain why.
EOI has a duty to handle claims fairly and promptly, and it mustnt unreasonably decline a 
claim.
Under the policy, EIO is entitled to appoint a law firm to assess the merits of Ms S and Mr S 
succeeding in their claim and, if they had more chance of succeeding in that claim than not, 
representing them in that action (subject to the remaining policy terms). Its common for LEI 
policies to include a condition like this and generally we dont think that sort of clause is 
unfair. Thats because it wouldnt be reasonable to expect an insurer to fund a claim that isnt 
likely to succeed, or where a privately paying client wouldnt be advised to start, or continue 
with, legal action.
I know Ms S and Mr S are very unhappy with the way their case was conducted by the panel 
firm, including the quality of the advice they received. But our Service cant consider 
complaints about the general legal advice or service given by a law firm; theyre not under 
EIOs control. They are independent professionals with their own regulator and complaints 
procedures.
Our Service can only consider whether EIO did anything wrong in the way it handled 
the insurance claim. That can include whether the advice given to Ms S and Mr S by the 
panel firm was obviously wrong or based on factual mistakes to the extent that EIO 
shouldve reasonably questioned it. I dont think thats the case here. Im satisfied that when 
EIO withdrew cover under the policy, it reasonably relied on the advice of the panel firm 
when doing so. After all, the panel firm are the legal professionals and had day to day 
conduct of their case. 
When making this finding, Ive considered what Ms S and Mr S say about receiving different 
advice from the legal helpline when first seeking legal assistance. However, I dont think that 
in itself means that the advice Ms S and Mr S subsequently received was obviously wrong, 
to the extent that EIO shouldve reasonably questioned it. Its not uncommon for legal advice 
to change once the legal representative is in receipt of more information. 
EIO is also required to appoint a suitably qualified representative to act for Ms S and Mr S 
under the policy. The solicitor who advised Ms S and Mr S had been qualified for many 
years and is an experienced litigator in property disputes. Further, after Ms S and Mr S 
raised concerns about the quality of advice, the principal associate at the panel firm  who is 
also an experienced litigator - reviewed the advice and confirmed his agreement with it. 
Although Ms S and Mr S say another law firm had provided advice in this matter which 
differed from the panel firm, I havent seen anything from the other law firm from the time 
which confirms that. Besides, EIO advised Ms S and Mr S that it would consider reinstating 
cover should they obtain an opinion from an appropriate barrister confirming that their claim 
had reasonable prospects of success  but they would have to cover the costs of that 
opinion initially, and, if favourable, EIO would consider reimbursing them. Thats in line with 
what I wouldve reasonably expected EIO to have done. 
I also know Ms S says that she was told in December 2018 by one of EIOs representatives 
that it would agree to appointing a second law firm to consider the merits of Ms S and Mr S's 
case as shed said shed lost all confidence in the panel firm. Weve been provided with a 
recording of this call and although the possibility of this was discussed, it wasnt confirmed. 
And, for the reasons set out above, I dont think EIO has acted unreasonably by not 
instructing a second law to assess the merits of the claim  particularly as prospects had 
been assessed to be below 51% by the panel firm.EIO has accepted that there were occasions when it caused unreasonable delays when 
handling Ms S and Mr Ss claim by not replying promptly to Ms Ss communications  
including a few weeks in July 2018 and again later in 2019 / early 2019. There were also 
times when its representatives said they would get back to her but didn't. Its offered Ms S 
and Mr S £100 compensation for this.
Ive looked at the impact this had on them and I accept that those delays caused a moderate 
level of trouble (as Ms S had to chase EIO for replies), upset and frustration.
I know Ms S and Mr S have encountered similar issues with EIO when handling a previous 
claim for them and EIO had previously apologised for this in February 2018 when issuing a 
final response letter in response to a complaint which included those concerns. I havent 
considered any of the customer service issues that formed part of that complaint as, 
although they might relate to similar issues, Ms S and Mr S didnt bring that complaint to our 
Service within six months as they were required to. EIO said in that final response letter that 
it wouldnt consent to our Service looking into any issues that were brought out of time, and I 
cant see that there are any exceptional circumstances here which prevented them from 
bringing that complaint to us within the required timeframe.
However, EIOs admissions show that there were previous, similar, issues when handling a 
past claim for Ms S and Mr S and their previous experiences with EIO are likely to have 
exacerbated the frustration Ms S wouldve felt by the avoidable delays which took place at 
various time between July 2018 and early 2019. However, Im satisfied that the offer of £100 
fairly reflects the level of trouble and upset she and Mr S experienced.
My final decision
Ecclesiastical Insurance Office Plc doesnt need to do anything more. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S and Ms S to 
accept or reject my decision before 3 June 2020.
David Curtis-Johnson
Ombudsman