DRN-3344728
The complaint
Mr C complains that, when he cancelled his car insurance policy, he didnt receive a refund 
in line with what he was told by Next Risk Solutions Limited (trading as Quote Detective) at 
the point of sale.
What happened
In January 2021, Mr C took out a car insurance policy over the phone. The purchase was 
made via Quote Detective, who acted as the broker. Mr C says he was given information by 
Quote Detective at the time that explained the costs hed incur if he decided to cancel the 
policy early.
Mr C cancelled his policy the following month and complained after finding out the sum he 
was being refunded. Mr C felt this didnt match what he was told by Quote Detective when 
he took out the policy and thinks hes been charged too much for the time on cover. He also 
claims he cancelled the policy within the 14-day cooling off period. 
Quote Detective responded with an explanation of the policy cancellation terms. The broker 
pointed out that Mr C had confirmed his understanding of the cancellation terms during its 
call with him and that it had sent the relevant terms as part of the welcome pack he received.
Mr C remained unhappy and asked this service to independently review his complaint. Our 
investigator concluded that Mr C was charged in line with the terms of the policy and that 
these terms were clearly explained to Mr C before he took out the policy. However, the 
investigator concluded that the commission clawback amount due upon cancellation of the 
policy wasnt set out clearly and recommended that Quote Detective refund the value of this.
Mr C didnt agree and feels the terms werent explained to him in a way he could 
understand. Because he didnt agree, the complaint has been passed to me for a final 
decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Id like to first point out that the cancellation terms of Mr Cs policy are set by the insurer, not 
Quote Detective. And the bulk of what Mr C was charged was for the time he was on cover, 
which is decided by the insurer. Quote Detectives own terms are only relevant for any fees 
Mr C was charged by the broker. Given this, I cant consider whether Mr C was fairly 
charged for time on cover as this isnt something that Quote Detective is responsible for. I 
can only investigate whether Quote Detective explained the cancellation terms clearly. 
Ive listened to the call that took place between Mr C and Quote Detective when the policy 
was sold and I note the following:
Mr C specifically asked about the costs hed incur if he cancelled the policy early 
The Quote Detective representative explained the brokers cancellation fees both for 
cancelling within and outside of the 14-day cooling off period
The representative also explained that Mr C would be charged for time on cover and 
that cancelling after the cooling off period would result in him paying for each month 
on cover  the representative set out the potential premium that could be retained 
upon cancellation using percentages
Mr C confirmed he understood what was explained
Ive looked at Quote Detectives terms of business that the broker says was sent to Mr C 
with his welcome letter. Mr C cancelled his policy in its second month, so the terms that are 
relevant relate to cancellation outside of the 14-day cooling off period. These terms explain 
that Quote Detective charges a £50 cancellation fee and that Mr C would be charged a 
percentage of the premium for time on cover - this will differ, depending on the month the 
cover is cancelled. This is the information Mr C was given over the phone before he took out 
the policy, so Im satisfied that Quote Detective set out the terms clearly. 
Mr C says the terms werent explained to him in a simple way. But I dont agree. During the 
call, the discussion around cancellation charges took place more than once. The 
representative checked Mr Cs understanding and he confirmed he understood. Moreover, 
the terms were also sent to Mr C  so if Mr C felt something was unclear at this point, I think 
its likely he wouldve got in touch with the broker sooner to clarify.
Mr C says the premium refund he received doesnt match what he was told over the phone. 
During the call, the representative set out that estimated premium that would be retained 
upon cancellation in month two would be 40%. This is in line with Quote Detectives terms of 
business. Ive seen the details of the amount Mr C was refunded and it seems to me that this 
was 60% of the total premium. So Im satisfied the premium refund Mr C received was in line 
with the cancellation terms Quote Detective set out to him. 
Mr C was also charged a fee of around £60 for lost commission. As mentioned in its terms, 
Quote Detective is usually paid a commission by the insurer. But when Mr C cancelled his 
policy, Quote Detective lost out on some or all its commission, given that part of the premium 
was refunded by the insurer. So the broker decided to charge Mr C the amount it had lost 
out on. 
However, I cant see that this was mentioned during the call Mr C had with Quote Detective. 
And looking at the brokers terms, in my opinion the commission clawback isnt set out 
clearly here either. The terms explain that Quote Detective is usually paid a commission by 
the insurer and, where this isnt the case, Quote Detective charges up to 15% of the 
premium as commission. The terms go on to add that a charge will apply for lost commission 
if the policy is cancelled. But the terms do not explain the value of this charge or what 
percentage charge will be applied upon cancellation of the policy. Because this wasnt made 
clear to Mr C, I think Quote Detective should refund the commission sum it charged him
In summary, I think Quote Detective clearly set out its cancellation fee and the percentage 
premium Mr C would have to pay for time on cover, if he cancelled the policy after the 
cooling off period. And, Im satisfied the premium refund Mr C received was in line with what 
Quote Detective told him during the sales call. However, Quote Detective shouldve done 
more to clearly explain the amount it would charge Mr C for lost commission. Because the 
broker didnt do so, I think its fair that Mr C is refunded this amount.
Putting things right
Quote Detective didnt clearly explain the commission cost Mr C would be charged if he 
cancelled the policy early. To put things right, Quote Detective should refund Mr C £63.02 My final decision
My final decision is that Next Risk Solutions Limited (trading as Quote Detective) should pay 
Mr C £63.02. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 22 April 2022.
 
Abdul Ali
Ombudsman