DRN-1509765
 
The complaint
Mr S complains about a no obligation quote he made for a personal loan with Nationwide 
Building Society.
What happened
Mr S was told it would be very unlikely Nationwide would offer him a personal loan. He 
complains the message he received telling him this, contradicts the information provided on 
Nationwide's website. Mr S says the reason he was given was, based on the information 
he'd provided and that from external credit agencies he didn't meet Nationwide's lending 
criteria. But Mr S points out the website says his credit file wouldn't be checked unless he 
applies for a loan.  The message also says another reason he didn't meet the lending criteria 
was because he already had a loan that should be paid off in 40 days. Mr S says he didn't 
have any other loans. 
Mr S complained to Nationwide and asked for a call back within three days. This didn't 
happen, so Mr S had to call again. He was also unhappy with the way the call was handled 
as he thought the individual wasn't very accommodating when they spoke to him and came 
across as arrogant. 
Nationwide looked into the matter. It didn't think the information it had given to Mr S was 
misleading but recognised it could have handled his complaint better so offered him £50 
compensation. Mr S was unhappy with this and the wording of Nationwide's response, he 
said it incorrectly stated the date of his quotation. He brought his complaint to our service 
and said he wanted £525 in compensation as he'd had to get a credit elsewhere which was 
more expensive. 
Our investigator didn't think the complaint should be upheld. She thought the information 
Mr S had been given was clear. The website explains his credit history would be checked for 
the purposes of the quote but a full credit check, which other lenders can see, wouldn't take 
place until he'd applied for a loan.  The investigator also said Nationwide had provided 
evidence of a quotation on the date it said it its response letter, so it had used the correct 
date. She said while our rules don't allow us to look into complaints about how complaints 
have been handled, she could see Nationwide had acknowledged it could have done better 
and offered Mr S compensation.
Mr S asked for an ombudsman to review the complaint so it has come to me to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I won't be upholding Mr S's complaint. I'll explain why. I've been provided with screen shots of the quotation process Mr S went through on the 
website and I can see that it does explain that for the quotation process, Nationwide would 
check Mr S's credit history but that check wouldn't impact his credit history. It's the 
information from this check which is referred to in the reason why Mr S was told he didn't 
meet Nationwide's lending criteria.  Based on this, I don't think Nationwide mis-led Mr S as to 
what information it would check during the quotation process. 
The initial credit history check Nationwide completed is different from a full credit search that 
lenders make when considering a full loan application. The latter leaves a 'mark' on the 
credit file to alert other lenders of a previous credit application. It isn't unusual for credit 
providers to carry out these searches so I don't think Nationwide has done anything wrong 
here.
I've looked at the print out Mr S has provided when he was given the quotation decision. 
Nationwide has confirmed that in May Mr S accessed the previous quote he'd been given in 
April. So I'm persuaded this explains why there is confusion between the printed date of the 
quote and the date the quote was actually generated. It also means Nationwide referenced 
the correct quotation date in it's final response letter. 
In the quotation decision it refers to Mr S having a loan to be repaid in the next 40 days but 
this doesn't seem to be the case. Nationwide have confirmed Mr S doesn't have an 
outstanding loan and it can't confirm with any certainty why he received this message. While 
I appreciate this has caused Mr S some confusion, I'm satisfied from the evidence available 
to me it wouldn't have in itself, impacted the decision Mr S was given. 
Nationwide has offered Mr S £50 for the poor service he received. I think this is reasonable 
in the circumstances so i won't be asking it to do anything more. 
My final decision
I don't uphold Mr S's complaint against Nationwide Building Society.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 16 April 2020.
Alison Gore
Ombudsman