The complaint
Miss M complains that Capital One (Europe) plc, mis-sold her a payment protection 
insurance (PPI) policy.
What happened
This complaint is about a credit card PPI policy taken out in 2007. The PPI was sold to 
Miss M over the phone.
Our adjudicator didnt think the complaint should be upheld. Miss M disagreed with the 
adjudicators view, so the complaint has been passed to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about PPI on our website and Ive taken 
this into account when deciding Miss Ms case. Having done so, Im not upholding it for 
reasons that Ill explain.
Capital One doesnt have a call recording of the sale. But that isnt particularly surprising 
given how long ago it took place. Businesses arent required to keep this type of record over 
this period of time. However, from what we know more generally about how PPI sales were 
made by Capital One on such calls, I think its more likely than not that it made it clear to 
Miss M that the PPI was optional and that she agreed to take it. And I havent seen enough 
evidence for me to think that, on this particular occasion, the telephone representative 
Miss M spoke to didnt follow this normal sales process. The PPI charges would also have 
been separately shown on Miss Ms credit card statements. And I think she would have 
queried with Capital One why she was being charged for PPI if she hadnt agreed to take it.
So, on the limited information available to me, I think its most likely that Miss M would have 
known at the time that she had a choice about buying the policy and actively decided to do 
so. But the sale happened a long time ago, so I can understand why she may not recall this 
now.
I dont think Capital One recommended the policy to Miss M, so it didnt need to make sure 
that it was suitable for her. But it did still need to give Miss M enough information for her to 
decide if she wanted to take it out. I think its likely that the information Capital One gave 
Miss M could have been better than it was. But from what I know about her circumstances at 
the time, I dont think better information would have changed her mind about taking it. I say 
this because:
DRN-1606325 
Miss M appears to have been eligible for the policy and not affected by any of its 
main exclusions and limitations.
 
Miss M says that if the PPI had been explained to her she would have declined it 
because she didnt need the cover. She says she was entitled to generous sick pay 
from her employer at the time of the sale. But this policy would have paid out in 
addition to her sick pay and for longer than she would have been paid this sick pay in 
full. It would have paid out for up to twelve months if she wasnt able to work because 
of an accident, sickness or unemployment. So I think that Miss M would still have 
thought the policy gave her useful benefits which were worth paying for.
 
Ive no reason to think the PPI policy was unaffordable for Miss M. And as the 
premiums were paid monthly, she could have cancelled it if it no longer met her 
needs. 
 
So I dont think Miss M has lost out by anything Capital One may have done wrong when it 
sold her this PPI policy. Ive thought about what Miss M has said about why she still thinks 
the PPI policy was mis-sold to her, but Im afraid that this hasnt changed my mind about not 
upholding her complaint.
This means Capital One doesnt have to pay back all of the cost of the PPI to Miss M. 
But Capital One does have to pay back some of the cost of the PPI to Miss M because:
 
Capital One got a high level of commission and profit share (more than 50% of the 
PPI premium) - so it should have told Miss M about that. Because Capital One didnt 
tell Miss M, that was unfair.
 
To put that right, Capital One has paid back the amount of commission and profit 
share that was above 50% of the PPI premium - and I think that is fair in this case.      
 
My final decision
I dont think the PPI policy was mis-sold  so Capital One (Europe) plc doesnt have to pay 
back all of the cost of the PPI to Miss M.
But Capital One (Europe) plc does have to pay back to Miss M any commission and 
profit share it got that was more than 50% of the PPI premium. I understand it has already 
done this, so I dont award any further compensation.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss M to accept 
or reject my decision before 28July2020.Simon Furse
Ombudsman