DRN-4311248
The complaint
Mr Y has complained that CIGNA Europe Insurance Company SA-NV (CIGNA) has unfairly 
declined a claim and removed his child from the policy. 
He is also unhappy about delays and the customer service he received.
What happened
Mr Y has a private medical insurance policy underwritten by CIGNA which he took out in 
2021 to cover himself and his two children. 
Mr Y made a claim but CIGNA said Mr Y had answered the question it asked about his 
childs medical history incorrectly. And it considered this to be a deliberate or reckless 
qualifying misrepresentation, which entitled it to decline the claim and remove the child from 
the policy.
Mr Y brought his complaint to the Financial Ombudsman Service but our investigator didnt 
think it should be upheld in relation to the misrepresentation. However he did think CIGNA 
had failed to properly remedy the poor customer service and recommended £100 
compensation for this.
Mr Y disagreed and in summary, has said he did not deliberately mislead CIGNA and has 
asked for an Ombudsmans decision. 
And so the case has been passed to me to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree this complaint should be upheld, in part. Ill explain why. 
Firstly, I will deal with the misrepresentation.
The relevant law in this case is The Consumer Insurance (Disclosure and Representations) 
Act 2012 (CIDRA). This requires consumers to take reasonable care not to make a 
misrepresentation when taking out a consumer insurance contract (a policy). The standard 
of care is that of a reasonable consumer. 
And if a consumer fails to do this, the insurer has certain remedies provided the 
misrepresentation is - what CIDRA describes as - a qualifying misrepresentation. For it to be 
a qualifying misrepresentation the insurer has to show it would have offered the policy on 
different terms or not at all if the consumer hadnt made the misrepresentation. 
CIDRA sets out a number of considerations for deciding whether the consumer failed to take 
reasonable care. And the remedy available to the insurer under CIDRA depends on whether 
the qualifying misrepresentation was deliberate or reckless, or careless.
CIGNA thinks Mr Y failed to take reasonable care not to make a misrepresentation when he 
didnt disclose that his child had been receiving sessions with a therapist. 
Ive looked at the questions Mr Y was asked about whether his child had ever had symptoms 
of or treatment for a list of conditions including any mental health condition. I dont think Mr Y 
took reasonable care as he should have told CIGNA about his childs appointments and 
therapy sessions. 
CIGNA has provided evidence from its underwriting criteria to show that it wouldnt have 
covered Mr Ys child had he answered the question correctly. 
This means Im satisfied Mr Ys misrepresentation was a qualifying one. 
CIGNA has said Mr Ys misrepresentation was deliberate or reckless because the question 
was clear and his childs appointments were recent enough. Additionally, Mr Y was also 
asked whether there were any current or past medical problems not already mentioned and 
also whether there were any illnesses, conditions or symptoms not already mentioned. Mr Y 
answered no.
I agree that Mr Ys misrepresentation was deliberate or reckless due to the same reasons. If 
he was unsure, he could have disclosed the information and asked CIGNA for guidance. 
As Im satisfied Mr Ys misrepresentation should be treated as deliberate or reckless, Ive 
looked at the actions CIGNA can take in accordance with CIDRA. It is entitled to decline a 
claim and void a policy so I am satisfied the actions CIGNA has taken are in line with the 
remedies detailed in CIDRA.
I will now turn to the customer service and delays.
The relevant rules and industry guidelines say an insurer must handle claims promptly and 
fairly. And shouldnt unreasonably reject a claim.
CIGNA accepts Mr Y had to speak to multiple advisers and there was a delay in progressing 
his claim. I am pleased to see that CIGNA apologised but I agree with our investigator that 
compensation is appropriate due to the frustration and inconvenience caused to Mr Y in 
having to repeat himself. I think £100 is appropriate taking into consideration the delay of 
about a month. The issue wasnt long lasting and didnt have any lasting detrimental effect 
so I dont think a higher award is justified. 
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I partially uphold this complaint and direct CIGNA Europe 
Insurance Company SA-NV to pay Mr Y £100 compensation. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr Y to accept or 
reject my decision before 26 October 2023.
 
Shamaila Hussain
Ombudsman