DRN-2263479
The complaint
Mr and Mrs H complained that Aviva Life & Pensions UK Limited unfairly made changes to 
their life and critical illness policy on the grounds that Mrs H had misrepresented her medical 
history when applying for cover. This led to Mrs Hs claim for cover being turned down. 
What happened
This complaint concerns Mr and Mrs Hs life and critical illness policy (the policy). The 
policy was designed to provide a lump sum (£47,000) if either Mr or Mrs H died or were 
diagnosed with a listed critical illness during the 25 year term. 
Mr and Mrs H applied for the policy in May 2004 and cover started in October 2004. They 
had an existing policy in place with another insurer, who Ill call N. This policy was later taken 
over by Aviva.
Mrs H was sadly diagnosed with multiple sclerosis (MS) in June 2019. She submitted 
claims to Aviva under both policies in October 2019. In the claim form Mrs H told Aviva shed 
suffered from retrobulbar neuritis and sensory changes in her teenage years. She said shed 
also had an episode of numbness and labyrinthitis. As these incidents appeared to pre-date 
the policy Aviva requested medical reports to consider if Mrs H should reasonably have 
disclosed these incidents when she applied for cover. 
Aviva accepted the claim under Ns policy and paid the claim in full. But it considered Mrs H 
hadnt given full and complete answers when completing the application form for this policy. 
It said shed incorrectly answered no to the following question:
Do you suffer from or have you ever suffered from any of the followingd) muscular or joint 
disorder (including arthritis, backache or pain), multiple sclerosis, paralysis, numbness or 
tingling, or any disorder affecting your eyes, ears, balance or co-ordination
Aviva says had it known about Mrs Hs full medical history it wouldnt have offered her cover 
on the terms it did. It said it wouldve charged a higher premium and excluded all claims 
related to MS and retrobulbar neuritis. So, it reduced the amount of cover the policy offered, 
in line with the increased cost of cover, and applied a retrospective exclusion to the policy. 
The new exclusion meant Mrs Hs claim was declined. 
Mrs H complained about Avivas decision. She said that shed answered the application 
questions truthfully based on her knowledge at the time. She said she hadnt recalled the 
incidents when completing the application, as theyd all taken place several years earlier. 
She was also advised at the time that they were self-limiting symptoms of viral infections. 
She said that she hadnt even known the name of the conditions until she later re-examined 
her medical history in light of her diagnosis. As the application had instructed that minor 
ailments could be ignored she felt shed acted reasonably in not disclosing them.
 
Our investigator considered the case and concluded Avivas decision was fair and 
reasonable. He was satisfied Aviva had acted in line with our approach to these cases and 
the relevant industry guidance. He thought Mrs H should reasonably have disclosed her 
relevant medical history in response to the clear questions asked. Aviva had shown it 
wouldnt have offered the policy on the terms it had if it had known about Mrs Hs medical 
history. So he was satisfied it could reasonably change the terms the policy was offered on 
now it had the full information. He concluded that its decision to decline Mrs Hs claim was 
reasonable in the circumstances.
 
Mr and Mrs H asked for an ombudsmans review. They maintained that Mrs H couldnt 
reasonably be expected to disclose the incidents Aviva was relying on. They clarified:
In 1996 Mrs H had experienced blurred vision and tenderness in one eye. She said 
she wasnt referred to an eye hospital but was advised to have it checked in A&E. 
She was then advised it was likely a viral infection, and that it would resolve on its 
own, which it did. 
In 2001 Mrs H had an episode of labyrinthitis, which she said was described to her as 
an inner ear viral infection that would resolve on its own, which it did. She didnt recall 
experiencing double vision (diplopia) or being referred to hospital.
Mrs H said shed only remembered the sensory disturbance she experienced as a 
teenager in hindsight after her MS diagnosis. She said her GP at the time had 
suggested it was linked to the contraceptive pill she was taking. 
Given her understanding of her symptoms at the time, Mrs H considered shed answered the 
questions correctly as she didnt think shed had a disorder affecting her eye, ears, balance 
or co-ordination.  She also pointed to another application question which stated that minor 
ailments could be ignored. Shed asked Aviva to distinguish between minor ailments and 
disorders, but itd been unable to do so. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im not upholding this complaint. I realise this will come as a disappointment 
to Mr and Mrs H. I dont want to add to the distress theyve experienced since Mrs H 
received her diagnosis and during this case, but Id like to explain how Ive reached this 
conclusion. 
Ive taken into account the appropriate industry guidance that was in place at the time Aviva 
made its decision. This is called Misrepresentation and Treating Customers Fairly - ABI 
Code of Practice Managing Claims For Individual and Group Life, Critical Illness and Income 
Protection Insurance Products September 2019. Ill refer to this as the code.
The code outlines what an insurer can do at the point of claim if it suspects a consumer has 
made a misrepresentation (i.e. said something untrue or misleading) when entering into the 
contract. 
The code outlines that for a misrepresentation to be categorised as careless, a reasonable
person would have considered that the information was relevant to the insurer and
the consumer must have failed to take reasonable care. Was there a misrepresentation?  
By completing the application declaration Mr and Mrs H confirmed that the answers they 
gave were true and that no relevant fact had been withheld. The application form also 
advised If you are in any doubt as to whether any fact is material, you should disclose it, as 
failure to do so may invalidate a future claim. So Ive considered whether Mrs H answered 
the questions truthfully and accurately.
 
Mrs H said shed never suffered any numbness or tingling, or any disorder affecting [her] 
eyes, ears, balance or co-ordination. But when completing the claim form in October 2019 
she stated shed suffered from retrobulbar neuritis (inflammation of the optic nerve) and 
sensory changes down one side when she was 19. Shed also experienced a period of 
numbness and labyrinthitis. 
Aviva obtained a GP report which stated Mrs H had been referred to an eye hospital in 1996 
with possible optic neuritis after shed complained of blurring of her vision with pain and 
possible pale disc. In May 2001 shed had diplopia (double vision) and prior to this an 
episode of labyrinthitis. I understand Mrs H disputes she was referred to an eye hospital in 
1996 and has advised she was in fact referred to A&E. 
I accept that Mrs H may have been advised her symptoms in 1996 and 2001 were linked to 
viral infections. And that they would, and indeed did, resolve without treatment. But Im 
nevertheless satisfied they should both reasonably be considered disorders of her 
eyes/vision. As such, I consider Aviva was justified in saying Mrs H misrepresented her state 
of health. 
 
I know Mrs H has said the application form had indicated she could ignore minor ailments 
such as colds/flu, but this was stated in relation to one specific question about time off work. 
There was nothing to suggest this should be applied anywhere else in the application.  In 
fact, the Statement of Health noted If you are in any doubt as to whether any fact is 
material, you should disclose it, as failure to do so may invalidate a future claim. So Im 
satisfied the requirement to make full and accurate disclosures was made clear to Mr and 
Mrs H at the point of application. 
The code sets out that a misrepresentation is careless if it resulted from the consumer failing 
to exercise reasonable care when answering the application questions. It explains this 
includes an understandable oversight. I think this best describes Mrs Hs misrepresentations.
I appreciate the episode in 1996 happened eight years before Mrs H completed the 
application and therefore may not have been at the forefront of her mind. But I think the fact 
shed received a call from her GP advising her to go to A&E made it a more significant event 
that she should reasonably have been able to recall had she given the question more 
thought. I think its also significant that she was able to recall it when discussing her past 
symptoms with her treating specialists in 2019. But I do appreciate what Mrs H has said 
about the earlier symptoms taking on greater significance when recalled in light of her 
potential diagnosis. 
I consider the incident in 2001 shouldve been easier to recall, given it was only three years 
prior to completing the application form. I also think that episode would have been more 
memorable as it coincided with when Mrs H had needed to take considerable time off work 
due to labyrinthitis. So again I think she should reasonably have disclosed it in response to 
the clear questions asked.  
What would Aviva have done differently
The code sets out that if there has been a careless misrepresentation, the insurer is entitled 
to apply a proportionate remedy. This means the insurer is entitled to revisit the underwriting 
of the policy and apply whatever terms would have applied had it know the misrepresented 
facts at the outset. 
Aviva has demonstrated that had it known about Mrs Hs earlier symptoms and diagnoses it 
would have still offered her cover. But life cover would have been more expensive, and it 
would have added a wide-ranging exclusion that excluded any claims relating to MS, plus a 
number of other conditions. 
Aviva therefore reduced the sum assured in proportion to the premium that Mr and Mrs H 
have been paying and added a retrospective exclusion. Im satisfied that the actions Aviva 
took are in line with the code, and are therefore reasonable in the circumstances. 
Overall, while I can understand Mr and Mrs Hs disappointment that their policy has been 
changed and theyre unable to claim, I cant conclude that Aviva has acted unfairly or 
unreasonably in the circumstances.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H and Mrs H to 
accept or reject my decision before 11 January 2021.
 
Lisa De Noronha
Ombudsman