DRN-1747856
 
The complaint
Mr D complains that Lloyds Bank Plc behaved unreasonably by returning his direct debits 
due to an insufficient balance.
 
What happened
Mr D had a bank account and overdraft facility with Lloyds. In early October 2019, he had 
several direct debits which were due to debit his account  including his mortgage payment 
which was also with Lloyds. However, when there wasnt enough money in the account, 
Lloyds returned all of the direct debits as unpaid  except for the mortgage payment which 
they paid  despite it taking him into an unarranged overdraft. 
So Mr D complained to Lloyds. He said that he hadnt received any alerts from them to tell 
him he was going to exceed his limit, and that he needed to pay money into his account to 
ensure his direct debits would be paid. He also said that he felt it was unfair that the six 
direct debits excluding the mortgage payment would have been covered by his arranged 
overdraft. So he didnt understand why Lloyds had chosen to allow the mortgage payment 
but not the other direct debits. He said this had caused him inconvenience as hed to make 
manual payments that day for each of the other unpaid direct debits to prevent any issues 
with his credit file. 
Lloyds didnt uphold the complaint. They said theyd sent Mr D a text message before 10:00 
to tell him that he was going to exceed his overdraft limit and needed to pay in money before 
14:30 to ensure his payments were made  but he didnt do this. They also said the decision 
to pay the mortgage direct debit was to prevent further issues for Mr D  not because it was 
a Lloyds mortgage account. Mr D didnt agree and asked this service to look into his 
complaint.
Our investigator didnt recommend the complaint be upheld. He said he didnt feel Lloyds 
were unreasonable in prioritising Mr Ds mortgage payment. He also said that hed seen 
evidence that a text message had been sent and received at 9:48am on the day the direct 
debits were due to be paid so he couldnt hold Lloyds responsible for Mr D not receiving it 
before 14:30. He felt that it was Mr Ds responsibility as the account holder to ensure he had 
sufficient money in his account to make his payments. 
Mr D didnt agree. He felt that either all of his direct debits should have been paid or the 
mortgage shouldnt have  as there would have been enough money in the account to pay 
all the others. So he asked for an ombudsman to look into his complaint.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided not to uphold it. Ill explain why. I recognise that Mr D feels 
Lloyds acted unreasonably as he said he didnt get any warning from them that he was going 
to exceed his overdraft and needed to pay money into his account. However, Ive seen 
evidence from Lloyds which shows the audit trail report of the date and time text messages 
were sent to Mr D. 
The report shows that a text message was sent and received at 09:48 on the date Mr Ds 
direct debits were due to leave his account. The message said that he was either over or 
going to exceed his overdraft limit and needed to pay in more money by 14:30 to cover any 
payments he needed to make that day. I recognise that Mr D said he didnt receive the text 
message until after 14:30 but this isnt something that I can reasonably hold Lloyds 
responsible for as they have no control over when messages are delivered. And as Lloyds 
attempted to give Mr D a warning that he was going to exceed his overdraft, and the 
opportunity to pay in more money to ensure his direct debits were paid, I cant say theyve 
treated him unreasonably.  
Mr D has told us he feels Lloyds were inconsistent as they decided to pay his mortgage 
direct debit and not the others. He also feels his arranged overdraft would have had 
sufficient money to pay the direct debits except the mortgage, so it wasnt fair of Lloyds not 
to pay these and prioritise their own mortgage direct debit. But I dont think this was 
unreasonable of Lloyds. 
Ive looked at the other direct debits which Lloyds didnt pay, and Ive seen that these were 
all unsecured and would have had less of an impact on Mr Ds credit file than if his mortgage 
had been unpaid. Ultimately, a mortgage is treated as a priority debt and having late 
payments recorded for this, could have serious consequences. Banks have a responsibility 
to act in their customers best interests, and I think Lloyds have done this by allowing Mr D to 
pay his contractual monthly mortgage payment and limiting the impact on his credit file. Ive 
seen that Lloyds have told Mr D they would have paid the mortgage direct debit even if it 
hadnt been with them  and I dont have any reason to doubt thats the case. 
I understand that Mr feels strongly about this and that hell be disappointed with my decision 
as feels he was caused inconvenience from having to make multiple manual payments. 
However, its the responsibility of the account holder to ensure they have sufficient funds in 
their account to make all the payments due on any given date  which in this case Mr D 
didnt. So I cant reasonably hold Lloyds accountable for the inconvenience Mr D was 
caused, and I wont be asking them to do anything more.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision before 21 August 2020. 
Jenny Lomax
Ombudsman