DRN-4188325
The complaint
Mr S complains about advice given to him by Central Markets Investment Management 
Limited (CMIM) in connection with a property investment in Cape Verde with The Resort 
Group (TRG) for his Small Self Administered Scheme (SSAS).
What happened
Mr S says he was cold-called by an unregulated company called Your Choice Pensions 
Limited (YCP) and offered a free pension review. Although its unclear if Mr S ever met or 
spoke to anyone from CMIM, he signed CMIMs Terms Of Business For Providing 
Investment Advice In Relation To The Cape Verde Investment on 16 December 2013. The 
document said CMIM was regulated by the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA) but the 
service CMIM was agreeing to provide wasnt regulated as it related to an unregulated 
investment. CMIMs services were provided to SSAS trustees and CMIM had agreed to 
provide a letter of advice for the purposes of section 36 Pensions Act 1995. Amongst other 
things, CMIMs services didnt include any advice in connection with investments regulated 
by section 22 Financial Services and Markets Act 2000 (FSMA); any investments other than 
the Cape Verde investment; or any individual suitability advice in relation to the Cape Verde 
investment which takes into account [Mr Ss] personal financial circumstances and goes 
beyond the proper advice requirements 
On 15 January 2014 Mr Ss SSAS was established by a Deed of Trust with Mr S as the sole 
Trustee and Cantwell Grove Limited as the SSAS Administrator. CMIM completed an 
account application form for SSAS trustees with Cantwell Grove shown as the Administrator. 
The document said CMIM had power of attorney to manage the Trustees investments. 
Theres another undated form headed SSAS Trustee Signature and Declaration signed by 
Mr S. Amongst other things Mr S agreed hed read and understood the nature of the 
products and services provided; hed provided true, accurate and complete information; hed 
read and understood and agreed to CMIMs terms of business; and hed read the power of 
attorney section and agreed to it. 
On 25 February 2014 Cantwell Grove wrote to Mr Ss existing provider, Aegon, requesting a 
transfer of Mr Ss benefits in a Group Personal Pension Plan. The request included 
completed discharge forms, signed by Mr S on 3 February 2014 and a signed typed letter of 
the same date (with Mr Ss details written in by hand) saying Mr S wanted to proceed with 
the transfer for an investment opportunity.
Aegon wrote to Mr S on 27 February 2014, confirming a request had been received from 
Cantwell Grove to transfer his pension to the SSAS and enclosing a transfer pack. Mr S 
responded to Aegon on 20 March 2014 saying his response was delayed due to a change in 
address and the redirection of his mail. The letter was typed and detailed that Mr S wanted 
to go ahead with the transfer to the SSAS. 
On 9 May 2014, Aegon paid £43,437.28 to Cantwell Grove to complete the transfer. And, on 
23 May 2014, £27,120.66 was invested with TRG. On 2 June 2014, Cantwell Grove wrote to 
Mr S stating £12,264 as of 30 May 2014 had been invested into CMIMs discretionary fund 
management (DFM) services. Another letter was issued on 9 June 2014, stating a further 
£1,913.12 had been invested into CMIMs DFM services. 
Theres also an undated Dear Trustee letter. Some of the main points were: 
The company that had introduced the SSAS concept to Mr S  YCP  had asked 
CMIM to consider a number of specific investments and provide advice to Mr S as 
the Trustee. It was a requirement under section 36 Pensions Act 1995 that Mr S, as 
trustee, took and considered appropriate advice on whether the proposed investment 
was satisfactory for the aims of the scheme. 
CMIM wouldnt be providing advice that would be deemed regulated under FSMA as 
it was considering investments through a SSAS which isnt regulated by the FCA.
CMIM understood YCP had introduced TRGs Cape Verde investment. The purpose 
of CMIMs letter was to advise as to CMIMs research and present its view on 
whether such an investment was appropriate for the SSAS. 
CMIMs view was that the investment was an appropriate investment albeit when 
considered in the light of sensible diversification of a portfolio of an investors overall 
wealth and that an effective exit strategy is planned in order to coincide with the 
needs of the investor. Diversification and exit strategy were further explained. 
The investment wasnt suitable for a cautious investor as both a SSAS and the 
overseas investment didnt have UK regulatory protection. It may not be suitable if 
access to the capital was needed at short notice. A key risk was potential illiquidity 
when the capital was required to secure retirement pension. A trustee shouldnt 
invest more than 50% if retirement was anticipated within the next ten years. And, 
ultimately, the trustee would make their own decisions in the light of their personal 
circumstances which CMIM hadnt assessed. 
Mr S sought advice from his current representative in 2021 who wrote to Cantwell Grove 
asking, amongst other things, whod provided advice in relation to the investments. In an 
email dated 29 June 2021 Cantwell Grove confirmed the original advising agent for TRG 
was CMIM. In a further email on 17 September 2021 Cantwell Grove confirmed CMIM hadnt 
established the SSAS but had provided section 36 advice relating to TRG investment. 
Mr S complained on 11 January 2022. An initial response was issued on CMIMs behalf by 
solicitors on 10 March 2022. Amongst other things it said at no time has CMIM provided any 
personal advice to investors/SSAS trustees in respect of any investments in [TRG] or in 
connection with existing and recommended pension arrangements. Further details and 
documents in support of the claim were requested. Mr Ss representative replied on 26 July 
2022, setting out why it was considered CMIM had given advice to Mr S in 2014 to invest in 
TRG, an investment which was unsuitable for him and had led to losses, details of which 
were set out.  
In September 2022 Mr Ss complaint was referred to us. Mr Ss representative told us CMIM 
hadnt issued any final response letter within the specified time frame. We contacted CMIM 
for its business file. In February 2023 we received some information from the solicitors whod 
written on 10 March 2022, including a copy of the generic Dear Trustee letter Ive referred 
to above. Amongst other things they said CMIM didnt advise Mr S on his existing pension 
arrangements or about moving his pension to a SSAS. CMIMs work was limited to advising 
Mr S, following his decision to establish a SSAS, with the section 26 (I think that shouldve 
read section 36) Dear Trustee letter. 
Our investigators viewThe investigator considered jurisdiction first, including if the complaint had been made in 
time. The investigator said, taking into account PERG (the Perimeter Guidance Manual in 
the regulators Handbook) CMIM had undertaken the regulated activity of advising on 
investments. Although there was no evidence Mr S had direct contact with CMIM, the Dear 
Trustee letter sufficed for Mr S to be a customer of CMIM.
The investigator quoted the relevant parts of DISP (Dispute Resolution) 2.8.2R which sets 
out the six and three year periods for bringing a complaint. The complaint had been brought 
more than six years after the events in 2014. So the issue was when Mr S became aware (or 
ought reasonably to have become aware) he had cause for complaint and if hed complained 
within three years of then. Mr S had said hed become concerned in April 2021 having 
received the last rental payment from TRG on 1 October 2019. Initially payments had been 
made on a monthly basis but had then become more sporadic. Mr S understood he needed 
to invest for ten years so he wouldnt have been expecting a return until May 2024. Hed 
complained on 11 January 2022, within three years of 1 October 2019. The investigators 
view was that the complaint had been made in time.  
The investigator upheld the complaint. His main findings were:
CMIM had said that no personal advice had been provided. The FCA Handbook 
definition of personal advice is something that is either presented as suitable for the 
person to whom it is made or based on a consideration of the circumstances of that 
person. Mr S signed CMIMs Terms Of Business which said CMIM wasnt making a 
personal recommendation. Theres no evidence Mr S had met anyone from CMIM or 
given CMIM any personal information. It seems likely the advice was forwarded by 
YCP. Mr S wouldve reasonably thought CMIMs advice was limited and only inviting 
him to consider if he met the circumstances of the person being described in the 
Dear Trustee letter as an appropriate investor into TRG. As such, as it wasnt a 
personal recommendation, COBS (Conduct of Business Sourcebook) 9 suitability 
rules dont apply. 
But, when considering financial promotion as defined in the FCA Handbook glossary 
along with PERG 8.4.5G and 8.4.7G which refer to invitations and inducements, it 
appeared to be an inducement to invest. PERG 8.4.4G says an objective test should 
be applied as to CMIMs intentions in making the communication in its Dear Trustee 
letter. A reasonable conclusion to be drawn from the letter was that only trustees who 
were cautious and/or needed short-term access to the money shouldnt invest  and 
that was an unlikely conclusion that most of the recipients would draw.
CMIM wasnt collecting a fee for its recommendation or commission from TRG but 
stood to gain business from being able to provide DFM services on the remainder of 
the portfolio. Given this implicit intention, CMIMs Dear Trustee letter was a 
significant step (in the language of PERG) in persuading Mr S to make the 
investment. CMIM shouldve known the significance its advice held because Mr S 
was required to consider it under the Pensions Act 1995. Mr S had already met with 
YCP. But a promotion can take place alongside advice, even if someone else has 
already promoted the investment.
TRG investment was an Unregulated Collective Investment Scheme (UCIS). 
Promotion of UCIS is restricted under section 238 of FSMA unless an exemption 
applies (under COBS 4.12 or the FSMA (Promotion of Collective Investment 
Schemes) (Exemptions) Order 2001 (the PCIS Order)).
The SSAS was established on 15 January 2014. After 1 January 2014, the 
established or newly accepted client exemption in COBS 4.12 was renamed the 
solicited advice exemption and was only available if the following applied:
(a) the communication only amounts to a financial promotion because it is a personal
recommendation on a non-mainstream pooled investment;(b) the personal recommendation is made following a specific request by that client 
for advice on the merits of investing in the non-mainstream pooled investment; and
(c) the client has not previously received a financial promotion or any other
communication from the firm (or from a person connected to the firm) which is 
intended to influence the client in relation to that non-mainstream pooled investment. 
[See Note 3.]
Note 3: A person is connected with a firm if it acts as an introducer or appointed
representative for that firm or if it is any other person, regardless of authorisation 
status, who has a relevant business relationship with the firm.
The introducer agreement CMIM had with YCP was the sort of agreement the 
wording above was designed to prevent. The promotion of TRG alongside CMIMs 
advice was therefore unlawful. Not only should CMIM have been aware it was 
breaching section 238 of FSMA, CMIM ought to have known the other parties in the 
chain were too.
CMIM was bound by the FCAs Principles for Businesses (PRIN) which included: to 
conduct its business with due skill, care and diligence (Principle 2); pay due regard to 
the interests of its customers and treat them fairly (Principle 6); take reasonable care 
to ensure the suitability of its advice and discretionary decisions for any customer 
who is entitled to rely upon its judgment (Principle 9). It was also bound by COBS 
2.1.1R (the client's best interests rule) and COBS 4.2.1R (ensuring a communication 
or a financial promotion is fair, clear and not misleading).
If CMIM had declined to get involved in the introducer  advisor relationship with 
YCP, Mr S wouldve still needed to get advice from a competent person under the 
Pensions Act 1995, which is typically easier to find amongst regulated advisers. It 
would be reasonable to expect other regulated advisers to decline to get involved or 
advise against investing for the reasons the investigator went on to give, so it 
wouldve been difficult for Mr S to proceed another way. However, as CMIM chose to 
advise, its reasonable to hold it to the standard of the advice it shouldve given. 
To comply with FCA principles and rules CMIM should have taken reasonable care to 
make a personal recommendation tailored to Mr Ss specific circumstances and 
which was thus more likely to pay due regard to his best interests and treat him fairly. 
If the recommendation was not to invest, this wouldnt have amounted to promotion 
and so the restriction on promotion wouldnt have been breached. 
It was also difficult to see how the advice fulfilled its stated purpose of enabling Mr S 
to consider the investment under section 36 Pensions Act 1995. That required an 
assessment of suitability and the need for diversification of investments, in so far as 
appropriate to the circumstances of the scheme, which implied a personal 
recommendation specific to his scheme.
CMIM ought to have known that any investment in UCIS taking up the vast majority 
of a SSAS was plainly unsuitable for a retail investor; even one with an average 
attitude to risk. The advice shouldve made it very clear that TRG was unsuitable for 
Mr Ss SSAS. 
It appears the whole reason for the SSAS being promoted to Mr S was in order to 
invest in TRG. Even if CMIM had made a proper personal recommendation that 
didnt involve TRG  for example, to offer its DFM service for the whole portfolio  its 
unlikely the third parties involved wouldve been interested in Mr S proceeding 
without the TRG investment.
If CMIM had clearly explained that Mr S shouldnt invest and why, then the likely 
outcome of any further attempts by the other parties to secure Mr Ss TRG 
investment wouldve failed in the light of the advice CMIM should have given him. So 
Mr S would never have had a reason to give the instruction for his Aegon funds to be 
transferred and hed have remained in his Aegon plan.
The investigator set out how CMIM should compensate Mr S. We didnt hear from CMIM or its legal representative in response to the investigators view. 
We extended the time for comment before confirming to CMIM and Mr S that the complaint 
had been referred to an ombudsman for review. We gave a deadline for further comments 
which has now passed. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Before I address the merits of the complaint, Ive first considered jurisdiction as were 
required to keep jurisdiction under review throughout our consideration of a complaint. 
Jurisdiction
We can consider a complaint under our compulsory jurisdiction relating to an act or omission 
by a firm in the carrying on of one or more of the listed activities DISP 2.3.1R and which 
include regulated activities specified in Part II of the Regulated Activities Order (RAO). They 
include advising on investments (article 53). PERG 8.27.5G confirms: Advice will still be 
covered by article 53 even though it may not be given to or directed at a particular investor 
(for example, advice given in a periodical publication or on a website). The expression 
investor has a broad meaning and will include institutional or professional investors. PERG 
8.28.7G (1) adds: A person can give advice without saying (or implying) categorically that 
the customer should invest. The adviser does not have to offer a definitive recommendation 
as to whether the customer should go ahead. PERG 8.28.1G, 8.28.2G and 8.29.1G are also 
relevant and include:
In the FSA's view, advice requires an element of opinion on the part of the adviser. 
In effect, it is a recommendation as to a course of action. Information, on the other 
hand, involves statements of fact or figures.
In general terms, simply giving information without making any comment or value 
judgement on its relevance to decisions which an investor may make is not advice.
Advice must relate to the buying or selling of an investment  in other words, the 
pros or cons of doing so.
In my view, the Dear Trustee letter went beyond simply providing information about TRG 
investment  in fact fairly little information about it was given. In broad terms, CMIM said it 
was an appropriate investment for the trustee to hold as part of a portfolio, with some 
caveats given  including that the trustee wasnt cautious, there was diversification and the 
risks and lack of guarantees were understood. I think that amounts to advice on the pros or 
cons of buying the investment. TRG was a UCIS and so was a specified investment under 
the RAO and so advising on a UCIS is a regulated activity. 
Mr S (as trustee of his SSAS) must have one of the relationships with CMIM defined under 
DISP 2.7.6R. The most relevant one here is that Mr S was a customer of CMIM. Mr S signed 
CMIMs terms of business which demonstrates that he was CMIMs customer. 
Im also satisfied CMIM reasonably knew the Dear Trustee letter  which is on what any 
decision that CMIM gave advice to Mr S rests  was going to be sent to him. My 
understanding is that CMIM had entered into an arrangement with YCP to advise a number 
of clients, albeit that CMIM believed it was only doing so for the purposes of the Pensions 
Act 1995. Those clients presumably each signed terms of business with CMIM, as Mr S did, 
so CMIM knew who they were. CMIM drafted a Dear Trustee letter to be provided to those 
clients. Even if YCP actually forwarded the letter to Mr S doesnt change the fact that CMIM 
intended the letter to reach him. I also agree with what the investigator said about why Mr Ss complaint hadnt been made 
too late. The investigator set out the relevant parts of DISP 2.8.2R so Im not going to repeat 
them here. The advice was given in 2014 and Mr Ss complaint wasnt brought until early 
2022. As thats outside the primary six year period, the complaint will only have been made 
in time if it was made within three years of when Mr S became aware (or ought reasonably to 
have become aware) he had cause for complaint. The investigator pointed to the fact that 
rental income payments from TRG stopped in October 2019. Mr S had complained within 
three years of then. I agree with that and so Im satisfied we have jurisdiction to consider this 
complaint. 
Moving on to the merits of the complaint, and in the absence of any further comments, 
evidence or information from CMIM, I agree with the investigator and with the reasons he 
gave (as summarised above) as to why the complaint should be upheld. Much of what Ive 
said below echoes the investigators views. 
Did CMIM make a personal recommendation that Mr S invest in TRG?
I agree the Dear Trustee letter didnt amount to a personal recommendation.  I note in 
particular that CMIMs terms of business said it wasnt giving individual suitability advice and 
that CMIM was advising pursuant to section 36 Pensions Act 1995. And the Dear Trustee 
letter was written in such a way which made it clear it wasnt intended to be a personal 
recommendation. Although whats said might amount to a personal recommendation even if 
that wasnt the intention, I dont think that was the case here. So the suitability obligations 
under COBS 9, where a firm makes a personal recommendation in relation to a designated 
investment, didnt apply. 
Did CMIM promote TRG investment and, if so, was the promotion lawful?
In my view, and again for the reasons the investigator gave, CMIM did promote TRG 
investment to Mr S. The fact that the investment had been suggested or promoted to Mr S 
by others (for example, YCP) or that he may have already decided to invest doesnt mean 
CMIM couldnt also have promoted it. I agree that the Dear Trustee letter was a significant 
step in persuading Mr S to make the investment. It was an inducement which meant that 
CMIM was promoting the investment. 
TRG investment was a UCIS, the promotion of which was restricted under section 238 of 
FSMA. I dont think Mr S wouldve qualified under the criteria set out in the PCIS Order as he 
didnt appear to be a high net worth or sophisticated investor. That left the exemptions set 
out in COBS 4.12.1R. Not only was the solicited advice one unavailable, for the reasons the 
investigator explained, I also cant see that any of the other exemptions were relevant. And 
the changes to COBS 4.12 effective from 1 January 2014 meant that the former exemption 
of A person  for whom the firm has taken reasonable steps to ensure that investment in 
the collective investment scheme is suitable was no longer available either.
The upshot is that CMIM unlawfully promoted TRG investment to Mr S as part of its advice, 
in contravention of section 238 of FSMA. CMIM ought reasonably to have been aware that 
other parties who promoted the investment to Mr S previously were likely also in 
contravention of section 238 of FSMA  because they were themselves unregulated and/or 
because it appears unlikely they could rely on a valid exemption. 
What should CMIM have done?
In giving investment advice, CMIM was bound by COBS 2.1.1R and COBS 4.2.1R as well as 
PRIN.  I think Principle 9 is particularly relevant  it points to the care CMIM needed to take in giving advice and in the knowledge that Mr S would rely on it. Against that background Ive 
considered what CMIM shouldve done. As Ive said, CMIM shouldve established that TRG 
investment was a UCIS and that, in the absence of a valid exemption, CMIM and others 
were promoting it in breach of FSMA. CMIM also seems to have thought any advice about 
TRG wasnt regulated but, although the investment was unregulated, advice about it was 
regulated.  
CMIM, if it had fully understood the position, couldve declined to get involved and not 
entered into any introducer arrangement with YCP. If CMIM was still prepared to be 
involved, I think CMIM, acting in compliance with the relevant COBS rules and PRIN, 
shouldve proceeded differently. As the investigator suggested, CMIM couldve made a 
personal recommendation to Mr S, which was tailored to his specific circumstances and so 
more likely to pay due regard to his best interests and treat him fairly. If the recommendation 
was not to invest, this wouldnt have amounted to promotion and so the restriction wouldnt 
be breached. The recommendation shouldve been supplied direct to Mr S, rather than 
through YCP to ensure (as it might mean Mr S wouldnt be inclined to go ahead and invest) 
that it reached Mr S.
Further, as things stood, the stated purpose of the advice was to enable Mr S as a trustee to 
meet the requirements of section 36 Pensions Act 1995 in making investment decisions for 
his SSAS. But Im not sure the advice could meet that purpose. The Pensions Act 1995 isnt 
explicit about what should be taken into account by the trustee in reaching a decision. But 
there are references to suitability and diversification and that other regulations may specify 
further criteria. In that respect the Occupational Pension Schemes (Investment) Regulations 
2005 may be relevant. Regulation 7 refers to having regard to the need for diversification, in 
so far as appropriate to the circumstances of the scheme. 
Im not sure it was possible for Mr S to obtain advice on whether TRG was suitable and 
provided adequate diversification without a recommendation being made specifically in 
respect of the requirements and objectives of Mr Ss particular SSAS. Nor can I see that a 
generic recommendation, leaving Mr S to draw his own conclusions, would assist him in 
making investment decisions as a trustee under the Pensions Act 1995.  
Further and in any event, CMIMs advice was that, aside from the caveats it set out, 
investing in TRG would be appropriate. I dont agree  I think CMIM shouldve realised that 
investing in a UCIS would likely be unsuitable for the vast majority of ordinary retail investors 
and certainly for a substantial proportion of an investors fund (and even if thered be some 
diversification provided by some investment in CMIMs DFM portfolio). UCIS are generally 
higher risk and TRG UCIS was no exception  it was an overseas, off plan property 
development and was subject to a variety of risk factors, including currency, counterparty, 
construction, occupancy and liquidity risks. CMIM shouldve been aware of the regulators 
increasing concerns about this type of investment and which had led the regulator to seek to 
tighten up, with effect from 1 January 2014, the promotion of UCIS. 
What would Mr S likely have done if CMIM had acted as it shouldve done?
If CMIM had declined to act or indicated that its advice was unlikely to be in favour of 
investing in TRG, the other parties involved may have sought to find another adviser for Mr S 
and others. But I think any other regulated adviser wouldve been mindful of the issues Ive 
pointed to about promoting TRG investment without a valid exemption and the need to 
comply with the FCAs principles and rules and so been reluctant to get involved. And I dont 
think its unreasonable to assume that any other adviser wouldve recognised that TRG 
investment was unlikely to be suitable and declined to act or advised accordingly. I dont 
think it wouldve been possible to bypass the need for a regulated adviser to be involved. 
Leaving aside factors such as advice from a regulated firm carrying more weight with Mr S, I think his existing provider may have undertaken checks and, if theyd revealed that Mr S was 
dealing with unregulated parties, declined to carry out the transfer. All in all I consider, if 
CMIM had acted as it shouldve done, Mr S wouldnt have proceeded with the transfer and 
the investment in TRG. 
Should CMIM only have to pay part of Mr Ss losses?
CMIM wasnt the only party involved. Aside from YCP which is an unregulated entity the 
SIPP provider is regulated. There may be some suggestion that it should bear some 
responsibilities for Mr Ss losses. But CMIM chose to provide misleading and unsuitable 
advice and shouldve instead have unequivocally told Mr S not to include this UCIS in his 
SSAS. The likely outcome of CMIM acting appropriately is that Mr S wouldnt have 
transferred his Aegon pension at all. In that case, all of Mr Ss losses wouldve been 
avoided. That includes any losses arising from the use of a DFM arrangement, the concept 
of which CMIM also introduced to Mr S. He wouldnt have been exposed to any of these 
investments had it not been for CMIMs advice on TRG. In the circumstances I think its fair 
and reasonable to hold CMIM responsible for all of Mr Ss losses. 
Its a matter for CMIM whether it wishes to attempt to recover any of the compensation Im 
requiring it to pay from other parties. It may take an assignment of Mr Ss rights to pursue 
those parties if it wishes to do so.
Putting things right
Ive broadly adopted the redress set out by the investigator. My aim in awarding fair 
compensation is to put Mr S as far as possible in the position hed be in now if Central 
Markets Investment Management Limited had given him appropriate advice in relation to the 
TRG investment for his SSAS. I think on the balance of probabilities Mr S wouldnt have 
established the SSAS or gone ahead with the transfer and hed have instead remained with 
his previous provider (Aegon).
To compensate Mr S fairly Central Markets Investment Management Limited should: 
Compare the performance of Mr S's investment with the notional value if it had 
remained with the previous provider. If the actual value is greater than the notional 
value, no compensation is payable. If the notional value is greater than the actual 
value, there is a loss and compensation is payable. Central Markets Investment 
Management Limited must therefore contact Mr Ss previous provider to obtain a 
notional value as at the date of my final decision. It should be assumed that Mr S 
wouldve remained invested in the same funds. Any interest as set out below should 
be added to the compensation payable. 
If theres a loss, it should be paid into Mr S's pension plan, to increase its value by 
the amount of the compensation and any interest. The payment should allow for the 
effect of charges and any available tax relief. The compensation shouldnt be paid 
into the pension plan if it would conflict with any existing protection or allowance.
If compensation cant be paid into Mr S's pension plan, it should be paid directly to 
him. But had it been possible to pay into the plan, it wouldve provided a taxable 
income. Therefore the compensation should be reduced to notionally allow for any 
income tax that would otherwise have been paid. This is an adjustment to ensure the 
compensation is a fair amount  it isnt a payment of tax to HMRC, so Mr S wont be 
able to reclaim any of the reduction after compensation is paid.
The notional allowance should be calculated using Mr S's actual or expected 
marginal rate of tax at his selected retirement age. Its reasonable to assume Mr S is 
likely to be a basic rate taxpayer at the selected retirement age, so the reduction would equal 20%. However, if Mr S wouldve been able to take a tax free lump sum, 
the reduction should be applied to 75% of the compensation, resulting in an overall 
reduction of 15%.
Pay Mr S £250 for the distress and worry hes been caused as a result of the 
disruption to his pension arrangements. 
Provide the details of the calculation to Mr S in a clear, simple format.
Portfolio 
nameStatus Benchmark From (start 
date)To (end 
date)Additional 
interest
Mr Ss SSAS Some 
liquid/some 
illiquidNotional 
value from 
previous 
provider/ 
FTSE UK 
Private 
Investors 
Income Total 
Return 
index/average 
rate from 
fixed rate 
bondsDate of 
investment Date of final 
decision 8% simple 
pa on any 
redress 
which 
remains 
unpaid 28 
days after 
notification 
by this 
service to 
CMIM of Mr 
Ss 
acceptance 
of the final 
decision
actual value
This means the actual amount payable from the investment at the end date. If, at the end 
date, any investment in the portfolio is illiquid (meaning it cannot be readily sold on the open 
market), it may be difficult to find the actual value of the portfolio. So, Central Markets 
Investment Management Limited should take ownership of any illiquid investments within the 
portfolio by paying a commercial value acceptable to the pension provider. The amount 
Central Markets Investment Management Limited pays should be included in the actual 
value before compensation is calculated. 
If Central Markets Investment Management Limited is unable to purchase any illiquid 
investment the value of that investment should be assumed to be nil when arriving at the 
actual value of the portfolio. Central Markets Investment Management Limited may wish to 
require that Mr S provides an undertaking to pay Central Markets Investment Management 
Limited any amount he may receive from that investment in the future. The undertaking must 
allow for any tax and charges that would be incurred on drawing the receipt from the pension 
plan. Central Markets Investment Management Limited will need to meet any costs in 
drawing up the undertaking. 
And, if Mr S isnt able to close down his SSAS and move to a potentially cheaper and more 
regulated arrangement, I think its fair that Central Markets Investment Management Limited 
also pays five years worth of future administration fees at the current tariff for the SSAS as 
part of the compensation and to allow a reasonable period for the SSAS to be closed. And 
any outstanding administration charges yet to be applied to the SSAS should be deducted 
from the actual value. 
notional valueThis is the value of Mr S's investment had it remained with the previous provider until the 
end date. Central Markets Investment Management Limited should request that the previous 
provider calculate this value. 
Any additional sum paid into the SSAS should be added to the notional value calculation 
from the point in time when it was actually paid in. Any withdrawal from the SSAS should be 
deducted from the notional value calculation at the point it was actually paid so it ceases to 
accrue any return in the calculation from that point on. If there is a large number of regular 
payments, to keep calculations simpler, Ill accept if all those payments are totalled and that 
figure is deducted at the end to determine the notional value instead of deducting 
periodically.
If the previous provider is unable to calculate a notional value, Central Markets Investment 
Management Limited will need to determine a fair value for Mr S's investment instead, using 
this benchmark: 
For half the investment: FTSE UK Private Investors Income Total Return Index; for the other 
half: average rate from fixed rate bonds. The adjustments above also apply to the calculation 
of a fair value using the benchmark, which is then used instead of the notional value in the 
calculation of compensation.
Ive chosen this method of compensation because:
Mr S wanted capital growth with a small risk to his capital.
If the previous provider is unable to calculate a notional value I consider the 
benchmarks Ive suggested are appropriate.  
The average rate for fixed rate bonds would be a fair measure for someone who
wanted to achieve a reasonable return without risk to his capital.
The FTSE UK Private Investors Income Total Return index (prior to 1 March 2017, 
the FTSE WMA Stock Market Income total return index) is made up of a range of 
indices with different asset classes, mainly UK equities and government bonds. Its a 
fair measure for someone who was prepared to take some risk to get a higher return.
I consider that Mr S's risk profile was in between, in the sense that he was prepared
to take a small level of risk to attain his investment objectives. So, the 50/50
combination would reasonably put Mr S into that position. It does not mean Mr S 
wouldve invested 50% of his money in a fixed rate bond and 50% in some kind of 
index tracker investment. Rather, I consider this a reasonable compromise that 
broadly reflects the sort of return Mr S could have obtained from investments suited 
to his objectives and risk attitude.
My final decision
I uphold the complaint. Central Markets Investment Management Limited must redress Mr S 
as Ive set out above. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 23 August 2023. 
Lesley Stead
Ombudsman