DRN-2894490
The complaint
Mr and Mrs D complain that Nationwide Building Society wouldnt allow them to make a cash 
withdrawal of £5,000 and that they were only permitted to close one of their three accounts. 
Theyre also unhappy that other customers could hear staff asking them personal questions.
What happened
On 17 March 2020 Mr and Mrs D visited a local Nationwide branch and requested £5,000 in 
cash from their account. The branch manager took them to a glass-fronted area and asked 
questions about why they needed such a large amount of cash. During that conversation Mr 
D mentioned that theyd already withdrawn a large sum of cash from another building 
society. The branch manager told them theyd only be permitted to withdraw £2,000 over the 
counter, but they could withdraw £500 each day from the ATM. Mr D has told us that he left 
feeling angry and upset.
 
The following day Mr D rang Nationwide to make a complaint. His call was transferred to the 
same manager at the local branch, who repeated what hed said the day before. Mr D said 
hed be closing all his Nationwide accounts.
On 24 March Mr and Mrs D returned to the branch to close their accounts. But they were 
only permitted to make a cash withdrawal of £500 and to close their current account - they 
werent able to close their two savings accounts. Mr D again rang Nationwide to complain  
he says they advised him to request cheques for the balance of his remaining two accounts.
Three days later Mr and Mrs D went to a different Nationwide branch. Branch staff asked 
questions to make sure they were making the right financial decisions and encouraged them 
to reconsider closing both their remaining accounts. At Mr and Mrs Ds request they closed 
one account, giving them a cheque for the value of the funds.
Nationwide responded to Mr and Mrs Ds complaints, saying its their standard practice to 
ask questions about large cash withdrawals because they have a duty of care to protect 
customers and their funds. They said they were unable to close Mr and Mrs Ds two savings 
accounts without the passbook and certificate  and that the second branch had made an 
exception because they knew theyd already had to make an extra trip.
 
Although our investigator felt Nationwide were right to ask questions, he didnt think they had 
a valid reason for refusing the £5,000 cash withdrawal. He thought they should pay Mr and 
Mrs D £125 for the distress and inconvenience theyd been caused.
 
Nationwide asked for the case to be reviewed by an ombudsman. They said they take their 
duty of care to their customers very seriously, and genuinely felt it was unsafe for Mr and 
Mrs D to have such a large amount of cash in their home. They said theyd agreed to a 
smaller cash withdrawal of £2,500, because they recognised they couldnt deny Mr and Mrs 
D access to their money completely. They said the fact that Mr D changed the reasons for 
wanting the money gave them cause for concern as to what the money was really for. And 
that whilst they were sorry for any embarrassment and frustration caused, they believed their 
actions had been correct.
In my recent provisional decision, I said:
Nationwide had a contractual agreement to provide Mr and Mrs D with an account. So, they 
had a contractual duty to execute a valid and proper instruction about any transaction Mr 
and Mrs D wished to make, subject to the terms and conditions of the account. But there are 
other legal and best practice considerations that Nationwide must also take into account, 
which can occasionally override customers instructions. Ive considered these wider 
obligations carefully.
The evidence Ive seen shows Nationwides policy was to allow cash withdrawals of up to 
£2,000 per day over the counter. Advance notice would need to be given for amounts over 
this limit, to ensure sufficient funds were available at the branch. For this reason, I dont 
consider Nationwide to have acted unreasonably by limiting Mr and Mrs Ds cash withdrawal 
to £2,000 on their first visit. That leads me to consider their handling of Mr and Mrs Ds 
request for a £5,000 cash withdrawal, and the events that followed.
Nationwide say they see elderly customers losing money to fraudsters on too many 
occasions, and for this reason theyre more vigilant in questioning large cash withdrawals. 
Ive considered their handling of Mr and Mrs Ds request by reference to industry best 
practice guidelines set out in the code of practice Protecting customers from financial harm 
as a result of fraud or financial abuse (the code).
 
The evidence Ive seen indicates Nationwide staff asked Mr and Mrs D questions to get a 
better understanding of why such a large amount of cash was needed. Whilst I appreciate 
being taken aside by the manager may feel embarrassing, Im satisfied that this was best 
practice in the circumstances. Mr and Mrs D have told us there were other people nearby 
who could see and hear the private discussion that followed. Nationwide say theyre 
confident theyd conducted this conversation in a manner that couldnt be overheard - and 
that only ten people were allowed in the branch at a time. Having considered the 
representation of both parties Im unable to say Nationwide have done anything wrong here.
Nationwide say staff discovered the couple were intending to hold a significant amount of 
cash at home and were concerned about the safety implications of this. The code sets out 
appropriate action where staff have concerns. It says they should first risk assess the 
urgency of the situation. Where staff consider fraud or financial abuse to be in progress, with 
an imminent threat of financial harm to the consumer, the code recommends declining the 
transaction. In such cases the national Banking Protocol would apply, which sets out the 
appropriate process to follow to prevent customers money being handed over to fraudsters. 
The evidence Ive seen indicates this £5,000 cash withdrawal wasnt an unusual pattern of 
behaviour for Mr and Mrs D. Although they may not have given a consistent account as to 
why the money was needed, Ive seen no evidence to suggest they were at imminent risk of 
fraud or financial abuse.
The code considers customers in vulnerable circumstances which could make them 
susceptible to fraud or financial abuse, but with no evident threats at the time, to be lower 
risk. Recommended actions in such cases include offering targeted advice and information 
to the customer, signposting to specialist teams or external agencies, and flagging the 
concerns. 
When considering Mr and Mrs Ds circumstances, I find the timing of these events to be very 
relevant. The day before their first visit to Nationwide, the prime minister had made his first 
televised daily conference calling on people to avoid all non-essential travel due to the 
coronavirus pandemic. A week later he announced the first UK lockdown. Mr and Mrs D have told us that, due to health conditions, they fell within the group advised by the 
government to stay at home to shield themselves from the virus. These were unprecedented 
events  the scale or likely duration of the pandemic was unknown. Mr and Mrs D have told 
us that they dont have a computer or any other access to the internet. They say theyve 
never used online banking or cash machines, which they consider to be fraught with danger 
- especially for the elderly. They say they need and use cash for all sorts of things. 
And so, whilst recognising that Nationwide take their duty of care towards customers very 
seriously and followed best practice principles by taking proactive steps to protect customers 
from fraud or financial abuse, Im not persuaded that they had a valid reason for stopping the 
cash withdrawal in this particular case. Although it may be unwise to keep large amounts of 
cash at home, ultimately Mr and Mrs D were entitled to make that decision. Theyve had to 
make phone calls and an additional trip to Nationwide at the beginning of the coronavirus 
pandemic, which was stressful for them. I think they should be compensated for this.
I can see that Mr and Mrs D were further frustrated by not being able to close all three of 
their accounts on demand. The evidence Ive seen indicates this was because they hadnt 
brought their passbook or certificate  and that an exception was made on their second trip 
in recognition of the fact that theyd already had an additional journey and raised a 
complaint. I dont consider Nationwide to have done anything wrong by asking for those 
documents to allow the accounts to be closed - and Ive already awarded compensation for 
the trouble and upset caused by having to make a second trip to Nationwide. So Im not 
going to direct Nationwide to doing anything more.
I said that I was minded to direct Nationwide to pay Mr and Mrs D £125 compensation for the 
trouble and upset theyd been caused. I invited the parties to make any further comments. 
Mr and Mrs D didnt respond to my provisional decision. Nationwide said they had nothing to 
add, other than to re-iterate that theyd acted in what they felt to be the best interests of Mr 
and Mrs D. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I understand that Nationwide will be disappointed with my decision. But in the absence of 
any additional comments in response to my provisional findings, I see no reason to change 
them.
My final decision
For the reasons set out in my provisional decision, I uphold this complaint and direct 
Nationwide Building Society to pay Mr and Mrs D £125 compensation for the trouble and 
upset caused.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr and Mrs D to 
accept or reject my decision before 29 July 2021.
 
Corinne Brown
Ombudsman