DRN-2876510
The complaint
Mr R complains that Barclays Bank UK Plc allowed him to transfer the value of his 
occupational pension into an execution only Self-Invested Personal Pension (SIPP) without 
checking hed obtained advice from a qualified financial adviser or his personal 
circumstances. He says he lost out financially as a result and wants to be compensated.
What happened
In 2011 Mr R opened a SIPP. Provider B was the SIPP scheme administrator and Barclays 
provided the investment dealing services. After opening the SIPP, Mr B then transferred the 
value of his occupational pension scheme into it, a little over £70,000. The transfer form 
contained the following questions:
Is the transferring scheme a final salary pension scheme?
If yes, please note we will not accept transfers from final salary pension schemes unless you 
have received advice on the transfer from a suitably qualified financial adviser. Have you 
received advice from such an adviser on the transfer?
Mr R answered yes to both questions. He also confirmed this in a letter.
The SIPP Mr R opened was execution only, which meant Mr R made his own decisions as to 
investment. Over the following years Mr R made a number of investments that resulted in 
the loss of (nearly) all the value of his SIPP.
 
In early 2020 Mr R complained to Barclays that:
he should not have been allowed to transfer in his pension without any advice from a 
financial adviser or Barclays. 
Barclays should not have allowed him to open a SIPP due to the risk and fees.
There was some confusion in Barclays initial response, as it said it didnt accept transfers 
from final salary pension schemes (which was incorrect as this was possible at the time Mr 
Rs transfer took place). However its March 2020 response corrected this and indicated that:
it was an execution only broker and didnt give advice. 
hed applied for the SIPP online, confirming hed read and understood the terms and 
conditions.
information was available during the application on the risks and fees.
hed confirmed hed taken advice on the final salary transfer.
So Barclays didnt uphold his complaint. 
Mr R brought his complaint to our service. He explained that at the time of the transfer he 
wasnt in good health and had alcohol issues. He said Barclays didnt pay due care and 
attention to his circumstances, including his health and investment experience. He said 
Barclays had enticed his transfer with its advertising material. 
One of our investigators looked into Mr Rs complaint and issued his view on it. Our 
investigator said:
it wasnt against the rules for financial businesses to send information about its 
products.
Mr R had signed to say hed read and understood the SIPP terms and conditions. 
at the time Mr R took out his SIPP in 2011 there was no requirement to demonstrate 
advice on a pension transfer had been received. Mr R had told Barclays hed 
received advice and there was no obligation on it to check he had.
Barclays couldnt have been aware of Mr Rs health problems.
as an execution only service, it was up to individuals to decide what to invest in and 
what risks they wished to take, and Barclays was obliged to act in accordance with 
the customers instructions. 
Mr R responded to our investigators view saying that Barclays hadnt checked if hed 
received financial advice. Our investigator said again that Barclays wasnt required to do so 
at the time. 
Mr R remained unhappy, so the complaint came to me for a decision from an ombudsman.
On 4 May 2021 I issued a provisional decision. My provisional findings were as follows:
 Advice from a financial adviser
I understand that Mr R thinks Barclays shouldve done more to ensure hed actually 
received financial advice from a suitably qualified adviser before being allowed to transfer 
the value of his occupational pension in to the SIPP. But the requirement to obtain such 
advice wasnt Barclays  it was a requirement of the SIPP scheme administrator  Provider 
A. Any complaint about this would need to be made to Provider A. Im not able to hold 
Barclays responsible for this Provider A requirement. 
Loss of pension pot through poor investments in SIPP
Mr R also complains that Barclays never paid any attention to his circumstances, such as his 
medical conditions, and attitude and experience to risk and hes lost most of his pension pot, 
the guarantees from his occupational pension scheme. Im sorry to hear that. But I cant hold 
Barclays responsible for Mr Rs own investment decisions. 
Ive looked at the Key Facts document for the SIPP that Mr R was provided with prior to 
opening the SIPP. It says that investment advice isnt provided as it is an execution only 
service. In other words, Barclays carried out (executed) Mr Rs instructions in relation to 
buying and selling investments in the SIPP without providing him with any advice. So Mr R 
was or should have been aware that he would be choosing his own investments prior to 
opening the SIPP. And the key facts document also warned that the value of his investments 
could fall as well as rise. 
If Mr R has concerns about being able to invest in specific investments within the SIPP, and 
he considers he should have been prevented from holding such assets, this would also be a 
matter to which Provider A would need to respond.
And while I sympathise with Mr Rs health and substance use issues, there is no reason for 
me to think that Barclays was aware of these, or that Barclays had any obligation to enquire 
as to his health and any other conditions.My provisional decision was that I didnt propose to uphold the complaint.
Mr R didnt respond to my provisional decision, and Barclays say it didnt have anything to 
add.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As Ive said above, neither party provided comments on my provisional decision, and having 
reconsidered all the evidence and arguments I see no reason to change it. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold the complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision before 26 July 2021.
 
Helen Wheatley
Ombudsman