DRN-4387197
The complaint
Mr B complains that he was sent what he believes was a phishing e-mail from HSBC UK 
Bank Plc trading as first direct, and that first direct won't send it to HSBC to investigate 
further.
What happened
On 29 April 2023 Mr B received an e-mail which purported to be from HSBC. He contacted 
HSBC by phone and was told that it had no record of such an e-mail. He mentioned that he 
had an account with first direct and the adviser suggested that he contact first direct. He was 
told by first direct that the e-mail did not come from it, but that it had no access to HSBC's 
main systems. It suggested that he reported the e-mail to HSBC using its e-mail address for 
reporting phishing emails. He was not happy with this as he believed that first direct had 
provided personal information to HSBC. He did not believe that first direct had provided him 
with a full and complete explanation.
On referral to the Financial Ombudsman Service, our Investigator said that first direct had 
acted fairly and reasonably as it did not have access to HSBC's main systems. So first direct 
could not investigate an issue with HSBC.
Mr B sad it was relatively easy for first direct to say that one of their customers has received 
an email in the name of HSBC Bank and therefore the customer is concerned that his 
personal information has been shared with another independent business within the HSBC 
group. He wanted it to confirm whether this has happened and (whether or not it has in fact 
happened) explain what prompted the email to be sent.
The matter has been passed to me for further consideration.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
First of all I appreciate that first direct is part of HSBC so that HSBC is responsible for 
complaints made about first direct. In Mr Bs case, he has received an e-mail from what is 
purported to be HSBC. I understand that as a customer of first direct if he were to receive 
any emails then they would be from first direct rather than HSBC.
But we have a situation here where HSBC has said the e-mail has not come from it and first 
direct has also confirmed it did not send the e-mail. So that means it is likely to be a phishing 
e-mail. I've looked at HSBC's website and it does explain what a customer should do if they 
receive an e-mail from HSBC and theyre suspicious. It provides an e-mail address to 
forward any such e-mail to it. And I note that first direct advised Mr B to do this or take the 
matter up directly with HSBC. The National Cyber Security Centres website also provides 
an e-mail address to forward suspicious emails.
Mr B has presumed that the e-mail came from HSBC and that first direct shared personal 
information with HSBC to enable the e-mail to be sent. I don't think that's likely, Ive seen no 
evidence that makes me think that could have been the case. But if Mr B remains concerned 
about a breach of his personal data, he can report that to the Information Commissioner's 
Office.
My final decision
I don't uphold the complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 29 December 2023.
 
Ray Lawley
Ombudsman