DRN-3772361
The complaint
Mr H and Mr S complain about the way Admiral Insurance (Gibraltar) Limited (Admiral) 
handled their claim for an escape of water, and its cash settlement offer.
Mr H and Mr S have buildings and contents insurance, including emergency cover for their 
boiler. The policy is in joint names but, for ease of reading and because he raised the claim, 
Ill refer only to Mr H throughout my decision.
What happened
In November 2021, Mr H called Admiral on the home emergency number to report an 
escape of water from his shower which was running through the light fitting in his living room. 
Admiral said it couldnt help because he didnt have cover under his policy for emergencies, 
except for the boiler. After some discussion to establish what Mr H could do in the 
circumstances, Admiral advised him to contact the main claim number on the next working 
day. Admiral confirmed that the leak itself was not covered.
After he had the leak fixed, Mr H contacted Admiral to make a claim for the damage caused 
by the leak. Admiral said the policy provided cover and arranged a site visit which was set 
for one month after the escape of water. Mr H cancelled the first scheduled site visit due to 
his lack of availability leading up to the Christmas period. The site visit was rescheduled and 
took place three weeks later in mid-January.
Mr H preferred to cash settle his claim, so Admiral made an offer based on its discounted 
contractor rates. But Mr H didnt think its offer was enough to repair the building damage, 
and he felt pressured to accept the contents settlement offer.
Mr H complained to Admiral raising a number of issues. It sent a final response to his 
complaint, setting out the issues it agreed with and those which it didnt uphold. Admiral 
offered £325 compensation in recognition of Mr Hs complaint about his escape of water 
claim, but he didnt think the compensation or cash settlement was enough. Mr H brought his 
complaint to this service.
Our investigator didnt uphold Mr Hs complaint. While he agreed with Mr H that thered been 
some clear shortfalls in the way Admiral handled his claim, our investigator thought Admiral 
had done enough to put matters right.
Mr H didnt agree, so the complaint was passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided not to uphold Mr Hs complaint. I realise that will come as a 
disappointment to him, but Ill explain my reasons here.
Mr H raised multiple issues of complaint with Admiral, some of which it upheld. Theres little 
benefit in repeating them all here, so Ill focus on the issues Admiral didnt agree with.
Home emergency
Mr H complained that Admiral didnt provide any assistance when he first contacted it about 
the escape of water. Admiral said his policy didnt provide cover and quoted the relevant part 
of the wording.
Ive looked at the policy and see that Mr H had boiler emergency cover but not home 
emergency cover. That meant he was covered if his boiler broke down, but he didnt have 
cover for immediate, temporary repairs for an escape of water from, in this instance, his 
shower. The policy clearly states that it does not cover, loss or damage to the fixed 
domestic-water or central-heating system, or the domestic appliance itself, or to any drains 
and pipes.
Im satisfied that there was no cover available to Mr H for an emergency repair under his 
policy, so I dont find that Admiral did anything wrong when it explained that to him on the 
first contact.
Alternative accommodation
Mr H complained that he had to arrange his own alternative accommodation. Admiral 
responded to say that the policy provided accommodation cover only, If your home is not fit 
to be lived in due to loss or damage from a buildings insured risk.
I listened to the call between Mr H and Admiral during which he described the circumstances 
of the claim. Admiral asked whether Mr H had other washing facilities and whether his 
kitchen was fit to cook in. Mr H confirmed that the kitchen was fine, and he had other 
bathrooms. 
This service considers a home habitable if there are washing and cooking facilities. The 
damage to Mr Hs home was to one bathroom, and the ceiling, doors and carpet of two 
rooms below. Admiral considered the house fit to live in after asking Mr H about the facilities, 
so Im satisfied it wasn't required to offer alternative accommodation under the policy.
Site visit
The site visit didnt take place until around two months after the escape of water, which Mr H 
thought was unacceptable. Admiral explained that availability was limited due to storm 
repairs.
I note that a visit was arranged for three weeks after Mr Hs call to make his claim, but he 
cancelled due to his lack of availability. The next visit was planned for three weeks after that.
I agree that three weeks, followed by a further three weeks seems a long time to wait, and I 
can understand Mr Hs frustration. However, I must take into consideration that Mr Hs 
availability prevented the first visit, and I cant fairly hold Admiral responsible for its inability 
to move other customer appointments around to accommodate Mr Hs availability. Overall, I 
dont find that Admiral caused a significant delay, but I agree that it couldve done more to 
attend sooner than it did. Ill address this in my consideration of the compensation offered.
Claim handlingMr H complained that Admirals claim handler didnt contact him to explain the process. 
Admiral said its appointed surveyor would go through the process and settlement options.
Having listened to the claim call, Im satisfied that Admiral explained that its surveyor would 
contact Mr H and explain next steps. I dont find that Admiral did anything wrong here.
Disability
Admirals surveyor asked Mr H whether there were any health risks it needed to be aware of, 
and he said no. But Mr H doesnt think Admiral did enough to determine whether anyone in 
the household had a disability and whether they had adequate support.
Mr H made this service aware of Mr Ss disability, so I understand he has concerns. And I 
accept that Mr H wouldve wanted Admiral to use the word disability. But I dont think it was 
wrong of Admiral to phrase its question the way it did, and it wouldve been reasonable for 
Mr H to disclose the relevant information Admiral when it asked.
Cash settlement
Mr H was unhappy that Admiral offered a cash settlement which reflected its discounted 
costs to repair, rather than what it would cost him to arrange. 
The policy provides for repairs but if Mr H chose to have a cash settlement, then Admiral is 
entitled to pay what it would cost using its own suppliers. So, I dont think Admiral was wrong 
to offer a cash settlement based on its discounted rates.
Compensation
Admiral offered £325 compensation in recognition of the shortfalls Mr H complained about 
and with which it agreed. Those are:
restating the circumstances of the claim multiple times;
chasing contact with Admirals electrician;
waiting time for a site visit appointment after cancelling the first one;
not being advised of action to take while waiting for a site visit;
delayed drying process;
some of the delays in progressing the claim;
chasing, and then a delay paying, the correct settlement;
failure to return a call, and
chasing updates even after the claim was escalated. 
There is some overlap here with the issues Admiral didnt agree with, so Ive taken into 
consideration the overall circumstances of Mr Hs complaint. I understand he will have been 
frustrated and disappointed to find that the initial emergency wasn't covered under his policy. 
And there wouldve been inconvenience while he arranged a repair before claiming under his 
home insurance policy. I cant hold Admiral responsible for the inconvenience the leak itself 
caused. Mr H cancelled the first visit, so the additional delay there was only partly in 
Admirals control. But the evidence does show that Admiral didnt handle the claim as well as 
it couldve done, as listed above, causing Mr H avoidable distress and inconvenience. 
Ive thought carefully about the circumstances of the complaint and Admirals compensation 
offer. I realise Mr H doesnt think its enough, but I havent seen anything in the evidence that 
persuades me a higher sum is warranted.
Therefore, I wont be asking Admiral to do any more than it has already offered.My final decision
For the reasons given above, my final decision is that I dont uphold the complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H and Mr S to 
accept or reject my decision before 28 November 2022.
 
Debra Vaughan
Ombudsman