DRN-2756629
The complaint
Mrs K complains that Royal & Sun Alliance Insurance Plc (RSA) didnt repay the full amount 
after a claim on her home insurance following a jewellery theft. When I refer to RSA this 
includes its agents and handlers.
What happened
Mrs K took out a home insurance policy that provided buildings and contents cover. She was 
told it included unlimited cover for stolen possessions. But after a theft Mrs K said RSA 
wouldnt pay the full value of the stolen items. There was a limit to the amount it would pay 
for high-risk items such as gold or jewellery. 
Mrs K said over 730g of gold was stolen. But RSA has only offered to replace about 500g. 
Mrs K said she was told she had unlimited cover. So she feels her claim hasnt been dealt 
with fairly. She wants RSA to reimburse her for the full amount. Mrs K said she became very 
upset when RSA had told her it wouldnt replace everything. And she caused some damage 
to her property. So she wants proper compensation for the distress its caused her.
RSA said Mrs K had purchased her policy through a different underwriter in 2017 and it then 
moved to RSA. Itd written to Mrs K when it took over the policy to say whatd happened. 
RSA said it set out any differences between the two policies and asked Mrs K to let it know if 
she had any questions about the new policy. And RSA said the letter clearly set out the total 
amount that could be claimed for valuable items. 
RSA said itd looked into the claim. And it couldnt pay for the estimated £50000 value of the 
stolen items. There was a high-risk items limit of £32017. And it couldnt pay any more than 
that. But after looking at the claim again it could see as Mrs K also had personal 
possessions cover. So it agreed to add a further £5000 to the settlement. And itd asked its 
jewellery experts to replace the missing gold and jewellery up to a total value of £37017. 
RSA said itd also paid Mrs K £150 compensation for not including the personal possessions 
payment in its original offer and adding to her distress.
Mrs K wasnt satisfied with RSAs response. So she contacted our service and our 
investigator looked into the matter. He could see Mrs K had been very upset by the loss and 
how RSA had responded to her claim. She has severe mental health problems and 
sometimes finds it difficult to understand things. So he could see why she expected to 
receive the full value of her loss if she believed she had unlimited cover.
Our investigator explained claims for the loss of things such as food in a freezer would be 
covered by an unlimited amount. But for other things such as money kept at home there are 
maximum limits to the amount that would be paid. Jewellery and gold were considered high-
risk valuable items. And he couldnt ask RSA to pay out more than the limit set in the policy 
document. But he was pleased to see RSA had agreed to add £5000 for the additional 
personal possessions cover Mrs K also had. 
Our investigator said he couldnt ask RSA to compensate Mrs K for any damage shed 
caused to her home after learning about the outcome of her claim. And he felt overall RSA 
had acted fairly. So there was nothing else he could ask it to do.
Mrs K didnt agree. So shes asked for an ombudsmans final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I can see how upsetting this has been for Mrs K. And she has my sympathy for the additional 
distress this has caused her. Mrs K has mental health issues which can lead to confusion 
and poor concentration. And Ive taken this into account when looking at whats happened. 
And whether or not RSA has done enough to put things right.
Mrs K took out the policy in 2017. It was issued through a different underwriter. And 
unfortunately it hasnt been possible to obtain a copy of the call. But as Mrs Ks replacement 
policy with RSA also refers to unlimited buildings and contents cover its reasonable to 
believe Mrs K was told her insurance cover would be unlimited.
When a customer takes out insurance they receive documentation that describes what sort 
of event or incident is covered by the policy. But the policy document will also include a 
number of exceptions where a claim wouldnt be covered. And most policies also include 
limits to the amount that would be paid in certain circumstances  even if theyre described 
as unlimited cover.
Its not unusual for an insurer to consider jewellery and gold to be a high-risk item. This 
means they think high-risk items are likely to be small, valuable and more easily stolen. So 
they set limits in the policy to the amount they will pay in the event of a successful claim.
When RSA took over the underwriting for Mrs Ks home insurance policy it sent new 
documentation explaining what was happening. And it explained what cover would be in 
place under the new policy. This included limits to the maximum amount that would be 
offered for the loss of high-value items such as gold and jewellery. And the limits were 
clearly shown in the documents sent to Mrs K. 
I do appreciate Mrs K was relying on having unlimited cover. She had jewellery and 
possessions worth a considerable amount. And she was considering placing them in safe 
storage. So when she received the new policy document she might not have noticed the 
limits for high-value items.
But RSA wasnt aware of Mrs Ks health situation at the time. It didnt know Mrs K sometimes 
suffers from poor concentration and understanding - it only became aware when it began 
looking into the claim. So I dont think RSA acted unreasonably in expecting Mrs K to check 
the policy documents and let it know if anything needed changing or if there was anything 
she didnt understand.
Mrs K hadnt told RSA she had a substantial amount of gold and jewellery. And Im sure it 
wouldve advised her about safe storage and made sure her insurance cover was suitable if 
itd known. 
I do understand how distressing this has been for Mrs K. She expected RSA to meet the full 
value of her stolen items. And Mrs K said she was so upset she caused some damage to her 
house. RSA has paid £150 compensation for not including the £5000 personal possessions limit in 
the original offer. And I think thats a reasonable response. Im afraid I cant ask RSA to 
increase that amount.
I know Mrs K was very upset when she learned RSA wouldnt pay for all of her jewellery. 
And I can see our investigator has suggested Mrs K talk to RSA about any specific damage 
that might be covered under her policy. I think thats a sensible approach. 
I can see how much distress this has caused Mrs K. She just wants her jewellery replacing 
as quickly as possible. And Id like to thank her for sharing the complaint with us so we could 
look at whatd happened. 
But based on what Ive seen I cant say RSA has treated Mrs K unfairly. After RSA agreed to 
accept the claim its responsibility was to make a settlement offer within the terms and 
conditions of Mrs Ks home insurance policy. 
I can see RSA has arranged for a jewellery expert to provide replacements for the stolen 
items to a maximum value of just over £37000. Its based that figure on the £32017 limit for 
high-value items and another £5000 which is the maximum pay-out for personal 
possessions. 
I realise the price of gold changes on daily basis and that will affect the amount of 
replacement jewellery provided by RSA. And I know Mrs K will be upset if shes not able to 
replace all of the missing items. But I think RSA has dealt with Mrs Ks complaint fairly and in 
line with the terms of the home insurance policy. 
I hope Mrs K will be able to talk to RSA about replacing as many of her stolen items as 
possible. But Im sorry to say I cant ask it to do anything more.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs K to accept or 
reject my decision before 4 June 2021.
 
Andrew Mason
Ombudsman