DRN-4354942
The complaint
Mr W complains Advantage Insurance Company Limited unfairly settled a motor insurance 
claim as him being at fault.
What happened
In August 2022 Mr W, when driving his car, was involved in a collision with a third-party. His 
car suffered minor damage. The third-partys was worse off. Some months later, his motor 
insurer, Advantage, advised him the claim had been settled with him as at fault. It explained 
it had covered the costs of the third-partys repairs.
Mr Ws unhappy about that decision  and Advantages process for coming to it. In response 
to his complaint it said it he had previously confirmed the claim was considered a fault 
accident and it would be dealing with the third-partys claim. It said it had dealt with the claim 
in line with the evidence provided. 
Mr W wasnt satisfied so came to his service. He feels its unfair that the claims been settled 
as him being at fault. He says this has caused him to pay more for his motor insurance. To 
resolve his complaint he would like the fault record to be removed. 
Our Investigator felt Advantage had acted fairly when settling the claim. So he didnt 
recommend it do anything differently. Mr W didnt accept that outcome. He requested an 
Ombudsman consider the complaint. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As this is an informal service Im not going to respond here to every point or piece of
evidence Mr W and Advantage have provided. Instead Ive focused on those I consider to be 
key or central to the issue. But I would like to reassure both that I have considered 
everything provided.
This service doesnt decide whos at fault for an incident. Thats the role of the courts. 
Instead, we look at whether the insurer acted in line with the policy terms and made a fair 
and reasonable decision. Mr Ws policy terms allow Advantage to defend or settle any claim 
on his behalf. That means it might make a decision he disagrees with, but the policy allows it 
to do so. But I can consider if its decision to do so was reasonable.
Mr W wants Advantage to remove the fault record. For me to require it to do that, or to 
compensate him for unfairly having such a record, Id need to be persuaded of a few things. 
First, Id need to agree Advantage shouldnt have accepted liability but instead made greater 
effort to defend the claim from the third-party. Second, Id need to be persuaded, if it had, it 
would have likely achieved a different claim outcome  for example the third-party accepting 
split liability or full lability or alternatively a court ruling in Mr Ws favour. Whilst I accept its 
possible he wasnt at fault, I havent seen enough to persuade me of either.
I havent been provided with Mr Ws initial description of the incident to Advantage. But I 
have read his more recent account. Ive also seen the third-partys description of the 
circumstances. Ive also considered the photos provided by Mr W.
Importantly Mr W, in a call with Advantage within a few days of the incident, accepted its 
position that it considered him to be at fault for the claim. After it had explained that his 
response was that he had expected it. Im satisfied he understood what was being 
explained. 
So Mr W, in the days after the incident, seemed to accept being at fault. With that in mind, 
and the third-party also arguing he was at fault, I cant reasonably say Advantage should 
have done more to defend him  or that if it had a different outcome on the liability would 
likely have been achieved. 
 
Mr Ws referred to different phone calls with Advantage. I havent requested those. I think its 
unlikely doing so would make a difference to the outcome of this complaint. Essentially, he 
seemed to accept being liable for the incident in the early days of the claim. I think its 
unlikely the other calls would provide enough for me to say Advantages decision not to 
defend the claim was unreasonable.  
Finally Mr Ws asked about CCTV footage of the incident. Im not aware of any. I havent 
been told there was a camera in the relevant location. So I cant say Advantage acted 
unreasonably by failing to request footage. 
Having considered everything, Im satisfied Advantage acted in line with the policy terms. 
I cant say its decision to settle the claim was unfair or unreasonable. So Im not going to 
require it to amend any records or to do anything differently. 
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I dont uphold Mr Ws complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision before 19 December 2023.
 
Daniel Martin
Ombudsman