DRN-4297326
The complaint
Mr and Mrs M are unhappy with the way in which Chaucer Insurance Company Designated 
Activity Company handled a claim made on their travel insurance policy and the medical 
assistance provided whilst they were abroad. Theyre also unhappy that certain claimed 
expenses havent been covered.  
Any references to Chaucer include its claim handlers and medical assistance team.
What happened
Mr and Mrs M had the benefit of a single-trip travel insurance policy, underwritten by 
Chaucer, which covered a holiday abroad in the summer of 2022 (the policy).
Whilst away, Mrs M became ill. And Chaucer was contacted for assistance. 
Mrs M was taken to a public hospital in the country she was staying. She was discharged 
from hospital a couple of days later, after undergoing some tests. She was diagnosed with 
Covid-19. However, she returned to hospital on further occasions with symptoms including 
breathlessness and an increased heart rate, and she felt her condition was deteriorating. 
Mr and Mrs M are very unhappy with the lack of support and medical assistance Mrs M 
received from Chaucer.
They wanted Chaucer to cover the costs of Mrs M being repatriated back to the UK by air 
ambulance due to her worsening condition. Chaucer didnt pre-authorise this, because at the 
time, it didnt have enough to conclude that this was medically necessary. So, Mr and Mrs M 
privately funded the cost of the air ambulance and upon returning to the UK, Mrs M was 
admitted to hospital. 
Mr and Mrs M made a claim under the policy for their out-of-pocket expenses. Ultimately, 
Chaucer agreed to cover some costs including some accommodation and rearranged travel 
costs incurred by them extending their trip because of Mrs Ms health issues, medical and 
ambulance costs. 
Chaucer declined to cover the costs of the air ambulance. It also declined to cover the cost 
of a repeat prescription, Covid-19 test kits and extended accommodation for the period 9 to 
16 July 2022.
Unhappy, Mr and Mrs M complained to the Financial Ombudsman Service.
Our investigator looked into what happened and didnt think Chaucer had unfairly declined 
cover for the outstanding out-of-pocket expenses including the cost of the air ambulance. 
And although he concluded that the overall assistance Mr and Mrs M received from Chaucer 
whilst abroad was reasonable, our investigator did think Chaucer had made some mistakes. 
He recommended Chaucer pay £350 compensation to Mr and Mrs M for distress and 
inconvenience caused as a result. 
Neither party accepted our investigators recommendation. So, Ive been passed this 
complaint to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
At the outset I acknowledge that Ive summarised this complaint in far less detail than Mr and 
Mrs M have, and in my own words. Im not going to respond to every single point made. No 
discourtesy is intended by this. Instead, Ive focussed on what I think are the key issues 
here. The rules that govern our service allow me to do this as we are an informal dispute 
resolution service. If theres something Ive not mentioned, it isnt because Ive overlooked it. 
I havent. Im satisfied I dont need to comment on every individual point when carrying out 
my statutory remit.
The insurance industry regulator, the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA), has set out rules 
and guidance for insurers in the Insurance: Conduct of Business Sourcebook (ICOBS). 
ICOBS says that insurers should handle claims promptly and fairly - and shouldnt 
unreasonably reject a claim.
I partially uphold this complaint as I think, on occasions, Chaucer couldve provided better 
service to Mr and Mrs M, particularly at the beginning of July 2022. However, I think Chaucer 
has fairly and reasonably declined the outstanding aspects of the claim for out-of-pocket 
expenses, including the cost of the air ambulance. Ive set out my reasons below. 
I can of course understand Mr and Mrs Ms concern when Mrs M first became unwell. 
And it looks like they promptly contacted Chaucer for medical assistance. However, 
its not for Chaucer to provide medical opinion over the phone. In the circumstances 
of this case, I think it was reasonable for Chaucer to advise Mrs M to seek medical 
attention if unwell and provide them with details of public hospitals near to where Mrs 
M was staying.
Mr and Mrs M had to pay Mrs Ms medical costs before being discharged from 
hospital, but I dont think I can reasonably hold Chaucer responsible for this. Im 
satisfied from its contact notes that Chaucer had been proactively trying to obtain a 
medical report from the hospital, but this hadnt been provided. Until a medical report 
had been received, I wouldnt reasonably expect Chaucer to agree to cover medical 
costs up front or provide a guarantee of payment to the treating hospital. Its usual 
industry practice for an insurer to seek to verify cover before doing so and that 
includes requesting and reviewing the treating hospitals report. 
After being discharged from hospital with a diagnosis of Covid-19, and having 
attended hospital on a second occasion, Mr and Mrs M notified Chaucer that Mrs M 
required a course of injections to be administered daily away from hospital. I can 
understand why Mr and Mrs M wanted Chaucer to find a nurse to administer these 
injections for her. However, Chaucer hadnt received a detailed medical report from 
the hospital by this time and so didnt know the purpose of the injections or whether 
the hospital should be assisting with these. It said it would contact the hospital to 
understand what was needed. Until it had a medical report, I dont think it acted 
unreasonably by not arranging a nurse to visit Mrs M daily to administer injections. 
And so, Mr and Mrs M proceeded to make the necessary arrangements. However, 
for reasons Ive explained later in my decision, I do think Chaucer shouldve got back to Mr and Mrs M sooner about this issue. 
Chaucer agreed to cover the costs of the extended accommodation to 9 July 2022 on 
the basis that it was medically necessary for Mr and Mrs M to extend their stay 
beyond their original return date. It doesnt look like Chaucer helped Mr and Mrs M 
arrange alternative accommodation. But from the phone calls made, Im satisfied Mr 
and Mrs M didnt request help finding alternative accommodation. So, I dont think 
Chaucer had to do anything further in the circumstances of this particular case.
Im satisfied Chaucer has fairly and reasonably declined the claim for 
accommodation costs for the period 9 to 16 July 2022. The policy only provides cover 
for extended accommodation costs if Mr and Mrs M couldnt return to the UK and 
Chaucer had agreed that the extended stay was medically necessary. Ive seen no 
medical evidence from the time the accommodation was further extended that this 
was medically necessary. As of 5 July 2022, having been admitted to hospital for a 
third time, the treating doctor advised that Mrs M could be discharged and the tests 
that had been undertaken revealed that she was medically well. Further, at the time 
Mr and Mrs M still had several days remaining on their booking (which had already 
been extended with Chaucers agreement) and they hadnt agreed the extension past 
9 July 2022 with Chaucer. 
The policy doesnt say it provides cover for the cost of repeat prescriptions whilst 
away. So, I dont think Chaucer has unreasonably declined to cover this cost. 
Chaucer did say it could provide details of a doctor in the country Mr and Mrs M were 
in who might be able to help, and Mr and Mrs M were also advised to contact their 
GP in the UK. I think thats reasonable in the circumstances and I wouldnt 
reasonably expect Chaucers representatives to personally arrange for prescribed 
medication to be sent from the UK to the country Mr and Mrs M were visiting. 
The policy doesnt cover any costs of Coronavirus testing. And I dont think Chaucer 
has unfairly relied on the terms of the policy to decline Mr and Mrs Ms claim in this 
respect.
The policy provides cover for repatriation back to the UK if the policyholder is unable 
to return to the UK as originally planned. It also states anything more than travel by 
economy class will only be covered if confirmed as medically necessary and 
approved by Chaucer. I dont think Chaucer has unfairly declined to cover the costs 
of the air ambulance booked and paid for by Mr and Mrs M to repatriate them to the 
UK. This hadnt been pre-approved by Chaucer and looking at the medical evidence 
from the time, Im satisfied Chaucer has fairly concluded that this wasnt medically 
necessary.
Before repatriation, Mrs M reported further symptoms and a deterioration in health 
since her last visit to hospital on 5 July 2022. So, Chaucer suggested arranging for a 
doctor to visit Mrs M in person which Mr and Mrs M declined. It also agreed to cover 
the cost of Mrs M attending a private medical facility to undergo more tests. I think 
that was reasonable in the circumstances of this case, given Mrs Ms concerns about 
a deterioration in health and her concerns about the conditions of the public hospital 
at the time and her most recent experience there. 
The private facility was some distance away from where she was staying and from 
the contact notes, Im satisfied that Chaucer was proactively looking to arrange an ambulance to take Mrs M to a private facility if it was able to accommodate her.  
However, upon discovering that none of the private facilities nearby had an 
emergency department or could accommodate Mrs M, it agreed for Mrs M to visit a 
different public hospital. I think that was reasonable in the circumstances. But as it 
could take an hour or more for an ambulance to arrive to take Mrs M there, Mr M said 
hed drive Mrs M. I accept that this was an incredibly difficult time for Mr and Mrs M 
but I dont think it would be fair and reasonable for me to hold Chaucer responsible 
for the lack of nearby private facilities that could assist Mr and Mrs M or ambulance 
availability. 
Im satisfied that the medical evidence supports that the second public hospital 
couldnt find any problems based on the further tests carried out on Mrs M. 
Whilst Mrs M was in second public hospital, Mr M notified Chaucer that he had 
arranged for himself and Mrs M to be repatriated to the UK the following day by air 
ambulance, if she was discharged form hospital as anticipated. Chaucer advised Mr 
M that it was very unlikely that the cost of the air ambulance would be covered as it 
hadnt been established that this was medically necessary.
I can of course understand why Mr and Mrs M wanted to return to the UK as soon as 
possible given what they say about Mrs Ms health and how it was rapidly 
deteriorating. However, the visits to hospital showed no issues with her vital signs 
and blood tests and scans were clear. Ultimately, I know this made Mr and Mrs M 
more anxious, concerned that it must be something very serious if all tests were 
clear. However, Chaucer hadnt received a medical report from the treating hospital 
to say she was fit to travel, and if so whether she required any assistance. Further, 
the medical evidence didnt support that it was medically necessary for Mrs M to be 
repatriated to the UK by air ambulance. 
Im satisfied there was a period of several days at the start of July 2022 when Mr and 
Mrs M didnt receive any contact from Chaucer. The last contact between the parties 
at the end of June 2022 concerned Chaucer seeking confirmation from the hospital 
as to why a nurse was needed to administer daily injections to Mrs M outside of 
hospital. And it was still awaiting a medical report at that time. I can see Mr M 
contacted Chaucer on 4 July 2022, frustrated by the lack of contact and progress.
For reasons set out above, I think Chaucer had been proactively trying to obtain a 
medical report at the end of June 2022, but I accept that it wouldve been frustrating 
for Mr and Mrs M not to receive an update during this time and having to chase 
Chaucer for an update wouldve caused unnecessary inconvenience at an already 
difficult time for them. 
Given that Mrs M had been admitted to hospital on two separate occasions at the 
end of June, I wouldve reasonably expected Chaucer to have checked how she was 
feeling and update her, especially as Mr M had made it aware that Mrs M needed 
daily injections and Chaucer was going to ask the hospital more information about 
this before it provided any further assistance in this regard. Without contact and an 
update, I can understand why Mr and Mrs M felt like nothing was being progressed at 
this time and this wouldve been frustrating and upsetting for both of them. 
Particularly as the last contact from Chaucer said it would get back to them soon 
with advice. Further, despite identifying Mrs Ms case as a priority, I think it took too long for 
Chaucer to arrange a translation of the medical report received late on 5 July 2022. I 
can understand why when speaking to Chaucer the following day Mr and Mrs M were 
upset and frustrated that this hadnt been done particularly as they said theyd been 
able to use an online translation service to do it themselves and Chaucer had been 
awaiting a more detailed report for so long to decide next steps. 
Im satisfied that £350 compensation fairly reflect the unnecessary distress, worry 
and inconvenience they both experienced as a result of errors made by Chaucer.
Putting things right
I direct Chaucer to pay Mr and Mrs M £350 compensation for distress and inconvenience.
My final decision
I partially uphold this complaint and direct Chaucer Insurance Company Designated Activity 
Company to put things right as set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr and Mrs M to 
accept or reject my decision before 28 September 2023.
 
David Curtis-Johnson
Ombudsman