DRN-3088707
The complaint
Mr K and Mrs K have complained about the way Shawbrook Bank Limited (Shawbrook) 
has dealt with a claim they made under section 75 of the Consumer Credit Act 1974 (s.75).
Background
In June 2016 Mr K and Mrs K entered into an agreement for the supply and installation of a 
solar panel system from a company called Project Solar.  
The cost of the system was £8,999 and payment was made by way of a fixed sum loan 
agreement which Project Solar arranged with Shawbrook.  The monthly payments were set 
at £96.15 per month over a 15-year loan term  making the total amount payable £17,307 
with fees and interest.
Mr K and Mrs K say that Project Solar told them the financial benefits generated by the solar 
panels system would cover the cost of the loan payments and it would be self-funding.  
Those benefits would generally come in the form of energy cost savings and receiving Feed-
in Tariff (FiT) payments from selling excess energy back to the grid.
The system hasnt generated the financial benefits Mr K and Mrs K were expecting, and they 
are in considerable arrears with the loan payments.  They are in financial difficulty and have 
explained that they consider the loan was mis-sold by Project Solar.
Under s.75 a finance company can be held responsible for misrepresentations or breaches 
of contract to the same extent as the supplier of goods or services. As Mr K and Mrs K were 
unable to resolve their concerns with Project Solar, they made a claim to Shawbrook through 
their MP in 2017.
The complaint made to Shawbrook essentially said that Project Solar had misrepresented 
the system and had failed to register it to receive FiT payments.  Mr K and Mrs K didnt 
receive the final response letter sent by Shawbrook, so referred their complaint to this 
Service as matters werent resolved.
One of our investigators started looking into the complaint and Mr K and Mrs K provided 
further information explaining:
Shawbrook never alerted them to the fact that a County Court Judgment (CCJ) and 
subsequent charging order had been obtained against them.
Shawbrook continued to collect direct debit payments after they said that they 
wouldnt.
They were told the system was being purchased using a Government Grant rather 
than a loan  and there was no mentioned of Shawbrook.
They believed the documents they were signing related to the FiT and not the loan.
Mrs K was unduly pressured at the time of sale and was manipulated by the 
salesman  who was in her house for two hours.
The investigator reviewed everything in full and concluded that it wouldnt be fair and 
reasonable to uphold the complaint.  In summary she said that she wasnt persuaded that 
Project Solar made any untrue statements, nor that it was responsible for failing to register 
for FiT payments.  
Although not recommending the complaint be upheld, the investigator did suggest that Mr K 
and Mrs K contact Shawbrook about the difficult financial situation in which they find 
themselves.  She highlighted that Shawbrook should treat them positively and 
sympathetically in determining an affordable repayment plan.
Mrs K disagreed with the investigators conclusions. In summary, she explained that she felt 
her concerns about pressure selling hadnt been dealt with.  She said the investigators 
assessment favoured Shawbrook and Project Solar.
As no agreement could be reached the complaint has now been passed to me to review 
everything afresh and decide.
My findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having considered everything, Ive reached much the same conclusion as the investigator  
and Ill explain why.
I should start by explaining that I understand this has been a difficult and frustrating time for 
Mr K and Mrs K.  The solar panel system hasnt produced anything like the benefits they 
were hoping for and theyve been left with considerable debt.
Shawbrook didnt sell the solar panels to Mr K and Mrs K  but as the finance provider it 
does have obligations under the Consumer Credit Act 1974 (CCA).  Im required to 
consider relevant law and regulations; regulator rules, guidance and standards, and codes of 
practices; and, where appropriate, what I consider having been good industry practice at the 
time.
Section 56 of the CCA explains that finance providers are liable for what they say and for 
what is said by a credit broker or a supplier (where theres a debtor-creditor-supplier 
agreement as there is here) before the consumer takes out the credit agreement.  So here 
Shawbrook are responsible for what was said, or wasnt said that should have been, by 
Project Solar when it established the loan with Mr K and Mrs K.
An appropriate debtor-creditor-supplier relationship must also exist for there to be a valid 
claim under s.75.  Im satisfied that exists here, and as Shawbrook has accepted the claim I 
wont expand further. The key issue for me to decide is whether the Shawbrook has acted 
fairly and reasonably in dealing with the s.75 claim made by Mr K and Mrs K.
I understand there are several elements to the complaint raised by Mr K and Mrs K  and Ill 
address them in turn below.
Failure to register for FiT scheme paymentsMr K and Mrs K have said that Project Solar told them that it would apply to register their 
system for the FiT scheme on their behalf.  Unfortunately, the system was never registered 
and so Mr K and Mrs K have never received any payments from exporting surplus energy 
back to the grid. The scheme is also now closed for new registrations and so that possibility 
of receiving any FiT income has been lost.
Mr K and Mrs K initially raised concerns directly with Project Solar in late 2016 about the fact 
they werent receiving FiT payments. Email correspondence exists showing that Project 
Solar had agreed to help register for the FiT scheme.  In acceptance of its failure, Project 
Solar offered Mr K and Mrs K a payment of £78.03 to make up for the lost FiT income to that 
date.  It also again agreed to register for the FiT scheme, but said it would need information 
(including IDs, utility bills and meter readings) from Mr K and Mrs K to do so.
Mr K and Mrs K didnt accept the offer of compensation from Project Solar and didnt provide 
the documentation required.  So, in the circumstances I cant reasonably say that Project 
Solar should have done anymore  as it advised it would only be able to register for FiT if 
certain information was provided.  Therefore, I also cant now hold Shawbrook responsible 
for Project Solar failing to register the system for FiT payments.
Misrepresentation/Mis-sale of system
I consider the central issue to this complaint to be whether the system was misrepresented 
to Mr K and Mrs K  and Ive reviewed this point particularly.
Mr K and Mrs K have explained they were told by Project Solar that the system would be 
self-funded by the financial benefits it would generate  and they thought they were applying 
for a government grant rather than a loan.
A personal solar quotation was provided to Mr K and Mrs K by Project Solar.  I consider this 
contemporaneous pack of documents to be helpful in determining how the system was 
described and sold  alongside Mr K and Mrs Ks recollections.  Based upon similar 
complaints seen by our Service Im satisfied that the quotation pack would have been 
provided to Mr K and Mrs K, and thats also supported by the fact that theyve signed a copy.
Having reviewed the quote, I do appreciate that not all the information provided is entirely 
clear, but Im not persuaded it misrepresented the financial benefits of the system.  
Generally, the key benefit of solar panels is that they reduce energy bills and generate 
income from excess energy generated  so I think a big focus would have been made on 
that by Project Solar. However, I cant reasonably say that Ive seen anything which 
suggests the system would be entirely self-funding.
The quotation set out the cost of the system and how long the loan period would be  and so 
what the monthly cost would be.  It also set out in a table, the estimated financial benefits the 
system would generate.  The investigator provided copies of these in her assessment and so 
I wont include them here again.
Based upon the table its clear that there would be a deficit between the system benefits and 
the cost of servicing the loan payments each month over the earlier years.  But in later years 
it was estimated that the system would start paying for itself each month.  Overall, the 
projections suggest that the system would have paid for itself in total over 17 years  
allowing for the FiT income that was expected at the time.  Based upon what Ive seen, I 
cant reasonably say that was an untrue or unrealistic statement  and so I cant say it was 
misrepresented by Project Solar.
Loan or government grantI appreciate that Mr K and Mrs K have said that they didnt realise they were taking out a 
loan, but instead thought they were signing up for a government grant to pay for the system.
Ive seen a copy of the agreement Mr K and Mrs K signed and dated 26 June 2016.  The 
investigator included a relevant extract in her assessment to the parties.  It is clear the 
agreement is for a loan and not a government grant. In large bold text at the top of the 
document it states:
FIXED SUM LOAN AGREEMENT REGULATED BY THE CONSUMER CREDIT ACT
Im satisfied that the document makes it clear Mr K and Mrs K were signing up to a loan  
and there is no reference to it being a grant or backed by the government in any way.  
I appreciate Mr K and Mrs K recollect that they were told the agreement was a government 
grant by the salesman. But as the contemporaneous documents contradict that, I cant 
reasonably agree thats what they were told  or I at least believe the documents they signed 
ought to have corrected their understanding if there was any confusion.
It may be that the expectation of FiT payments was described in a way that Mr K and Mrs K 
believed they were some form of grant  effectively explaining they would contribute towards 
the loan payments.  But that is different to not having a loan at all.
I also note Shawbrook carried out affordability checks Shawbrook before approving the loan.  
It undertook a review of the borrowing Mr K and Mrs K had in addition to their mortgage and 
noted that they had other credit facilities in the form of credit cards and a hire purchase 
agreement. The outstanding balances were nominal. I think these steps were reasonable, 
and so overall I cant say the loan wasnt explained or was misrepresented  nor have I seen 
anything to suggest it was unaffordable.  I appreciate Mr K and Mrs Ks personal 
circumstances have since changed, but Im considering what happened at the time of sale.
Pressured sales tactics
Mrs K says she was pressured into purchasing the solar panel system. She has explained 
the salesman turned up at her home unannounced and spent a long time going through the 
sales presentation and system benefits.  Mrs K says she felt vulnerable being a woman at 
home on her own.  Eventually she agreed to make the purchase to get him out of her home.
I appreciate that Mrs K feels she was culturally manipulated by the salesman and note that 
he visited her home on a couple of occasions.  Ive given considerable thought to this point.
Our Service has received a number of complaints which relate to solar panel systems sold 
by Project Solar.  Generally, a salesperson would only get in touch with a potential customer 
in response to a request made through social media or online promotion.  Whilst I appreciate 
how Mrs K felt about the situation, it is not unusual for a salesperson to take a couple of 
hours to run through a sales presentation and quotation.
I do understand Mrs K may have felt uncomfortable.  However, I note that although Mrs K 
says she felt pressured, she also says she believed the system would pay for itself and was 
funded by government grant. So, she would have expected the system to have been a 
benefit, which supports her wanting the purchase.
Also, I havent seen any evidence that Mr K and Mrs K tried to cancel the purchase or 
agreement. If Mrs K was pressured and then discussed it with Mr K and hadnt wanted to 
proceed with the installation, I would expect to have seen some attempt to cancel.Direct debit collection and court enforcement action
I understand Mr K and Mrs Ks circumstances have changed in recent years and this has 
resulted in them getting into financial difficulty.  They have complained that Shawbrook 
escalated formal debt collection proceedings and obtained a CCJ for the outstanding loan 
balance.  It has also sought a charging order over Mr K and Mrs Ks house to enforce 
payment.
As explained by our investigator previously, our Service cannot consider those proceedings 
as part of this complaint as its something which has already been considered and decided 
by the Courts. As an alternative dispute resolution (ADR) service, our rules dont allow us 
to investigate something already dealt with by the Courts.
Irrespective of the Court proceedings, Im aware that Shawbrook did collect some direct 
debit payments which it has already agreed to suspend. I consider this point dealt with as 
Shawbrook accepted its error and offered £200 for the inconvenience  which was accepted 
by Mrs K.
Lack of communication from Shawbrook
When Mr K and Mrs K complained to Shawbrook, it was required to acknowledge their 
complaint and respond within eight weeks.  They are unhappy and say no final response 
letter (FRL) was issued to them.
Whilst I acknowledge Mr K and Mrs Ks frustration, we have been provided a copy of an FRL 
issued by Shawbrook dated 18 December 2017.  The letter was correctly addressed, and I 
have no reason to believe it wasnt sent  and so it was most likely lost in the post.  Although 
Mr K and Mrs K never received the letter at the time, I cant say that Shawbrook was at fault 
for this.
Summary
The solar panels have not performed as Mr K and Mrs K were hoping and expecting, and 
since installation, their circumstances have changed.  The lack of revenue generated from 
the system is, in part, because of the system not being signed up for the FiT scheme  but 
Im unable to say thats Shawbrooks fault.
My conclusions are broadly the same as the investigator who assessed the complaint before 
me  and I understand Mrs K expressed concerns that the investigator was biased in her 
findings.  I have every empathy with Mr K and Mrs Ks position, and I realise they are likely 
to be disappointed that I havent upheld their complaint. But I must assure them that Ive 
considered everything impartially, afresh and in full.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold Mr K and Mrs Ks complaint against Shawbrook Bank 
Limited.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr K and Mrs K to 
accept or reject my decision before 4 April 2022.
 
Ross Hammond
Ombudsman