DRN-2883435
The complaint
Mr W complains about the way that Volkswagen Financial Services (UK) Limited, trading as 
Volkswagen Finance, has dealt with his early termination of a hire purchase agreement 
under which a car had been supplied to him. Hes being helped with his complaint by his 
mother.
What happened
A used car was supplied to Mr W under a hire purchase agreement with Volkswagen 
Finance that he electronically signed in October 2017. He contacted Volkswagen Finance in 
January 2020 about an early termination of his agreement and the voluntary termination 
forms were sent to him. He paid £1,317.14 to terminate the agreement but Volkswagen 
Finance didnt receive the completed forms so it continued to collect monthly payments from 
him. It refunded payments to him in error in June 2020 and again sent him voluntary 
termination forms. It agreed to collect the car in December 2020 from a dealer with which 
Mr W had left the car but the agreement was incorrectly recorded as settled and Mr W was 
sent a letter saying that the agreement had been settled. 
Mr W complained to Volkswagen Finance and it apologised for the service that hed received 
during the course of trying to have the agreement terminated. It confirmed that the car had 
been collected and said that the agreement was in arrears of £1,109.66  but it offered to 
reduce that by £109.66 to £1,000 because of the service that hed received. It also agreed to 
remove any adverse markers that had been applied against his credit file during the process 
of clearing down the agreement. Mr W wasnt satisfied with its response so complained to 
this service.
Our investigator didnt recommend that his complaint should be upheld. She described in 
detail what had happened based on Volkswagen Finances contact notes. She said that 
Volkswagen Finance had confirmed that it had removed any adverse information relating to 
the late payment markers and had also offered to pay £109.66 for any distress and 
inconvenience caused by Mr W being given incorrect information in June 2020  and she felt 
that that was fair.
Mr W has asked for his complaint to be considered by an ombudsman. He says that he 
firmly believes that Volkswagen Finance has handled his case very badly and has made too 
many errors, including refunding his payments in June 2020 and sending him a letter 
confirming that the agreement had been settled in December 2020. He says that he returned 
the completed voluntary termination documents to Volkswagen Finance and paid the 
shortfall in January 2020, authorised his mother to deal with his account, returned the car to 
the dealer, and took out a new agreement for another car. He also says that Volkswagen 
Finance hasnt explained what the arrears of £1,109.66 relate to.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the conclusions reached by our investigator for these reasons:
Mr W contacted Volkswagen Finance about voluntarily terminating his agreement in 
January 2020, he was quoted a shortfall of £1,317.14 and the voluntary termination 
documents were sent to him by email;
the e-mail from Volkswagen Finance said: If you decide to go ahead with terminating 
your agreement, you will need to complete the below template and return this email 
to [specified email address]; and: Once we receive the template from you with all of 
the required information completed, your request will be processed and you will 
receive confirmation of this in writing within 5 working days  the e-mail also 
contained an address to which Mr W could post the completed documents if he 
preferred to do so;
Mr W paid the shortfall of £1,317.14 six days later and says that he returned the 
completed documents to Volkswagen Finance  but it didnt receive them and Mr W 
hasnt been able to provide any other evidence to show that he returned the 
documents;
Mr W says that he returned the car to the dealer and took out a new agreement for 
another car;
Volkswagen Finances contact notes record an unmatched payment of £1,317.14 in 
January and April 2020 and say that it was waiting for Mr W to return the voluntary 
termination pack  it continued to collect the monthly payments for the car from 
Mr W;
I consider that Mr W ought reasonably to have been aware that the monthly 
payments were being collected from him and that he hadnt received confirmation of 
the voluntary termination of his agreement from Volkswagen Finance  so I consider 
it to be more likely than not that he knew, or ought reasonably to have known, that 
his agreement hadnt ended;
Mr W contacted Volkswagen Finance again in June 2020 and the voluntary 
termination documents were re-sent to him  it also refunded £1,213.40 to him but 
the contact notes dont record any complaint made by Mr W about the voluntary 
termination documents being returned but not received;
the £1,213.40 was refunded to Mr W in error so that amount was re-applied to his 
account but Volkswagen Finance didnt receive the completed voluntary termination 
documents from Mr W; 
Mr W was sent an arrears letter in August 2020 and his father contacted Volkswagen 
Finance but it wasnt able to discuss Mr Ws account with him so Mr W sent it an 
email later that month  but he would have been aware that Volkswagen Finance 
hadnt received the voluntary termination documents that he says he returned to it in 
January 2020 and Ive seen no evidence to show that Mr W returned the completed 
voluntary termination documents that had been sent to him in June 2020;
there were further communications between Mr W or his parents and Volkswagen 
Finance between August and December 2020 but the voluntary termination 
documents werent returned to Volkswagen Finance;
Volkswagen Finance agreed to collect the car from the dealer in December 2020 but 
the agreement was incorrectly recorded as settled and Mr W was sent a letter saying 
that the agreement had been settled;
I consider it to be clear that Volkswagen Finance has made errors in its dealings with 
Mr W about the termination of his agreement  it refunded payments to him in June 
2020 when it shouldnt have done so and it sent him a letter in December 2020 saying that the agreement had been settled when it hadnt been and there was an 
outstanding balance of £1,109.66 on his account;
Volkswagen Finance has apologised for those errors and has collected the car from 
the dealer even though it hasnt received the completed voluntary termination 
documents from Mr W and it has removed adverse information from Mr Ws credit file 
 it has also offered to reduce the outstanding arrears on his account by £109.66 to 
£1,000  and its provided an account statement showing the calculation of those 
arrears; 
although Volkswagen Finance has made errors in its dealings with Mr W, I consider 
that its response to those errors has been fair and reasonable in the circumstances; 
and 
I sympathise with Mr W for the difficulties that hes experienced and the issues that 
hes had to deal with, but Im not persuaded that it would be fair or reasonable in 
these circumstances for me to require Volkswagen Finance to further reduce the 
arrears on Mr Ws account (or to waive those arrears), to pay him any other 
compensation or to take any other action in response to his complaint.
I suggest that Mr W contacts Volkswagen Finance to pay the arrears on his account. If he 
doesnt do that, I consider it to be likely that Volkswagen Finance will take further action 
against him (to the extent that its legally entitled to do so). If hes unable to make the 
payment he should explain to it any financial difficulties that hes experiencing and try to 
agree an affordable repayment arrangement with it. Volkswagen Finance is required to 
respond to any such financial difficulties positively and sympathetically.
My final decision
My decision is that I dont uphold Mr Ws complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision before 14 October 2021.  
Jarrod Hastings
Ombudsman