DRN-3241815
The complaint
Mr R complains British Gas Insurance Limited (British Gas) delayed carrying out repairs 
under his home emergency insurance policy and gave him poor customer service. He says 
this caused him financial loss, distress and significant inconvenience. 
What happened
Mr Rs home emergency insurance policy renewed around 19 July 2020. It provided cover 
for his fathers property which was being rented out. Mr R says the tenants left the property 
at the end of February 2021 after which point he planned to re-let or sell it. 
On 11 March 2021 Mr R contacted British Gas to make a claim on the policy as he noticed 
the hot water tank in the property was leaking. At this point, British Gas said the earliest 
appointment it could arrange for an engineer to visit was around four weeks later. So, it 
offered him the option of arranging the repairs himself and reimbursing him. Mr R didnt 
agree to this as he says he didnt know any reliable plumbers  and that was why he took 
the insurance. Hes also highlighted the initial cost to him wouldve been more than £1,000. 
The engineer came on 12 April 2021 and a new part was ordered to be fitted around 10 days 
later. Unfortunately, on the day the new part was meant to be fitted, the engineer wasnt 
booked correctly  and the part delivered was incorrect. So a new one was ordered. 
As Mr R didnt hear anything, he contacted British Gas. And after some back and forth, he 
was told the part wouldnt be available until 27 May 2021. During that time, Mr Rs told us he 
was given the wrong information and wasnt contacted when he was told he would be. Hes 
also said the part was incorrectly sent to his fathers property instead of British Gas. So he 
had to drive several miles to get the missed delivery card and rearrange delivery. 
After another failed delivery attempt, the part was delivered on 4 June 2021. Unfortunately, 
on 10 June 2021, when the fitting was meant to go ahead, the engineer had been booked 
incorrectly again. So the work was carried out just over a week later on 18 June 2021. 
Mr Rs said to move things along, he had to raise complaints and chase British Gas after 
being repeatedly let down. He didnt live at the property so drove several miles to meet 
engineers and delivery drivers who didnt show up or couldnt carry out the works. 
British Gas apologised for the service itd given Mr R. It highlighted the initial delay was 
unavoidable due to high demand and industrial action and Mr R couldve arranged the works 
himself. To make up for what had happened, it offered a total of £170 in compensation. Mr R 
didnt think this was enough and thought it should cover the loss of rent he thinks it caused. 
As things werent resolved, Mr R asked our service to look into his complaint. Our 
investigator didnt uphold it. She thought the compensation offered was enough to make up 
for things. She said she wasnt satisfied Mr R intended to rent on the property  and in any 
event, she didnt think he could claim for this loss as it was his fathers property. As Mr R 
didnt accept what our investigator had said, the case has been passed to me to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive decided not to uphold this complaint as I think the compensation already offered by 
British Gas is fair, I know Mr R will be very disappointed. Ill explain why. 
Mr R is unhappy with the time it took British Gas to carry out the repairs under the policy. He 
first made the claim on 11 March 2021 and the repairs were completed around three months 
later which both parties seem to accept is too long. 
Having considered everything Ive been given carefully, Im satisfied the initial delay of 
around a month before an engineer was able to attend the property was caused by a 
problem outside of British Gas control. And as a result, it offered to reimburse Mr R if he got 
the works done himself which is what Id expect it to do in the circumstances. Whilst I 
understand Mr R had his reasons for not taking up this offer, I do think if hed done so its 
more likely the works wouldve been completed much sooner. And I dont think its 
unreasonable to expect he wouldve sourced a plumber himself  and covered the costs  if 
it meant the property could earn a rental income in the meantime. 
Ive looked at the timelines both parties have given us. It seems there were a number of 
occasions when Mr R expected either a delivery or an engineer at the property but was let 
down. I can also see he contacted British Gas several times to chase for updates  or 
because he hadnt received contact as promised. And I think this wouldve caused him 
inconvenience, frustration and upset that things werent moving forward. But I think some 
delays were outside British Gas control  either because of a lack of availability of engineers 
or because the part needed wasnt available. And Im satisfied the compensation thats 
already been offered to Mr R is fair to make up for what did go wrong. 
Mr Rs said whilst the leak was ongoing, the property was uninhabitable and couldnt be let 
to new tenants whilst waiting to be sold (or instead of being sold). So he thinks British Gas 
should cover the lost rent. But as part of this decision, I can only direct British Gas to cover 
financial losses Mr R has suffered himself. And as the property wasnt his  and therefore 
the rental income also wasnt, I cant say this is a loss Mr Rs suffered which he should be 
compensated for. I know Mr Rs argued that he was a power of attorney for his father and an 
executor of his estate when he sadly passed away. But that means he had the authority to 
manage things on his fathers (and his estates) behalf. And thats different from being 
entitled to the funds himself. So Im not persuaded British Gas needs to cover the lost rent 
and overall, Im satisfied its done enough to make up for whats gone wrong in this case. 
My final decision
Its my decision that I dont uphold Mr Rs complaint as the offers British Gas has made are 
fair. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision before 24 March 2022.
 
Nadya Neve
Ombudsman