DRN-2933585
The complaint
Ms T is unhappy that U K Insurance Limited trading as Direct Line (UKI) wrongly informed 
her that it would provide buildings insurance cover to the buyer of her property. She 
complains that UKIs mistake caused her reputational damage and stress.
What happened
Ms T had a buildings and contents insurance policy which was underwritten by UKI.
Shed previously made a claim for subsidence under the policy. 
When she came to sell her house, Ms T contacted UKI to see if it would continue to 
cover the property, as she wanted to assure a prospective buyer that its history of 
subsidence wouldnt prevent it from being insured.  
UKI said it would continue to provide cover, despite the subsidence, and that Ms T 
could let the prospective buyer know. It said Ms T should pass her policy details to 
the buyer.
The prospective buyer contacted UKI for a quote but was refused cover. So, Ms T 
contacted UKI to see why.
UKI said cover had been refused because it was no longer covering properties in her 
propertys post code area. It had continued to cover Ms T because she was an 
existing customer.
Ms T said UKIs misinformation put the sale of her property in jeopardy and that shed 
suffered stress and reputational damage as a result.
UKI explained that its entitled to change its underwriting criteria and based on this, it 
couldnt insure Ms Ts property. But it recognised that in failing to tell Ms T that the 
buyers quote would be subject to its terms and conditions and underwriting criteria, it 
hadnt managed her expectations.
It offered £250 compensation to recognise the difficulties Ms T had experienced. Ms 
T doesnt feel this fairly reflects the stress shes experienced. 
Our investigator considered the complaint. She explained that insurers can and do 
change their underwriting criteria and so, she didnt think UKI had acted unfairly by 
refusing to provide a quote in the circumstances. 
She acknowledged that UKI had given Ms T misleading information but as the sale of 
the property ultimately went ahead, its offer of £250 compensation fairly reflected the 
difficulties Ms T had experienced.
Because Ms T disagreed with the investigators findings, the complaint has been 
passed to me for a final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im not upholding it and Ill explain why. 
Ms T is unhappy that UKI declined to provide a quote to a prospective buyer of her 
property, even though it had previously insured her property and said it would 
continue to do so. 
Insurers are entitled to change their underwriting criteria  and so, it doesnt follow 
that just because UKI previously insured Ms Ts property it would continue to do so. 
Its up to the insurer to decide which risks it wants to insure  and so, what might 
have been covered previously, may not be later. 
UKI said it wasnt able to provide a quote to the prospective buyer because it was no 
longer insuring properties in the particular post code area. Im satisfied thats a 
decision UKI has the autonomy to make, and so I dont think its acted unfairly by 
refusing to provide a quote to the prospective buyer.
Ms T has suggested that the propertys history of subsidence is the real reason UKI 
refused to provide a quote to the prospective buyer, but I havent seen any evidence 
to support this argument. 
Once it was aware of its communication error, UKI offered to make an exception to 
its underwriting criteria by providing a quote to the prospective buyer, subject to its 
terms and conditions. I think this was a helpful gesture and demonstrates that UKI 
wanted to put things right for Ms T as far it was reasonably able to do so.
Its apparent that because UKI didnt appropriately manage Ms Ts expectations  
when it provided incorrect assurances that it would provide a quote - she incurred 
avoidable stress and embarrassment. Shes explained that the sale of the property 
took longer to go through and that other agents party to the sale questioned her 
integrity. 
From what Ive seen, much of Ms Ts stress was caused by the possibility of the sale 
not going ahead and her concern that the property may not be insurable. Both of 
which are reasonable concerns, but what I must consider, in deciding whether the 
compensation offered is fair, is what came to fruition. 
While I dont doubt that Ms T experienced stress, I must keep in mind that the sale 
ultimately went ahead as the buyer was able to obtain insurance. I agree UKI didnt 
manage her expectations as it should have, but Im satisfied that its apology and offer 
of £250 compensation is reasonable in the circumstances. And so, I wont be asking 
it to increase this amount.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. Under the rules of the Financial 
Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms T to accept or reject my decision before 
13 September 2021. 
Nicola Beakhust
Ombudsman