DRN-2780441
The complaint
Mrs S complains Ageas Insurance Limited didnt act correctly under her roadside assistance 
policy and left her by the roadside for six hours. 
A number of other companies have been involved in this complaint, but as Ageas are 
responsible for it, Ive just referred to them in this decision.
What happened
In March 2021 I issued my provisional decision setting out whatd happened, what I thought 
about that, and how I thought things should be put right. Ive included that information below, 
and it forms part of this final decision.
On 25 August 2019, around 1am, Mrs S called Ageas because her motorbike had broken 
down. She let them know she was on her own and was told theyd get a tow truck out to her. 
She was called back and told because it was a busy Bank Holiday weekend, they didnt 
have anyone available, so theyd sort out a taxi to take her to a hotel for the night. Mrs S 
ended up sitting on a park bench between 1.16am and 6am when a tow truck turned up. 
Mrs S says they kept telling her they were trying to get a taxi, but nothing turned up.
Mrs S says at one point she was told a bike or car would be hired for her to get home  but 
she didnt feel comfortable with a bike as shed been awake all night at this point. She didnt 
think the further three-hour journey she had ahead of her would be safe considering her 
tiredness.
After the tow truck arrived Mrs S says the technician told her he had no experience of 
loading bikes on to his truck, so she had to help him. She was told there was no one to get 
her home, so she had to get the train and the tow truck driver would drop her at the station. 
She asked about a refund of the train ticket, and says she was told itd maybe be refunded 
which she wasnt happy with. 
Mrs S was on a camping trip, and had been riding a motorcycle, so she had an awful lot of 
items to carry, and she had to take several trains to get home. Ageas also told her initially 
her bike would be delivered on the Tuesday, and it was finally delivered on the Wednesday. 
And I understand from Mrs S conversations with the garage, the bike wasnt handled 
particularly well when it was delivered  arriving with a flat battery, soaked seat, and it 
seems wasnt easily dismounted from the truck.
Due to all these issues Mrs S complained to Ageas  and was told on the phone theyd offer 
her compensation which she didnt think was enough.
Ageas said in relation to the roadside recovery they attempted to find numerous people to 
recover Mrs S, but unfortunately couldnt. So around 3am after two hours of trying they then 
said theyd try and arrange a taxi and a hotel for her. But they couldnt find suitable 
accommodation either. Around 4.50am they were able to find someone to come out to her 
within 90 minutes, and the recovery company did that. They said they understood at this 
time Mrs S vehicle was loaded on to the truck, and she was taken to the train station. For 
this, Ageas offered £50.
Ageas said Mrs Ss bike then wasnt delivered to the garage when they said it would be, and 
they understood the vehicle wasnt in a good state, and the driver had difficulties removing 
the bike from his truck. For this, they offered £30.
Ageas summarised by saying they agreed with Mrs Ss complaint points, so overall would 
pay her £80 compensation  and theyd already refunded her the cost of her train tickets.
Mrs S asked us to look into things and provided her information to support her complaint. We 
asked Ageas to provide us with their side of things as well  and when they did they said 
they were prepared to increase the offer of compensation to £200.
Our investigator considered everything thatd happened, and overall felt that although Mrs S 
had been left alone at night, didnt think Ageas had caused delays and they had kept her 
updated. He added that Ageas had offered Mrs S a car and a bike as a hire to get her home, 
which shed turned down. And theyd discussed getting the train home, which Mrs S agreed 
to. Because of this, he felt £200 was fair to resolve matters.
Mrs S didnt agree this was fair. Ive summarised what I see as the most relevant points 
regarding her complaint:
If this had happened during the day then thatd have been fine, but one of the 
reasons for getting breakdown cover is so you dont have to wait until daylight for 
recovery.
She had to help the driver load the bike as he couldnt do it himself  and when the 
bike was delivered to the garage it took four people to get it off the truck. The truck 
itself also wasnt suitable for a bike as it had a gap on it.
The keys had been left in the bike with the ignition on meaning the battery was flat. 
She says she didnt refuse a car as if she needed to stop for a break she could just 
pull over, lock the doors and be safe inside while she rested.
Getting a train back wasnt appropriate because it was August Bank Holiday 
weekend, train drivers were on strike, and she and had camping gear to carry.
If shed been offered the option of a relay service by recovery operators to get her 
home, shed have taken that  given what shes mentioned above  but she wasnt.
Our investigator asked Ageas for some further information and asked if theyd increase the 
offer. Ageas said theyd offered Mrs S a hire car which shed refused. But as they were 
recovering her bike to a garage this wasnt something they had to do as it wasnt part of the 
policy so theyd one it as a gesture of goodwill  and having already increased the offer 
several times wouldnt increase it further.
Having considered matters again, our investigator said hed listened to some calls and Mrs S 
had refused a car, and overall still felt £200 was fair. As Mrs S didnt accept this, the 
complaints been passed to me to decide.What Ive provisionally decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
For the avoidance of doubt this decision does cover all the issues Mrs S has raised about 
Ageas handling of her recovery  including the issues shes mentioned about her bike being 
dropped off at the garage.
Its not in dispute that Ageas have let Mrs S down  theyve acknowledged this quite 
explicitly in their final response, so the question is what a fair and reasonable outcome 
should be for what happened.
So far, £200 is what Ageas have said they think is fair, and Mrs S hasnt accepted. Ive 
looked at what happened to decide what I think an appropriate amount of compensation is.
Could Ageas have recovered her earlier?
Ageas have explained in several phone calls with Mrs S that the time she got in touch was 
around the same time when the drivers of many of their recovery operators would be 
finishing up. They could only work a set number of hours. I understand this is common 
practice and would seem to make sense given the potential risks of driving when youve not 
had enough rest  as Mrs S herself has referred to  but I dont think it means its OK to 
leave someone by the roadside for as long as Ageas did.
I agree with Mrs S this isnt good enough, and I note Ageas have said theyve let her down 
as well. So, Ill need to weigh up what I think fair compensation is for this issue which Ill 
come to at the end.
Hotel and taxi option
The key problem here was finding a hotel to take Mrs S to  rather than just sourcing a taxi 
which I suspect Ageas could have done with some ease. Ageas said theyd tried to find a 
hotel to take her to, but it just wasnt possible. Given it was a Bank Holiday weekend, I dont 
find this surprising. So, although Im sure Ageas could have found Mrs S a taxi, they couldnt 
find a hotel to take her to.
I do think theyve tried to help Mrs S here, so I dont think theres more I could ask Ageas to 
do on this front.
Did Ageas offer options for getting Mrs S home
In one of the calls Ageas did clearly set out the options for Mrs S  which is that she could 
take a train home, or they could offer to recover her but one driver couldnt take her all the 
way home. So theyd have to drop her somewhere and then get her picked up again but 
thatd potentially cause further delays for her. Mrs S says thats fair enough, and she 
ultimately decides to accept the offer of a train. Mrs S says shes quite happy to get the train 
if she knows shes going to be reimbursed for it. So, although Ive considered what shes 
said about getting the train home with all her camping gear, Ageas ultimately did reimburse 
her for the costs of the train fare, which shes said she was happy to do at the time. So, Ive 
not considered this any further.Mrs S has also said she wasnt offered the option of a car. But, again, listening to the calls 
Im satisfied she was and her response to that is she needs to get some sleep. I dont think 
its as clear as it could have been when discussing matters with Mrs S. And shes said she 
would have accepted a car but Ive not seen any evidence of that. So, I do think Ageas could 
have done a bit more to make things clearer, but I also cant hear Mrs S asking for this as an 
option which, since it had been touched on, wouldnt feel unreasonable to me.
Ageas have said this was offered as a gesture of goodwill, because recovering Mrs Ss bike 
and giving her a hire car wouldnt usually be offered under the policy. But, as Mrs S didnt 
get the hire car, Ive not needed to consider this further.
Dropping the bike back to the garage
Mrs S has raised, as part of this complaint, issues she had arranging for the bike to be 
dropped off at the garage. Firstly, shes been told itd be dropped off on Tuesday, and then 
on the Wednesday but she wasnt told about this changing. In an earlier call Mrs S had been 
led to believe if there was no one at the garage when her bike was delivered it may just be 
left outside  with the keys posted through the door. Given everything thats happened I can 
see why thatd be frustrating and concerning for her.
Shes also mentioned issues regarding getting the bike off the truck. I cant compensate 
Mrs S for that, as any issues there would really be between the garage and Ageas. But I 
think Mrs S makes this point to illustrate the concerns over how the bike has been handled 
by Ageas recovery agent. Shes said the keys were left in the ignition which caused the 
battery to go flat, and that the seat was soaking wet.
Mrs S did raise this as an issue to Ageas even though I cant see theyve addressed it. But, 
overall, shes been clear and consistent about issues with the recovery operator from the 
beginning  saying shes had to help them get the car on the truck. This can point to Mrs Ss 
bike not being handled with care as shes said.
Given that, Im satisfied if Mrs S can produce evidence of costs associated from the garage 
of work carried out to rectify the issues with the wet seat, and flat battery, itd be appropriate 
for Ageas to meet this.
Compensation
As Ageas have acknowledged theyve not treated Mrs S fairly. I think theres been problems 
from start to finish which is disappointing  all of which Ive considered even if Ive not 
reflected them in this decision. I think the timing of Mrs Ss breakdown was unfortunate, in 
that it led to a number of people not being available. And Ive not ignored the concerns shes 
raised about being a lone female being left stranded in the middle of the night  shes told 
them this several times, and in phone calls sounds weary about all the issues.
Taking everything into account then, Im satisfied a total of £400 is a fairer reflection of the 
issues Mrs S has experienced. I note Ageas have made some offers of compensation  so if 
they have paid anything already, they can deduct this from the payment made.
Responses to my provisional decision
Mrs S replied and provided a copy of the receipt for the work the garage had to do.
Ageas said they were prepared to accept my decision providing Mrs S provided a receipt 
and the costs were reasonable.What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As neither party have disagreed with my outcome, I still think the case should be upheld for 
£400 compensation, and Ageas need to refund Mrs S the cost of the repairs for the damage 
it seems was caused.
The receipt Mrs S has provided shows £45 costs for a new clutch cable, and £15 costs for 
the battery  total cost to her of £60. No costs are mentioned for the wet seat.
We put the receipt over to Ageas, to ask if itd be covering the £45 for the clutch cable as 
well. They said to bring matters to a close they were prepared to do so.
Putting things right
I order Ageas to:
1. Refund Mrs S £60 as explained above.
2. Pay Mrs S 8% interest from the date of payment, to the date the complaint is settled*
3. Pay Mrs S a total of £400 compensation
*HM Revenue and Customs requires Ageas to deduct tax from the interest payment referred 
to above. Ageas must give Mrs S a certificate showing how much tax theyve deducted if she 
asks them for one.
My final decision
It follows I uphold this complaint and order Ageas Insurance Limited to settle the complaint 
as set out in the putting things right section above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs S to accept or 
reject my decision before 25 May 2021.
 
Jon Pearce
Ombudsman