DRN-3781564
The complaint
J complains that Towergate Underwriting Group Limited (Towergate) has mis-sold it a 
public liability insurance policy.
Mr B brings the complaint on behalf of J. Any reference to J, Mr B, or Towergate includes 
any agents or representatives.
What happened
The background of this complaint is well known to all parties. So, Ive summarised events.
Mr B has had a roofing business (J) for many years.
In 2008, Mr B took out a commercial policy for J through Towergate. He says he 
explained to the agent the nature of his business.
In August 2020 Mr B has said it came to light the policy wouldnt have covered him 
for the type of work he carries out. So, he complained to Towergate, saying the policy 
was mis-sold and of no use to him.
Our Investigator looked into things and said while the information around the sale 
was limited, it appeared the policy was initially suitable for Js needs as it appeared to 
be set up for roofing work  listed as roofers in the schedule. But shed seen 
paperwork from 2016 which listed the business type as Builders (non restricted 
locations), and the policy had a specific restriction on the height of works. She said 
this meant the policy was no longer suitable for Js needs given it is roofing business 
and the insurance was set up for general building work or construction.
The Investigator said it appeared likely the change to the policy had taken place in 
2011 when Towergate had changed offices. And as a result, it meant it was unlikely 
for J to be able to claim on this policy during this period. So, she directed it to refund 
premiums between 2011 and 2020.
J agreed, but Towergate didnt. Towergate said it had spoken to the insurer 
(Company A) from 2014 onwards and confirmed J had been charged the appropriate 
rate for cover across the years. Towergate said Company A understood the situation 
and agreed in principle to amend the schedules of cover retrospectively to include 
both building and roofing included. So, it said J had been adequately insured for the 
life of the policy.
Our Investigator looked again and said this hadnt changed her mind. This was 
because Towergate hadnt provided any evidence to support this position, and that 
Company A had not been the insurer for the life of the policy (only from 2014 
onwards) so there was still an issue with the previous years.
Mr B responded to Towergates position, saying he had email chains from Company 
A which stated the policy did not cover Js roofing needs, and this had led to J being 
moved onto a specific roofing policy from August 2020 onwards.
Towergate also prompted Company A to comment  who confirmed the situation 
arose due to an administration error made by Towergate, but said its policy would 
cover roofers but wouldve caried a higher premium as a result. It said it had not 
provided any advice about suitability in August 2020 and this wouldve been a 
decision of Towergates.
The Investigator didnt change her mind, so the complaint was passed to me for an 
Ombudsmans final decision. I issued a provisional decision on 17 October 2022. Ive 
included an extract of this below.
From what Ive seen, Mr B is in agreement the policy initially sold was to his 
satisfaction and covered Js needs.
J never claimed on the policy, and kept the same policy for many years. This 
suggests to me Mr B was happy with the level of cover in place, and at the price he 
was paying.
It has since come to light although the policy was set up correctly, an administration 
error somewhere between 2011 and 2014 led to the nature of Js business incorrectly 
being marked as Builders (non restricted locations). And as a result, it seems if Mr 
B had sought to claim on the policy, he may not have had the cover he wanted as the 
work he carried out was likely to fall within restricted locations.
So, theres no dispute that Towergate has made a mistake. I have to consider the 
impact of this, and in turn what it needs to do, to put things right. That is to say, 
putting J back into the situation it shouldve been in, had Towergate not made a 
mistake.
Towergate said if J did make a claim, that it wouldve still been covered but additional 
premiums may have been required as the business type wouldve carried an 
additional risk. And while I accept its possible J may have been covered using the 
approach Towergate has set out, I can also acknowledge Js concern that a claim 
may have been declined. But my role requires me to consider the impact of what 
happened, not what might have happened. And this point becomes academic as J 
simply never claimed on the policy.
Company A has confirmed that roofing was a covered business type under this 
policy, and Ive seen part of its underwriting guide that supports this. So Im satisfied 
Company A wouldve still insured J if it knew the nature of the business. But it has 
said the risk wouldve carried a higher premium. This suggests to me that J has likely 
paid a lower premium than it wouldve done.
Company A has agreed to amend the policies retrospectively to reflect Js actual 
business type, and this means J would have had continuous cover for these years 
that it sought to insure. And should J need to make any retrospective claims, it would 
still have the cover it wanted. This seems like a reasonable solution as this was the 
situation J wouldve been in, had Towergate not made its administrative mistake.
Company A hasnt said it would be looking to recoup any additional premiums for 
these previous years. And in light of Towergates mistake, I would direct it to pay any 
additional costs if these were required.
Ive gone on to think about the impact of Towergates mistake on Mr B. Hes 
described the distress this situation has caused him and his partner. And I can 
understand that upon learning he may not have been covered under a policy hes 
maintained for many years wouldve been frustrating. In light of this, Im minded to 
direct Towergate to pay J £350 for the distress and inconvenience caused.
Towergate responded to accept the decision. But Mr B disagreed, providing a detailed 
response, in summary he has said:The restricted locations part of the policy wasnt Mr Bs concern, and that it meant 
their cover was limited to roofing work that was incidental to general building works. 
But here their work was solely roofing.
He wanted assurances Company A had agreed to this Service it would amend the 
policies retrospectively and not through Towergate.
I hadnt commented on the period between 2011  2014 and that Towergate should 
refund the premiums for this period while also agreeing to cover the cost of any 
retrospective claims should they occur.
He felt I should focus on the potential impact of the mistake on Js business 
requesting a compensatory sum of £950.
I reviewed these comments and reached out to Towergate. I outlined that I would be 
expecting it to apply the same remedy for the period of 2011  2014, this is to say it would 
need to seek assurances from the previous underwriter (Company B) to amend cover as it 
had arranged with Company A. And if this was not possible, I would be minded to direct it to 
refund premiums between 2011  2014 plus 8% simple interest.
I also contacted Company A, who confirmed the re-issue of schedules would need to be 
done by Towergate, but it was in agreement this was appropriate.
Towergate responded to say it could not have the 2011  2014 policies reissued in 
light of the evidence available. And argued that Mr B would still have had some 
benefit in the policies for non-roofing activities. So, it said it would offer 50% of the 
premiums charged for this period, totalling £1,876.13.
This offer was put to Mr B who declined it. He said hed put to Towergate previously 
that less than 1% of the work carried out by J was non-roof related works. So, he felt 
its offer was unfair, and that it should refund the premiums in full for that period. And 
he said if Towergate was unable to ensure correct policies were in place for the 
period of 2011  2020 it should refund all premiums.
So, the matter has been passed back to me for an Ombudsmans final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im upholding this complaint. Ill explain why.
At this point, theres no dispute that the policy in place for J did not cover it 
appropriately. And it seems this was due to an administrative mistake that took place 
in 2011 on the part of Towergate.
For the period of 2014  2020, Company A was the insurer. For the reasons Ive 
outlined previously, Im satisfied Company A wouldve insured Js business had this 
administrative mistake not taken place. And Ive been given nothing to persuade me 
this wouldnt be the case.
Company A has agreed that these policies can be retrospectively amended. And 
Towergate has agreed to cover any administrative costs or additional premiums that 
may be charged as a result. So, Im satisfied this remedy puts Mr B and J back into 
the position it shouldve been in for this period, but for Towergates mistake.
For the period of 2011  2014 Towergate also isnt disputing the policy wasnt set up correctly. But unlike the proceeding period, it cannot make the same type of 
retrospective amendments. So, it strikes me that the policy during this time wasnt 
going to cover Js needs as it shouldve. 
Towergate has suggested that a 50% refund would be appropriate as its possible Mr 
B couldve still received some benefit under the policy. And it has suggested given 
the time that has passed, that any claim that would need to be made for that period is 
now time-barred.
Taking into account the nature of Js business, I think the potential benefit it wouldve 
received from the policy wouldve been very limited. Whether or not a claim could 
now be made retrospectively, I have to consider what is fair and reasonable here. 
And in the circumstances, it strikes me the policy for 2011  2014 wasnt suitable for 
J/Mr B for no fault of their own. So, Im directing Towergate to refund the premiums 
for this period plus 8% simple interest.
Mr B has argued that his complaint shouldnt be divided into two remedies, so 
Towergate should refund premiums for the whole period. I disagree and see no fair 
reason to not direct Towergate to take this approach.
Mr B has also asked me to reconsider the compensation awarded in the 
circumstances  namely 26 months of concern as a result of Towergates complaint 
handling and mistakes. Ive thought about this carefully and I dont disagree with Mr 
B that Towergate has made a series of mistakes. 
But this Service is not here to punish or penalise firms for mistakes made. My role is 
to consider the impact on Mr B, and while I dont doubt this experience has been a 
frustrating one, Im satisfied a compensatory sum of £350 is fair and reasonable in all 
of the circumstances and Im not directing Towergate to increase this.
My final decision
I uphold this complaint, Towergate Underwriting Group Limited must do the following.
Pay J £350 in compensation.
For the period of 2014  2020, Towergate must arrange for the policies between to 
be amended to reflect Js business. Towergate will need to confirm this with 
Company A, and Towergate must pay any additional premiums or administration 
costs that may be payable for this period.
For the period of 2011  2014, Towergate must refund all premiums paid to J, adding 
8% simple interest from the date premiums were paid until the date of settlement.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask J to accept or 
reject my decision before 6 December 2022.
 
Jack Baldry
Ombudsman