DRN-2114636
The complaint
Mr M complains that a system problem with TSB Bank plc meant he couldnt withdraw cash 
from his current account. 
What happened
Mr M travelled for a weekend to a city some distance away from his home, as hed planned 
to attend a reunion event. But TSB system problems that weekend left Mr M unable to 
access his funds. So Mr M complained to TSB. 
In its final response, TSB said a planned digital upgrade caused some customers problems 
with accessing their funds and viewing their balances. It apologised and offered Mr M £50 
compensation.
But Mr M didnt think this fairly reflected the upset hed been caused, so he referred his 
complaint to our service. He said being away from home with no access to money was very 
distressing and inconvenient, as hed had to walk five miles to his hotel and couldnt attend 
the reunion hed travelled for since he would have been very embarrassed to attend with no 
money. Mr M explained why this reunion was a once in a lifetime event and meant a very 
great deal to him. And he told us about his physical and mental health conditions, which 
meant TSBs error had a greater impact on him and left him feeling very anxious and unsafe.  
One of our investigators upheld Mr Ms complaint and said TSB should pay him a total of 
£100 compensation. Mr M didnt think this was fair compensation in the circumstances, so 
his complaint came to me for a decision. 
After considering all the evidence, I contacted Mr M and TSB to informally share my 
thoughts. I said it wasnt in dispute TSB had made an error, and this error had caused Mr M 
a great deal of upset. To fairly put things right, I said TSB should pay a total of £400 
compensation to Mr M for his distress and inconvenience, and should also refund his hotel 
and train fare totalling £188.15, since its error left him unable to attend the event hed 
specifically travelled for. 
Mr M agreed, but said I should award more compensation if TSB disagreed with my thoughts 
as it would be continuing to refuse to accept its responsibility. Mr M also shared more details 
of how this matter had affected him and said TSB not taking responsibility had caused him 
more distress. For its part, TSB disagreed with my informal thoughts, saying £400 was too 
high and that it was unfair for me to ask it to refund Mr Ms hotel and train fare as his trip 
wasnt shortened. TSB also provided evidence to show it hadnt known about Mr Ms health 
difficulties until he told it as part of his complaint.  
Im now in a position to make my decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Its not in dispute TSB made an error that left Mr M unable to access the funds in his 
account, so I wont consider that further. Whats therefore left for me to decide is what would 
be a fair and reasonable way of putting things right in the circumstances. And in thinking 
about this, Ive considered the detailed information Mr M has shared with us, particularly 
about his mental health difficulties and why these meant TSBs error had such a great 
impact on him. I appreciate TSB says it wasnt aware of Mr Ms health until he complained, 
but that doesnt change the impact on Mr M. 
Ive listened to a recording of the call where Mr M called TSB after finding he couldnt access 
his funds. I heard TSB wasnt able to tell him when the problem would be fixed. I also heard 
Mr M thought there might be someone nearby he could transfer funds to, but Mr M has since 
explained he was unable to do that because they didnt answer their phone.
So TSBs error left Mr M unable to access the funds in his account for an uncertain period of 
time whilst he was a significant distance from home. This would be worrying and 
inconvenient in any case, and Mr M says it meant he had to walk a long way to his hotel. 
TSBs error also happened on the day of the reunion event. Mr M says this was a once in a 
lifetime event and has explained how much it meant to him. But that he couldnt attend as he 
would have been very embarrassed to be unable to pay his way. Im satisfied TSBs error 
caused Mr M a great deal of upset given his particular circumstances. 
Putting things right
For these reasons, I think a total of £400 is fairer compensation for Mr Ms distress and 
inconvenience  this includes the £50 TSB originally offered and which I understand its 
already paid Mr M. 
And TSB should cover the cost of Mr Ms hotel and train tickets. I know TSB says Mr Ms trip 
wasnt shortened. But Mr M only paid for the hotel and train tickets because he was 
travelling and staying specifically to attend the reunion. And as Ive said, based on what 
Mr M has told our service, Im satisfied TSBs error left him unable to attend the reunion or to 
enjoy the weekend hed planned, paid and travelled for.  
Mr M asked me to award him further compensation if TSB disagreed with my informal 
thoughts. But I dont think it would be fair or reasonable for me to do that for the reason Mr M 
has suggested. 
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I uphold this complaint. TSB Bank plc should pay Mr M a 
total of £400 compensation for the unnecessary distress and inconvenience it caused him, 
and £188.15 for his hotel and train costs.  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 4 December 2020.
 
Ailsa Wiltshire
Ombudsman