DRN-3422250
The complaint
Mr P complains that Motability Operations Limited wont compensate him for the periods that 
he wasnt able to use a car that was supplied to him under a hire agreement.
What happened
A new car was supplied to Mr P under a hire agreement with Motability Operations that he 
electronically signed in January 2020. He complained to Motability Operations in May 2021 
about some issues with the car in and it offered to end the agreement early and to waive the 
£250 early termination fee. It also refunded to him the £80 that hed paid to have the car 
fuelled and valeted and it paid him an additional £60. Mr P didnt end the agreement at that 
time.
Mr P complained to it again in July 2021 about a failed repair of the car which had caused a 
windscreen wiper to break and which led to him being injured. The dealer paid him £400 as 
a goodwill gesture and Motability Operations refunded two weeks allowance of £125.10 and 
agreed to pay £150 towards the advance rental for a new car. 
Mr P complained to Motability Operations again in November 2021 because hed been 
charged £53.14 by a car hire company but the hire company agreed to waive the charge. He 
complained again to Motability Operations in January 2022 because it wouldnt refund his 
allowance or compensate him for loss of use of the car for the days that the car had been in 
for repairs when he wasnt provided with a hire car or taxi. It said that its records for any 
work completed on the car match its records for the provision of hire cars or taxis. Mr P 
wasnt satisfied with its response so complained to this service. 
Our investigator didnt recommend that his complaint should be upheld. She said that 
Motability Operations had offered to cancel the agreement and allow Mr P to return the car 
on a number of occasions (but his order of a new car had been delayed for reasons outside 
his, and Motability Operations, control). She said that Mr P was kept mobile by Motability 
Operations on every occasion that he contacted it about issues with the car and that hed 
received compensation from the dealer, it had offered him £150 towards a new car, had 
waived costs and had refunded some allowance payments. She thought that Motability 
Operations had acted reasonably and that, unless Mr P provided evidence to show that he 
was without use of the car, a hire car or taxis and had let Motability Operations know about 
his situation, it would be unfair of her to ask it to refund any payments to him.
Mr P has asked for his complaint to be considered by an ombudsman. He says that he had 
to wait days each time for a hire car to be provided and he was without a hire car or taxi for a 
total of 183 days in 2020 and 181 days in 2021 and he should be refunded for the payments 
that have been made to Motability Operations. Hes provided a screenshot showing the 
dates that a hire car was provided to him by a car hire company and hes provided 
screenshots listing some of the calls that hes had to make. He says that hes only been 
provided with a hire car seven times during the period of the agreement and that he should 
get a refund for all of the periods when a hire car wasnt made available to him but hes only 
asking to be refunded for 183 days of loss of use of the car. He says that the £400 payment 
from the dealer was compensation for its neglect and severe bad workmanship. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the outcome recommended by our investigator for these 
reasons:
Motability Operations, as the supplier of the car, was responsible for ensuring that it 
was of satisfactory quality when it was supplied to Mr P - whether or not it was of 
satisfactory quality at that time will depend on a number of factors, including the age 
and mileage of the car and the price that was paid for it;
the car that was supplied to Mr P was a new car and I consider that it was 
reasonable for him to expect that it would be free from even minor defects;
satisfactory quality also covers durability which means that the components within 
the car must be durable and last a reasonable amount of time  but exactly how long 
that time is will also depend on a number of factors;
its clear that there have been some issues with the car and Motability Operations 
had provided invoices for some repairs to the car  when Mr P complained to it in 
May 2021 about the car it offered to end the agreement early and to waive the £250 
early termination fee (it also refunded some payments to Mr P);
Mr P didnt return the car and end the agreement at that time but he has ordered a 
new car, the delivery of which has been delayed by circumstances outside of 
Motability Operations, or Mr Ps, control;
an invoice for an inspection service in April 2021 shows that the cars mileage was 
19,226 and the invoice for another inspection service in January 2022 shows that the 
cars mileage was 32,152  so I consider it to be clear that Mr P has had reasonable 
use of the car; 
the evidence that Mr P has provided shows that he was provided with a hire car for 
20 days in April 2021, 22 days in May 2021, 11 days in June 2021, 38 days from 
August to September 2021, 28 days from September to October 2021, 10 days in 
December 2021 and 20 days from December 2021 to January 2022;
Motability Operations says that its records for any work completed on the car match 
its records for the provision of hire cars or taxis to Mr P;
I sympathise with Mr P for the issues that hes had with the car and understand how 
frustrating and annoying this situation must be for him, but Im not persuaded that 
hes provided enough evidence to show that there were periods when he wasnt able 
to use the car because of issues with it and had asked Motability Operations to 
provide him with either a hire car or taxis and it hadnt done so;
Mr P was provided with a hire car for a total of 149 days between April 2021 and 
January 2022, hes been able to drive the car that was supplied to him under the hire 
agreement for more than 12,000 miles during that period, Motability Operations has 
said that he can end the agreement early without further charge and it has made 
payments to him;
I consider that Motability Operations response to Mr Ps complaints and the issues 
with the car has been fair and reasonable in these circumstances and Im not 
persuaded that it has acted incorrectly; and I find that it wouldnt be fair or reasonable for me to require Motability Operations to 
refund to Mr P any further payments that have been made for the car, to pay him any 
further compensation or to take any other action in response to his complaint.
My final decision
My decision is that I dont uphold Mr Ps complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision before 16 June 2022.
 
Jarrod Hastings
Ombudsman