DRN-2888776
The complaint
Mr L complains that The Co-operative Bank Plc (trading as Platform) caused delays when he 
refinanced his mortgage. He asks that it pays compensation of £1,000 for the additional 
interest and his time and trouble, apologises and reviews its business practices. 
What happened
Mr L had a mortgage with Platform. He wanted to re-mortgage in early January 2020, as 
soon as possible after his product expired. He says Platform caused delays during which he 
paid interest at its standard variable rate instead of at his new lenders lower product rate. 
He says this cost him nearly £1,000 in additional interest. Platform offered £100 
compensation which Mr L says isnt enough.
I sent a provisional decision to the parties explaining why I intended to uphold this complaint. 
I said Platform made an error which delayed Mr Ls re-mortgage by about seven days. I said 
it should pay compensation of £450 to Mr L. Mr L agreed and Platform didnt respond. I 
havent received any further comments or evidence that would lead me to change the 
outcome or reasons from those set out in my provisional decision, which were substantially 
as set out below.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr L wanted to re-mortgage with another lender that offered better interest rates. He wanted 
to wait until his product expired on 1 January 2020 to avoid paying an early repayment 
charge (ERC), and re-mortgage as soon as possible after this. Mr L was borrowing less from 
his new lender and needed to make a payment to reduce the balance.
In summary, what happened was:
27 December 2019: Mr L called Platform and asked about getting a redemption 
statement and making a payment before redemption to reduce the balance. Platform told 
him he could make a payment on or from 2 January 2020 without incurring an ERC.
Platform said Mr L should bear in mind his part payment would take five working days to 
clear before it would appear on the redemption figure. This meant if Mr L made a 
payment on 2 January, his solicitors couldnt request a redemption statement until 9 
January 2020. Mr L said he couldnt pay the money at completion via his solicitors for 
timing reasons. Mr L couldnt make the part payment earlier than 2 January without 
paying an ERC: his ERC-free allowance wasnt enough for the payment he wanted to 
make.
2 January 2020: Mr L made a payment of about £33,000 by bank transfer to reduce the 
balance.
9 January 2020: Mr Ls solicitor requested a redemption statement to redeem on 14 
January.
13 January 2020: Platform sent a redemption statement to Mr Ls solicitor. Due to an 
error by Platform this didnt take the payment made on 2 January into account.
15 January 2020: Platform sent a corrected redemption statement.
20 January 2020: Platform received redemption funds and the mortgage was repaid.
Did Platform make an error?
I appreciate that having to wait five working days for the part payment to be reflected in the 
redemption statement didnt fit well with Mr Ls plans. However, I think Platform gave Mr L 
correct information about its process in December 2019.
I dont think Platform made an error by allowing Mr L to make the part payment by faster 
payment rather than CHAPS. Platform says the payment method didnt make any difference 
to the time it took to process the part payment once received. Theres nothing to suggest the 
later error would have been avoided if Mr L had used a different payment method.
I havent seen evidence that Mr Ls solicitors requested a redemption statement before 9 
January 2020, and that request was for completion on 14 January. If Mr Ls solicitor had 
requested a redemption statement before this it might well have been incorrect. But as the 
solicitors didnt request an earlier redemption statement, I cant reasonably say that an error 
by Platform delayed completion between 9 and 14 January.
However, Platform did make an error: it didnt process Mr Ls part payment properly and this 
resulted in it sending an incorrect redemption statement to Mr Ls solicitors on 13 January. 
This meant Mr Ls re-mortgage didnt complete on 14 January 2020.
Platform sent a correct redemption statement on 15 January. It offered £100 compensation, 
which includes about £65 for an extra days interest. In some circumstances this might be 
fair, but I dont think thats the case here. From what Mr L said, the incorrect redemption 
statement delayed completion by more than one day.
I can see from Platforms complaint notes that when Mr L contacted it on 13 and 14 January 
he was told the earliest it would be able to send a correct redemption statement was 16 
January. In fact, Platform issued a corrected redemption statement on 15 January. But Mr L 
says his solicitor had to return the funds to his new lender as the mortgage didnt complete 
on the due date, and they had to wait 24 hours before requesting the funds again.
Mr L says the redemption funds were sent to Platform on 17 January. Platform says it 
received them on 20 January 2020. Due to Platforms error, Mr L paid seven days interest to 
Platform (from 14 to 20 January), at a higher rate than hed have paid to his new lender.
Mr L paid about £455 of extra interest to Platform due to the delay. However, had he 
remortgaged on 14 January hed have paid interest to his new lender. Mr L says his new rate 
was 1.3%. I think, roughly, Mr L would have paid interest at about £15 per day to his new 
lender, as compared to £65 per day to Platform. Mr L is out of pocket for the difference 
between the interest he paid to Platform and the interest he would have paid to his new 
lender, about £350. I think Platform should compensate Mr L for this.I also think Platform should pay compensation for the upset and trouble its error caused 
Mr L. Ive taken into account here that Platform corrected its error quickly once it came to 
light, and sent a corrected redemption statement within two days. I think compensation of 
£100 would be fair and reasonable in the circumstances.
Mr L says Platforms systems are archaic, and its processes too slow. The systems and 
processes lenders use are a matter for their own judgement. This service isnt a regulator, 
and we dont have the same powers as a regulator. I cant reasonably require Platform to 
change its business practices.
My final decision
My decision is that I uphold this complaint and order The Co-operative Bank Plc (trading as 
Platform) to pay £450 to Mr L.  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr L to accept or 
reject my decision before 21 July 2021.
 
Ruth Stevenson
Ombudsman