DRN-3774422
The complaint
Mr M complains Aviva Health UK Limited decided to withdraw its Cancer Essentials policy 
without notice and failed to offer alternative cover. 
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again 
here. The facts are not in dispute, so Ill focus on giving the reasons for my decision. Below, I 
have highlighted some key dates I think are relevant to the complaint:
20 July 2022  Mr M is notified via email about withdrawal of policy.
22 July 2022  Mr M cancels his direct debit and Aviva are informed on 25 July 2022. 
23 October 2022  Policy renewal date. 
Aviva looked into Mr Ms complaint and didnt uphold it. Our Investigator also didnt think 
Aviva had acted unfairly or unreasonably. Mr M didnt agree and is seeking an apology and 
compensation. 
As an agreement couldnt be reached the matter has been passed to me for a decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I broadly agree with the conclusion reached by our investigator for the 
following reasons: 
Aviva made a commercial decision to withdraw the product from the market. This 
decision didnt solely affect Mr M but everyone with the same policy, regardless of 
any personal circumstances.  
Ive reviewed the policy terms and conditions which in short, state: We reserve the 
right not to offer a new Cancer Essentials policy at the renewal date. If this happens 
then we will contact the policyholder. Im satisfied the terms allowed Aviva to decide 
not to offer the policy at renewal.  
Aviva is under no obligation to continue offering any insurance products on an 
indefinite basis. 
Aviva provided Mr M with reasonable notice to find alternative cover with the option 
to cancel his policy if he wished to do so. Im satisfied Mr M received the notice 
because following this his policy was subsequently cancelled. 
Although Mr M asked for compensation as it was Aviva and not Mr M who couldnt 
continue, I dont think its fair or reasonable for Aviva to pay compensation. It isnt 
obliged to offer the policy for another year and Mr M was given reasonable notice of 
its decision during which time he couldve looked for alternative cover if he wished.
Mr Ms policy renewed on an annual basis. There was no guarantee that his policy 
would continue long-term, indefinitely. And Im satisfied Aviva acted in line with its 
terms and conditions.  
I appreciate Mr M will be disappointed with my findings, but I cant fairly ask Aviva to pay 
compensation as I dont think it has done anything wrong. 
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 8 June 2023.
 
Rajvinder Pnaiser
Ombudsman