DRN-2339517
The complaint
Ms E complains that Coventry Building Society provided her with incorrect information about 
the interest rate payable on a savings account.
What happened
In October 2019 Coventry Building Society launched its Triple Access Saver account. Ms E 
says she was researching savings accounts and found the Triple Access account. Because, 
however, she thought there was a discrepancy between the terms and conditions and other 
information shed seen, she contacted the building society for more information about the 
account. The building society had issued a press release saying that the account would pay 
a market-leading rate of 1.46% AER including a 0.31% bonus until 31 March 2021. 
Customers could access the account up to three times a year with no charge. Ms E didnt 
see the press release, but its likely the information she did see said something similar.  
In particular, Ms E wanted to check whether the advertised interest rate of 1.46% would 
apply until March 2021 or whether that was true only of the bonus. She was told that the full 
rate would apply for the full period. She opened the account with a deposit of £50,000 and 
made further deposits totalling £34,000 by the end of 2019.
In May 2020 Coventry reduced the interest rate to 0.81% - that is, 0.50% plus the bonus rate 
of 0.31%. It wrote to customers to tell them what it was doing and to tell them that they were 
free to move their money free of charge if they wished to; that is, it wouldnt charge them, 
even if they had already accessed the account three times.
Ms E complained that the interest rate had been reduced, even though shed been told it 
was fixed until March 2021. The building society listened to the call in which Ms E had 
discussed the account and acknowledged that it had given her incorrect information. She 
should have been told that the 0.31% bonus was fixed until March 2021 but that otherwise 
the interest rate was variable. It paid her £100 in recognition of that and agreed to keep the 
interest at 1.46% until the end of May 2020. Ms E didnt think that was sufficient and referred 
the matter to this service.
One of our investigators considered what had happened but thought that the building society 
had done enough to resolve Ms Es complaint. Ms E didnt agree and asked that an 
ombudsman review the case.
I did that and issued a provisional decision, in which I said I agreed with the investigators 
overall conclusions, albeit for slightly different reasons. I thought the information about the 
account wasnt as clear as it could have been, so could see why Ms E wanted to check the 
position. I also noted, however, that the terms and conditions set out the position more 
clearly. They included:
3.1 Interest
3.1 The interest rate, excluding the Bonus Rate (see Condition 3.2), for this account is 
variable.
3.2 We pay an initial bonus rate of interest (the Bonus Rate). The period to which the Bonus 
Rate applies starts on the date your account is opened and ends on 31 March 2021 or the 
date upon which your account is closed, whichever is earlier. The Bonus Rate is fixed.
The position was, therefore, that only the bonus rate was fixed, but that the building society 
had misled Ms E into thinking that the overall interest rate on the account would be fixed at 
1.46% until 31 March 2021. 
I explained in my provisional decision that the incorrect information given to Ms E didnt 
change the account terms. The correct remedy in the circumstances was however to put Ms 
E in the position she would have been in had she been given correct information. 
Ms E wasnt able to say what  if anything  she would have done differently had she 
understood that the Triple Saver account in fact paid a variable rate of interest. I accepted 
that she would have looked at other accounts, but it wasnt clear that any offered similar 
flexibility for a better interest rate.
I also noted that Ms E hadnt moved her money when she found out what had happened. As 
a general principle, a claimant cant generally recover losses which, by taking reasonable 
steps, they could have avoided. Ms E responded to that point to explain that personal 
circumstances meant that she hadnt been able to research alternative accounts; she felt 
she was being penalised because she hadnt moved her money.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, however, I havent changed my view from that set out in my provisional 
decision. 
As Ive said, Coventry Building Society gave misleading advice about the account. It 
acknowledged that, paid Ms E £100 and agreed to keep the interest rate unchanged for a 
short while. 
I remain of the view that the fair approach here is to consider what Ms E would have done, 
had she not been given incorrect information. I can understand why Ms E cannot say for 
certain  other than that she would have looked at other accounts. Whilst there probably 
were other accounts paying a slightly higher rate of interest, the Triple Access account had 
more flexibility than other accounts with a fixed rate interest rate. It wouldnt in my view be 
fair to conclude that Ms E would have opened a different account without identifying it. I cant 
therefore properly make a finding that shes suffered any loss because of the building 
societys error. 
In the circumstances, I dont need to consider further whether Ms E could have taken steps 
later to reduce her losses  since Im not requiring the building society to compensate her. I 
should emphasise however that, in asking Ms E whether shed moved her savings, this 
service wasnt criticising her for not doing so. We were simply gathering the information we 
needed to ensure that our conclusions about how to resolve her complaint were fair and 
reasonable, as the law requires.   
My final decisionFor these reasons my final decision is that I dont require Coventry Building Society to take 
any further steps to resolve Ms Es complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms E to accept or 
reject my decision before 11 December 2020. 
Mike Ingram
Ombudsman