DRN-3957999
The complaint
Mr L complains about Advantage Insurance Company Limiteds handling of his motor 
insurance claim.
Advantage is the underwriter of this policy i.e. the insurer. Part of this complaint concerns the 
actions of its agent. As Advantage has accepted it is accountable for the actions of the 
agent, in my decision, any reference to Advantage includes the actions of the agent.
What happened
In December 2020, Mr Ls car was damaged by another vehicle in a car park, while he was 
shopping. Witnesses to the incident told him the driver of the other vehicle had left the 
scene. Mr L asked the manager of a shop about CCTV footage and was advised to call the 
car park. Mr L says he tried to call the car park, but the line was closed.
The next day, Mr L informed Advantage of the incident and he was advised to report it to the 
police. Advantage instructed its agent (V) to manage the repairs. It says it asked Mr L to 
check where to request the CCTV footage from (such as the retail park, parking 
management or the police) but the information wasnt provided.
In mid-2022, Mr L raised a complaint with Advantage. He said hed been told that Advantage 
had paid out on a claim made by a third party. He hadnt been made aware of this until hed 
renewed his insurance and he believed it had impacted his premiums. 
Advantage said it wasnt able to recover the costs of handling Mr Ls repairs because it had 
no way of recovering them. It said Mr L hadnt provided it with information it needed to 
request CCTV footage. It said his claim had been closed as non-recoverable which had the 
same impact as a fault claim would.
Mr L remained unhappy, so he asked our service to consider his complaint. Our investigator 
looked into the matter and recommended Advantage pay Mr L £75 for distress and 
inconvenience. 
The investigator thought Advantage might have been a bit more proactive in obtaining the 
CCTV footage, but she didnt think it would likely have made a difference to the claim. She 
concluded that the claim amount showing on the policy was due to an administrative error. 
Advantage had paid their approved repairer for repairs that hadnt been carried out and was 
waiting for reimbursement. 
The investigator acknowledged that Advantage was waiting to be reimbursed for the amount 
it had paid before updating the claim, but she thought it should update it straight away.
Advantage accepted our investigators outcome and agreed to issue the compensation shed 
recommended once Mr Ls complaint was closed. 
Mr L disagreed with our investigators outcome. He didnt think £75 compensation was 
enough to put things right. He said he no longer required his car to be fixed and he was 
unhappy with the premiums he was being charged. So, his complaint has been passed to 
me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided to uphold Mr Ls complaint in part. Ill explain why.
Mr L says there were cameras near his car when it was damaged. Hes unhappy that 
Advantage didnt try to get hold of CCTV footage. 
Ive listened to a recording of Mr L informing Advantage of the incident in September 2020. 
In this call, Advantage asked Mr L to let it know where it could request the CCTV footage 
from. Mr L asked if it would be worth him contacting the police and Advantage told him he 
could ask them to assist him. The agent also suggested he ask the security of the retail park 
where the incident took place where CCTV could be requested. The agent said they would 
be able to tell Mr L which office to write to so Advantage could ask them to give it a copy.
Advantage says Mr L didnt provide it with the information it needed to request the footage. I 
can see that Mr L reported the incident to the police, but I havent seen any evidence to 
suggest that he provided Advantage with contact details to request CCTV footage. So, I 
dont think it would be fair to hold Advantage responsible for CCTV footage not being 
obtained.
Mr L also raised concerns about a payment Advantage recorded on the claim. He says he 
was told Advantage paid out around £2,000 to the person who had smashed his car.
 
I dont have anything to show me what Advantage might have said to Mr L about a payment. 
But Advantage says it hasnt made any payments to a third party. So, I think there was likely 
to have been some sort of miscommunication or misunderstanding regarding this.
 
In its response to Mr Ls complaint, Advantage said it had incurred costs from handling his 
repairs that had been funded from his policy. However, after Mr L brought his complaint to 
our service, Advantage says it reviewed the claim again and found that there had been an 
administrative error. It says its agent, V, had sent an invoice based on an estimate and Mr L 
had not gone ahead with the repairs. 
Advantage says it was expecting to be reimbursed for the amount it had paid out and would 
update Mr Ls claim history once it had received it back. It said Mr L should speak to its 
claims team if he would like his car to be fixed. But CCTV would no longer be available so 
the claim would be recorded as a fault claim.
Mr L has told us he no longer wants to claim for repairs to his car. His main concern appears 
to be the increase in his premiums. 
Advantage says there were no payments to a third party and the claim costs were as a result 
of an administrative error. It told us that once it had updated the claim, it would send a 
document to Mr L which he could forward to his insurer to update his claim history and adjust 
the premium accordingly.
 
From what its said, I think Advantages administrative error is likely to have had an impact 
on Mr Ls premiums. So, I think Advantage should update Mr Ls claims history as soon as 
possible, if it hasnt already done so. I understand that Mr Ls current motor insurance cover is with Advantage, so Id expect any premium adjustment to happen once Advantage has 
updated its records. 
Mr L was understandably concerned to find there was a cost showing on his claim when he 
hadnt gone ahead with the repairs. It seems that Advantage didnt recognise what had gone 
wrong when it looked into Mr Ls complaint, which meant that it didnt explain what had 
happened or take steps to correct the error. So, I think it would be fair for Advantage to pay 
Mr L £75 for the distress and inconvenience he experienced as a result.
Putting things right
Advantage should:
Remove the incorrect claim cost (if it hasnt already done so) and update its records 
and any central database accordingly. 
Send Mr L a document confirming the update.
Pay Mr L £75 for distress and inconvenience.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, I uphold Mr Ls complaint and direct Advantage Insurance 
Company Limited to put things right by doing what Ive said above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr L to accept or 
reject my decision before 20 April 2023.
 
Anne Muscroft
Ombudsman