DRN-1685896
 
The complaint
Miss S and the estate of Mr S say Yorkshire Building Society mis-sold them a mortgage 
payment protection insurance (PPI) policy. 
What happened
This complaint is about a monthly premium PPI policy taken out in 1990 in connection with a 
mortgage arranged by Miss S and the late Mr S. The policy covered Miss S if she couldnt 
work because of accident, sickness or unemployment.
Our adjudicator did not uphold the complaint. Miss S and the estate of Mr S disagreed with 
the adjudicators opinion so the complaint has been passed to me. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Where the evidence is incomplete, 
inconclusive or contradictory (as some of it is here), I reach my conclusions on the balance 
of probabilities  that is, what I think is most likely to have happened in light of the available 
evidence and the wider surrounding circumstances.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding Miss S and the estate of Mr Ss case.
From the evidence I have seen I dont think Yorkshire Building Society recommended the 
policy to Miss S and the late Mr S, so the key question I need to consider is:
-           Did Yorkshire Building Society give Miss S and the late Mr S information that was 
clear, fair and not misleading in order to put them in a position where they could make an 
informed choice about the insurance they were buying?
If the answer to this question is no, then I need to consider whether Miss S and the estate of 
Mr S are worse off as a result. That is, would they have done something different  such as 
not taking out the policy  if there hadnt been any problems with the sale?
I have decided not to uphold the complaint and Ive set out my reasons below.
Miss S says she and the late Mr S were put under pressure by Yorkshire Building Society to 
buy the PPI, and that they werent given a proper choice. Miss S says they were given the 
impression they had to buy the policy to get the mortgage they wanted. Ive noted everything 
Miss S has said.
The difficulty I have is that I cant be sure what was discussed between Miss S, the late Mr S 
and Yorkshire Building Society when the policy was sold. Im also mindful that these events 
took place nearly thirty years ago, and that exact recollections of what happened can fade 
over time.But I can see that Miss S had to complete an application form that was separate to the 
mortgage application to apply for the policy. And there was nothing in the PPI application to 
suggest that buying the policy was a condition of getting the mortgage.
So without anything else to support what Miss S has told me, I don't think I can fairly and 
reasonably say that Yorkshire Building Society didn't make her and the late Mr S aware the 
PPI was optional.
There is nothing to suggest that Miss S didnt satisfy the eligibility requirements of the policy 
when it was taken out.
Miss S has told me she had a number of medical conditions when she bought the policy. So 
she wouldn't have been covered by the PPI if she'd had to take time off work in connection 
with those conditions. I think it's unlikely Yorkshire Building Society made that clear to Miss 
S when the policy was sold.
But I understand Miss S had only had to take occasional time off work in connection with her 
conditions. And it seems some of the time off she's referred to occurred after she'd bought 
the policy. I've also taken into account the nature of the conditions Miss S says she suffers 
from.
Having done so, even if Yorkshire Building Society had made Miss S aware of the policy 
exclusion that affected her, on balance I don't think this would've changed her decision to 
buy the PPI. That's because I think she would've considered the likelihood of her having to 
take significant time off work in connection with her conditions to be relatively low.
The policy was also competitively priced and had a reasonable benefit. So I dont think better 
information about the policy's exclusions or cost wouldve stopped Miss S buying it. 
Miss S says she was entitled to good sick pay from her employer and that she had some 
savings. But Yorkshire Building Society didnt recommend the policy to Miss S, so it didnt 
have to ask her about any other means she had to cover her repayments. It was for Miss S 
to decide whether the policy was something that would be useful to her.
In summary, I think Miss S and the late Mr S agreed to take out the cover (knowing 
they didnt have to). And given the policy provided broadly what I think they expected when 
they agreed to it, I dont think they would have made a different decision (and decided 
against taking the policy out) if they had been better informed.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
My final decision
My decision is that I do not uphold this complaint. Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service Im required to ask Miss S and the 
estate of Mr S to accept or reject my decision before 12 May 2020.
 
Caroline Stirling
Ombudsman