DRN-4199928
The complaint
Mr H complains that Scottish Widows Limited (Scottish Widows) partially suspended online 
access to his pension, impacting on his ability to effectively manage his funds. 
What happened
In mid-August 2022, Scottish Widows partially suspended its online system access for 
policyholders, such as Mr H, whose policies were being migrated to its new software. 
On 25 August 2022, after unsuccessfully trying to obtain fund information over the phone 
instead and being told this would be sent to him in writing, Mr H raised a complaint with 
Scottish Widows. He said he wasnt given notice of the online suspension and that he was 
incorrectly told this would be restored within a few days when he called on 22 August 2022. 
On 31 August 2022, Scottish Widows sent Mr H its final response letter. It said it gave 
customers notice of the migration, but because this was a bulk email it cant see an actual 
copy on Mr Hs records. It said this was a business decision and the online system would 
likely be unavailable until the end of October 2022. It apologised for the impact on Mr H, as 
well as the misinformation about when full access would be restored. It invited Mr H to call 
for fund information and said he could use an alternative platform to manage his policy. And 
it offered him £100 in compensation for inconvenience. 
In mid-September 2022, after letting Scottish Widows know he was unhappy with its 
response and that it hadnt been helpful when hed tried to get fund information by phone, 
Mr H brought his complaint to our Service. He said the partial suspension is impacting on 
him managing his pension and he maintained he wasnt given notice of this. Mr H said he 
cant see fund values or units on the alternative platform to know which are underperforming. 
And that hes spent a lot of time on the phone with, and waiting to speak to, Scottish 
Widows. Mr H said the migration ought to have been handled in a way that had less impact 
on customers. And that hed like £1,000 in compensation.  
Around the same time Mr H raised a separate complaint with Scottish Widows that the fund 
information it sent him in writing on 31 August 2022 was incorrect and irrelevant, causing 
him to lose money. On 16 December 2022, Scottish Widows gave Mr H its final response for 
this, offering him £250 in total compensation and £2 towards call costs. And Mr H confirmed 
to us that this issue was resolved, as Scottish Widows had accepted it failed to give him the 
information he needed to effectively manage his funds. And that the issues hed like us to 
consider are those raised in his first complaint. 
Mr H went on to let us know Scottish Widows has since given him fund information by phone 
that he was able to use. But that after he requested a switch it responded just confirming the 
funds he already had. Mr H said he attempted the switch again more recently and was told it 
was done, but he isnt confident of this. And that he expects he will go on to raise this issue 
with our Service, as well as a further issue where Scottish Widows moved money from one 
of his funds to another without permission. 
One of our Investigators said, in summary, that Scottish Widows hadnt done anything wrong 
by suspending Mr Hs online access, as this was a business decision and it sent out bulk 
notice to policyholders. She said that while Mr H found this inconvenient and was given 
incorrect and confusing information by phone, it had done its best to try to assist him. And 
that Mr H had reasonable alternatives to request information to manage his pension. So she 
said the £100 in compensation Scottish Widows offered him was fair and reasonable. 
Mr H didnt agree. He added, in summary, that hes recently experienced further issues 
trying to make fund changes by phone. And that he hasnt been able to effectively manage 
his funds and has been given incorrect information, which has cost him money. Mr H also 
said he wont often use the online benefits the new software will provide and that these are 
just designed to allow Scottish Widows to save on customer service resources. 
So the complaints been passed to me for a decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im not asking Scottish Widows to do anything further, for largely the same 
reasons as our Investigator. 
I recognise Mr H feels that the £100 in compensation Scottish Widows offered doesnt make 
up for the ongoing inconvenience and impact caused to him by the migration. But I think its 
important to clarify that Im addressing the issues he raised with it on 25 August 2022, that it 
gave its final response for on 31 August 2022, as this is what Mr H previously confirmed he 
wants us to look into. To be specific, that he wasnt given notice of the migration, as well as 
his unhappiness with the information he was given during the two calls he had with it. 
This means I havent considered the issues Mr H says he experienced following this, which 
he says cost him money. For example, being given incorrect information in writing on         
31 August 2022 which Mr H has said impacted on what he wanted to do with his fund, as he 
raised this separately with Scottish Widows in September 2022 and told us that its final 
response letter from December 2022 resolved this. Nor have I considered the more recent 
issues Mr H said hes experienced with Scottish Widows given these are new, albeit linked, 
matters.  
Turning firstly to Scottish Widows decision to update its systems which included partial 
suspension of its online service platform, I recognise this wasnt convenient for Mr H and 
hes said this impacted on him managing his funds. But I cant say Scottish Widows acted 
unfairly, as this was a business decision which its entitled to take and not something I can 
reasonably interfere with. And it has explained this is intended to benefit all customers, even 
if Mr H doesnt feel the intended features will be of much use to him. 
Scottish Widows said it sent emails to impacted customers giving them notice of the reduced 
online access. In the event Mr H didnt receive this, then finding out he had limited access a 
few weeks later would have understandably come as a disappointing surprise to him. But 
given theres no suggestion Scottish Widows had an out of date email address for Mr H, it 
seems likely this was sent to him as it was a bulk mailing sent to customers with his policy 
type. And, in any case, Scottish Widows has provided an extract from its terms and 
conditions, which says it can restrict system access without notice. 
Scottish Widows did make an error when it told Mr H on 22 August 2022 that his full online 
access would be restored within a few days, causing him frustration. But I think the impact was limited, as Mr H was given correct information about this when he called again a few 
days later, on 25 August 2022. And, while its understandably frustrating for Mr H that he 
wasnt able to obtain fund information in his usual way to manage his pension and hes said 
the alternative platform provided limited information, Mr H was made aware he could obtain 
information by phone or in writing instead. And he could contact Scottish Widows via online 
chat to request this. So, while using the online service was Mr Hs preference, I think 
reasonable alternatives were available to him.
I recognise Mr H didnt find Scottish Widows helpful when trying to use these alternatives on 
25 August 2022, as the information he was given by phone about his existing funds didnt 
add up. Having listened to this call though, the call handler explained that Mr H could get the 
information from his recent statement or they could pass him through to the servicing team 
for this, albeit there was a wait to speak with it. Recognising Mr H was frustrated by this, the 
call handler tried to help Mr H anyway. And when the call handler couldnt reconcile the 
information for Mr H, they explained again that it would be best to transfer him for this before 
organising for him to be sent information in writing instead. So I think they did what they 
reasonably could to try to assist Mr H during this call. 
I appreciate Mr H has told us about further issues he experienced with Scottish Widows 
following this call when trying to obtain information to manage his pension, to demonstrate 
why he doesnt think the alternative methods of contact were effective for him to do so. But, 
for the reasons explained above, I havent considered these to be able to comment on that.  
In summary, I cant say that Scottish Widows has acted unfairly by suspending online access 
to Mr Hs pension. And I think the £100 in compensation it has already offered Mr H is a fair 
and reasonable amount to make up for the frustration and inconvenience caused to him by 
the issues Ive considered. Im not asking it to do anything more than this.
My final decision
Scottish Widows Limited has already offered to pay Mr H £100 in compensation to settle this 
complaint and its offer is fair in the circumstances. So my decision is that it should pay him 
this, if it hasnt already. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 18 July 2023.
 
Holly Jackson
Ombudsman