DRN-2432403
The complaint
Mr B has complained about the whole of life policy he had with Aviva Life & Pensions UK 
Limited (Aviva). He was unhappy with the way that it was reviewed and the impact it had on 
the level of his cover.
What happened
Mr B took out a reviewable whole of life policy with Aviva in 1991. 
The policy was subject to reviews after the first ten years, then every 5 years up until age 70. 
After which the policy would be reviewed annually.
Mr B reached age 70 in 2018 and in August of that year his policy was reviewed. His policy 
failed this review and Aviva presented him with the following main choices:
1. To increase his annual premium from £2,817 to £3,251 and maintain his benefit at 
£377,923.
2. Keep his premium fixed and reduce his benefit amount to £350,362.
Mr B chose option 2, accepting that the level of his life cover would be reduced.
In 2019 Mr Bs policy received a further annual review. His policy failed that review too. His 
choices on this review were:
1. To increase his annual premium from £2,817 to £7,716 and maintain his benefit of 
£350,362.
2. Keep his premium fixed and reduce his benefit to £113,129.
Mr B cancelled his direct debit and let his policy lapse. He complained to Aviva about the 
dramatic change in the terms of his policy. Aviva responded to Mr Bs complaint, explaining 
the reasons why his policy had failed the 2019 review and the effect of that. Aviva didnt 
uphold his complaint. Mr B remained unhappy and brought his complaint to us.
One of our investigators looked into Mr Bs complaint. Having considered the evidence, he 
didnt think that Aviva had done anything wrong. He was satisfied that Aviva administered 
the policy correctly and while he acknowledged the reduction in the value of the policy, he 
was satisfied this was because of the way reviewable whole of life policies work. 
Mr B was unhappy with our investigators answer. He thought that Aviva should have 
explained things better. He had asked to meet with someone from their office but Aviva 
refused. Mr B considers that the surrender value of the policy in 2018 was his and Aviva 
didnt have the right to spend it on the policy cover without his consent. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I understand why Mr B is unhappy with the way his death benefits so dramatically reduced. 
His policy provided valuable life protection that he paid into for 18 years. Having seen a 
reduction of the amount of cover his premium purchased in 2018 Mr B was expecting a 
reduction in 2019. But wasnt prepared for the fact it could be so much different than in 2018. 
I know Mr B will be disappointed with my decision but, for reasons Ill explain, I dont think 
Aviva did anything wrong. 
The terms for Mr Bs type of policy meant that it would be reviewed periodically to see if the 
amount being paid into it, in premiums, was enough to keep the original level of benefit. Part 
of the premiums Mr B paid on this policy went into an investment fund. Whilst it had a cash 
in value, the purpose of it was to accumulate a lump sum that could contribute towards the 
costs of life cover as that became higher. How well the fund grew depended on market 
performance. But there were also charges to maintain the policy such as the monthly policy 
fee and annual management charges as well as taking account of the increasing cost of 
providing life cover (mortality rates). 
The 2018 review showed Mr B that the cash in value of his policy was £3,919. But the letter 
also told him that, where the cost of providing his benefits until the review date was higher 
than his annual premiums, the fund would be used to meet the difference. The review clearly 
explained that the existing premiums wouldnt be sufficient to meet the cost of the life cover 
over the review period. So I think that Aviva were entitled to use the fund in the way that they 
did. 
The 2018 review also provided a projection for the different options that were offered. For 
Option 2  which Mr B chose  Aviva illustrated what Mr B may get back after a year using 
low, medium and high investment returns. This showed returns between £116 if investment 
grew by 0.8% and £320 if investments grew by 6.8%. So I think this further illustrated to Mr B 
that the cost of providing the reduced life cover would reduce the underlying value of his 
fund considerably over that year.
By the 2019 review, Mr Bs policy no longer had the support of the fund value it had in 2018. 
This meant that the cost of providing the life cover had to be met by the premiums alone. 
That and the other factors that Aviva explained  higher charges, cost of life cover, 
investment conditions  combined to produce the result of this policy review. Having looked 
at the circumstances I dont think that Aviva have done anything wrong, or that the 
information they provided Mr B was misleading or unclear.
Mr B is disappointed that he wasnt able to speak with someone at Aviva who was more 
informed about his policy. But I think that Aviva provided him with all of the information that 
they were able to. Their forecasts only looked at the review period and they didnt offer the 
service of forecasting beyond the end of the review period. So they couldnt provide the 
information he says he wanted. 
Mr B is also disappointed that Aviva wouldnt agree to his attending their offices to speak 
with someone in person about his policy. This wasnt a service that Aviva provided though. 
Which is a commercial decision for them. I cant say that they did anything wrong by not 
being able to meet with Mr B in person to explain his choices. 
Ultimately they werent responsible for providing Mr B with financial advice. They had the 
responsibility to provide him with clear information to enable him to make an informed 
choice. And I think that they did.
My final decisionFor the above reasons I dont uphold Mr Bs complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 15 November 2021.
 
Gary Lane
Ombudsman