DRN-3081842
The complaint
Miss W complains that Moneybarn No. 1 Limited (Moneybarn) shouldnt have agreed to 
lend to her under a conditional sale agreement on the grounds that it was unaffordable.
What happened
In April 2017 Miss W entered into a conditional sale agreement with Moneybarn to fund the 
acquisition of a car costing £12,250. The agreement set out that Miss W would pay 
Moneybarn a total of £22,019.39 by making 59 monthly payments of £373.21.
In February 2020, and having made all payments required of her to date, Miss W 
complained to Moneybarn that it shouldnt have agreed to lend to her because the monthly 
payments she was required to make  at £373.21  were unaffordable.
In April 2020 Moneybarn issued Miss W with a final response letter (FRL). Under cover of 
this FRL Moneybarn said, amongst other things, that:
Miss W, as it had requested, provided it with her two last payslips (February and 
March 2017) which showed she was receiving a net monthly income of £2,280.
The proposed monthly payment of £373.21 represented approximately 16% of 
Miss Ws net income  within its lending criteria.
Miss W signed a number of declarations to confirm that the agreement was 
affordable.
In October 2020, and after Miss W had referred her complaint to our service for 
investigation, Moneybarn confirmed to our service that:
As well as asking for Miss Ws latest two payslips, it carried out a credit check.
Its credit check showed that Miss W had no County Court Judgements (CCJs) and 
one single default  a default for less than £100 and which was over four years old.
Miss Ws complaint was considered by one of our investigators who came to the view that it 
shouldnt be upheld. In summary he said Moneybarn didnt carry out reasonable and 
proportionate checks before approving the agreement. 
But even had it done so, such checks wouldnt have shown Miss W wouldnt be able to 
sustainably repay the agreement.
Miss W didnt agree with the investigators view so her complaint has been passed to me for 
review and decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
First I would like to say that although Miss W might have liked more time to provide evidence 
and comments in support of her complaint, Im satisfied that she has had sufficient time to do 
so and it would not be appropriate to delay the issuing of this decision any longer.
From what Miss W has said, its clear that she feels strongly about her complaint and she 
believes that Moneybarn shouldnt have lent to her.
I can assure Miss W that Ive carefully considered all of the points shes made and all of the 
evidence shes provided in relation to her complaint. Miss W may consider that my findings 
dont mirror the level of detail of her submissions, but thats simply a reflection of the informal 
nature of our service. My decision will address what I consider to be the relevant points 
relating to Miss Ws complaint. 
In considering whats fair and reasonable regarding the affordability of Miss Ws agreement, 
Ill take into account relevant law, rules and guidance, codes of practice as well as what I 
consider to have been good industry practice at the time. 
Moneybarn has regulatory obligations under the Consumer Credit Sourcebook or CONC. It 
says that lenders need to carry out checks to ensure that any lending it gives is affordable 
and that repayments are sustainable for the borrower. Applying this to Miss Ws complaint, I 
need to determine whether Moneybarn carried out reasonable and proportionate checks to 
satisfy itself that Miss W would be able to repay the agreement in a sustainable way. If I find 
that it didnt, then I need to consider whether reasonable and proportionate checks would 
have shown that she could sustainably repay the agreement. 
Carrying out reasonable and proportionate checks doesnt look the same for every customer. 
Id have expected Moneybarn to take into account a number of factors to determine what a 
reasonable and proportionate check was for Miss Ws circumstances, including (but not 
limited to) Miss Ws financial circumstances, the amount of credit, the total repayable as well 
as the duration of the agreement and size of the regular payments.
Moneybarn has told us that to assess whether Miss Ws agreement was affordable it carried 
out a credit check and asked for evidence of her income, which it received in the form of two 
wage slips. Moneybarn has said that by conducting a credit check, and having received two 
wage slips, it determined that the agreement was affordable.
Moneybarn hasnt provided this service with a copy of the results of the credit check it 
carried out. But the results of its check would have effectively shown what was represented 
on Miss Ws credit file at the time. 
Miss W has provided with us with a number of copies of her credit file, the oldest being dated 
October 2019. 
Ive looked at the credit file dated October 2019 and this shows that Miss W, prior to the 
agreement with Moneybarn being taken out, had the following material information recorded:
No CCJs.
Two payday loans repaid in 2014.
One outstanding default balance, in respect of a payday loan, for £1,285 
(January 2014).One outstanding default balance, in respect of a payday loan, for £726 
(December 2013).
One satisfied default balance, in respect of a credit card, for £178 (April 2014).
Generally speaking, businesses are entitled to use discretion about whether they choose to 
lend to consumers with adverse information on their credit file. So, its for Moneybarn to 
determine its appetite for risk in deciding whether or not to lend to customers with an 
adverse credit history. If, however, it knows a customer had adverse credit information, Id 
expect it to take into account the particular circumstances behind it as it might be an 
indication that a consumer might be in financial difficulty, especially if its recent.
Now I appreciate that a credit file report dated October 2019 (as provided by Miss W) wont 
have recorded the same information that a credit file report dated April 2017 (as checked by 
Moneybarn) would have had recorded. But given that information recorded with credit 
reference agencies remains recorded, in the main, for six years, Im satisfied that the credit 
file report provided by Miss W dated October 2019 can reasonably be relied upon as being 
indicative of her financial standing in April 2017. 
Put another way, any adverse information that may have been recorded against Miss W in 
April 2017, but not recorded against Miss W in October 2019, must have been at least three 
and half years old in April 2017.
So taking what I understand Moneybarns credit check in April 2017 would have discovered 
about Miss Ws credit status and what her two supplied salary slips showed, I dont 
necessarily agree that Moneybarn should have undertaken further checks. But for the sake 
of completeness Ive gone on to consider what further checks might have disclosed about 
Miss Ws ability to repay the agreement in a sustainable way.
Now its not my role to say what further checks Moneybarn could (or should) have 
undertaken. But its my understanding that had it, by way of example, requested sight of and 
considered the content of Miss Ws bank statements then it would have still concluded that 
Miss W would have been able to repay the agreement in a sustainable way.
Like the investigator Im satisfied that sight and consideration of Miss W bank statements 
(for the material time) would have confirmed her income as being in the region of £2,280 a 
month and that she had an average monthly committed expenditure of around £1,300  
leaving an average disposable income of £980.
Ive also gone on to consider what a completed income and expenditure form might have 
disclosed about Miss Ws ability to repay the agreement in a sustainable way had one been 
completed by Moneybarn.
Now like the investigator Ive considered what Miss W has told us about her income and 
expenditure in early 2017. But notwithstanding I cant say for certain what Miss W might 
have thought to have shared with Moneybarn in early 2017, Im simply not persuaded a 
completed income and expenditure form would have, or reasonably should have, caused 
Moneybarn to conclude that Miss W wouldnt have the ability to repay the agreement in a 
sustainable way.
I appreciate Miss W will be disappointed by my decision, but taking everything into account I 
can confirm that Im simply not persuaded that Moneybarn has done anything wrong in the 
particular circumstances of this case.
My final decisionMy final decision is I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss W to accept 
or reject my decision before 29 October 2021.
 
Peter Cook
Ombudsman