DRN-3765559
The complaint
Mr Ws unhappy with Pinnacle Insurance Plcs decision to decline his claim made on a pet 
insurance policy.
What happened
Mr Ws annual policy for his pet cat started in February 2022. His vet contacted Pinnacle to 
make a claim for vets fees incurred between February and May 2022 after his cat fell ill and 
needed treatment. The claim form noted the condition claimed for was Skin Lesions.
Pinnacle considered the claim but told him it wasnt prepared to pay it on the grounds that 
the policy excluded claims arising within 14 days of the start of cover. As the vet had 
submitted the claim as one, Pinnacle felt even the costs incurred after the end of the 14-day 
period should be excluded as they related to the original overgrooming/skin condition issues 
experienced from the start.
Unhappy with Pinnacles decision, on the grounds that he wasnt claiming for the costs 
incurred in the first 14 days  only the costs incurred after that date  Mr W brought a 
complaint to this service. Our investigator looked into the complaint and recommended that it 
should be upheld. They felt Pinnacle should pay for treatment given after the 14-day period 
had expired as it hadnt been shown that it was for a related condition.
The complaint was passed to me to consider afresh as Pinnacle wasnt prepared to accept 
the investigators findings.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided to uphold the complaint. Ill explain why.
I think its important to start by explaining what the relevant policy terms and conditions say. 
They explain that, subject to certain exclusions, Pinnacle will pay the cost of vets fees for a 
condition. Those exclusions include treatment for any illness which occurs or shows 
symptoms within 14 days of the start date of the policy. The terms also excluded costs 
resulting from conditions or symptoms starting before the policy started  these are 
sometimes referred to as pre-existing medical conditions (PEMCs).
Illness is defined in the policy as:
physical disease, sickness, abnormality, infection, or failure which is not caused by 
an accidental injury. This includes symptoms, whether or not diseased. 
Symptoms are defined as a change in your pets normal healthy state, its bodily functions 
or behaviour. 
Pinnacle says the illness Mr W claimed for in May 2022  relating to skin lesions  first arose 
in February 2022 (and possibly before). 
Ive looked very carefully at the vets notes for the appointment that took place within 14 
days of the start of the policy in early February 2022. They show that Mr Ws cat was noticed 
as having a bald patch on its right front leg which the vet felt had been caused by licking. 
The cat was otherwise well, and Mr W was advised to revisit. 
A further entry in the vets notes for late February 2022  after the 14-day period  says 
examination revealed the bald patch hadnt improved. The vet discussed the causes of 
overgrooming with Mr W. Treatment was given. 
The next set of vets notes were for April and May 2022. These record that the vet had now 
found a small hard lump under a bald patch and a lesion in the shoulder region. 
Investigations were carried out and treatment provided. By mid-May 2022, Mr Ws cat was 
doing well, and the lesions found on both front legs had completely resolved. Just after that, 
Pinnacle received the claim.
On the above grounds, Pinnacle says the costs claimed for in May 2022 arose from a 
condition that existed within the first 14 days of the start of the policy, and which was pre-
existing as per the policy terms. 
Where an insurer declines a claim based on a policy exclusion, as in this case, wed typically 
expect it to demonstrate that the exclusion applies on the balance of the available evidence.
In the circumstances, I dont believe that its fair for Pinnacle to rely on the exclusions it cites 
on this occasion. I say that because of the content of the medical records from the time, as 
summarised above, and because of the further insight into the medical history provided by 
the treating vet after the claim was submitted. 
In May 2022, the vet explained they felt a lump in April 2022 and was concerned it was a 
foreign body due to its firmness. So, they booked Mr Ws cat in for examination under 
anaesthetic and for x-rays. The vet said the lump hadnt been noted in any prior 
investigations and that it shouldnt be assumed it was present when the policy started. They 
said they wouldnt have recommended such a course of action simply for skin cases as they 
can be managed medically. The vet confirmed the only reason the cat was x-rayed was due 
to the lump that had appeared and that they couldnt confirm if the lump was linked to the 
earlier skin issue. 
In June 2022, the vet spoke to Pinnacle over the phone in support of the claim. They 
explained that in their view the lump found was unrelated to the skin issue and was 
incidental to it. 
  
I realise that Pinnacles reached a different conclusion as to whether the lump and the 
previous skin problem were linked. That said, Im mindful that Mr Ws treating vet was 
responsible for the cats care and had the benefit of carrying out physical examinations. 
Pinnacle, on the other hand, hadnt examined Mr Ws cat and provided an opinion based 
entirely on the available papers. As such, Ive placed greater emphasis on the opinions and 
findings of the treating vet as theyre a medical expert and I believe they had greater insight 
into the issues Mr Ws cat experienced.   
So, I think theres significant doubt around whether the condition discovered after the first 14 
days of the policy was connected to any conditions present before the policy started or within 
the first 14 days of it starting. Taking everything into account, Im not persuaded that it was fair for Pinnacle to rely on the 
exclusions its referred to in declining Mr Ws claim in its entirety. I believe the evidence 
shows on balance that, although Pinnacle neednt cover the costs incurred in February 2022, 
it should have covered those incurred in April and May 2022.
Putting things right
Pinnacle should pay Mr Ws claim in line with my findings above and the remaining policy 
terms and conditions. It should add interest to the payment at the simple annual rate of 8%, 
calculated from the date Mr W paid any relevant vets fees to the date of Pinnacles payment 
to him. 
 HM Revenue & Customs requires Pinnacle to take off tax from this interest. Pinnacle must 
give Mr W a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if he asks for one.
My final decision
For the reasons given, Ive decided to uphold this complaint. I require Pinnacle Insurance Plc 
to put things right for Mr W, as explained above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision before 24 February 2023.
 
Nimish Patel
Ombudsman