DRN-4047938
The complaint
Mr C complains that Clydesdale Financial Services Limited trading as Barclays Partner 
Finance (BPF) refused to cancel his agreement with it. 
What happened
On 15 November 2022, Mr C entered into a finance agreement with BPF. It was to help pay 
for the supply and fit of a kitchen. He spoke to BPF the following day to ask more about his 
right to withdraw from the agreement. He was advised the 14 day withdrawal period related 
to the finance only - not the kitchen - and hed still be liable for the full value of the product if 
he withdrew from it.
On 26 November 2022, Mr C called BPF to cancel the finance in line with the right to 
withdraw as set out in the contract. It was explained that the retailer hadnt agreed to the 
cancellation, so he may have to pay them by alternative means. The call handler accepted 
his request and completed a right to withdraw template. But BPF didnt cancel the 
agreement, so Mr C complained. It began taking payments on 20 February 2023.
BPF looked into his complaint. It acknowledged that hed asked for the agreement to be 
cancelled and that during the call hed made, the advisor had sent an email confirming his 
wish. But while BPF was waiting for a response from the retailer, it received an instruction 
from them to activate the loan as the goods had been delivered. It said the loan was 
correctly activated on 23 December 2022 and apologised to Mr C for misinformation hed 
received about the cancellation. BPF rejected Mr Cs complaint. 
As he didnt agree, Mr C referred his complaint to us. One of our investigators looked into it. 
He noted the finance agreement allowed Mr C to withdraw from it within 14 days without 
giving a reason, and hed acknowledged that doing so wouldnt cancel the purchase. Our 
investigator said Mr C had requested the contract be cancelled in time, and the loan hadnt 
been activated when he did so. Our investigator said BPF should have cancelled the 
agreement when Mr C requested it. He asked BPF to put things right for Mr C. 
Mr C accepted what our investigator said, but BPF didnt. In summary it said the agreement 
said the borrower must make alternative arrangements with the retailer if they wish to 
cancel, but Mr C hadnt done so. It said the retailer had accepted his order on the basis that 
he paid for it in full via the finance agreement and he accepted delivery of the kitchen. It 
recognised that its staff may have provided incorrect advice regarding the cancellation and 
offered £200 compensation for that. It said cancelling the agreement now would break 
Mr Cs agreement with the retailer and leave him liable to legal action by them. 
As there was no agreement, the complaint has been passed to me for a final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The contract says he could withdraw from the agreement within 14 days of signing it. There 
is no dispute that Mr C asked BPF to cancel the agreement on 26 November 2022. A that 
point, the loan hadnt been activated and it was just 11 days after hed signed the 
agreement.
But BPF didnt process Mr Cs withdrawal. Instead, it wrote to the retailer to see if they were 
happy for the finance to be cancelled. While it waited, a month or so later, the retailer asked 
BPF to activate the loan and it did, even though it knew Mr C had wanted to withdraw from it.
BPF says it didnt cancel the loan because he hadnt reached an agreement with the retailer. 
It points to its terms and conditions that say, withdrawing from the agreement does not 
cancel your purchase. You will need to make separate arrangements with the retailer to pay 
for the goods or have another way to repay us if we have already paid the loan amount to 
the retailer.
At the time he asked to withdraw from the agreement, Mr Cs loan hadnt been activated, so 
no money had been paid to the retailer. The agreement doesnt say that Mr C needed to tell 
BPF what alternative arrangements he is making for payment for the goods; in fact it says he 
doesnt even need to give a reason.
BPF has said the retailer had accepted his order on the basis that he paid for it in full via the 
finance agreement. But I dont think thats right. I say this because the credit agreement 
shows the amount of credit as £5,672.87 and the cash price of the goods was £11,876.93. 
So its evident that the retailer may have anticipated around half the balance being paid by 
the loan, but certainly not the whole amount. But in any event, the sale contract is between 
the retailer and Mr C. There was a separate agreement between BPF and Mr C for the 
finance. Ive seen nothing to suggest the retailer is party to that agreement other than they 
introduced Mr C to BPF.
Ive seen no fair reason for BPF to have refused to allow Mr C to withdraw from the 
agreement he had with it. Clearly, he would still be liable to the retailer for the price of the 
goods hed ordered, but that was between the retailer and Mr C. Ive seen nothing to suggest 
Mr C doesnt want to pay for his kitchen, but its clear he didnt want to do so with a loan from 
BPF. Ive seen nothing which obliges him to. I think BPF ought to have allowed Mr C to 
withdraw from the agreement when he asked to do so.
Putting things right
Where we find a business has made a mistake, we aim to put the consumer in the position 
theyd be in if the mistake hadnt happened. Ive thought carefully about how best to achieve 
this for Mr C in this case.
I think BPF ought to have cancelled the finance agreement when Mr C asked it to. That 
would have left him with a liability to the retailer and BPF wouldnt appear on his credit file for 
the purpose of this agreement. Had BPF not made the mistake of paying the supplier, the 
retailer would have chased Mr C for the money due and/or refused to supply and fit the 
goods until it was received.
So to put Mr C in the position he would be in if the mistake hadnt happened, BPF should:
Cancel the loan and refund any repayments Mr C has made to it.
Remove any information from Mr Cs credit file regarding this loan.
Pay Mr C £200 for the distress and inconvenience hes incurred as a result of BPF 
failing to allow him to withdraw from the contract.Its for BPF to decide if it wishes to recover from the retailer the money it paid in error. If it 
does so, Mr C should be aware that he is still liable to pay the retailer for the goods and 
services hes received from them. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint. Clydesdale Financial Services Limited 
trading as Barclays Partner Finance should put matters right for Mr C as Ive set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 17 August 2023.
 
Richard Hale
Ombudsman