DRN-2348509
The complaint
Mr Y is unhappy with how Admiral Insurance Company Limited handled a claim on his motor 
insurance policy.
 
What happened
Mr Y had an Admiral multicar motor insurance policy. For one of the insured cars, Mr Y was 
the policyholder and his son was a named driver. In March 2016 Mr Ys son was driving this 
car when it collided with two pedestrians, who Ill refer to as the third parties. Mr Ys son later 
pleaded guilty to driving with excess alcohol in relation to this collision. 
The third parties raised claims with Admiral. Admiral contacted Mr Y and his son about this:
On 11 April 2016 it wrote to Mr Y advising of a possible incident, that it had set up a 
claim under his policy and that he should contact Admiral. 
Admirals contact notes say it tried calling Mr Y on 13 and 20 April 2016, but there was 
no answer. Mr Y says he did in fact talk to Admiral on these dates.
On 20 April 2016 Admiral sent Mr Y two letters to say it had asked an independent 
assessor to examine the car, and an investigator would be in touch to take a written 
statement to clarify the circumstances. 
On 26 April 2016 Admiral called Mr Y and he gave it some details about the collision. 
On 9 May 2016, Admiral wrote to Mr Y noting his son might be prosecuted for an 
offence involving alcohol and, if that was the case, it wouldnt provide cover under the 
policy. It said liability would instead be restricted to its obligations under Road Traffic law 
and it would recover its costs from Mr Y or his son. It asked Mr Y to confirm if his son 
was convicted.
Admirals contact notes say the policyholders solicitor called on 3 June 2016 to say they 
were representing Mr Ys son in his prosecution for driving with excess alcohol and 
asked about likely costs for the third parties claims. Admiral advised the claims might be 
costly and if Mr Ys son was convicted, Admiral would be the Road Traffic Act (RTA) 
insurer and recover its costs from Mr Ys son as the named driver. 
On 8 June 2016, Admiral wrote to Mr Y saying he hadnt responded to its last letter. And 
on 29 June 2016 it wrote to say that as he hadnt responded, it concluded Mr Ys son 
had been convicted of an offence and so it wouldnt deal with the claim under the policy. 
And would remove Mr Ys son from the policy in line with the policy terms. 
On 8 July 2016 Admiral sent Mr Ys son a consent form, saying the RTA obliged it to 
satisfy any unsatisfied court judgment entered against him arising from the collision. And 
that while it wasnt obliged to, it offered to negotiate the claim on his behalf to try and 
reduce costs, as a negotiated settlement would cost less than a full trial. It asked 
Mr Ys son to sign the consent form if he wanted Admiral to do this. And in the 
Frequently asked questions included within that letter, Admiral made clear that the 
matter wouldnt simply go away if Mr Ys son did nothing.
Mr Y called Admiral on 12 September 2017 to see if his son could be added back to the 
policy. Admiral said no because there was an open claim. And it told Mr Y over £8,000 
had been paid so far on the third party claims following the collision, with the second 
third partys claim still to be settled.
Admiral wrote to Mr Ys son on 18 February 2019 to say it had dealt with the third party 
claims under the RTA, that the third parties had signed assignment and agreement 
forms transferring their right to recover costs to Admiral, and that Admiral was seeking 
to recover £20,736.94 costs from Mr Ys son. 
Mr Y thought Admiral had made errors and should stop trying to recover its costs. He 
thought Admiral should have sent the consent form letter to him as policyholder, not his son. 
And that Admiral shouldnt have taken part in the claim, as the consent form wasnt signed 
and no judgment was obtained, so Admirals duty under the RTA wasnt triggered. Yet 
Admiral signed agreements with the third parties without telling Mr Y, and didnt directly give 
him any claims updates or send him any claims correspondence between July 2016 and 
February 2019. So hed lost his opportunity to defend the claim.
Mr Y said he thought the third party claims hadnt gone ahead, as renewal documents 
Admiral sent in February 2017 and February 2018, and the proof of no claims bonus it 
provided in March 2019 incorrectly showed his number of claims as none. And these 
documents risked him inadvertently not disclosing the claim to a new insurer. Mr Y also said 
Admiral hadnt handled his complaint well, as its response came from the claims department 
and it didnt send him a leaflet for our service. He thought Admiral should pay for an 
independent review of its claim handling.  
For its part, Admiral said it was obliged to deal with the third party claims and was right to 
send the consent form letter to Mr Ys son rather than Mr Y, as his son was driving during 
the collision and a named driver under the policy. It said Mr Ys son didnt sign the consent 
form, but the third parties signed assignment and agreement forms under which it settled 
their claims and was entitled to recover its costs from Mr Ys son, instead of the claims going 
to court. Admiral clarified it had no contract with Mr Y for this claim because Admiral had 
declined it under the policys drink and drugs clause And that it wasnt obliged to send 
Mr Ys son claim updates either, as he hadnt signed the consent form so Admiral wasnt 
acting on his behalf.  
Admiral said its renewal documents were correct, based on its systems correctly showing 
Mr Ys son was driving at the time of the collision, and it was for Mr Y to tell his new insurer 
about the claim. But Admiral did apologise for aspects of its complaint handling  a 
complaint wasnt registered when it shouldve been, a complaint response was incorrectly 
addressed to Mr Ys wife, and it hadnt sent Mr Y its complaint handling guide or a leaflet for 
our service. 
Mr Y referred his complaint to our service. Our investigator thought it was fair and 
reasonable for Admiral to deal with the third party claims and that Admiral had told Mr Y (the 
policyholder) and his son (the named driver) about them. She said Mr Ys son was 
responsible for dealing with these claims, not Mr Y. She agreed the renewal documents 
appeared confusing, but said Mr Y knew about the claims in June 2016 and Admiral told him 
about them again in September 2017. She said it was for Mr Y to let Admiral know if his 
insurance documents were incorrect, and the renewal documents hadnt led him to give his 
new insurer incorrect information as Mr Y changed insurer after he knew about the claim. 
For completeness, our investigator said she hadnt seen how the claim was recorded on the 
Claims Underwriting and Exchange Register (CUE), but the policy terms entitled Admiral to 
pass information to CUE. However, she said Admiral should ensure CUE made clear there 
was an open claim against Mr Y (as policyholder) and that his son was the driver in the 
collision. And she advised our service couldnt investigate Admirals handling of Mr Ys 
complaint.
 
Mr Y asked for his complaint to be reviewed by an ombudsman. He reiterated some of his 
complaint points and clarified some details. Mr Y agreed Admiral told him about the claim in September 2017, but said his March 2018 and March 2019 renewal documents showed the 
number of claims as none, so he thought there were no actual claims against his policy. He 
said his new insurer wasnt aware of the claim until Mr Y told it, so Mr Y thought Admiral 
hadnt recorded the claim on CUE. But he confirmed the open claim hadnt affected his new 
policy.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im not upholding this complaint. Ill explain my reasons, but first Id like to 
be clear that my decision wont address every point or comment that either Mr Y or Admiral 
has made. I mean no discourtesy by this, and Id like to reassure Mr Y and Admiral that I 
have considered everything theyve provided. But my decision will only address what I see to 
be relevant in reaching a fair and reasonable outcome. 
involvement in claim
Im satisfied Admiral was correct to decline the claim under the policy. I say that because 
Mr Ys son pleaded guilty to driving with excess alcohol regarding the collision. And Section 
11 of the policy terms say that if an accident happens while a person entitled to drive under 
the policy is found to be over the alcohol limit, then the policy wont provide cover and 
Admirals liability will instead be restricted to its obligations under Road Traffic law.
This means Admiral wasnt involved in the third party claims because liability for them was 
covered by Mr Ys policy. Instead, Admiral says it was involved in the claims as the RTA 
insurer, so it was obliged to pay third party claims in the circumstances set out in the Motor 
Insurance Bureau Articles of Association (MIB Article 75) and the Road Traffic Act (RTA). 
But I think its incorrect for Admiral to suggest it was the RTA insurer, as I understand this 
cant be the case if Mr Ys son was uninsured due to a policy exclusion. I think Admiral would 
potentially be the MIB Article 75 insurer instead. However, both MIB Article 75 and the RTA 
only apply if a third party obtained a judgement against either Mr Ys son as named driver. 
Ive seen no evidence of such a judgement, so I dont think MIB Article 75 or the RTA were 
triggered here. Therefore, I dont think either MIB Article 75 or the RTA meant Admiral was 
legally obliged to settle the third party claims. 
Having said that, I think it was fair and reasonable of Admiral to settle them anyway. Thats 
because there would have been uncertainty about whether it might become the MIB Article 
75 insurer, and because it was trying to limit the claim costs by acting quickly and 
negotiating a settlement instead of waiting for a full court trial to decide costs. 
In any case, while Mr Y is the policyholder, hes not the person Admiral is asking to repay 
the claim costs or the person driving at the time of the collision  that person is his son, a 
named driver under the policy who was liable for the collision because he pleaded guilty to 
driving with excess alcohol. Section 11 of the policy terms say that in these circumstances, 
Admiral will recover from you or the driver, all sums paid (including all legal costs), 
whether in settlement or under a Judgement, of any claim arising from the accident. Given 
this policy term, and that Mr Ys son was the person driving and that Admiral has settled the 
third party claims, I think its reasonable of Admiral to try to recover its costs from Mr Ys son 
rather than Mr Y.
Admiral sent Mr Ys son a consent form to sign if he wanted Admiral to negotiate the claim 
on his behalf. Mr Y says Admiral shouldve sent this to him instead, as policyholder. But it wouldnt have been appropriate for Admiral to send this to Mr Y, because as Ive said, the 
claim wasnt being dealt with under the policy. And because under MIB Article 75, Admiral 
would have no right of recovery against Mr Y  MIB Article 75 only allows recovery from the 
driver, which in this case was Mr Ys son. In any case, by this point Admiral had already 
written to Mr Y several times about the collision and the claim, which Ill return to. 
Mr Ys son didnt sign or return the consent form. Mr Y thought this meant Admiral wouldnt 
take any part in the claim and would contact him to ask for the details of his solicitor. But as I 
say, I think it was fair and reasonable for Admiral to settle the third party claims. And the 
third parties signed assignment and agreement forms with Admiral, under which Admiral 
paid the third parties the settlement it had negotiated and the third parties transferred their 
rights of action against Mr Ys son to Admiral. These agreements are separate from the 
policy and the consent form Mr Ys son didnt sign. Technically Admiral didnt need to enter 
into these agreements until the third parties had judgements against Mr Ys son. But Admiral 
could choose to enter into them before a judgement, and I think it was reasonable to do so in 
this case because, as I say, Admiral was trying to limit costs.
communication about third party claims
Mr Y says Admiral should have been writing to him about the claim and keeping him 
updated. And that because it didnt, he lost his opportunity to defend it. But as Ive said, the 
claim isnt being dealt with under Mr Ys policy and Mr Y isnt the person liable for the 
collision. So it wouldnt be for him to defend the claim. It would instead be for his son to 
defend the claim. Therefore Admiral wasnt obliged to give Mr Y regular updates about the 
third party claims. But I think it should fairly have let him know there were third party claims, 
because, as policyholder, they could affect him even though Admiral wasnt dealing with 
them under the policy.
And Im satisfied Admiral told Mr Y there were third party claims. Ive seen copies of the 
letters it sent him between April and June 2016. And Ive heard the September 2017 call in 
which it told him there was an open claim it had already paid out a significant amount for. So 
I think Admiral took reasonable steps to provide Mr Y with an opportunity to engage with this 
issue if he wanted to. And Ive not seen any evidence that Admiral told either Mr Y or his son 
the third party claims werent going ahead any more. However, I know Mr Y says the 
renewal documents made him think there was no claim. So Ill now turn to this.
renewal documents
Ive seen that the 2018 renewals documents and the March 2019 proof of no claims bonus 
Admiral sent to Mr Y do say there are no claims against Mr Y or his wife (another named 
driver) for this car. And I think thats correct because there wasnt a claim against Mr Y or his 
wife as drivers under the policy. As Ive said, Mr Ys son was driving at the time of the 
collision and the third party claims werent dealt with under the policy. 
And as Ive also said, by this time Admiral had told Mr Y that there were third party claims 
and that it had started to settle these. So if Mr Y thought his renewal documents were 
incorrect, then he could have queried this with Admiral. But Ive not seen that he did. 
recording on CUE 
Admiral is obliged to pass information about collisions like the one in question to CUE. And 
Mr Ys policy terms say it can do this. But Mr Y has told our service he doesnt think Admiral 
has passed this information to CUE. And Admiral hasnt shown our service whats been 
recorded on CUE. Given the circumstances, Id expect Admiral to have recorded this as a claim against Mr Ys policy with the driver as Mr Ys son, with any payments recorded as 
payments due to obligations under the RTA or MIB. 
But Mr Y hasnt raised this with Admiral as a complaint point. So, if Mr Y thinks Admiral has 
recorded this incorrectly on CUE, he should raise it with Admiral in the first instance so it can 
investigate and provide him with a response. And if Mr Y remains unsatisfied, he could then 
refer his complaint about whats recorded on CUE to our service for an impartial 
investigation.
complaint handling
I note Mr Y is unhappy with some aspects of Admirals handling of his complaint, saying the 
department he was complaining about answered his complaint, and it didnt send him a 
leaflet for our service. And hes suggested Admiral should pay for an independent review of 
how it handled this claim. 
However, our service isnt free to look into every aspect of a complaint thats brought to us. 
Instead we have to abide by the rules set out by the Financial Conduct Authority in its 
Dispute Resolution Handbook, known as the DISP rules. DISP rule 2.3 sets out the kind of 
activities we can consider complaints about.
Complaint handling isnt an activity listed in DISP 2.3. So I think the DISP rules mean I cant 
consider the complaint handling Mr Y is specifically unhappy about. In any case, if Mr Y was 
unhappy with Admirals response to his complaint, then he had the right to refer his 
complaint to our service for an independent and impartial investigation. Which he did.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr Y to accept or 
reject my decision before 27 January 2021.
 
Ailsa Wiltshire
Ombudsman