DRN-3835857
The complaint
Miss G complains that Inter Partner Assistance SA declined her claim against her travel 
insurance policy after she sought emergency medical assistance whilst on a trip. Reference 
to IPA includes its agents. 
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again 
here in full. In summary, in January 2022 Miss G bought via a comparison website a 
single trip travel insurance policy underwritten by IPA. The policy was for a trip with 
departure and return dates of 4 February 2022 and 11 February 2022 respectively. 
On 10 February 2022, Miss G became concerned about feeling numb on her right side 
and sought emergency medical assistance. The doctor treating Miss G did some tests 
and found nothing of concern.  
On 14 February 2022, Miss G made a claim against her policy. IPA required further 
information from Miss Gs GP. On 7 June 2022, IPA declined Miss Gs claim. It said that 
Miss G had answered one of the eligibility questions incorrectly. IPA said that if Miss G 
had answered correctly, it wouldnt have offered her the policy. 
Miss G complained to IPA about its decision. IPA maintained its position about her claim 
but offered her compensation of £150 in relation to service issues. Miss G pursued her 
complaint. 
One of our investigators looked at what had happened. She said that IPA had asked 
Miss G a clear question about her medical history and that Miss G hadnt answered 
accurately. The investigator said that IPA had shown that it wouldnt have sold the policy 
to Miss G if it had known the true position, so she didnt think that IPA had acted unfairly 
in declining Miss Gs claim. She said that there was some delay during the claim and 
that the compensation of £150 IPA had offered was fair.  
Miss G didnt agree with the investigator. She said she wasnt asked the question to 
which the investigator had referred. Miss G said that the comparison website only asked 
generically about pre-existing medical conditions but didnt specify that includes any 
medical query or examination. She said that at the time of purchase she didnt have any 
condition which seemed relevant, so selected no to the question asked and wasnt 
asked any further questions. 
As there was no agreement between the parties, the complaint was passed to me to 
decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The relevant rules and industry guidance say that IPA has a responsibility to handle claims 
promptly and fairly and it shouldnt reject a claim unreasonably. Im not upholding                
Miss Gs complaint because I dont think that IPA treated her unfairly or unreasonably. I say 
that because:   
The relevant law in this case is The Consumer Insurance (Disclosure and 
Misrepresentation) Act 2012 (CIDRA). This requires consumers to take reasonable 
care not to make a misrepresentation when taking out a consumer insurance contract 
(a policy). The standard of care is that of a reasonable consumer. If a consumer fails 
to do this, the insurer has certain remedies provided the misrepresentation is - what 
CIDRA describes as -  a qualifying misrepresentation. For it to be a qualifying 
misrepresentation the insurer has to show it would have offered the policy on 
different terms or not at all if the consumer hadnt made the misrepresentation. 
CIDRA sets out a number of considerations for deciding whether the consumer failed 
to take reasonable care. And the remedy available to the insurer under CIDRA 
depends on whether the qualifying misrepresentation was deliberate or reckless, or 
careless.
IPA thinks that Miss G failed to take reasonable care not to make a 
misrepresentation when she didnt tell it about conditions which required treatment, 
tests, or investigations in the five years before she took out the policy.  
Ive looked at the sales journey in this case. The comparison website asked:
Your medical history
Do any of these travellers have a pre-existing medical condition?
Do any of these travellers have a pre-existing medical condition?(sic) To make sure 
that youve got the right insurance for your trip, we need to know about the medical 
history of everyone on the policy. Youll need to mention conditions like diabetes, 
depression, high blood pressure or asthma, and well ask for more details about them 
later. If you have a problem with something you didnt declare, your policy could 
become invalid and you might not be able to claim for it. 
Miss G answered No. She says that she wasnt asked any other question about 
this. I dont think that I can proceed on the basis of Miss Gs recollection of the exact 
wording of the questions she was asked when shes recalling events from some time 
ago which wouldnt have been particularly significant to her at the time. 
IPA says that Miss G proceeded to the page which asked for confirmation by ticking 
a box that she had read the important information and the insurers policy 
documents. The important information included the following:
Important Information
[]
Please note that the policy you have selected is not designed to cover claims arising 
from pre-existing medical conditions. If you can answer no to the following 
questions, please select I Agree to proceed.
1) Within the last 5 years have you or anyone you wish to insure on this policy 
suffered any medical condition that has required prescribed medication and/or 
treatment including surgery, tests or investigations?
[]
Show me policies for people with pre-existing medical conditionsIts possible that Miss G indicated by ticking a box that shed read the important 
information and the insurers documents but that she didnt click the link in order to 
read the Important Information. That might explain why she may not have seen 
further questions. But IPA isnt responsible for that. 
I think that IPA was entitled to rely on Miss Gs indication that shed read the 
Important Information and, therefore that she could answer no to the question 
about medical conditions for which shed been prescribed medication or treatment in 
the last five years. In fact, the policy refers to medical conditions in the two years 
before taking out the policy. In the two years before taking out the policy, Miss G had 
treatment for allergic disposition, which she didnt tell IPA about. I dont think that IPA 
was at fault in concluding that Miss G hadnt taken reasonable care in answering that 
question. 
IPA has shown that if it had known the true position, it wouldnt have offered Miss G 
this policy. This means Im satisfied that the misrepresentation was a qualifying one 
under CIDRA. So, I dont think IPA acted unfairly or unreasonably in declining the 
claim and cancelling the policy. 
IPA acknowledged that there was delay in dealing with Miss Gs claim. I think that the 
compensation of £150 it has already offered in relation to that is fair and reasonable. 
In reaching that view, Ive taken into account that IPAs delay didnt prevent Miss G 
getting treatment or alter the outcome of her claim.   
For these reasons, I dont uphold Miss Gs complaint. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold Miss Gs complaint.  If Miss G wishes to accept the 
offer IPA made previously, she should contact it direct. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss G to accept 
or reject my decision before 3 March 2023. 
Louise Povey
Ombudsman