DRN-1522587
The complaint
Mr C complains HSBC UK Bank plc didnt give him an overdraft despite promising to do so 
and then closed his account unfairly. He also complains about HSBCs customer service.
What happened
In April 2019 Mr C applied to HSBC for a current account as another business was about to 
close his current account. He wanted an overdraft. HSBC offered him a basic account which, 
according to Mr C, he was told he could upgrade in three months time.
Shortly after opening his account, Mr C applied for an overdraft and was turned down. Mr C 
complained about this and other issues which he said he wasnt happy about.
HSBC wrote to Mr C in late 2019 to say that it had decided to close his account  it gave him 
60 days notice. Mr C  who describes himself as a vulnerable and disabled adult  
complained to us about HSBCs decision to close his account, about HSBCs decision not to 
give him an overdraft and about HSBCs customer service.
One of our investigators looked into Mr Cs complaints but didnt uphold them. They didnt 
think that HSBC had promised to give Mr C an overdraft after three months or acted unfairly 
when it closed his account. Nor did they think HSBC had provided poor customer service. Mr 
C disagreed, saying, amongst other things, that he would have stayed with his previous bank 
if hed known that HSBC wasnt going to give him an overdraft. He also said hed been 
promised an overdraft. So he asked for a decision from an ombudsman.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
did HSBC promise Mr C an overdraft?
I can understand why Mr C wanted an overdraft  he had an overdraft on the account hed 
been told was about to be closed. I dont, however, accept that HSBC promised Mr C that 
hed get one automatically if he waited three months. Thats because HSBC would, amongst 
other things, have had to carry out affordability checks before giving Mr C an overdraft. His 
previous bank ultimately decided to end the relationship. So staying with them wasnt an 
option.
Mr C was upset when he didnt get an overdraft. He appears to have been particularly upset 
about HSBC not telling him it would be more difficult for him to get lending if he used his 
funds to gamble. I know Mr C believes very strongly that its his decision what he spends his 
money on, but banks are taking the issue of problem gambling seriously these days. That 
doesnt mean I would have expected HSBC to explain to Mr C unprompted that he might find 
it more difficult to get lending if he gambled. I think it would have been enough for HSBC to 
explain to Mr C that he could apply for an overdraft in three months time  he had a poor 
credit file when he opened his HSBC account so was unlikely to be offered credit  and that this would involve affordability checks. Im satisfied that HSBC did this. HSBC sent Mr C a 
letter shortly after he opened his account that made this clear too.
did HSBC act unfairly when it closed Mr Cs account?
Mr C complained a lot about HSBCs customer service in the short period of time he held an 
account with them. I can understand why HSBC might have been concerned about this  it 
could reasonably have concluded that Mr C was a serial complainant. I can also understand 
why Mr C was upset when HSBC didnt speak to him to see if it could keep the relationship 
going  thats what his previous bank did. I would also have expected HSBC to consider its 
actions carefully given that Mr C had, at the time, a basic bank account and, as far as HSBC 
knew, no other account. That isnt, however, something that the manager who made the 
decision took into account. So I agree with Mr C that HSBCs decision wasnt as well thought 
out as it should have been. I havent, however, seen any evidence to suggest that HSBCs 
decision was as a result, for example, of it failing to make reasonable adjustments for Mr C. 
More importantly, HSBCs decision didnt leave Mr C without an account. In the 
circumstances, I dont think HSBCs decision was an unfair or an unreasonable one.
My final decision
My final decision is that Im not upholding this complaint as I dont think HSBC has acted 
unfairly or unreasonably.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 8 May 2020.
Nicolas Atkinson
Ombudsman