DRN-2948200
The complaint
 
Ms G complains about the poor level of service that she received from Assurant General 
Insurance Limited (Assurant) during her claim under her gadget insurance.
 
What happened
 Ms G contacted Assurant as she had damaged her mobile phone. Assurant accepted the 
claim and asked Ms G to return the phone. She chose a courier collection to return it. The 
courier was booked to collect the phone within the hours of 9.00 am  5.00 pm. Ms G was 
told that she would receive an email or text to confirm the time the phone would be collected. 
Ms G paid the excess charge of £100. 
Ms G said that she didnt receive an email from Assurant giving her a specific time slot for 
the collection of the mobile. And at just after 8.00 am, the courier arrived. Ms G wasnt 
expecting the courier to arrive before the allotted time slot, so, she sent him away. 
Ms G immediately contacted Assurant and raised a complaint as the courier had attended 
too early. She also cancelled the claim and Assurant refunded the excess shed paid.
In its final response, Assurant said that it had obtained the log from the courier that 
confirmed that the time hed arrived was just after 9.00 am. So, it said that there was nothing 
further it could do to resolve the complaint. 
Ms G was unhappy by this outcome, as she wanted Assurant to reimburse the replacement 
phone she bought as the claim was incomplete. So, she referred her complaint to this 
service. 
One of our investigators consider the complaint and upheld it. She said that Ms G wasnt 
provided with the correct information about the time slot and the courier arrived before the 
allotted time. She found that there were some poor customer service issues but didnt think 
that Assurant should reimburse Ms G for the phone, as Ms G had cancelled the claim. She 
did however, recommend that it pays £50 for the trouble and upset caused. 
Ms G ultimately accepted her view, Assurant didnt agree. It maintained that the courier 
arrived just after 9.00 am so within the time previously mentioned to Ms G. It said that 
although it didnt have the couriers GPS data, it relied on the couriers online collection 
information which showed the courier arrived just after 9.00 am. And because Ms G 
cancelled the claim, there was nothing further it could do. So, it asked for a decision from an 
ombudsman. 
 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I will be upholding Ms Gs complaint and I hope my findings go some way in 
explaining why Ive reached this decision.
The main issue here is the time that the courier arrived to collect the phone. Assurant said 
that Ms G had enough time to get the phone ready before the courier arrived, given that she 
had reported its damage the day before (just after midday) and was told that the courier 
would arrive between 9.00 am  5.00 pm. 
It confirmed that Ms G wouldve received either a text or email detailing the time slot for 
collection. It also reiterated that the courier arrived at Ms Gs home just after 9.00 am and it 
relied on GPS data to support this. 
Ms G said that she didnt receive the email or text for the collection time slot. And as the 
courier arrived at just after 8.00 am (which was around an hour before the 9-5 collection 
period) the phone wasnt ready. So, she decided to send the courier away. Immediately 
following this she contacted Assurant, complained and cancelled the claim. Ms G provided a 
phone record to support this. I have also listened to this call recording. Assurant confirmed 
that it received the call at around 8.06am, which accords with the evidence that Ms G 
provided. 
Assurant relied upon GPS data that showed that hed arrived at Ms Gs home soon after 
9.00 am. But it has not provided any evidence, for example the GPS map, that could prove 
that this was the actual time that the courier attended. Nor have I seen any evidence to show 
that Ms G received the email or text notification.
So, I must decide on the evidence that has been presented. Ms G provided evidence which 
corresponds to the call recording provided by Assurant. Additionally, I think it is more likely 
than not, that Ms G called Assurant soon after the courier left. Which according to the call 
recording evidence was just after 8.00 am. Also, I think its unlikely that she wouldve made 
the call before the courier collected the mobile phone.
Based on everything Ive seen, I think that the courier didnt attend during the allotted time 
slot. I also think that Assurant didnt handle Ms Gs complaint well as it ought to have 
examined the call evidence provided. Had it done so, its possible that Ms G wouldnt have 
referred a complaint to this service. 
  
Putting things right
I understand that Ms G would like Assurant to reimburse the cost of the replacement phone 
that she bought. But, given that Ms G cancelled the claim, I dont think its fair for Assurant to 
reimburse the cost of the phone, as Ms G couldve continued with the claim. But Im satisfied 
that Ms G was inconvenienced and I think to put matters right, its fair that Assurant should 
pay £50 for the trouble and upset caused  
My final decision
 For the reasons given, I uphold this complaint. 
Assurant General Insurance Limited should pay compensation of £50 for the inconvenience 
caused. Assurant General Insurance Limited must pay the compensation within 28 days of the date 
on which we tell it Ms G accepts my final decision. If it pays later than this, it must also pay 
interest on the compensation from the date of my final decision to the date of payment at 8% 
a year simple.
 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms G to accept or 
reject my decision before 3 September 2021.
 
Ayisha Savage
Ombudsman