DRN-3213018
The complaint
Mr C complained that Everyday Lending Limited trading as Everyday Loans lent to him 
irresponsibly and provided lending that was unaffordable. 
What happened
Mr C took out loans with Everyday Loans as follows:
Loan Date taken Amount Term Monthly 
repaymentTotal amount 
repayableDate 
repaid
1 18/12/18 £1,000 24 months £91.43 £2,194.32 29/04/19 
using 
loan 2
2 29/04/19 £2,100 24 months £201.07 £4,825.68 20/12/19
3 20/12/19 £4,000 36 months £288.34 £10,380.24 1/5/20
When Mr C complained to Everyday Loans it didnt uphold his complaint so he brought his 
complaint to us. One of our adjudicators looked at the complaint and thought that Everyday 
Loans hadnt done anything wrong when it provided loan 1 but didnt think it should have 
provided loan 2 or loan 3. Our adjudicator set out directions indicating what Everyday Loans 
should do to put things right. 
Everyday Loans agreed with what our adjudicator had recommended in respect of loan 1 
and loan 3 but disagreed that it had done anything wrong when it provided loan 2. 
Everyday Loans offer to put things right in respect of loan 3 falls short of what our 
adjudicator recommended and Mr C doesnt want to settle on the terms proposed by 
Everyday Loans. So, as the complaint hasnt been resolved, it comes to me for a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about unaffordable/irresponsible lending - 
including all of the relevant rules, guidance and good industry practice - on our 
website. Having thought about everything, I agree with our adjudicator that its fair and 
reasonable to uphold loan 2 as well as loan 3. 
As far as I can see, Mr C hasnt objected to what our adjudicator said with respect to not 
upholding his complaint about loan 1. So I dont think I need to say more about loan 1 except 
that Ive reviewed this loan and independently reached the same conclusion as our 
adjudicator. I havent seen enough to say that Everyday Loans shouldnt have provided this 
loan  so Im not upholding this part of Mr Cs complaint.   
And as Everyday Loans has agreed to uphold Mr Cs complaint about loan 3, I dont need to 
consider this loan further save to include it in the redress. 
So in my decision, Im concentrating on loan 2. 
The rules dont say what a lender should look at before agreeing to lend. But reasonable and 
proportionate checks should be carried out. Lenders must work out if a borrower can 
sustainably afford the loan repayments alongside other reasonable expenses the borrower 
also has to pay. This should include more than just checking that the loan payments look 
affordable on a strict pounds and pence calculation  a proportionate check might also 
require the lender to find out the borrowers credit history and/or take further steps to verify 
the borrowers overall financial situation.  
If reasonable and proportionate checks werent carried out, I need to consider if a loan 
wouldve been approved if the checks had been done. If proportionate checks were done 
and a loan looks affordable, a lender still needs to think about whether theres any other 
reason why it would be irresponsible or unfair to lend. For example, if the lender shouldve 
realised that the loan was likely to lead to significant adverse consequences or more money 
problems for a borrower who is already struggling with debt that cant be repaid in a 
sustainable way. 
Everyday Loans asked Mr C about his income and expenses  including what he spent on 
his credit commitments. It also did its own credit check to understand Mr Cs credit history. 
Everyday Loans recorded Mr Cs average monthly take home pay was around £1,117 based 
on the lowest take home pay it saw on two payslips. Everyday Loans also took into account 
nationally available statistics when thinking about Mr Cs likely spending and allowed for a 
buffer to account for any change in circumstances or one-off additional expenses. Based on 
this, Everyday Loans said Mr C shouldve been able to afford the monthly repayment on this 
loan as he should still have had around £279 spare cash left after paying for this loan. 
Like our adjudicator I think Everyday Loans checks were broadly proportionate. But, despite 
its affordability calculation appearing to show that Mr C had enough disposable income each 
month to cover the loan monthly repayments, I think Everyday Loans shouldve realised this 
was contradicted by what it saw in the other information it had gathered. 
Everyday Loans could see from its credit checks that there was some adverse credit history 
 a number of defaults were shown and Mr C was reported over his £2,000 overdraft limit on 
a current account. 
From the bank statements he provided Everyday Loans was aware that he paid around £70 
in unarranged overdraft fees on one account in both March and April 2019, he was also 
paying overdraft fees on another bank account and he was very often overdrawn by more 
than the amount of his monthly pay. 
Whilst having an impaired credit history or other outstanding lending wouldnt be unusual for 
a borrower applying for this type of expensive borrowing, and it wouldnt necessarily be a bar 
to lending, I dont think Everyday Loans thought carefully enough about what the information 
it had gathered showed about Mr Cs overall financial situation and the likelihood of him 
being able to pay its loan in a sustainable manner. 
Ive taken carefully into account everything Everyday Loans has said in response to our 
adjudicators assessment about the way it assessed affordability. And I've thought carefully about what I think a responsible lender should have made of all this information and in 
particular whether it was enough for Everyday Loans to make a fair decision to lend, 
particularly as it knew that Mr C intended to use most of the money to cover a large one-off 
expense  so it would be adding to his overall indebtedness and extending the time he 
would be repaying expensive borrowing of this type.
I think our adjudicator was right to say that all the indications were that Mr C wasnt 
managing his money well and he was already struggling financially. To my mind, it shouldve 
been apparent that Mr C didnt have the amount of disposable income that Everyday Loans 
calculated - or indeed any spare cash, given that Mr C was stuck in overdraft and he hadnt 
been able to pay what he already owed to creditors. All the signs were that his finances 
were, in reality, under significant stress and his debt had become unmanageable. I dont 
think Everyday Loans was reasonably able to be satisfied in these circumstances that Mr C 
would be able to make its loan repayments in a sustainable way. 
Also, bearing in mind the repayment of this loan on top of the debt Everyday Loans saw 
Mr C was already responsible for paying, I think its fair to say that Mr C needed to pay a 
significant portion of his income towards credit. And in my opinion, as a responsible lender, 
Everyday Loans shouldve realised that Mr C would likely struggle to repay this loan  
especially bearing in mind the 24 month loan term.
Thinking about all the information Everyday Loans had gathered, I cant reasonably say that 
it made a fair lending decision based on the information in front of it. I dont think Everyday 
Loans was able to safely conclude that its loan would be sustainably affordable for Mr C. So 
it shouldnt have provided it and Everyday Loans needs to put things right. 
Putting things right
I think it is fair and reasonable for Mr C to repay the capital amount that he borrowed when 
he took out loans 2 and 3 because he had the benefit of that lending - but he shouldnt repay 
any more than this in respect of these loans. 
If Everyday Loans sold any outstanding debt it should buy this back if able to do so and then 
take the following steps. Otherwise, Everyday Loans should liaise with the new debt owner 
to achieve the results outlined below and do the following:
add up the total amount of money Mr C received as a result of having been given 
loans 2 and 3. The repayments Mr C made towards loans 2 and 3 should be 
deducted from this amount. 
If this results in Mr C having paid more than he received, then any overpayments 
should be refunded along with 8% simple interest* (calculated from the date the 
overpayments were made until the date of settlement). 
If any capital balance remains outstanding, then Everyday Loans should attempt to 
arrange an affordable/suitable payment plan with Mr C bearing in mind the need to 
treat him positively and sympathetically if he still needs further time to pay what he 
owes.
Whilst its fair that Mr Cs credit file is an accurate reflection of his financial history, its 
unfair that he should be disadvantaged by the decision to lend loans 2 and 3. So 
Everyday Loans should remove any negative information recorded on Mr Cs credit 
file regarding loans 2 and 3. 
*HM Revenue & Customs requires Everyday Loans to deduct tax from this interest. 
Everyday Loans should give Mr C a certificate showing how much tax has been deducted if 
he asks for one.My final decision
I uphold Mr Cs complaint about loans 2 and 3 and direct Everyday Lending Limited trading 
as Everyday Loans to take the steps I've set out above to put things right. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 21 March 2022.
 
Susan Webb
Ombudsman