DRN-2907275
Complaint
Mr O has complained that Lloyds Bank PLC (Lloyds) unfairly continued applying increased 
charges to his overdraft, after changes it made to its pricing structure, even though this 
caused financial difficulty.
  
Background
One of our adjudicators looked at Mr Os complaint and thought Lloyds should have realised 
Mr Os overdraft had become unsustainable for him by October 2018 and so it needed to 
refund all the interest, fees and charges it added to Mr Os overdraft from this point. 
Lloyds disagreed and instead made an alternative proposal to refund the overdraft interest, 
fees and charges applied from December 2019 onwards. Mr O didnt accept Lloyds 
alternative offer of settlement. So the complaint was passed to an ombudsman for review.   
  
My findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Lloyds will be familiar with all the rules, regulations and good industry practice we consider 
when looking at whether a bank treated a customer fairly and reasonably when applying 
overdraft charges. So I dont consider it necessary to set all of this out in this decision.
Having carefully considered everything provided, I think Lloyds acted unfairly when it 
continued charging overdraft interest and associated fees from October 2018. By this point, 
Mr Os statements leading up to this period shows that the account hadnt seen a credit 
balance for an extended period of time. Lloyds says this wasnt an indication of financial 
difficulty. But the good industry practice Lloyds itself subscribed to, suggested that hardcore 
borrowing  such as Mr Os use of his facility - was an indication of financial difficulty. 
Id also point out that Lloyds own communications to Mr O in 2017, which notified of the 
upcoming changes to its overdraft pricing structure, stated that overdrafts are intended to 
help out with short-term borrowing needs. So I dont see how it was fair and reasonable for 
Lloyds to allow Mr O to continue using his overdraft in this way. Finally, the credits going into 
the account didnt suggest that the facility could be repaid within a reasonable period with 
interest, fees and charges continually being added either. Indeed as I understand it Mr O 
had to take out a loan to clear his overdraft and borrowing further generally isnt considered 
a sustainable way of repaying existing debts.
So I think that by October 2018 Lloyds should have stopped providing the overdraft on the 
same terms and treated Mr O with forbearance rather than adding even more interest, fees 
and charges on the overdraft.
All of this means that Lloyds should have realised that Mr O was experiencing financial 
difficulty and offered him assistance. As Lloyds didnt react to Mr Os account usage and 
instead continued charging in the same way, I think it failed to act fairly and reasonably. 
Mr O ended up paying additional interest, fees and charges at a time when he was already 
experiencing difficulty. So I think that Mr O lost out because of what Lloyds did wrong and 
that it should put things right.  
Fair compensation  what Lloyds needs to do to put things right for Mr O
Having thought about everything, I think that it would be fair and reasonable in all the 
circumstances of Mr Os complaint for Lloyds to put things right by:
Reworking Mr Os current overdraft balance so that all interest, fees and charges 
applied to it from October 2018 onwards are removed.
AND
If an outstanding balance remains on the overdraft once these adjustments have 
been made Lloyds should contact Mr O to arrange a suitable repayment plan for 
this. If it considers it appropriate to record negative information on Mr Rs credit 
file, it should reflect what would have been recorded had it started the process of 
taking corrective action on the overdraft in October 2018 
OR
If the effect of removing all interest, fees and charges results in there no longer 
being an outstanding balance, then any extra should be treated as overpayments 
and returned to Mr O along with 8% simple interest on the overpayments from 
the date they were made (if they were) until the date of settlement. If no 
outstanding balance remains after all adjustments have been made, then Lloyds 
should remove any adverse information from Mr Os credit file. 
 HM Revenue & Customs requires Lloyds to take off tax from this interest. Lloyds must give 
Mr O a certificate showing how much tax it has taken off if he asks for one.  
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, Im upholding Mr Os complaint. Lloyds Bank PLC should put 
things right in the way Ive set out above.
  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr O to accept or 
reject my decision before 20 September 2021.
 
Jeshen Narayanan
Ombudsman