DRN-2876665
The complaint
Mr N is unhappy that Zurich Insurance PLC declined a claim under his home insurance 
policy for an escape of water on the basis of a forensic report that it wouldnt show him.
What happened
On 30 May 2018 Mr N made a claim to Zurich after a water leak from a washing machine 
caused damage to his property. He said his carpets and kitchen units were damaged.
Zurich sent a surveyor to inspect the damage. Zurich said its surveyor didnt find any trace of 
moisture in Mr Ns flat or any water-staining. Mr N said hed dried his carpets using a carpet 
cleaning machine and a small humidifier.
Shortly after the surveyors visit on 15 June 2018, Mr N told Zurich hed also discovered a 
significant amount of water damage to books hed kept in a built-in wardrobe in a bedroom. 
He said hed disposed of the damaged books.
Mr N asked Zurich to send another surveyor to inspect the damage. Zurich appointed a loss 
adjuster who visited the property on 24 July 2018. The loss adjuster said hed found no 
evidence of a large leak as described by Mr N.
Mr N complained to this service about the way his claim had been handled. His complaint 
wasnt upheld.
In September 2020 Zurich arranged for a forensic expert to inspect the property. The expert 
told Mr N he didnt think the damage to the kitchen units was consistent with a water leak 
from the washing machine. He agreed with the surveyor and the loss adjuster that if the 
floors in the kitchen, hall and bedroom had been as wet as Mr N had claimed, the wooden 
floor under the floor coverings couldnt have been fully dried before their respective visits 
without the floor coverings being lifted and the use of commercial drying equipment.
Zurich declined Mr Ns claim. It said Mr N hadnt proven his loss. It also said it was seriously 
concerned about the reliability of the information provided by Mr N. 
Mr N asked for a copy of the forensic experts report. Zurich claimed legal privilege as a 
ground on which it didnt have to provide the report. It said if Mr N was unhappy about that, 
he should complain to the Information Commissioners Office rather than this service.
Mr N complained to this service. He was unhappy that his claim had been declined. He also 
believed Zurich was withholding the forensic experts report because it would show his claim 
was valid.
Our investigator didnt uphold the complaint. He didnt think on balance Mr N had proven his 
claim. He also said he couldnt look at whether Zurich should have sent him the forensic 
experts report.
As Mr N didnt agree, the matter has been referred to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
For a home insurance claim under a policy like Mr Ns its for the policyholder in the first 
instance to show that they have a valid claim. In essence, they must show that an event 
covered by the policy occurred and that they suffered a loss. Technically, if the policyholder 
cant show they have a valid claim the insurer doesnt have to consider the claim further.
In determining cases of this nature Im largely reliant on the expert evidence that has been 
provided. The surveyor who inspected the property just over two weeks from the date of the 
incident reported that he found no trace of moisture anywhere in the kitchen. He said the 
carpets were all dry with no visible stains or foul smells. He noticed that an end kitchen panel 
and the sink unit had some minor swelling but otherwise there were no obvious signs of 
water damage. I can see from photos in the report that the surveyor took a number of 
moisture readings in the kitchen, hall and bedroom.
The loss adjuster who visited the property about eight weeks after the leak thought at the 
time of his visit there should still be moisture present whereas readings indicated that the 
property was dry. He thought the damage to the kitchen units might have been there before 
the leak.
The forensic expert found that some of the available evidence supported Mr Ns account 
while other aspects of it were difficult to reconcile with what Mr N had told Zurich. 
In Mr Ns favour was the fact that the expert found some water damage to part of the floor in 
the kitchen and hall and the floor in the built-in wardrobe. He also noted that photos showed 
mould on photo frames which he thought was consistent with recent water damage.
However it was surprising in his view that Zurichs surveyor hadnt been able to detect 
moisture in any of the carpets 16 days after the incident. He couldnt see how the kitchen 
worktop could have been damaged by a leak from the washing machine. He thought some 
of the books in photos had suffered damage from long term storage rather than a water leak.
The forensic expert also had concerns about photos supplied by Mr N in support of his claim. 
Mr N told Zurich he only discovered that the wardrobe in which the books were stored was 
wet 15 days after the incident. He said there was a shallow pool of water in the wardrobe. He 
sent Zurich photos of the chipboard floor in the built-in wardrobe. When the forensic expert 
examined the metadata of the photos, he found one photo was taken on 15 June 2018 at 
6.10pm. The floor was completely saturated in that photo. Another photo taken the same day 
at 9.38pm showed the same floor to be partially dry. The forensic expert didnt think this level 
of drying could have been achieved in about three and a half hours.
In summary, three experts examined Mr Ns home. They all advised to a greater or lesser 
extent that the circumstances of the loss and the claim presented by Mr N werent supported 
by what they found. Further, I note that Zurich wasnt given the opportunity of inspecting the 
damaged books before they were disposed of. I think this prejudiced its position with regard 
to that part of the claim. Also Mr N delayed the visits of all three experts to varying degrees. 
Taking that into account I dont think Zurich acted unfairly in respect of saying that Mr N 
hadnt proven his loss or by declining the claim.I can understand why Mr N wanted to see a copy of the forensic experts report. Whilst its 
often the case that this service will share information relied on with the other party, we can 
do that by sharing the main points of any finding, rather than providing the whole document. 
And we also treat some information and/or documents as confidential  meaning we wont 
share them even if we rely on them in our findings. Im satisfied its fair to treat the report, so 
far as our process and obligation to share relevant data is concerned, as confidential. 
Whether the rules that apply to data sharing mean Zurich should provide it isnt something I 
can answer. Thats the function of the Information Commissioner to whom Mr N has made a 
separate complaint.
My final decision
I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr N to accept or 
reject my decision before 13 October 2021.
 
Elizabeth Grant
Ombudsman