DRN-3878074
The complaint
Mrs H complains that Barclays Bank UK PLC (Barclays) gave her incorrect information and 
made it difficult for her to process an overpayment on her mortgage account. She is also 
concerned that it sent her information about another customers account, and so may have 
committed a data breach by sending her information to others.
What happened
In the early part of 2021 Mrs H contacted Barclays to confirm exactly how much she could 
overpay on one of her mortgage accounts without incurring any early repayment charges. 
Barclays accepts it gave her incorrect information on at least one occasion and she had to 
place multiple calls in order to get the payment sorted.
Barclays also accepts that around the same time it sent her documentation relating to 
another customers account, in error.
Ultimately, Mrs H was able to transfer the correct overpayment as she wanted. But, unhappy 
with the poor service shed received, she complained to Barclays. It accepted it hadnt got 
everything right, and offered her £200 compensation. Mrs H didnt think that was enough, 
noting that this was not the first time she had had to complain about organising 
overpayments on her mortgage accounts.
Having reviewed the evidence, the investigator didnt think Barclays had done anything 
wrong, so didnt uphold the complaint. Mrs H doesnt accept that and asked an Ombudsman 
to look at her case.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im not upholding it and Ill explain why.
I am very aware of the context and history to this complaint, and Mrs Hs repeated 
concerns about Barclays customer service in similar transactions. However, the only 
issues which I am able to deal with under this case are the two matters described in the 
first section of the decision. Previous issues along similar lines have been dealt with 
separately by Barclays, and may or may not be within this Services jurisdiction to 
investigate. Mrs H will need to pursue those separately if she wishes to. Business conduct 
is also not within my remit, and Mrs H has expressed wide ranging concerns about staff 
training and systems within Barclays. She will need to be bring those concerns to the 
attention of the Financial Conduct Authority if she wishes.
Barclays accepts that the service it offered to Mrs H in 2021 when she was trying to 
arrange the overpayment wasnt good enough, and that it made mistakes. So the question 
for me is what it needs to do to put things right for her.
Firstly, Ive considered whether Mrs H has suffered any financial loss as a result of 
Barclays mistakes. For example, whether she didnt overpay as much as she could have, 
so has been charged more interest than necessary within the relevant twelve-month period 
of the mortgage account. Or whether the delays in concluding the transaction successfully 
led to her being charged additional interest over a short period of time. Barclays says not, 
and has provided screenshots in support of that. I asked Mrs H whether she had any 
evidence that she had suffered a financial loss, and she could provide nothing. Therefore, I 
conclude that Mrs H is not out of pocket as a result of the poor service provided by 
Barclays when dealing with her request.
Barclays also accepts that it sent Mrs H documentation relating to another customers 
account, which understandably caused Mrs H concern. However, there is no evidence that 
it has done the same in reverse  that is, sent Mrs Hs information to somebody else. I can 
see why this mistake would undermine Mrs Hs confidence in Barclays data handling, but I 
am not able to consider or direct redress for hypothetical mistakes and losses. Should Mrs 
H have systemic concerns about Barclays compliance with data protection laws, she will 
need to approach the Information Commissioners Office to raise those. My powers as an 
Ombudsman relate only to mistakes and losses caused in individual cases to customers 
who bring a complaint to this service. Although alarming, Barclays mistake in this respect 
caused no loss to Mrs H.
Therefore the key question is whether I think the £200 compensation already offered, and I 
believe paid, to Mrs H to reflect the distress and inconvenience caused is sufficient. Which 
I do. Mrs H undoubtedly experienced irritation, frustration and had to spend more time than 
ought to have been necessary in order to get this transaction finalised correctly. And I think 
£200 is an appropriate amount to compensate her for the inconvenience she experienced. 
As an aside, if Mrs H rejected Barclays offer of in its letter from June 2021, but now wishes 
to accept it, it would be my expectation that the offer remains and will be honoured by 
Barclays.
As I conclude that Barclays has already offered enough to compensate for the distress and 
inconvenience caused to Mrs H, it therefore follows that I dont uphold this complaint
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, I dont uphold this complaint and Barclays doesnt need to do 
anything more than it has already offered.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs H to accept or 
reject my decision before 31 January 2023. 
Siobhan McBride
Ombudsman