DRN-4483052
The complaint
Miss R has complained about the way J.P. Morgan Europe Limited (trading as Chase) 
handled a transaction she says she didnt make or otherwise authorise.
What happened
Both sides are most familiar with the case, so Ill summarise what happened in brief.
In late March 2023, Miss Rs phone was stolen, and the thief used her Chase passcode to 
transfer £3,060 away via her mobile app, all but emptying the account.
Miss R complained about the way Chase handled things, such as the time they took and a 
lack of updates.
Chase held Miss R liable for the payment in dispute, as they couldnt see how the thief knew 
the passcode if Miss R had kept it safe. They paid her £25 as a gesture of goodwill.
Chase recovered the £3,060 from the receiving bank in May. But they overlooked this and 
didnt tell Miss R at the time, nor pay the money to her until August. Miss R says she 
incurred large costs in the meantime.
Our investigator looked into things independently. At their suggestion, Chase paid a further 
£350 compensation to Miss R, along with the savings interest shed lost in the three months.
Miss R appealed, arguing that this didnt cover her financial losses or distress. She felt she 
was owed around £600 to £800 in fees alone. The complaints been passed to me to decide.
I sent Miss R and Chase a provisional decision on 13 November 2023, to explain why 
I thought Chase had already resolved the complaint fairly. In that decision, I said:
First, I understand that Miss R was the victim of a crime here, and so she has my sympathy. 
I completely appreciate that the fraud caused her a great deal of distress. Im glad that she 
got her money back, and hope that the fraudster is brought to justice.
Ive considered whether Chase shouldve refunded the disputed payment themselves.
Broadly speaking, Chase could hold Miss R liable for the payment in dispute if the evidence 
suggests that she authorised it, or if she failed to keep her account safe either intentionally 
or through acting with gross negligence.
Chases technical evidence shows that the payment in dispute used Miss Rs genuine app 
on her registered phone, and the correct passcode. Ive not found any evidence of hacking 
or of the security being bypassed. So I can see that this transaction was properly 
authenticated.
The person using the phone knew Miss Rs Chase passcode from the outset. It was not 
bypassed, could not be obtained from Chases end, was different to her phones passcode, 
and Miss R was clear that she didnt share it with anyone or click the suspicious link she was 
then sent. So there doesnt seem to be a likely or plausible way that a thief knew the 
passcode without Miss Rs consent. Unless, for instance, Miss R failed to keep her account 
safe either intentionally or through gross negligence. For example if, despite her best 
recollections, she kept an accessible record of the passcode with the phone and has since 
forgotten. And if that was the most likely or plausible possibility, then Chase had reasonable 
grounds to decline a refund. 
While I can completely understand why Miss R found the wait most stressful, two weeks was 
not an unreasonable amount of time for Chase to complete their investigation. And Im glad 
to see that Chase were able to recover the money in full for Miss R in the end. But I agree 
with Miss R that they failed to keep her properly updated. And Chase now accept that they 
unfairly delayed returning her money to her for about three months.
Im grateful to Miss R for being open and candid with our service about the effect this matter 
had on her, and for setting out the costs she wishes to recover.
When it comes to putting things right, I should first note that it was the fraudster, rather than 
Chase, who are primarily responsible for the fraud, and its the fraudster who really owes 
Miss R the bulk of the damages. Even if Chase had handled things exactly as they were 
supposed to, this still would have been a highly stressful matter for Miss R. Theres only so 
much of her stress which I can fairly attribute to Chase.
I should also explain that Miss R would still have suffered much of the financial losses shes 
kindly set out. Shes asked to be reimbursed for interest at the accounts rate, and for losses 
relating to her credit card, overdraft, a loan, and rent arrears. And I understand why she 
thought to list these costs. But Miss R could not have kept the full £3,060 in her savings 
account earning interest, and simultaneously used it to clear £2,600 of credit card debt, and 
used it to avoid an overdraft debt which went as high as over £1,700, and used it to pay 
£2,000 of costs instead of borrowing that money, and used it to cover her increased rent. It 
was not possible to both save the £3,060 and to use it for well over £3,060 of spending.
The largest cost Miss R set out was for her credit card interest. She explained she was going 
to use the money in her savings account to pay off around £2,600 shed spent on that card 
for a holiday. I can see Miss R paid for that holiday in February 2023. And she didnt use the 
money in her savings account to clear that amount at any point between then and the fraud 
incident in late March. Then after Chase returned the £3,060, from what Miss R sent a few 
weeks later, she hadnt used it to pay off her credit card then either. So I cannot fairly 
conclude that Miss R was planning to use the savings to pay off that credit card debt. Im 
afraid I should also explain that Miss R couldve substantially reduced the credit card losses 
by transferring the balance earlier than she did, and there is an expectation for customers to 
try to mitigate their losses.When a bank unfairly deprives a customer of access to their money for a period of time, and 
its not clear what they wouldve otherwise done with that money, we normally either award 
interest at the account rate (here, around £30), or at the rate of 8% simple per year  the 
same rate the courts use in similar situations (which would be about £60 here). Alternatively, 
even if I accepted that Miss R was definitely going to pay off her credit card and that Chase 
stopped her doing so for three months, and so even if I awarded three months of compound 
interest at her credit cards rate on the full £3,060, that would come to about £200.
Here, Chase have already paid Miss R £375 (£25 + £350), plus her lost account interest for 
the three months they delayed her refund. That will more than cover any likely financial 
impact their three month delay had, and I find that its enough to acknowledge the extra 
stress they added for Miss R  bearing in mind that its the fraudster who caused the bulk of 
the stress. 
So while I know this will come as a disappointment for Miss R, and while it is not my 
intention to disappoint her, I find that Chase have already paid her enough to put right what 
Chase are responsible for themselves.
I said Id consider anything else anyone wanted to give me  so long as I received it by 
27 November 2023. But neither Miss R nor Chase sent me anything new to consider.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Neither side have sent me any new evidence or arguments. So having reconsidered the 
case, Ive come to the same conclusion as before, and for the same reasons as set out in 
my provisional decision above.
My final decision
I conclude that J.P. Morgan Europe Limited have already resolved this complaint in a fair 
way. I do not make any further award.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss R to accept 
or reject my decision before 27 December 2023.
 
Adam Charles
Ombudsman