DRN-3534291
The complaint
Ms B complains that a car she financed through an agreement with Motability Operations 
Limited (Motability) was misrepresented to her as she was told it would be fitted with grab 
handles, but it wasnt.
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again 
here. Instead Ill focus on giving my reasons for my decision.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I know it will disappoint Ms B, but I agree with the investigators opinion. Please let me 
explain why.
Where the information Ive got is incomplete, unclear, or contradictory, as some of it is here I 
have to base my decision on the balance of probabilities.
Ive read and considered the whole file, but Ill concentrate my comments on what I think is 
relevant. If I dont comment on any specific point its not because Ive failed to take it on 
board and think about it but because I dont think I need to comment on it in order to reach 
what I think is the right outcome.
Ms B acquired her car under a hire agreement. This is a regulated consumer credit 
agreement and as a result our service is able to look into complaints about it.  
Section 56 of the Consumer Credit Act (1974) says that the provider of credit is jointly liable 
for anything the broker or supplier says when the agreement is negotiated. So, if Ms B was 
told something that was false when she negotiated the agreement and if I thought that false 
statement induced her to enter into the agreement when she wouldnt otherwise have done 
so, Id consider the agreement misrepresented.
Here I think there has been a misrepresentation. Ms B was told that grab handles would be 
fitted on both sides of the car and they werent. I think the addition of grab handles was very 
important to Ms B because shes explained she needed them to be able to enter and leave 
the car. I dont think its likely she would have proceeded with the agreement had she been 
told that factory fitted grab handles were unavailable, so I think the false statement of fact did 
induce Ms B to enter into the agreement.
I can see Motability have tried to put things right by retrofitting aftermarket handles but Ms B 
doesnt like them and, as theyre in the wrong position for her, I can understand theyre not 
the same as what was promised. I dont think Ms B was unreasonable to reject that 
resolution.
When theres been a misrepresentation we would expect the business to attempt to put the 
consumer back in the position they would have been in had that misrepresentation not have 
taken place. So, here I would expect Motability to return what Ms B paid them, take the car 
back and end the agreement. They could make a deduction for the use Ms B had from the 
car.
In their final response Motability offered to take the car back, end the agreement, waive the 
early termination fee, and pay Ms B £150 to compensate her for the distress and 
inconvenience caused. They also said theyd refund £10 in recognition that some fuel may 
have been used when the grab handles were retrofitted, and they explained that a taxi had 
been provided whilst Ms Bs car was off the road. I gather from Ms B that a pro-rata refund of 
the advanced rental was also provided.
I think Motability have therefore done what wed expect of them. 
Ms B is upset that costs have risen since she took out her original agreement and shes 
explained itll cost her about £2,000 more to finance a new agreement as a result. I 
understand that must be frustrating for Ms B, but I dont think it would be fair to ask Motability 
to take responsibility for the inflation in car prices. Their responsibility was for the 
misrepresentation only.
Having considered the redress the business have provided I think its reasonable and in line 
with the redress this service would have asked them to pay. So, Im afraid I dont think it 
would be fair to tell Motability to take any further action.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms B to accept or 
reject my decision before 14 August 2022.
 
Phillip McMahon
Ombudsman