DRN-3368504
The complaint
Mr C has complained that Santander UK Plc processed a product switch on a mortgage 
account he holds jointly with his former partner, Miss B, without his consent. To settle the 
complaint, Mr C wants Santander to unwind the new mortgage product, and pay 
compensation for his ongoing costs, including the solicitors fees, mediation costs and all the 
indirect costs of his equity being tied into the property for the next 30 years.
What happened
The details of the complaint are well known to the parties so I will give only a brief summary 
of what led up to the complaint being made. Our decisions are published and so its 
important that I dont include any information that might lead Mr C or Miss B to be identified.
Briefly, Mr C and Miss B had a joint mortgage that had been on a fixed rate of 1.99%. The 
fixed rate expired in August 2020 and the mortgage moved onto Santanders Follow-on Rate 
(which I will refer to as FR), which is set at 3.25% above Bank of England Base Rate.
I understand Mr C and Miss B had separated by this time, and Mr C was no longer living in 
the property. 
In September 2020 and February 2021 Miss B wanted to change the mortgage onto a new 
product, but Mr C didnt sign the forms to allow the product switch to go ahead.
In April 2021 Mr C provided Santander with his new address.
In July 2021 Santander transferred the mortgage onto a new product, a tracker rate of 1.49% 
above Bank of England Base Rate. Miss B paid the product fee, and there was no early 
repayment charge or other fees involved in the mortgage. Confirmation of the switch was 
sent to Mr Cs old address.
Mr C complained to Santander, because it had been done without his consent. The bank 
explained that the product switch had resulted in no financial detriment to Mr C. The bank 
offered compensation of £50 for writing to the wrong address.
Dissatisfied with Santanders response, Mr C complained to the Financial Ombudsman 
Service. An investigator looked at what had happened. Having done so, he didnt think 
Santander had acted unfairly in switching the mortgage product, as there was no financial 
detriment to Mr C. But he asked Santander to pay a further £100 for sending 
correspondence to the wrong address. 
Santander agreed with this, but Mr C did not. He remained very unhappy about the product 
switch, which he said had been done in a dishonourable manner behind my back. He 
thought Santander should have obtained all the information about any financial difficulties 
before switch the product. Mr C was also unhappy that Santander had told Miss B that he 
had made a complaint.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im aware that the background to this complaint lies in very unhappy circumstances for Mr C 
arising from a family breakdown and Ive taken note of everything hes said about the effect 
of this on him. I have no doubt this has been a difficult time for Mr C. But I have to look at the 
evidence impartially and not allow myself to be swayed by emotion.
I appreciate that the product switch was carried out without Mr Cs consent. However, Im 
satisfied that this has ultimately benefitted Mr C, because it has served to reduce the 
monthly instalments. Consequently it has made the mortgage more affordable, with less risk 
of default and a reduced risk of adverse credit data being recorded against Mr C  who is 
jointly and severally liable for the entirety of the mortgage repayments, as is Miss B. 
In practical terms, Im not persuaded that the best solution, either for Mr C or Miss B, would 
have been to keep the mortgage on higher payments than necessary. I know Mr C didnt 
want the mortgage to be cheaper, but if Santander had not put the change in place, the 
effect would have been that Mr C and Miss B would both have been liable to pay more than 
would otherwise be the case. 
Mr C says he is concerned that his equity is tied up for the next 30 years. However, the 
original mortgage was over a term of 33 years from 2018, and the product switch has not 
resulted in any term extension. So even if the switch hadnt taken place, Mr C would still 
have been committed to the same mortgage term, albeit at a much more expensive rate of 
interest.
Im also satisfied there is no early repayment charge that would arise if the mortgage was 
repaid before the end of the term.  Given this, Im unable to find Mr C has suffered any 
financial loss or detriment as a result of the mortgage being switched to this new product. I 
think it was an example of good industry practice in a situation like this for Santander to offer 
a new preferential rate without an ERC. I dont believe it would have been fair or reasonable 
for Santander to withhold a new rate where the new product has benefitted Mr C and Miss B 
jointly, was of no detriment to Mr C and where withholding the rate would have led to the 
mortgage costing more.
Given this, although I understand Mr Cs unhappiness that Santander switched the mortgage 
to a new product without his consent, in the particular circumstances of this case, I believe 
that the bank acted fairly and reasonably. This means that Im not upholding Mr Cs 
complaint about the product switch.
Santander did make an error, however, in not updating Mr Cs address on its system. This 
doesnt affect the main issue in the complaint, because I think the product switch was the 
right thing to do. But it was poor customer service and meant that Mr C only found out after 
the event.
I note Mr C has raised a new issue  that Santander told Miss B hed made a complaint, 
which he says is a breach of his personal data. That doesnt form part of the original 
complaint Mr C raised with us, and so Im not able to consider it here. In addition, a 
complaint about the way Santander has dealt with a complaint isnt an activity thats covered 
by our rules and so is outside our jurisdiction. Complaints about breaches of personal data 
are more suitable for the Information Commissioners Office.Putting things right
Santander made a mistake in not up-dating Mr Cs address on its system. I agree with the 
investigator that the £50 compensation Santander offered isnt enough, and that a further 
£100 should be paid for any trouble and upset caused by this.
My final decision
My final decision is that I partly uphold this complaint. In full and final settlement, in addition 
to the £50 compensation already offered, Santander UK Plc must pay Mr C £100 for trouble 
and upset. I make no other order or award.
This final decision concludes the Financial Ombudsman Services review of this complaint. 
This means that we are unable to consider the complaint any further, nor enter into any 
correspondence about the merits of it.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 4 May 2022.
 
Jan O'Leary
Ombudsman