DRN-3983748
The complaint
Mrs T complains that Barclays Bank UK PLC (Barclays) wont refund money she lost to an 
investment scam.
Mrs T is being represented by a claims management company.
This decision only relates to the 2017 investment which was funded from Mrs Ts sole 
account. Although the investment was in joint names, for the purposes of this complaint 
which is against her bank  Mrs T is the eligible complainant. So, Ive referred to her 
throughout my decision.
What happened
The detailed background to this complaint is well known to both parties, so Ill only provide 
an overview and focus on giving my reasons for my decision.
In 2016, Mrs T and her husband were introduced to a firm based outside the UK which Ill 
refer to as C. They were sold an opportunity to earn a fixed rate of return by investing in an 
income bond. In August 2017, Mrs T made three payments totalling £51,000 in relation to 
this investment. The bond certificate, issued on 7 December 2017, shows an investment 
amount of £50,000 with monthly interest payable at 5.5% per annum. An earlier investment 
was made in 2016  a complaint about that has been considered separately.  
From the information Ive seen, Mrs T received monthly interest on her investment until the 
autumn of 2019, when she was notified that due to liquidity problems the bond issuer had 
suspended the bond programme. And this resulted in the suspension of interest payments. 
I understand that Mrs T continued getting regular updates about the situation from C from 
then on. But interest payments didnt resume.  
At the start of 2022, Mrs T complained to Barclays that it didnt prevent her from falling victim 
to a scam. Barclays refused to refund the disputed transactions and the matter was referred 
to our service. Our investigator didnt uphold the complaint as they thought that Barclays 
hadnt acted unfairly or unreasonably. Mrs Ts representative didnt agree and asked for an 
ombudsmans decision. 
 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Not every complaint referred to us and categorised as a scam is in fact a scam. Some firms 
may have used sales and promotional methods that could be seen to be unfair by 
consumers considering the losses theyve incurred, but this doesnt always amount to fraud. 
Similarly, where a firm is unable to continue paying returns on an investment, that doesnt 
automatically mean that it was set up with the express intention of defrauding its customers. 
While customers who lost out may understandably regard such acts or omissions as 
fraudulent, they dont necessarily meet the high legal threshold or burden of proof for fraud.
The first question I need to consider in any case involving an investment scam is to 
determine, so far as is reasonably possible, whether the complainant has in fact been 
scammed. This is important because banks (and other payment service providers) only have 
a duty to protect customers from the risk of financial loss due to fraud. This duty to intervene 
isnt triggered where payments are made to a legitimate investment.
Ive considered the official organisations that publish warnings about investment firms that 
operate in the UK and around the world. Ive searched the Investors Alerts Portal of the 
International Organization of Securities Commissions (IOSCO), the international body that 
brings together the worlds securities regulators. And the Financial Conduct Authority 
(FCA), the financial services regulator in the UK, also has its own warning list which is in 
place to share alerts and insights about firms that have been identified as potentially being 
fraudulent. 
I cant see that theres been a scam warning published about C by the FCA or a regulator in 
another jurisdiction (which Id expect to see on the IOSCO website). On the other hand, the 
information Ive seen indicates that Mrs Ts dealings were with a legitimate company that 
was and still is registered in Bermuda. A digital archive search on the internet shows that in 
2016, Cs website also said it was approved and authorised by the Bermuda Monetary 
Authority  the regulator in that jurisdiction. My independent research also shows that the 
bond Mrs T had invested in was listed on the Bermuda Stock Exchange until sometime in 
2016, when trading was suspended due to unforeseen circumstances. 
While regulatory requirements can vary from one jurisdiction to another, a scammer is highly 
unlikely to submit itself to any kind of regulatory oversight, given the real risk of its true 
purpose being discovered. C may not have been regulated to offer its services in the UK, but 
that doesnt automatically mean that it was set up to defraud customers. Its also worth 
noting that Mrs T appears to have been residing outside of the UK at the time she engaged 
with C. Under the circumstances, I would question the relevance of their representatives 
argument about C not being regulated in the UK. 
Mrs Ts representative submits that the negative Trustpilot reviews and a support group on a 
social media platform for victims of C is highly suggestive that C is a scam company. Its 
completely understandable that investors who havent seen a return, and possibly face the 
prospect of losing their investment, would feel aggrieved by what has happened. But this 
alone isnt conclusive evidence that C has been deemed to be operating fraudulently. I can 
see that C continues sending updates to bondholders every month, a copy of which is 
available on the website of the Bermuda Stock Exchange.
I must follow the evidence and, essentially, Ive no credible evidence to persuade me with 
any degree of certainty that C was operating a scam at the time Mrs T made the disputed 
transactions. And the evidence Ive seen suggests that it had some regulatory oversight in 
another jurisdiction. Taking everything into consideration, Im not persuaded that C can be 
described as fraudulent. That being the case, Barclayss duty to protect its customers from 
the risk of financial loss due to fraud wasnt triggered here. And so, I cant fairly hold it liable 
for the loss that Mr and Mrs T seek to recover. 
I know that Mrs T will be disappointed with my findings. But its important that I mention the 
respondent firm here is Barclays, not C. We have no jurisdiction over C, so I cant consider 
whether it has acted fairly and reasonably in its dealing with her. Im limited to determining 
whether Barclays, as an FCA-regulated bank, executed authorised payment instructions to a 
legitimate company. Having considered everything, I havent found that its acted unfairly or 
unreasonably.My final decision
For the reasons given, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs T to accept or 
reject my decision before 5 July 2023.
 
Gagandeep Singh
Ombudsman