DRN-3086051
The complaint
Miss S complains about the quality of a car she has been financing through an agreement 
with Toyota Financial Services (UK) Plc (TFS).  
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again 
here. Instead Ill focus on giving my reasons for my decision.  
  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I know it will disappoint TFS, but I agree with the investigators opinion. Please let me 
explain why.
Where the information Ive got is incomplete, unclear or contradictory, as some of it is here I 
have to base my decision on the balance of probabilities.
Ive read and considered the whole file, but Ill concentrate my comments on what I think is 
relevant. If I dont comment on any specific point its not because Ive failed to take it on 
board and think about it but because I dont think I need to comment on it in order to reach 
what I think is the right outcome.
Miss S acquired her car under a hire purchase agreement. This is a regulated consumer 
credit agreement and as a result our service is able to look into complaints about it.  
The relevant law says, amongst other things, that the car should have been of satisfactory 
quality when supplied. If it wasnt then TFS, who are also the supplier of the car, are 
responsible. The relevant law also says the quality of goods is satisfactory if they meet the 
standard that a reasonable person would consider satisfactory taking into account any 
description of the goods, the price and all the other relevant circumstances. 
In a case like this which involves a car the other relevant circumstances would include things 
like the age and mileage at the time the car was supplied to Miss S. The car here was about 
seven years old and had already completed about 48,586 miles. So, I think a reasonable 
person would expect some wear and tear to have developed. But I dont think theres 
evidence of problems being caused by wear and tear in this case.
The independent inspector agreed with the dealership that the Exhaust Gas Recirculation 
(EGR) valve had been blanked off. He thought it likely that that was the reason for the 
breakdown, but I note that there has been evidence provided to the contrary. What doesnt 
seem to be disputed by the dealership or the independent inspector is that blanking off the 
EGR valve is a bad idea. The inspector said, 
 to block the EGR valve whilst eliminating an immediate problem of an incorrectly 
operating EGR valve does in fact create further problems where further contaminates 
are introduced within the engine. This has a detrimental effect on the running of the 
vehicle and on oil condition. It would be our experience that these results would reduce 
the serviceable life of an engine and had been present in the vehicle upon purchase.
And the approved dealership refused to repair the car until the EGR valve was 
reinstated. I think that suggests they concur with the inspector and accept that the car is 
not in a satisfactory condition without an operational EGR valve. 
So, regardless of what the fault was with Miss Ss car that led her to break down again after 
some of the injectors had been replaced, it is clear that a function of the car, that would 
have prolonged the life of the engine, had been disabled and that the experts think this was 
a bad idea and would reduce the life of the engine.
This was a hire purchase agreement and that agreement enabled Miss S to eventually take 
ownership of the goods. It seems likely the bypassed EGR valve would have reduced the life 
of the engine in this car and I think that made it of unsatisfactory quality when it was supplied 
to Miss S as the engine life she expected was unlikely to be the service she received.
Im persuaded the valve was bypassed before Miss S took receipt of the car because she 
has explained she didnt commission that work and if there had been a fault with the engine 
she was, for the most part, covered by a warranty and wouldnt have needed to bypass a 
valve to work around an issue as she would have been able to rely on that warranty.
So, Im persuaded there was a fault with this car that rendered it of unsatisfactory quality.
Putting things right
The relevant legislation allows a business one opportunity to fix a fault that is present at the 
point of supply. But it also says that the repair should be completed in a reasonable time. I 
dont think this repair has been completed in a reasonable time. The car broke down in 
August 2020 and Miss S hasnt been able to drive it since. In those circumstances whilst I 
note the findings of the Motor Ombudsman in respect of Miss Ss claim against the 
dealership I dont agree that repair is the fairest option. I think TFS should allow Miss S to 
reject the car.
TFS will need to end the finance agreement and collect the car from Miss S, if they havent 
already done so, and at no cost to her. 
The mileage completed suggests that Miss S had reasonable use of the car until it broke 
down in August 2020. So I think its fair for Miss S to pay for the use she had of the car to 
that point but TFS should refund any finance instalments she has paid since 11 August 
2020; the point of the last breakdown.
Miss S has also had to pay for an independent inspection and fuel sampling to prove her 
point. Miss S has provided invoices totalling £190 for that work and TFS should provide a 
refund as that work would not have been necessary had the car been of an acceptable 
standard. TFS should add interest to that refund and to the refund of finance instalments.
I can see that Miss S has been inconvenienced here. She broke down whilst on holiday with 
her children and shes had to arrange an independent inspection and to escalate her 
complaint to this service. In the circumstances I think TFS should pay her £200 
compensation.Ive noted that Miss S may have incurred some legal costs when using a solicitor to help her 
with her complaint. Ive thought about whether TFS should be asked to refund any legal 
costs Miss S incurred but Im not asking them to do so. I say that because this service is 
easily accessible, and Miss S could have used it to similar effect without the use of a 
solicitor. I think Miss S could therefore have mitigated any legal expenses and Im not asking 
TFS to refund them.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above I uphold this complaint and tell Toyota Financial Services 
(UK) Plc to:
end the finance agreement and collect the car at no cost to Miss S;
refund any finance instalments Miss S has paid since 11 August 2020 and add 8% 
simple interest per year to that refund from the date of payment to the date of 
settlement;
refund the £190 Miss S spent on an independent inspection and fuel sample 
investigation and add 8% simple interest per year to that refund from the date of 
payment to the date of settlement;
pay Miss S £200 to compensate her for the distress and inconvenience shes been 
caused;
remove any adverse reports they may have made to Miss Ss credit file in respect of 
this issue.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss S to accept 
or reject my decision before 8 November 2021.
 
Phillip McMahon
Ombudsman