DRN-2602054
The complaint
Mr B has complained about Fairmead Insurance Limiteds decision to reject a theft claim he 
made under his home insurance policy.
What happened
In September 2019 Mr B said he hired a rental car for a weekend abroad with Mr G. He said 
that on the last day they went to a number of locations before heading to the airport. They 
said theyd left their laptops in rucksacks in the boot of the car. 
When they went to check in after dropping off the rental car, they realised their laptops had 
been stolen along with some cash from the rucksacks. So Mr B made a claim to Fairmead 
under the personal possessions section of his policy. 
Fairmead investigated, but it rejected Mr Bs claim. It said he couldnt show a theft had 
occurred as there were no signs of damage or forcible entry to the rental car. 
Mr B complained to Fairmead. He didnt agree with the limit of £1,000 per item which 
Fairmead said applied to his claim. He said he specifically insured the laptops at £2,000 
each. Mr B believed the laptops were stolen by a thief using technology to access the rental 
car without the keys. 
But Fairmead said the make and model of the rental car was a remote central locking key 
and so the technology Mr B referred to predominantly referred to other models. In any event, 
it said this technology was used to steal vehicles. In Mr Bs case, the thief seemed to have 
accessed the boot, removed the laptops and cash, but didnt steal the car or any other items 
of value. So Fairmead concluded that Mr B hadnt kept the car secure. It said the policy 
provided cover up to £1,000 for a single item if stolen from an unattended vehicle in the 
event of a valid claim. 
Mr B remained unhappy and asked us to look at his complaint. He provided links to articles 
relating to keyless car thefts for the make of car he had rented. 
Our investigator thought Fairmeads decision was reasonable as there wasnt any evidence 
the rental car had been broken into, so the remaining outcome was that the car hadnt been 
secure. So he didnt recommend the complaint should be upheld. 
Mr B didnt agree. He doesnt think the information hes provided has been properly 
considered. He feels Fairmead has selected the option more favourable to them. So the 
case has been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr Bs policy says it will provide cover for personal possessions up to a maximum of £1,000 
per item in respect of loss from an unattended vehicle. But it excludes cover for theft or 
attempted theft from an unattended vehicle unless all windows and doors, including sunroofs 
and boot, are securely locked.
Mr B has provided articles which discuss the theft of cars including the make Mr B rented 
using keyless entry technology. Mr B says he has provided sufficient evidence to show that 
his and Mr Gs laptops were stolen using this method. 
But I cant agree. The articles arent enough to prove that Mr Bs car was accessed this way 
in order to steal some items from the boot of the car. I understand that Mr B cant prove that 
he locked the car. But the onus is on a customer to prove their claim. In this case, there is no 
evidence that the rental car he hired was accessed this way. And there is no evidence to 
show that the car was damaged by forcible entry in order to steal the items from their 
rucksacks in the boot of the car. 
I understand Mr B will be very disappointed with my decision. But because he isnt able to 
show that an insured event occurred, I think Fairmeads decision to reject his claim was 
reasonable and in line with the policy. So Im not asking it to do any more. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 5 April 2021.
 
Geraldine Newbold
Ombudsman