DRN-3963832
The complaint
Mrs R complains about Royal & Sun Alliance Insurance Limiteds (RSA) handling of her 
claim for storm damage, under her buildings insurance policy. 
What happened
In February 2022 ridge tiles were blown off Mrs Rs roof during a storm. They impacted other 
tiles causing further damage before landing on her driveway. She contacted RSA and it sent 
a surveyor to inspect the damage. She says the surveyor spent little time inspecting the 
damage. Mrs R says he entered her house and sat at a table to fill out a form without 
wearing a mask. She says she is vulnerable and doesnt allow people in her home to avoid 
exposure to the coronavirus. Mrs R refers to the surveyor as being rude. 
Mrs R says the surveyor confirmed a settlement payment for £909.25 would be provided. 
She says he advised her to contact RSA if the repairs cost more to complete. Mrs R 
subsequently obtained a quote for £1,500. This contractor wasnt available to do the work for 
several weeks. She found another roofer close by who was able to do the repairs in a far 
quicker time frame 
Mrs R says she called the surveying company and was told it couldnt authorise the extra 
payment. She says more bad weather was forecast so she instructed the roofer to complete 
the repairs. Since doing so RSA has declined to pay anything further. 
In its complaint response RSA says for cover to be provided any damage must be caused 
solely by an insured event. It says its policy doesnt cover damage thats happened over a 
period of time due to wear and tear, or maintenance issues. RSA says its surveyor was able 
to take images using photographic equipment. This allowed a decision to be made on the 
cover provided by Mrs Rs policy. 
RSA says the ridge tiles, and the roof tiles they impacted during the incident were covered 
under Mrs Rs policy. The repairs for this work were calculated at £909, which it thinks is fair. 
It also says from speaking with the surveyor who visited Mrs Rs house, that a mask was 
worn, and that hed been invited into her house. 
Mrs R didnt agree with this and referred her complaint to our service. Our investigator didnt 
uphold her complaint. She says the roofer Mrs R appointed identified mortar that was 
crumbling under tiles left undamaged by the storm. Our investigator thought RSA was fair to 
only cover repairs to the tiles blown off by the storm, and not the additional caused by wear 
and tear over time. 
Mrs R didnt think this was fair and asked for an ombudsman to consider her complaint. 
It has been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so Ive decided not to uphold Mrs Rs complaint. Im sorry to disappoint her but 
I will explain why I think my decision is fair.
There are three questions we take into consideration when determining whether a claim for 
damage relates to a storm. These are:
Do we agree that storm conditions occurred on or around the date the damage is
said to have happened?
Is the damage claimed for consistent with damage a storm typically causes?
Were the storm conditions the main cause of damage?
If any of the answers to the above questions are no then an insurer can generally,
reasonably decline a claim.
Ive looked at weather data from around the time the damage was reported to have 
occurred. This shows wind speeds of up to 59mph were experienced at a weather station 
near to Mrs Rs property. Ive read her policy terms to see what it says about storm 
conditions. It defines storm winds as 47 mph or greater. Based on this I think the answer to 
question one is yes. I note RSA doesnt dispute storm conditions were experienced, so I can 
move onto question two.  
Dislodged and broken tiles are typical of damage that can result from a storm. So, the 
answer to question two is also yes. 
The final point I must be satisfied with is that the storm conditions were the main cause of 
the damage. Ive read the surveyors report to understand what he found. There is no written 
summary to state what the surveyor thought was the underlying cause of the damage. The 
form the surveyor completed, and passed to Mrs R, says the cause of the damage is storm 
and confirms the repair cost as £909.25.
Ive listened to the audio recording the surveyor made following his inspection. He says there 
is evidence of replaced tiles towards the neighbours side. He confirms the claim should 
cover eight ridge tiles and one meter square of roof tiles. No damage was noticed to the 
driveway. He concludes that there should be partial cover for the claim. 
In its submissions to our service RSA says it has liaised with its surveyor again. It says it has 
confirmed the underlying cause in Mrs Rs claim was wear and tear. It says Mrs Rs roofer 
had noted the cement mortar was crumbling and wasnt stuck down. Also, that other ridge 
tiles were loose. It says storm force winds shouldnt take off ridge tiles that arent subject to 
cement corrosion. The surveyors response says its approach is to allow for any tile that has 
been blown off the roof where the storm criteria is met. But maintenance to other parts of the 
roof cant be included in the claim. The surveyor says that roofers like to replace the entire 
ridge as opposed to renewing damaged or missing tiles. But it wouldnt be treating all 
customers fairly to effectively pay for a customers roof to be maintained under an insurance 
policy. 
I note Mrs R says the roofer, whilst he was on the roof, showed her that one of the remining 
ridge tiles was loose and was about to fall. She says he told her it would have to be replaced 
as mortar was still stuck to it and it couldnt be removed without breaking it. Mrs R says the 
mortar wasnt crumbling as RSA has indicated.
Ive read the claim notes RSA provided. the records show that when Mrs R called toward the 
end of February 2022, she said the contractor found that ridge tiles were loose. A call record from around 10 days later says that when the repairs were carried out Mrs R was told by her 
roofer that the rest of the tiles were crumbling and coming off in their hands. This is why 
extra work was required in addition to that identified by the surveyor. 
Ive looked carefully at the photos taken by RSAs surveyor. There are areas where ridge 
tiles are missing, and mortar is still in place. Indicating the mortar had deteriorated allowing 
the ridge tiles to be lifted off the roof. 
Ive read Mrs Rs policy terms to see what cover is in place. I can see the following 
exclusions apply:
What is not covered? Loss or damage:
 caused by wear and tear, depreciation, rot, the effect of light, atmospheric or climatic 
conditions or other damage that happens gradually over a period of time.
Having considered the evidence, I think its been shown that there was deterioration of the 
mortar used to fix the ridge tiles in place. This is supported by the photos and the comments 
from both RSAs surveyor and the roofer Mrs R appointed. A well-maintained roof in good 
condition should withstand storm force winds of the magnitude reported here. Rather than 
being the cause, I think the storm force winds have acted to highlight the weakness that was 
already in place. Its the deterioration in the condition of the mortar that ultimately allowed 
the strong winds to lift the ridge tiles off Mrs Rs roof.        
I understand RSAs approach in these circumstances is to cover the cost of repairs for tiles 
that are blown off the roof. However, when considering its policy terms this goes above what 
is required. Although Im sorry Mrs R has had to pay an additional amount for the repairs, I 
dont think RSA has treated her unfairly. 
Ive thought about Mr Rs concerns regarding RSAs surveyor not wearing a mask, given her 
concerns around coronavirus. Also, her comments about his demeanour during the visit and 
subsequent contacts. I can see that the surveyor did respond to RSA on this issue to say he 
always wears a mask on entering a customers property, and that he was invited in by Mrs 
R. 
Based on the information I have available I cant independently verify exactly what happened 
here. Mrs R and RSAs surveyor have each given a different account of events. So, although 
Im sorry Mrs R was upset, I cant fairly conclude that the surveyor acted inappropriately.        
In summary, although Im sorry Mrs Rs roof was damaged, I dont think RSA behaved 
unfairly in the settlement payment it provided. So, I cant fairly ask it to do any more.  
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs R to accept or 
reject my decision before 26 April 2023.
 
Mike Waldron
Ombudsman