DRN-2227371
The complaint
Mr and Mrs B complain that JPS Financial Ltd (JPS) are pursuing them for fees for work 
carried out in relation to a mis-sold Payment Protection Insurance (PPI) claim. Mr and Mrs B 
say they didnt agree for any work to be carried out and want JPS to stop chasing them for 
payment. 
What happened
JPS carried out work for Mr and Mrs B in relation to a claim for mis-sold PPI on a credit card 
they held with a company - who Ill refer to as company S. JPS started looking into the claim 
following Mr and Mrs B signing a contract and then received confirmation from company S 
that PPI had been applied to the credit card. JPS arranged for a questionnaire to be 
completed and sent this to company S. JPS then received information from company S 
which suggested a final answer had been issued in the claim. JPS then contacted Mr and 
Mrs B and asked them to complete a new letter of authority to allow JPS to get a copy of the 
final response from company S. 
JPS sent an invoice for £665 to Mr and Mrs B for the work they had carried out. This said, 
JPS had previously sent letters to Mr and Mrs B asking them for an updated letter of 
authority. They said, because they hadnt received the requested authority to progress the 
claim against company S, they had now closed this case. JPS explained that in line with the 
client contract, they were entitled to charge for work done on this case. They said they had 
reviewed the file and the costs had been calculated at £665 including VAT representing 
seven hours of work they had carried out. They attached another letter of authority and said 
the costs would be waived if Mr and Mrs B sign and return this. They asked for payment 
within seven days and said a failure to pay the invoice by the due date may incur further 
charges.  
Mr and Mrs B complained to JPS and they replied to say they first got in touch with Mr and 
Mrs B after they had completed an online form. This led to Mr and Mrs B signing a contract 
for JPS services. They said they then started looking into the claim against company S and 
continued to progress it until they received a request from company S for a new letter of 
authority. They said this indicated a final decision had been made by company S. They gave 
Mr and Mrs B the option of signing and returning the letter of authority or to provide JPS with 
a copy of the final response. They said, if neither of these options are chosen, then the 
invoice for £665 would stand. JPS didnt uphold the complaint 
Our investigator looked into things for Mr and Mrs B and thought that JPS hadnt acted 
unreasonably in claiming their fees. Mr and Mrs B disagreed so the matter has come to me 
for a decision.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided not to uphold the complaint. I understand Mr and Mrs B will be 
disappointed by this but Ill explain why I have made this decision. 
Ive seen a copy of the client contract signed by Mr and Mrs B. This says that, by signing the 
contract, Mr and Mrs B agree to the terms and conditions and will become a client of JPS. 
The contract goes on to say that the agreement will end when JPS recover all redress for Mr 
and Mrs B or they inform them that no redress is due, and all invoices raised in line with the 
agreement have been settled. Ive seen a letter of authority signed by Mr and Mrs B 
instructing JPS to act for them in a claim for mis-sold PPI against company S. Mr and Mrs B 
later completed a questionnaire giving JPS further details about their claim. The 
questionnaire also contains JPS opinion on whether the claim has merits and notes the 
various breaches.   
JPS have also provided a recording of a telephone call they had with Mr B during which they 
explained they had heard back from company S who had confirmed PPI had been applied to 
the credit card. JPS went through a number of questions relating to the claim which Mr B 
answered. The questions included, what information company S gave Mr and Mrs B at the 
time they took out the credit card and also querying whether a range of scenarios which 
mightve led to a claim being made against the PPI policy had occurred. The call went into 
significant detail about the circumstances surrounding the PPI claim and the questionnaire 
was being completed by the call handler at JPS at the same time. At the end of the call, the 
call handler explains to Mr B that they will be sending the questionnaire to company S and 
they would then need to wait for a final response. 
I think the contract, the signed letter of authority, the questionnaire and the call recording 
leave no doubt that Mr and Mrs B had instructed JPS to act for them in the claim against 
company S. And, I think its reasonable to conclude that Mr B was aware JPS are acting for 
him and Mrs B given that the call handler explained the next steps. 
Ive looked at the terms and conditions which set out the agreement between Mr and Mrs B 
and JPS. The terms and conditions say the following:
1.5 You agree to supply the Company with all relevant information that we may                 
                   reasonably request in order to help us pursue a claim on your behalf
1.6 You agree to supply the Company with all relevant information in your 
       possession  
6.4 Should you materially breach this Agreement, you will have 14 days in which to
  remedy any breach. Following expiration of the 14 days, and where the breach      
  has not been remedied, the Company reserves the right to terminate the  
 Agreement immediately, and will provide you with written confirmation of this  
 within 7 days. All Fees due under clause 2 will remain payable.
Clause 2 of the terms and conditions relates to fees and says that if the agreement is 
terminated before a final decision is made on the claim, JPS can charge a reasonable fee for 
work done. And, the rate will be charged at £95 per hour.   
I can see that JPS ended the agreement following unsuccessful attempts at getting 
information from Mr and Mrs B. The terms and conditions do allow JPS to ask for information 
and sets out a requirement for Mr and Mrs B to provide information. In this case, the information which was requested and not supplied was a new letter of authority. I think JPS 
request for this was reasonable as they received information from company S which 
suggested a final response had been issued. So, JPS wouldve needed this to move the 
claim forward.  
The information Ive seen shows that JPS did give Mr and Mrs B opportunities to provide the 
information but Mr and Mrs B never did. The final response letter to Mr and Mrs Bs 
complaint explains that JPS want to resolve the matter amicably and if Mr and Mrs B sign 
the letter of authority and JPS find that the claim wasnt upheld, then they wouldnt charge 
them. They also said, if they find the claim was upheld due to the work they carried out then 
they would invoice Mr and Mrs B in line with the contract signed by them. They said if Mr and 
Mrs B dont sign the letter of authority or dont provide a copy of the final response from 
company S, then the £665 invoice would stand. JPS agreed to place the file on hold for 21 
days to allow Mr and Mrs B a chance to consider the position. 
I can see there were further exchanges in emails following the final response letter. JPS 
again asked Mr and Mrs B to provide either a copy of the final response from company S or 
to sign the letter of authority. And, they again confirmed if the final response shows the claim 
wasnt upheld then they will close their file with no charge to Mr and Mrs B. 
I understand Mr and Mrs B are concerned about JPS pursuing them for the fees which have 
arisen following the termination of the agreement, but I cant say JPS have acted unfairly or 
unreasonably. JPS have acted in line with the terms and conditions which allow them to 
terminate an agreement if a client doesnt provide information and then claim costs charged 
at an hourly rate. JPS say theyve carried out seven hours of work and, when applying an 
hourly rate of £95, this does arrive at a figure of £665. And, I can see that JPS have gone 
further and allowed Mr and Mrs B opportunities to provide the information requested and 
avoid this fee. Our investigator did attempt to mediate between the parties to see whether 
JPS would now accept a letter of authority  I can see they declined this. I cant however say 
they acted unreasonably here given that the terms and conditions do allow JPS to take the 
action they have.  
Mr B has told us about both his and Mrs Bs personal circumstances and I am sorry to hear 
about the impact this is continuing to have on them. Mr B has told us that he has recently 
received court documents relating to JPS claim for fees. I understand this will be upsetting 
for him and Mrs B but the terms and conditions do allow JPS to take court action. So, I cant 
say they are acting against the terms and conditions or otherwise in a manner which is unfair 
and unreasonable.  
My final decision
For the reasons I have given, it is my final decision that the complaint is not upheld.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr and Mrs B to 
accept or reject my decision before 15 February 2021.
 
Paviter Dhaddy
Ombudsman