DRN-3228753
The complaint
Mr and Mrs R have complained about AXA Insurance UK Plcs decision to reject a claim 
they made under their home and buildings insurance policy. 
What happened
In December 2020 Mr and Mrs R contacted AXA to make a claim under their home and 
buildings insurance policy. They explained that work carried out to the property around 30 
years before by the previous owner had led to the property being unsafe because of the 
materials used to repoint the house. This meant that Mr and Mrs R needed to have their 
house repointed again. Mr and Mrs R asked AXA to cover the claim. They provided AXA 
with a quotation and in May 2021 AXA replied. 
AXA told Mr and Mrs R that they had a valid claim but they needed to know what the cause 
of damage was. Until this was received, AXA said it wouldnt be able to decide the best way 
to settle the claim.
Mr R called AXA in June 2021 to provide an update and was advised that they didnt have a 
valid claim after all  and that the information previously given wasnt correct. 
AXA confirmed in a letter to Mr and Mrs R that it wouldnt be meeting their claim. Mr and Mrs 
complained, but AXA said its decision was correct. So they asked us to look at their 
complaint. 
Our investigator agreed that AXA had misled Mr and Mrs R in their letter in May 2021 as it 
appeared AXA had validated the claim. But as AXAs policy  like all standard insurance 
policies  only covers specific insurable perils  she couldnt say AXAs decision to decline 
their claim was unreasonable as it wasnt covered under the policy. And although AXA had 
failed to manage their expectations, she found that the repointing work required to Mr and 
Mrs Rs home was something they would have needed to get done in any event. So she 
didnt recommend upholding Mr and Mrs Rs complaint. 
Mr and Mrs R have asked for an ombudsmans decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr and Mrs Rs policy with AXA provides cover for specified insured perils such as fire, 
storm, flood or theft. It doesnt cover every eventuality. But I can understand Mr and Mrs Rs 
reason for complaining to AXA given that in May 2021 it wrote the following:
You have a valid claim under your policy but until this information is received, we 
cannot agree the most appropriate way to settle your claim.
When things go wrong we look at what the impact was, what the policy says and whether it 
would have changed the outcome. In this case, I think the works that werent covered under 
the policy was something Mr and Mrs R were always going to be responsible for. And so I 
think AXA failed to manage their expectations. But I dont think this means it should therefore 
meet their claim. 
I understand Mr and Mrs R are concerned that AXA removed some information from its file 
provided by the initial handler and that letters were sent by AXA from somebody other than 
the colleague named on them. But I havent seen any evidence to support these concerns. 
I am sorry to disappoint Mr and Mrs R. But from what Ive seen I dont think AXA has 
unreasonably declined their claim. And this means Im not asking it to do anymore. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr R and Mrs R to 
accept or reject my decision before 10 February 2022.
 
Geraldine Newbold
Ombudsman