DRN-3407463
The complaint
Mr A complains that AXA Insurance UK Plc recorded a claim on the Claims Underwriting 
Exchange (CUE) incorrectly, under his building insurance policy.
What happened
Mr A called AXA to query whether damage to a boundary wall would be covered by his 
policy. He says he didnt give his consent for a claim to be logged. But was told by the call 
handler hed need to start a claim to gain access to Mr As policy wording. He said he wasnt 
putting in a claim as the builder was likely to be responsible. The call handler thought this 
might be excluded under poor workmanship.
Mr A says the call handler repeated that he couldnt access the policy without putting a claim 
through. He said okay but didnt realise this would mean a claim would be logged that 
would impact on future premiums. No claim was made for the wall, and Mr A subsequently 
sold the house. But he says he is now paying more for his insurance as a result of the claim 
AXA logged, which is on the CUE database. He doesnt think this is fair. 
Mr A also says the claim was recorded as accidental damage incorrectly.
AXA says Mr A agreed to it opening a claim to look into the matter for him. He was advised 
the issue with the wall wasnt covered. It told him that a claim was on file but it would be 
closed as information only. AXA says any claim logged for information only, wont impact Mr 
As no claims discount. But the incident will be visible to other insurers on the CUE 
database.   
AXA says any genuine incident Mr A made enquiries about should be recorded on the 
database. It didnt agree that it shouldve warned him of this as it could be construed as it 
trying to warn customers off from logging claims, which would be viewed negatively by the 
industry regulator. AXA says the claim was logged using the most relevant option for the 
insured cause. 
Mr A didnt think AXAs response was fair and referred his complaint to our service. Our 
investigator didnt uphold his complaint. She thought it was clear Mr A agreed to a claim 
being logged during the call. And says insurers will record enquiries whether it leads to a 
claim or not. She didnt think AXA had acted unfairly by logging the claim, so didnt think it 
was responsible for how other insurers used this information when setting premiums. 
Mr A asked for confirmation in writing that his claim had been an information only claim, so 
he could provide this information to his current insurer. Our investigator provided 
confirmation of this by email. Mr A says he still thought AXAs call handler hadnt been clear, 
and this shouldnt be dismissed because hed said okay to the call handler in the 
circumstances described. He says he doesnt need the record removed anymore as its clear 
this wont impact on his insurance premiums. But he does want compensation for the extra 
premium paid in the first year of his new policy. Mr A asked for an ombudsman to consider 
his complaint. 
It has now been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so I have decided not to uphold Mr As complaint. Let me explain.
Ive listened to the call between Mr A and AXAs call handler when he raised his query about 
the damaged wall. In this call the call handler explains he cant access Mr As policy wording 
until he puts a claim through. The call handler explains that he doesnt think the policy 
covers poor workmanship, but he doesnt have access to the policy terms to confirm. Mr A 
makes it clear that he is pursuing the builder to remedy the problem with the wall and isnt 
claiming against his policy.
During the call the call handler says on several occasions that he will have to put a claim 
through so that he can access the policy wording. Mr A can be heard to say okay and 
thats fine in response. The call handler didnt explain that this would be recorded and 
shared on the CUE database, which I understand to be the crux of Mr As complaint. 
AXA says if it had discussed the CUE database with Mr A, it would effectively be warning 
him off from making a claim, to avoid an incident being visible on the database. It doesnt 
think this is appropriate and could get in trouble with the regulator if it did this.
I have thought about whether AXA behaved fairly here.
The CUE database is intended to identify misrepresentation and prevent fraud. Most 
insurers are signed up to it and will record any incident they are made aware of, whether this 
leads to a claim or not. Insurers access this information when a customer requests cover as 
part of its risk assessment.  
In this case Mr A explained to AXAs call handler that he is selling his house and a problem 
was identified with his boundary wall. He says this was estimated to cost around £4,000 to 
fix, and that he was contacting the builder to try and get the problem resolved. So, right from 
the start of the phone call AXA was aware of the problem with the wall  the incident. 
Regardless of whether Mr A wanted to make a claim, I think its reasonable that this incident 
would need to be recorded. 
Mr A was also told that a claim would need to be set up in order to access the policy 
wording. This was explained several times during the call, and he agreed to this. I 
understand that Mr A holds strong views about this, but I dont think AXA behaved 
unreasonably in recording the information it did.  
Mr A also raised concerns that AXA has recorded the cause as accidental damage. He didnt 
think this was accurate. 
AXA says its call handler chose the most reasonable option in order to put the claim 
through, as there was no clear cause of the damage. It says it wasnt fire, flood, or impact 
damage as far as it had been made aware. So, in these circumstances the most appropriate 
selection was accidental damage, which is the option it says its call handlers will typically 
select here.       
I have thought about whether accidental damage was a fair way to record the cause of 
damage in these circumstances. Mr As wall was thought to be damaged as a result of poor workmanship. This isnt an insured event under the cover provided by his policy. AXAs call 
handler selected accidental damage in order to be able to log a claim and access the policy 
wording. I dont think this was unreasonable in the circumstances described. 
The business explains it has logged the claim as notification only. I have seen a screenshot 
it provided from its system records that confirm this to be the case. I think this shows that the 
claim was logged as it should have been.
I understand Mr A has some concerns about how his complaint was handled by AXA. 
Handling complaints isnt a regulated activity in itself. Im sorry to hear that Mr A isnt 
satisfied about AXAs handling of his complaint, but Im not able to consider these concerns 
here. 
In considering all of this I dont think AXA treated Mr A unfairly when logging the incident 
about his damaged boundary wall, or when recording a claim under the cause of accidental 
damage. So, I cant reasonably ask it to do anything more.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision before 12 May 2022.
 
Mike Waldron
Ombudsman