DRN-2275508
The complaint
Mr Z complains about poor service and delays from AXA Insurance UK Plc in response to 
his claim for water damage to his flat within a residential block. Mr Z claimed under a 
building insurance policy held by a building management company.
What happened
In November 2018 Mr Zs flat suffered an escape of water from the flat upstairs. He claimed 
for the damage to AXA but said that AXA didnt properly investigate or resolve the claim. Mr 
Z complained to AXA in September 2019 about the time it was taking and that no bills had 
been paid and strip out works hadnt started. Mr Z said his flat hadnt been properly dried 
and damp had caused mould to become visible. Mr Z complained about AXAs agents 
requests for additional information when this had already been provided. He asked AXA to 
communicate directly rather than from its loss adjuster. AXA said Mr Zs flat was extensively 
damaged and it was uninhabitable, and it paid for alternative accommodation for six months.
AXA said it had concerns about Mr Zs occupancy of the flat and costs hed incurred and 
requested copies of bank statements and bills for utilities and broadband with an address. 
But it said Mr Z provided bills with no address. AXA thinks Mr Z is refusing to co-operate with 
its enquiries and so it wont pay for any other work or alternative accommodation. It said Mr 
Zs reasons for not providing the requested information werent reasonable and had delayed 
his claim. AXA said it would pay to store Mr Zs possessions until December 2019. 
AXA responded further to Mr Zs complaint saying its claims handler has kept him and his 
loss assessor updated throughout the claim. It said there were very minor delays in 
responding to a few of his emails due to the complexity of the claim and in complying with 
his request to receive communications from AXA rather than its loss adjuster. AXA said it is 
justified in requesting further information from Mr Z in order to validate his claim.
Mr Z wasnt satisfied with AXAs response and brought his complaint to our service. Our 
investigator didnt recommend the complaint be upheld, saying it is standard practice for an 
insurer to validate a claim and AXAs requests for information were reasonable. He said this 
was more complicated as AXAs concerns started part-way though the claim and it stopped 
making payments and carrying out the work. But the information Mr Z sent wasnt enough to 
validate a claim, for example by redacting names on bills when the insurers already know Mr 
Z and the landlords names. The investigator said AXA hadnt been responsible for delays.
Mr Z said he is not the insured, its his management company, and so irrespective of his 
relationship with the insurer the works should be carried out and the claim should be paid. 
The investigator said the management company for Mr Zs flat could complain to AXA if it 
has any issues. He recommended Mr Z respond to AXAs letter of June 2020 suggesting a 
meeting and said Mr Z should provide the additional information previously requested.
Mr Z disagreed with the investigator. He asked what information AXA required and why the 
investigator thought it was acceptable for him to provide third party information. He said all 
works so far by AXA were substandard and only on paper and it had since stopped all work. 
The investigator sent Mr Z a list of the information required by AXA and details of what Mr Z 
had sent AXA so far. Mr Z still wasnt happy, and the complaint has been referred to me for a 
final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I have concentrated on the main issues raised by Mr Z though Im aware there have been 
other points of concern during the claim. 
Ive looked carefully at the communications between the parties and AXAs claim file to see if 
it has treated Mr Z fairly by halting his claim and requesting further information. Its the 
policyholders responsibility to prove their claim, in other words to show that their loss or 
damage falls within the cover set out within the policy. And then if the insurer thinks that the 
claim shouldnt be paid it is for the insurer to show that policy conditions havent been met or 
an exclusion clause applies. 
Its accepted by both parties that Mr Zs flat suffered water damage and that an escape of 
water is an insured peril within Mr Zs policy. However, AXA has concerns about whether the 
conditions in the policy have been met, in particular Mr Zs occupation of the flat and also his 
occupation of the alternative accommodation. 
As the investigator has said, its common practice for insurers to require policyholders to 
provide information in these circumstances. AXA has a term in the policy that requires 
policyholders to provide the information that will enable it to validate a claim. It is also open 
to insurers to use specialist claims handlers known as loss adjusters and investigators to 
manage a claim. AXA has done this, and I think this it was a reasonable approach to take.
AXA asked Mr Z for additional information in 2019 to show his outgoings and where he was 
living and requested a meeting, with which it says he has been reluctant to comply. Mr Z 
sent some documents in response but none of these contained an address. And so, AXA 
asked for the information again. To date Mr Z hasnt provided the information AXA has 
requested and so AXAs moratorium on his claim has remained. 
Having looked at AXAs requests and Mr Zs response I think it was reasonable for AXA to 
have the requested information before proceeding with Mr Zs claim. I think that Mr Zs 
reluctance to provide the information AXA requested has been the main cause of the delay 
in the progress of his claim. Mr Z has said that the information AXA has requested would 
include third party information that it was not entitled to. The policy is in the management 
companys name and AXA is already aware of the landlords name and so I dont think that 
Mr Z would be providing anything new to AXA. But I do think it would help his claim to 
cooperate in this way and I recommend that he does so. 
Mr Z said AXA has declined to repay his utility costs, but Ive seen the requests for these 
bills from AXA to Mr Z. I dont think these have been provided so I cant criticise AXA for any 
failure here.
From what I have seen, I dont think AXA has failed to communicate with Mr Z or address his 
concerns. AXA has handled Mr Zs claim as I would expect other claims to be handled in 
similar circumstances. Having looked closely at the case file and Mr Zs submissions I think 
AXA has treated Mr Z fairly about his claim. Although a meeting would now be difficult to 
arrange because of lockdown restrictions there doesnt appear to be a reason for Mr Z not to 
provide the documents AXA has requested in order to validate his claim.My final decision
For the reasons I have given it is my final decision that the complaint is not upheld.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr Z to accept or 
reject my decision before 1 March 2021.
 
Andrew Fraser
Ombudsman