DRN-3982733
The complaint
Mr S complains Barclays Bank UK PLC trading as Barclaycard wont let him make a 
payment to clear one of his credit card accounts. 
What happened
I issued a provisional decision setting out whatd happened, and what I thought about that. 
Ive copied the relevant elements below, and they form part of this final decision.
For context Mr S brought a complaint related to events prior to those that are the subject of 
this complaint Im considering. From reading my fellow Ombudsmans final decision, my brief 
understanding is:
Due to a problem with another bank, two direct debits werent made for Mr S two 
credit card accounts leading to missed payments.
Mr S wanted to make payments, but Barclaycard felt this would put him in a worse 
position at the time. Mr S was also unhappy Barclaycard didnt tell him he could 
make bank transfers to clear the balances.
The matter didnt get resolved, so after six months Barclaycard defaulted the 
accounts.
The Ombudsman found Barclaycard had acted correctly, so wouldnt be asking them 
to remove the defaults. And because she didnt think Barclaycard had acted 
incorrectly in not taking payments from Mr S, she also didnt think theyd done 
anything wrong in not telling him he could make bank transfers.
This final decision was issued in February 2019. I cant reconsider anything thats already 
been decided by an Ombudsman  so I can only look at events after this time and cant 
instruct the defaults to be removed.
In December 2020 one of Mr S accounts had been sold to a debt purchaser. In either 
September 2021 or January 2022 (Mr S has given both dates) Mr S was able to contact 
them, clear the debt and get the default marked as settled. He contacted Barclaycard to do 
the same with the other account but says he didnt get a reply, so he asked us to look into 
things.
As part of this, we asked Barclaycard for their file. They said they couldnt trace any contact 
from Mr S in January 2022 so didnt think theyd made any errors. They said the last contact 
was in September 2021 and the outstanding balance (at the time of their reply) was 
£16,363.11.
One of our Investigators considered Mr S complaints  and ultimately upheld them, but not 
to the degree he wanted. She found Mr S knew how to make payments as hed made a bank 
transfer, had been told the balances and thought Barclaycard hadnt prevented him from 
making payments. But, she did think Barclaycard hadnt replied to Mr S on several occasions 
and misunderstood the issues he was raising  so she awarded £200 compensation.
Mr S didnt agree, in summary, he said:
When he made payments of £100 this was to test if theyd be received, as previously 
theyd been rejected.
He never received any confirmation these online payments had been applied to his 
balance, and actually he prefers to make payments over the phone.
One of our staff was on the speakerphone with him and heard Barclaycard say they 
wouldnt take payment from him  so despite what they say now their position was 
always to not accept payment.
As Mr S didnt accept our Investigators outcome, the complaint has been passed to me to 
decide. Before doing so, I felt I needed more information from both parties  so I arranged 
for us to ask a number of questions. Ive addressed the relevant information below.
What Ive provisionally decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I think its important to firstly explain Ive read and taken into account all of the information 
provided by both parties, in reaching my decision. I say this as Im aware Ive summarised 
Mr S complaint in considerably less detail than he has. If Ive not reflected something thats 
been said its not because I didnt see it, its because I didnt deem it relevant to the crux of 
the complaint. This isnt intended as a discourtesy to either party, but merely to reflect my 
informal role in deciding what a fair and reasonable outcome is. This also means I dont think 
its necessary to get an answer, or provide my own answer, to every question raised unless I 
think its relevant to the crux of the complaint.
As Ive set out above I wont be commenting on whether Mr S defaults should be removed  
and because of events since that time, I can see Mr S remaining concern is about 
Barclaycard not accepting payment for the remaining account.
Although the default wont be removed, it can and should be marked as settled once the 
outstanding payment has been made. This could have a positive effect on a credit file  as it 
means there isnt any funds owed to a creditor for that account anymore.
So, the crux of Mr S complaint, and what I need to decide, is whether Barclaycard have 
prevented Mr S from making payment so that the default on his one remaining account could 
be marked as settled. And, if the answer to that is yes, whether that means the other 
account should also be marked as settled from an earlier date. 
As a starting point, Barclaycard have on many occasions misunderstood what Mr S 
complaint is. This has been a complex matter to unravel, as it both relates to a previous 
issue (the default being reported) and has gone on for many years. Regardless though, I 
would expect Barclaycard to make reasonable efforts to deal with Mr S correctly and fairly  
and Im not satisfied theyve done that.
The first evidence I have of Mr S wishing to pay off the defaulted amounts, after our services 
previous final decision in February 2019, is 14 May 2019.
In this email, Mr S says he wants to pay off the debt on both accounts, as hes not in 
financial difficulties and asks how to do that. Ive seen no evidence this contact was ever 
replied to by Barclaycard. In more recent contact, when asking Barclaycard about this, theyve said even if Mr S was 
able to pay them, hes not completed an income and expenditure form. Barclaycard also said 
Mr S says hes not in financial difficulties, but to not assume a defaulted account means 
someone isnt in financial difficulties is counterproductive.
I think this is unfortunately demonstrating Barclaycard are confusing the two matters. The 
default was applied, and our service decided it wont be removed. That isnt what this 
complaint is about. This complaint is about Mr S efforts to pay off the debt following that.
Barclaycards defence is, as far as I can tell, that Mr S never completed an income and 
expenditure form with them to demonstrate he was able to make the payments. 
I agree that this is necessary in Mr S circumstances. Two different accounts have been 
defaulted for quite a significant amount of money. But, whats perhaps more important, is 
that Barclaycard tell Mr S this is whats required.
Through all of the evidence provided, Ive seen nothing to show me Barclaycard told Mr S, in 
the complaint Im considering, that he needed to do this. And, even if Mr S had been told 
prior to this complaint  hes asked how to pay off the debts and Barclaycard have, as far as 
I can tell, ignored him on most occasions. Where they did reply, Ive seen nothing to show 
they said he needed to complete a new income and expenditure assessment and he refused 
to do so. And, given his desire to pay off the debts, I think its likely had he been told to 
complete an income and expenditure form then hed have done so.
At various times Barclaycard have asked debt collectors to contact Mr S regarding 
repayment of the debt. Im aware this is of significant concern for Mr S  but I dont think I 
need to address this in detail, because Im satisfied Barclaycard should have done more 
following his contact on 14 May 2019.
Ive seen Barclaycard said the two accounts were both sold to debt collectors, and they 
instructed debt collectors. It seems Barclaycard arent very clear on exactly what happened 
here, but as the accounts were regularly passed back to Barclaycard, it seems more likely 
than not Barclaycard simply instructed debt collectors  rather than selling the account.
With that in mind, Im satisfied Barclaycard are ultimately responsible for dealing with Mr S 
contact on 14 May 2019, whether they passed this on to a debt collector or not.
So, the next natural question is whether Mr S was in a position to be able to repay the debt. 
For several years now, since May 2019 in relation to the complaint Im considering, Mr S has 
been clear and consistent in saying hes able to afford repayment of the defaults. Following 
the information I asked for from him, hes also provided a letter from his accountant saying 
he was in a position at the time to have repaid the outstanding debts.
This letter, combined with Mr S regular contact over the years asking to repay the debts, 
mean Im satisfied he was able to do so.
Im aware Mr S has had some further issues later on, including in September 2021. Ill factor 
all of this in the ultimate outcome I reach.
Putting things right
Ive seen Mr S reference to various legal judgments and the Consumer Credit Sourcebook 
(CONC) rules. But, as Im upholding Mr S complaint, I dont need to address the specific 
points hes raised, as I believe he was making them to justify why Barclaycard hadnt treated 
him fairly  which I agree with.
There are several factors that need to be addressed to put matters right.Default
At the risk of repetition, the default wont be removed  but the date the default can show as 
settled can be amended to reflect what I think should have happened. To be clear, I think 
had Barclaycard properly engaged with Mr S in May 2019 hed have paid off the debts for 
both accounts. 
This would have led to the defaults showing as settled after he did this. Ive seen 
suggestions of repayment plans over a few months, so lets say three months  taking us to 
14 August 2019.
But, I cant require Barclaycard to mark a default as settled if that debt hasnt been repaid. At 
this moment in time, the debt with Barclaycard hasnt been repaid. The debt with the debt 
purchaser has been repaid.
The powers Im given are to require Barclaycard to take action, I cant compel Mr S to do 
anything. But, in order for the default on the debt with Barclaycard to be shown as settled 
(and at the earlier date of August 2019), Mr S will need to repay the outstanding balance.
We put this to Mr S as a possible outcome, and he said No. This would be a zero-sum 
game in favour of the bank. Arguably it would be the effect of such refusal that would require 
addressment. Bank now need to be held accountable. 
I think Mr S is saying hes not as concerned about the default date showing as settled now, 
as he is about the losses hes incurred. Given the aggravation Mr S has been put through by 
Barclaycard I do understand his point of view. Ill address Mr S claimed losses shortly. But, 
in relation to the default its not fair or appropriate to ask Barclaycard to mark a default as 
settled until the full balance has been repaid. Ultimately, this is Mr S choice. He can chose 
to repay the debt, and once repaid then Barclaycard would be required to backdate the 
settlement date of the default to 14 August 2019  or he can chose not to repay it at this 
point. If he chooses not to, then it wont show as settled.
For the other debt Barclaycard sold to the debt purchaser, they should arrange for the 
default settlement date to be backdated to 14 August 2019  as this debt was repaid, and for 
the reasons Ive mentioned above, could have been repaid earlier.
Financial losses
Our service splits financial losses and compensation into separate categories. If Im satisfied 
Mr S has incurred financial losses as a direct result of Barclaycards actions  and these 
financial losses were unavoidable  then I can require them to repay these plus interest.
We asked Mr S to provide an itemised list of what he was claiming for, along with evidence 
of those costs where possible. Mr S didnt provide an itemised list  instead referring me to 
his accountants letter. 
Ive considered that, but currently Im not satisfied any financial losses Mr S is claiming for 
are ones Id hold Barclaycard responsible for. This, in part, may be because Mr S hasnt 
clearly explained every loss hes claiming for along with evidence to back up why 
Barclaycard are mainly or solely responsible for him incurring those losses.
What Mr S has said is hes claiming legal fees and having to take out higher finance for 
credit than he otherwise would have.In relation to the legal fees Mr S has incurred it was his choice whether to use legal services 
to contact Barclaycard or not. As a service we dont generally award legal costs, purely 
because if someone is unhappy with a financial businesses actions then they can complain 
to that business, and bring matters to us if they remain unhappy. Mr S was aware of this 
process, given his previous complaints. So, I dont currently plan to award any of his legal 
costs.
Mr S remaining concerns appear to relate to applications which have been turned down by 
lenders. And his accountant has referred to having to take out high interest rate products as 
a result of the defaults being present. Ive also seen information from brokers, saying they 
couldnt speak to any of their lenders about getting lending for Mr S, because of the defaults.
What isnt clear though, is whether this is as a result of  the mere presence of the defaults, or 
that theyre not showing as settled. 
Generally speaking, in order to say Barclaycard have caused Mr S losses when applying for 
other credit, Id need to be satisfied they were mainly or wholly responsible for those losses. 
Lenders can and do take into account a significant number of factors when deciding whether 
to lend or not  and given Mr S would, even if hed paid off the debts in May 2019, still have 
had a default  this makes it even more difficult for me to be satisfied Barclaycard are solely 
responsible here. The sort of evidence Id usually expect to see would be a letter from the 
relevant lender, saying the sole reason they didnt grant the lending was down to the default 
not showing as settled. Im aware from some of the broker emails Mr S has shared say he 
didnt get as far as even making applications to lenders on some occasions. So, as things 
stand, Ive no reasonable evidence on which to uphold those elements of his complaint.
Currently then, I dont plan to award any legal costs or financial losses Mr S has claimed for. 
That said, if Mr S provides clear detailed information regarding his losses, along with 
evidence of the fault being Barclaycards, then I can reconsider this. Im aware Mr S has said 
he has a significant amount of other documents  so its possible he can evidence this.
Compensation
Although Im not awarding any costs for the financial losses in relation to the lending Mr S 
has claimed for, this doesnt mean hes not been caused distress over a very long period of 
time as a result of this default not showing as settled.
Ive set out above why I dont agree Mr S should be refunded those costs, but its clear Mr S 
believed the reason he was having problems getting credit was solely down to the default 
not being settled.
On top of that, he regularly contacted Barclaycard in an effort to resolve matters, including in 
September 2021 without success. So, for three years Mr S has been left in a position of 
attempting to pay off a debt, feeling ignored by Barclaycard and their debt collection agents, 
and feeling as though the only reason he was having difficulties is due to the default not 
showing as settled.
I think its fair to say this has caused Mr S a substantial amount of distress and 
inconvenience. To reflect that, Im planning to require Barclaycard to pay Mr S £1,000 
compensation.
Responses to my provisional decision
In summary Mr S first response said:Although he accepts I wont address the original complaint, he asks if having 
considered the emails and phone calls in March and April 2018, if itd be appropriate 
to remove the defaults in their entirety.
If Im not prepared to remove the date, Im asked if I can amend the settlement date 
back to April 2018 where Mr S says he tried to repay the debt before.
His legal costs were unavoidable because Barclaycard refused to engage with him.
He provided evidence of the borrowing costs he says hes incurred.
Hed also like the cards reinstated, and as a further point to put matters right said 
hed been denied credit elsewhere because of these issues.
Barclaycard ultimately accepted my provisional decision. They said theyre checking if L can 
backdate the settlement date, although they said Mr S told them L had removed the default 
entirely. They reiterated theyd only be able to backdate the default once payment is made  
and no payment had been received yet, despite them having a conversation with Mr S and 
telling him how to do this. 
Following Mr S calling Barclaycard, they both then contacted our service again. 
Barclaycard reiterated theyd accept my provisional decision in how things should be settled. 
They said Mr S expectations go beyond what Ive ordered. They added Mr S knows how to 
make bank transfers to them  and their financial difficulties team will need to look into what 
support can be offered to satisfy their affordability requirements. They said they understood 
Mr S intends to share more information to compel me to change my mind.
In Mr S second email, he said:
Hed called Barclaycard and asked that this call is listened to before I finalise my 
decision. The reason for this is because Ive said costs arent evidenced  but in the 
call Barclaycard say legal representation is the only way to take the matter forward 
because its unlikely Ill change my findings. Mr S says this is evidence that the legal 
costs were necessary.
Barclaycard said theyd do nothing to help fix the position other than to accept 
payment from him. Mr S says this is as a result of my failure to make an award for 
costs.
Throughout the call he made it clear he was willing to work with Barclaycard to 
resolve the issue, and move on, but they remained resolute in that theyd followed 
proper protocol. He says Barclaycard said Id found they hadnt acted incorrectly.
Mr S did make a number of other comments, but I consider them either not relevant to the 
crux of the complaint, or already made in the first email, so Ive not listed those out.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As Barclaycard have ultimately accepted the outcome I reached, Ill focus on Mr S 
comments. 
Mr S first email
I wont instruct Barclaycard to remove the default. This was decided previously by our 
service to have been correctly applied.I also remain of the opinion the fair date to backdate the default to  if Mr S pays off the 
balance  is 14 August 2019. I say that because Im only looking at events after the previous 
Ombudsmans decision, which was February 2019.
While I understand Mr S concerns about the legal costs, they were, ultimately, his choice. I 
can see hes said Barclaycard and our service both advised him to get legal advice. But, 
even if Barclaycard did, then itd still be his choice about whether to pursue matters or not. 
Our service wont advise people on the next course of action  wed say if someone remains 
unhappy they can choose to seek legal advice if they like. And, as Ive set out in my 
provisional decision above, Mr S knew he could bring a complaint to us if he remained 
unhappy with Barclaycards actions. So, I wont be awarding those costs.
Ive next looked at the evidence of the costs hes incurred. As a reminder I said I needed to 
see something from the relevant lender, explicitly saying the sole or main reason they didnt 
provide lending to Mr S was due to the unsettled default.
One of the documents is from a broker, dated 13 February 2023, saying lenders specifically 
turned him down because the default was still outstanding.
Another document is dated 8 February 2023 from a sub-prime lender. They specialise in 
granting lending to those who otherwise cant get this from the usual high street lenders.
In addition to these two documents, I have also carefully reviewed the remaining documents 
Mr S has sent. But, looking at all of them, none meet the requirements I set out. The broker 
email Ive referred to doesnt confirm anything from an actual lender or demonstrate the sole 
reason for turning Mr S down was due to the defaults not being settled. The email from the 
sub-prime lender says Mr S could have got a cheaper loan from a high street lender if the 
defaults were showing as settled. Again, this doesnt prove to me Mr S was turned down by 
a lender because of the defaults not showing as settled.
Overall as Mr S hasnt demonstrated what I said he needed to, I cant reasonably say any 
lending costs he says hes incurred should be paid by Barclaycard. 
Ive noted Mr S has asked for the credit cards to be reinstated. That isnt a decision our 
service would generally make  as its a commercial decision for a lender such as 
Barclaycard to decide who they lend money to. So, I wont be requiring Barclaycard to do 
this.
And Ive noted Mr S wanted some recognition of the fact hes been without access to other 
lending while this matter has been ongoing. Hes not though provided anything to 
demonstrate that, and I have factored in how long the matter has been ongoing when 
thinking about the compensation award.
Mr S second email
I understand Mr S thinks its important I listen to this call, but for reasons Ill go on to explain I 
dont think its necessary.
I need to make it clear I cant allow either party to direct my investigation. That means it 
wouldnt be appropriate for Barclaycard to tell me what information I need to get and 
consider to reach a fair and reasonable outcome  so I hope Mr S understands its not 
appropriate for him to do so either.
The reason I dont think its necessary for me to get the call is because of what Mr S has 
said about the contents. The key issue hes talking about is the legal costs, and that 
Barclaycard have told him the best way to resolve this now may be litigation.The point I was making when I said it was Mr S choice to get legal advice and use solicitors 
is that he could have raised a new complaint and brought that to our service. I do fully accept 
Barclaycard didnt handle things properly  which is why Ive made a high compensation 
award of £1,000  but I dont agree that means Mr S only had one choice to pursue matters.
Ultimately, if Mr S wants to pursue the matter he may wish to seek legal advice about taking 
this complaint to court. To be clear though, that would be his choice  Im not advising him to 
do so.
In his previous conversations Mr S suggested he wasnt going to make any payment  I 
appreciate his position has since shifted and hes said he wants to pay off the balance. 
Barclaycard have told him how to make bank transfers  and told him they cant stop 
themselves receiving those transfers. 
Barclaycard would usually take someone through an income and expenditure process  to 
determine whether the repayment proposals are affordable or not. Barclaycard say Mr S 
cant meet their requirements  Mr S says Barclaycard arent working with him and meeting 
the requirements of my provisional decision. 
If Barclaycard are doing what Ive said, which it sounds like they are, then Im unclear on 
why Mr S wouldnt be able to meet their requirements. But, even if theyre not, then 
Barclaycard have explicitly confirmed to Mr S how he can make payments. So, I cant 
legitimately say Barclaycard arent giving him relevant information to move this situation 
forward.
I will make it clear I do think Barclaycard havent acted correctly  which is why Ive awarded 
what Ive awarded. But Ive seen no reason to change the overall outcome I reached in my 
provisional decision for all of the reasons Ive set out above.
Summary
I set out in my provisional decision what needed to happen regarding the default, financial 
loss and compensation. Here, Im not satisfied Mr S has proven any financial loss as a direct 
result of Barclaycards actions. So, I still think its right for Barclaycard to backdate the 
default if Mr S repays the outstanding balance, speak to the debt purchaser to ask them to 
backdate the default, and pay Mr S £1,000 compensation.
My final decision
I partially uphold this complaint and require Barclays Bank UK PLC trading as Barclaycard 
to:
Discuss repaying the outstanding debt they hold with Mr S
If that debt is repaid, mark the default settled date as 14 August 2019
Arrange for the account with the debt purchaser to be updated to 14 August 2019
Pay him £1,000 compensation
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 22 March 2023.
 
Jon Pearce
Ombudsman