DRN-2627607
The complaint
Mr H  as joint and several executor (and former Power of Attorney (PoA))  complains on 
behalf of his mothers (Mrs H1s) estate. 
He says that she was given unsuitable investment advice  by St Jamess Place Wealth 
Management Plc  to take out an Immediate Needs Annuity (INA) to help top up her care 
home fees.  
He is being represented by a Claims Management Company (CMC).  
What happened
In June 2019, Mr H and Mrs H2, Mrs H1s daughter (Mr Hs sister)  the other joint and 
several executor and former POA  were advised on behalf of Mrs H1 to purchase an INA, 
and they chose one at a cost of £153,820.88. 
The recorded objective was to ensure that Mrs H1 could afford to stay in the care home 
indefinitely, without any concerns about being able to afford the fees. 
I note Mrs H1 was 79/80 years of age, diagnosed with Alzheimers (since 2012/2013), and 
held £531,000 on deposit, following the sale of her home. It was also recorded that she had 
a net annual income of £26,878  comprised of an £11,424 state pension, £4,557 
attendance allowance and £10,896 private pension net of tax  and that the care home fees 
were £48,506 a year, so she had to supplement the difference of around £22,000  or just 
over £23,000 including her annual personal expenditure. It was noted that the care home 
fees had just increased by 6% and were likely to increase in future. 
Mrs H1 first moved in to the care home in 2018, she sadly passed away in early 2020, after 
a stay of less than two years. Mr H then complained through a CMC on her behalf. 
 
One of our investigators considered the complaint but didnt think it should be upheld. In 
short, he thought the recommendation was suitable for Mrs H1, notwithstanding her age and 
earlier diagnoses. But the CMC disagreed and asked for an ombudsmans decision. It made 
a number of points relating to the average length of stay in a care home and why in the 
circumstances the adviser was wrong to advise Mrs H1 to take out an INA, rather than leave 
her money on deposit. The CMC maintains that the purchase of the annuity was more likely 
(than not) to result in a loss than a gain.  
As no agreement has been reached, the matter has been passed to me for review. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the investigators conclusions for much the same reasons. Im 
not going to uphold this complaint. 
On the face of the evidence, and on balance, despite what the CMC says, Im not persuaded 
that the recommendation to take out an INA that provide a guaranteed income for life  in 
order to supplement Mrs H1s care home fees  was unsuitable. 
I note Mrs H1 was 79/80 years of age at the time, already in a care home and suffering from 
Alzheimers, so Im satisfied that there was more likely (than not) an immediate need for an 
INA to supplement the (increasing) care home fees that she was unable to meet with her 
income. 
Im aware that Mrs H1 also had substantial lump sum available from the sale of her home, so 
she was in a position to be able to comfortably invest a lump sum into an INA  to achieve 
the level of (additional) income she needed for the care home fees and personal 
expenditure. On balance, I dont think the recommendation for an INA in the circumstances 
was unreasonable. Ive seen nothing to suggest that Mrs H1s time in the care home was 
temporary.
Im mindful of the points the CMC makes about the 2011 study commissioned by BUPA 
Care Homes  about (possible) mean/average length of stay in a care home  and the Office 
of National Statistics, about death amongst women in their 80s. But Ive seen nothing to say 
that any person/female diagnosed with Alzheimers aged 79/80 would (definitely) die within a 
specified period, and therefore they ought not to pursue a place in care home or take out an 
INA to supplement the fees. 
Im conscious that life expectancy tables arent a perfect tool, I understand that factors like 
race, genetics, health background, socioeconomic status, and education  in addition to age 
 can influence the life expectancy of large numbers of people with Alzheimers, and not just 
age itself. 
On the face of the evidence, and on balance, Im not persuaded that it was unreasonable to 
think that Mrs H1  notwithstanding her Alzheimers diagnoses in 2012/2013  couldnt live 
for a period that would make the INA worthwhile, and it seems to me that peace of mind was 
important to Mrs H2 and Mr H. On balance, Im satisfied that they had enough time to decide 
whether or not to go ahead with one of the two INA recommendations made.  
Despite what the CMC says I cant safely say that if Mrs H1s money had been left on 
deposit, even if the care home fees increased by 6%, she couldve afforded to stay for 
around 5,000 days. I think thats probably oversimplifying the situation. 
I agree with the investigator that leaving money on deposit wasnt without risk, and that 
taking into account inflation Mrs H1 could have ended up receiving a negative real rate of 
return, not to mention capital erosion.  
So, whilst I appreciate Mrs H1 couldve been advised to run down her savings, that would be 
at the risk of dissipating her funds. I note a cash flow forecast by SJP showed that if the 
funds were left in Mrs H1s bank account theyd run out by 2033, and at that point Mrs H2 
and Mr H would have to move her into a care home the local authority was prepared to fund 
or top up fees using their own money. Ive seen nothing to suggest that Mrs H2 and Mr H 
were happy to leave the money in the account and do that. I note that this money was also 
part of their inheritance, and the INA was part of wider financial advice provided.  
The above notwithstanding, theres simply no guarantee that the money would (always) be 
available for the purpose of supplementing Mrs H1s care home fees and/or the fees 
wouldnt increase beyond 6%, such that the money alone might not be enough if she lived 
long enough. So, I cant safely see that leaving the money on deposit was necessarily an option for Mrs H2 and Mr H1, who were only trying to do their very best for their mothers 
future. 
It seems that advice was sought by Mrs H2 and Mr H, based on Mrs H1 reaching the age of 
90  and the impact that itd have on her finances in the face of mounting care home costs. 
In the main, Im satisfied this is what they got. As Ive mentioned above there was another 
INA option made available  until Mrs H1 reached the aged of 86. But they discounted that 
as well as indexation and capital protection on the grounds of cost.   
On balance, I dont think Mrs H2 and Mr H were anticipating Mrs H1 not surviving beyond a 
year or two, but rather that she could live up to the age of 90, and whether thered be 
enough money to pay for her care if that happened. Im mindful that their objective was that 
Mrs H1 could continue to live in the care home indefinitely without having to worry about 
fees, so I dont think 90 years, as a benchmark, was unsuitable, given that it provided peace 
of mind. 
I appreciate the points the CMC makes about Mrs H1s condition but I dont think in this 
instance that rendered the advice unsuitable. Theres no mention that Mrs H1 had no weight 
on her and that she was skin and bones. Instead I note the information recorded suggests 
Mrs H2 was in reasonable heath, notwithstanding her Alzheimers diagnosis six years prior 
to the advice. Im mindful the adviser wasnt providing a medical prognosis, it wasnt 
something the adviser was qualified to give.   
In any case, given her condition it was more reason to ensure that Mrs H2 wouldnt lose her 
place at the care home, as her condition potentially worsened over time as she got older. In 
the circumstances, Im unable to safely say that Mrs H2 was wrong to want to use the age of 
90 as a measure. 
Even if leaving the money on deposit was a viable option  it doesnt mean that the advice to 
invest in an INA was unsuitable, or negligent. In my opinion there was simply no guarantee 
that the money wouldnt be spent on other things as well as fees, risking leaving Mrs H2 with 
no home, no money and no means of paying for her care, that she probably could end up 
needing for a long time. So, Im unable to conclude that SJP wasnt looking out for Mrs H1s 
best interests.
I note the investigator says that the recommendation wasnt sought in isolation but was part 
of an investment strategy that ensured that Mrs H1s proceeds from the house sale lasted as 
long as possible, whilst still leaving something for her family when she passed.  
I understand that Mrs H2 sadly died just short two years after moving into the care home, 
and roughly a year after the advice was given, but I cant blame SJP for this. Her death isnt 
something that the adviser couldve foreseen at the point of the sale. Ive seen nothing to 
suggest that advice was sought on the basis that Mrs H1 was unlikely to survive more than a 
couple of years. In the circumstances, I agree with the investigator that there isnt an exact 
science to this process. 
Its generally understood that if an INA holder dies early, they/their family are likely to lose 
money. Its an inherent and open risk in taking out an annuity that on balance Im unable to 
say Mrs H2 and Mr H werent made aware of. I note the investigator says that although the 
INA provided a guaranteed income, if Mrs H1 was to die early she wouldnt receive much of 
a return and this was made clear to Mrs H2 and Mr H. 
Im mindful that the INA had a six-month guarantee period which meant that the estate 
wouldve been returned the capital if Mrs H1 died within six months. I also note the INA 
wouldve broken even after six and a half years. I note the investigator says that its only with the benefit of hindsight that the INA seems bad value, something which the CMC strongly 
disagrees with as it says it was bad from the outset. 
But on balance I dont think SJP couldve known in advance that Mrs H1 would receive only 
a fraction of the benefit. I note after breaking even she couldve received more in benefits 
than the INA cost - this is generally the trade-off thats inherent in most forms of life 
insurance. But in the circumstances, and on balance, I dont agree with the CMC that this 
outcome was to be expected in this case.   
I note the CMC says that hell be contacting their inhouse blogger  and share on social 
media this case  and hopes that an uphold will mean that the story will have a satisfactory 
ending. Be that as it may, in the interests of fairness to all parties, I ought to make clear that 
this isnt something thats influenced my decision. 
I appreciate Mr H will be unhappy Ive reached the same conclusion as the investigator. 
Furthermore, I realise my decision isn't what he wants to hear. But on the face
of the available evidence, and on balance, Im unable to uphold this complaint and give the 
estate of Mrs H1 what it wants. 
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I dont uphold this complaint and I make no award. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask the estate of Mrs H 
to accept or reject my decision before 7 May 2021.
 
Dara Islam
Ombudsman