DRN-2350587
The complaint
Mr D complains that True Potential Investments LLP (TPI) failed to make clear that a
migration from its existing custodian to its own platform in October 2018 would result in cash
balances held by investors on the platform no longer earning interest.
What happened
TPI didnt uphold Mr Ds complaint. It felt it had been open and transparent in its
communication of the migration. It said it had written to investors in advance explaining that
there would be changes to their terms and signposting them to TPIs website. It quoted the
relevant terms and highlighted that these said interest would be paid if applicable, meaning
it was not guaranteed to be paid. TPI also drew attention to its Dealing and Custody Service
Agreement (DCSA), which said that no interest would be paid on client money.
Mr D didnt accept this and referred the complaint to this service. But our investigator
reached a similar conclusion to that reached by TPI. He said, in brief:
The decision to carry out the migration was a commercial one TPI was entitled to
take.
It was also entitled to change the terms, provided it gave notice of its intention to do
so.
The relevant terms said, as TPI had noted, that interest would be paid if applicable.
The DCSA had been referred to in the new terms, which said it should be read in
conjunction with the terms.
Mr D wouldve had the opportunity to contact TPI when reviewing the terms 
premigration.
There was no guarantee given that interest would be applied to cash balances.
Mr D didnt accept the investigators view. He said that he felt the terms saying that interest
would be paid if applicable conflicted with what was said in the DCSA  that interest would
not be paid at all. And, in any event, the DCSA hadnt been referenced in the pre-migration
letter.
He highlighted that following the Financial Conduct Authoritys Retail Distribution Review
there was a requirement, in line with its Treating Customers Fairly principles, that material
changes to terms be clearly communicated.
He said it wouldve been straightforward to include information that explained there would be
an immediate financial loss to clients as a result of interest no longer being paid, which was
important because the earning of interest on cash balances supported the payment of
platform charges. Mr D also said terms and conditions were rarely read in full, hence why the
FCA had introduced requirements for better disclosure.
The investigator wasnt persuaded to change his opinion, so the matter was referred to
me to review.
I issued a provisional decision in which I explained why I also thought the complaint 
shouldnt be upheld. I said, in part:
TPI has explained why interest is no longer paid on cash balances and its explanation 
appears reasonable. Ultimately, it was  as I think Mr D accepts  a commercial decision it 
was entitled to make.
However, the issue at the heart of the complaint is more whether TPI did enough to highlight
to its customers what Mr D sees as a significant material change in its terms. Mr D feels it
didnt and that as result hes been financially disadvantaged.
I can appreciate why the change may have been disappointing for Mr D. But Im not sure
that, in the context of an individual investor, the change was such that it was imperative that
it was highlighted in the pre-migration documentation. The accounts in question are primarily
investment accounts. While there may be times during which investors feel it prudent to hold
a greater proportion of their portfolio in cash, I dont think this would generally be the way in
which the accounts are operated.
So, Im not persuaded that the paying of interest on cash balances, and the level at which it 
is paid, would be a pivotal factor in deciding to use TPIs service. I say this particularly given 
that the rate paid by TPI prior to the migration was, since 2015, 0.4% below Bank of England 
base rate.
This meant that the actual rate paid was rarely above 0.1% and on occasion 0% - so no
interest was being paid at all. So, it has always been the case that at any time TPI may not
have paid interest on cash balances, even under the pre-migration terms. And it also doesnt
appear to have been sufficient to cover the platform charge, which I understand to have
been 0.4%.
As such, I think while TPI could have provided more specific information about this particular
change to the terms, I dont feel that it was of such importance that TPI should have done
so. Customers were alerted to the migration and pointed to the terms, which in turn pointed
them to the DCSA. They were invited to get in touch with TPI and Ive seen nothing to
suggest that if a customer had contacted TPI enquiring about any potential changes to
elements of the service that were of particular importance to them  such as the payment of
interest on cash balances  that TPI wouldnt have explained what was happening.
Neither party responded to my provisional decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As there have been no further submission made in response to my provisional decision, I 
remain of the view that the complaint should not be upheld.
My final decision
For the reasons given, my final decision is that I dont uphold the complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision before 22 December 2020.
 James Harris
Ombudsman