DRN-3003351
The complaint
Mrs T complains about end of contract charges when her agreement with LeasePlan UK 
Limited ended.
 
What happened
In August 2016 Mrs T was supplied with a car and entered into a hire agreement with 
LeasePlan.
When the agreement ended, the car was inspected. Following the inspection, LeasePlan 
sent Mrs T an invoice for £4,196 for damage charges, missing service history and cable and 
excess mileage.
Mrs T disputed the charges. She said the service history and cable were in the glovebox 
when the car was collected. In response, LeasePlan said there was no evidence that the 
service history had been received. It said the charge for damage to the bonnet would be 
waived but the other charges remained outstanding.
Mrs T wasnt happy with the response and complained to this service.
Our investigator didnt uphold the complaint. She thought the damage charges had been 
applied fairly. She said the charges for the missing services were fair but found that 
LeasePlan had erroneously invoiced Mrs TY £700 for two missing services when this should 
have been £350. LeasePlan subsequently raised a credit for £350.
Mrs T didnt agree. She said that all the services had been done and that these would show 
on the on-board computer of the car. She also said that the photos of the damage to the 
wheels had been taken after the car was collected and that there was no damage at the time 
of inspection.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The terms and conditions of the agreement say that Mrs T must return the car in good 
condition and that any damage which exceeds fair wear and tear, or missing items, is the 
customers responsibility.
Fair wear and tear guidelines have been issued by the BVLRA and these guidelines are 
accepted as an industry standard in determining whether damage exceeds fair wear and 
tear.
Ive looked at the inspection report and photos. Damage has been identified to three of the 
wheels. Looking at the photos, I can see that there are scuffs. The guidelines say that scuffs 
up to 50mm are acceptable. The scuffs in the photos are more than 50mm. Based on what 
Ive seen, the charges have been applied fairly.
Ive taken Mrs Ts comments about the damage into account. Shes said that there was no 
damage when the car was inspected and that the photos showing the damage were taken 
later. This implies that the damage was caused after the car was collected, I havent seen 
any evidence to suggest that the car was involved in a collision or accident post collection. 
The photos show that the damage is quite widespread and unlikely to have been caused by 
one single incident. Taking this into account, I think its more likely that the damage was 
present at the inspection.
Turning to the service history. Mrs T has said that the car has a full-service history and has 
provided evidence showing that services were carried out in February 2018, November 2018 
and sometime in 2019 (I cant say which month because the document is blurred).
LeasePlan has said that two services are missing. I cant be certain that all of the services 
were carried out because I dont have access to the on board computer that Mrs T has 
referred to. However, what I can say if that if all the services had been carried out I would 
have expected to see more than 3 service documents. On balance, I think its more likely 
that there are missing services.
I can see from the emails sent to Mrs T that LeasePlan advised her that it would charge 
£175 per missing service. But when it invoices Mrs T it charged £700, which is incorrect. 
LeasePlan has subsequently credited £350 which I think is fair. 
Taking everything into account, Im unable to say that the damage and missing item charges 
have been applied unfairly. So I wont be asking LeasePlan to do anything further. 
 
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold the complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs T to accept or 
reject my decision before 21 October 2021.
 
Emma Davy
Ombudsman