DRN-2909131
The complaint
Mr R is unhappy with the service provided by Vehicle Credit Limited (VCL), when they 
supplied him with a car under a hire purchase agreement.
What happened
On 8 July 2017, Mr R was supplied with a used car through a hire purchase agreement with 
VCL. The agreement was for £6,900 over 208 weeks; with 207 weekly repayments of £62.11 
and a final payment of £87.23.
In September 2020 Mr R part-exchanged the car, but the garage who did the part-exchange 
paid the £2,949.08 part-exchange funds to Mr R, in error. VCL asked Mr R to pay these 
funds to them direct, but he didnt And, because Mr R had cancelled his direct debit, and 
stopped making payments, VCL issued a default notice on 3 November 2020. When the 
account wasnt brought up to date, a default was issued. It wasnt until 31 March 2021 that 
Mr R paid VCL the part-exchange funds. And VCL marked Mr Rs default as being satisfied.
Mr R was unhappy with the overall service hed received, and he complained that VCL:
had acted irresponsibly when approving the finance;
had told him at the point of sale that he could return the car after two years and 
refinance a newer car with them, at a lower interest rate;
didnt make the full cost of the credit clear to him;
defaulted his account, without recording any missed payments, when his account 
shouldve been on hold; and
havent provided copies of call recordings in a usable format when hed requested 
these using through a Data Subject Access Request (DSAR).
VCL didnt uphold Mr Rs complaints, so he brought them to us for investigation.
Our investigator said that we have to meet a set of rules before we can consider a complaint, 
and one of these is that (unless there are exceptional circumstances) complaints must be 
brought to us within six-months of the financial businesss final response letter. 
Mr R complained to VCL about irresponsible lending, and they emailed their final response 
to him on 24 December 2019. But Mr R didnt bring this complaint to us until 18 October 
2020. The investigator said that, when VCL discussed their response with Mr R, he said he 
intended to raise this with us. But he didnt do it in the six-months allowable. So the 
investigator thought it wasnt something we were able to look into.
The investigator also said that, after Mr R had taken the original finance, VCL were taken 
over by another company (RS) who dont offer vehicle finance. Because this wasnt 
something either VCL or the supplying dealership could reasonably have foreseen at the 
time, the investigator didnt think VCL had done anything wrong by not offering Mr R 
refinancing two years after hed been supplied with the car. She also thought that the full 
cost of the credit was made clear in the paperwork Mr R signed on 8 July 2017.
The investigator said Mr Rs account was in arrears and VCL had sent him default and 
termination notices. She said the error in the garage paying Mr R the part-exchange funds 
was outside VCLs control, but she thought they acted reasonably by defaulting the account 
when Mr R didnt pass the payment onto them. She also said that VCL werent required to 
put Mr Rs debt on hold just because we were considering his complaint. And they were 
entitled to take any reasonable action to pursue this debt, including registering a default.
Finally, the investigator said that complaints about a DSAR were dealt with by the 
Information Commissioners Office (ICO). So this wasnt something we could consider.
Mr R didnt agree with the investigator. He felt we should be able to consider his complaint 
about irresponsible lending, which he said he only made to VCL on 28 September 2020; and 
that the default shouldnt have been registered. He also said he never received any notice 
that the part-exchange funds shouldve been paid to VCL.
Because Mr R didnt agree this matter has been passed to me to make a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive reached the same overall conclusions as the investigator, and for 
broadly the same reasons. If I havent commented on any specific point, its because I dont 
believe its affected what I think is the right outcome.
In considering this complaint Ive had regard to the relevant law and regulations; any 
regulators rules, guidance and standards, codes of practice, and (if appropriate) what I 
consider was good industry practice at the time. Mr R was supplied with a car under a hire 
purchase agreement. This is a regulated consumer credit agreement which means were 
able to look into complaints about it. 
With regards to VCL approving the finance, the types of complaint we can look into are set 
out in our rules which can be found in the Financial Conduct Authoritys handbook under 
DISP. These include time limits on how long a person can wait before bringing a complaint 
to us. So, unless a business consents, or there are exceptional circumstances, a person 
usually has to bring their complaint to us within six months of the final complaint response.
In their final complaint response email of 24 December 2019, VCL explained why they 
thought theyd acted reasonably in approving the finance. They also explained that, if Mr R 
was unhappy with their response, he had six months from the date of their email to bring his 
complaint to the us. And, if he didnt refer his complaint to us in time, then they wouldnt 
consent to us considering the complaint out of time.
Mr R raised his complaint with us on 18 October 2020. And, as VCL havent consented to us 
considering Mr Rs complaint out of time; I need to consider if there were any exceptional 
circumstances that stopped Mr R from bringing his complaint to us before the end of the six-
month period  by 24 June 2020.
Ive seen the final complaint response was sent to an email address which Mr R confirmed to 
us was his email address.  And Ive not seen anything to show me this email was rejected or 
otherwise not delivered. Whats more, I havent seen anything to show me that Mr R ever 
chased VCL for a response to this complaint. Given this, Im satisfied that it was more likely 
than not that Mr R received VCLs complaint response email. And that he would reasonably 
have known how long he had to raise his complaint with us.Im aware that Mr R raised this complaint with VCL again, on 8 October 2020, and that they 
issued a further response letter on 15 October 2020. VCL also emailed Mr R on 2 November 
2020, explaining this was the same complaint that hed raised in December 2019.
I dont think the complaint response VCL sent Mr R in October 2020 means that the 
December 2019 complaint response, and the timescales for referring it to us, should be 
discarded. It wouldnt be fair to allow consumers to raise the same complaint with a financial 
business multiple times, and for this to extend the period in which they have to bring it to us. 
Because of this, Im satisfied that Mr R only had the timescales associated with his original 
complaint. And he brought this matter to us outside of those timescales.
Mr R also said that he didnt bring the complaint about irresponsible lending to us straight 
away, because he escalated it to RS. But VCL made it clear that he needed to complain to 
us, and when he needed to do this by. And by making the complaint to RS, Im satisfied that 
Mr R would also have been able to bring this complaint to us.
Because of this, I dont think there are exceptional reasons for considering this complaint out 
of time. And, while I know this will be disappointing to Mr R, Im in agreement that the 
irresponsible lending complaint is something we dont have the power to look at.
Mr R signed both the pre-contract credit agreement and the hire purchase agreement on 8 
July 2017 (although on the hire purchase agreement he dated his signature 8 July 2016). 
And in signing these documents he signed to say hed read the agreements and agreed to 
be bound by their terms. VCL also signed the agreement and sent Mr R a copy of the jointly 
signed paperwork on 11 July 2017.
The paperwork Mr R read and signed clearly set out the terms of the finance, including the 
payments he was expected to make, the overall amount hed be paying, and the interest rate 
he was being charged. Because of this, Im satisfied that Mr R was made aware of the full 
cost of the credit at the outset, and that he signed to accept these costs before he took 
possession of the car. So I dont think VCL have done anything wrong.
In late 2017, VCL were purchased by RS. And, as a result, they could no longer offer vehicle 
finance. I dont doubt that, at the point of sale, Mr R was told by the supplying dealership that 
he could refinance at a lower interest rate after two years. And at the time he was given this 
information it was correct. But the purchase by RS wasnt something that was known, or 
could reasonably have been foreseen, by either the supplying dealership or VCL, at the point 
of sale. So I dont think VCL did anything wrong at the point of sale. And, while I appreciate 
that this was annoying for Mr R, Im satisfied that a change in business ownership meant 
that VCL didnt need to, and wasnt able to, offer Mr R any refinancing after hed had the 
agreement for two years.
When Mr R part-exchanged his car in September 2020, the garage paid him the part-
exchange funds in error. The garage contacted VCL to let them know what had happened, 
and VCL contacted Mr R and asked him to pass the funds onto them.
Ive listened to a phone call that took place on 21 September 2020, where VCL chased Mr R 
for the part-exchange funds. In this call they explained that, while this amount was 
outstanding, it would affect his credit file. VCL called Mr R again on 7 October 2020, to 
remind him that the part-exchange funds still hadnt been paid. In this call VCL explained 
that non-payment could impact his credit file and that he was at risk of a default being 
issued. In reply Mr R told VCL that they couldnt default him because he wasnt three months 
in arrears at that point.Mr R was supplied with the car under a hire purchase agreement. Which meant he hired the 
car and wouldnt own it until all of the payments were made. So, when Mr R part-exchanged 
the car, because it wasnt his car, the remaining balance fell due immediately. And this was 
the equivalent of just over 47 weekly payments  about 11 months. So, Im satisfied Mr R 
was more than three months in arrears as a result of him not paying the part-exchange funds 
to VCL. So it was fair and reasonable for VCL to follow their process and register a default.
Ive seen a copy of the default notice that was sent to Mr R on 3 November 2020. This 
explained that he had arrears, which needed to be paid by 20 November 2020. This also 
explained that, if the arrears werent paid by this date, what action VCL were able to take. I 
appreciate Mr R says he didnt receive a copy of this, but Ive havent seen anything to show 
me that it wasnt sent. And Im also satisfied that, at this point, Mr R was aware that hed 
been paid the part-exchange funds in error, and that VCL had been chasing him to pass 
these funds onto them.
So, when Mr R didnt pay the part-exchange funds to VCL, they terminated the agreement 
on 20 November 2020. And they registered a default the same day.
We wrote to VCL on 28 October 2020, letting them know that Mr R had raised a complaint 
with us. Mr R believes this means that VCL couldnt take any further action on his account, 
and that any collections process was on hold while our investigation took place. But this isnt 
necessarily the case. And when he originally made his complaint, Mr R didnt make us aware 
that there were any arrears, or that he was holding onto the part-exchange funds.
The complaint Mr R originally made to us was only about the agreement being mis-sold 
(because it couldnt be returned, and refinance arranged after two years), and because the 
finance wasnt fully explained to him at the outset. These complaints have nothing to do with 
the arears/payment situation Mr R found himself in and, as a result, I wouldnt expect VCL to 
put his account on hold. And I havent seen anything to show me that VCL said they would. 
So they were free to pursue him for the part-exchange funds, including issuing a default. 
Mr R didnt make us aware of the arrears/payment situation until 17 December 2020, which 
was after the default had been issued. So this was too late for us to ask VCL to put any 
default processes on hold. But VCL agreed at this point to put any further processes on hold, 
including taking court action against Mr R for non-payment of the part-exchange funds.
Given the above, Im satisfied that VCL acted reasonably when they registered a default on 
Mr Rs credit file. And I dont think they need to remove this.
Finally, Mr R has complained that VCL failed to provide him with everything they were 
required to under his DSAR, and that call recordings were provided in a format he couldnt 
access. The investigator explained that this was a matter for the ICO, not us. Ive also 
listened to a call from 21 January 2021, when VCL told Mr R that, while his complaints 
should go to the Financial Ombudsman Service, his issues about the DSAR should be 
referred to the ICO.
So Im satisfied that Mr R has been made aware where this complaint needs to be raised. 
And, as this isnt something we can look at, I wont be asking VCL to take any further action 
about Mr Rs DSAR. 
My final decision
For the reasons explained, I dont uphold Mr Rs complaint about Vehicle Credit Limited.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr R to accept or reject my decision before 13 September 2021.
 
Andrew Burford
Ombudsman