DRN-3339261
The complaint
Mr C complains that Great Lakes Insurance SE turned down a claim on his MOT insurance 
policy. 
What happened
Mr C has an insurance policy with Great Lakes which covers him for the cost of repairing his 
car if it results in his car failing its MOT in certain situations. Mr Cs car failed its MOT as the 
rear flog light wasnt working. The fault was looked into and it was discovered that the Body 
Control Module (BCM) needed replacing to fix the fault with the fog light. Because of this Mr 
C claimed on his policy. 
Great Lakes reviewed the claim and declined it as the part wasnt covered by the policy. Mr 
C didnt think this was fair and complained. He said the policy covered lighting equipment 
and as the BCM needed replacing to fix the fog light, he thought it should be covered. He 
also said the BCM is also known as the Engine Control Module (ECM), which was covered 
by the policy. 
Great Lakes reviewed the complaint but didnt uphold it. They said the policy only covered 
listed parts and the BCM wasnt listed. Great Lakes also didnt agree that the BCM was part 
of the lighting equipment listed in the policy. They also didnt agree that the BCM and ECM 
are essentially the same part. Mr C didnt agree and brought his complaint here. 
Our investigator looked into Mr Cs complaint and didnt recommend it was upheld. He found 
that the part Mr C was claiming for wasnt covered by the policy and that Great Lakes had 
acted fairly and reasonably by turning his claim down. Mr C didnt agree, he said the policy 
had a narrow interpretation and raised several points as to why he didnt think it was fair to 
turn down his claim.
As Mr C didnt agree the complaint has come to me to decide.   
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr C has made a number of detailed points. Were an informal dispute resolution service set 
up as a free alternative to the courts. In deciding this complaint Ive focused on what I 
consider to be the heart of the matter rather than commenting on every issue in turn. This 
isnt intended as a discourtesy to Mr C. Rather it reflects the informal nature of our service, 
its remit and my role in it.
The terms and conditions of Mr Cs policy say it will cover the cost of repairs to his car as a 
result of a part listed in the policy being noted as the reason for it not passing an MOT. The 
policy goes onto say which parts are covered, within this section it says:
Lighting Equipment: Front and rear lamps, headlamps, stop lamps, 
rear reflectors, direction indicators, hazard warning lamps, switches, 
tell tales, high intensity discharge (HID), LED headlamps, washing 
and levelling system, power steering malfunction indicator lamp (MIL), 
electronic parking brake MIL, illumination of speedometers, brake 
fluid level warning lamps, electronic stability control system MIL, tyre 
pressure monitoring system warning lamp.
Within this section on lighting equipment it doesnt say it covers the BCM. I understand Mr C 
feels that as one of the functions of the BCM is to control the fog lights then it should be 
covered. However, the policy goes on to say what is covered and the BCM isnt listed here, 
so Im unable to agree it is covered by the policy. 
Mr C believes the BCM and ECM are essentially the same thing. Mr Cs policy doesnt 
mention ECM but does mention Engine Control Unit (ECU) so Ive looked at this section of 
the policy as well. While Ive considered this, Im not satisfied the BCM and ECM are the 
same, this is because one controls the engine and the other controls electronics. However, 
Mr Cs policy doesnt mention ECM but does mention ECU. So, while I think theyre different 
parts I looked at what this section covers to see if Mr Cs claim would be covered if they 
were the essentially the same. Mr Cs policy only covers the ECU if it suffers a calibration 
failure to meet exhaust gas emission standards. So, while Im satisfied these parts are 
different, even if I did agree with Mr C that theyre essentially the same thing, his claim still 
wouldnt be covered. This is because the BCM didnt need changing due to his exhaust gas 
emissions.  
I understand this isnt the answer Mr C would like, but after careful consideration Im not 
going to uphold his complaint. 
 
My final decision
For the reasons explained above, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 28 April 2022.
 
Alex Newman
Ombudsman