DRN-2982714
Complaint
Mr C is unhappy with what MBNA Limited (MBNA) did after he asked for a payment holiday 
on his credit card at the start of the pandemic.
Background
One of our adjudicators looked at Mr Cs complaint and he thought that MBNA needed to 
remove any adverse information it recorded on Mr Cs credit file for the period of his 
payment freeze. MBNA agreed but Mr C didnt. So the case was referred for an 
ombudsmans decision.   
My findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having carefully considered everything, I think that what MBNA has already agreed to
do to put things right for Mr C is fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of his complaint. 
Ill explain why I think this is the case. 
It might help for me to start by explaining that where a business accepts (or we decide) it did 
something wrong, wed expect the business to put the consumer in the position they would 
be in if that wrong hadnt taken place. And in an ideal world, wed tell a business to unwind 
any wrongdoing that may have taken place. 
In this case, MBNA has agreed that although Mr Cs initial request for assistance was before 
the regulatory introduced its temporary guidance for customers impacted by the pandemic, it 
ought to have made it clearer to Mr C that further options were now available when he got in 
touch in May 2020. In order to put things right and unwind any wrongdoing, it agreed to 
remove any and all adverse information recorded on Mr Cs credit file in May 2020,              
June 2020 and July 2020. 
So while MBNA cant officially backdate a pandemic payment holiday, Mr Cs credit file will, 
in any event, reflect what would have been recorded if he had been offered one (and he 
accepted it) in May 2020. Equally, as Mr C doesnt appear to have paid any interest during 
this period and credit card providers were allowed to charge interest during these payment 
holidays, MBNA is actually in a better position than hed be in if hed had the payment 
holiday. So MBNA has done more than what Id normally expect it to do here.
That said, we do look at each case individually and on its own particular merits. And while 
we have a general approach to how we how we might tell a lender to put things right, we can 
and will tell it to do something different and/or something more if theres a strong reason to 
say thats what would be fair and reasonable to do in the circumstances of that individual 
case.
However, Mr C hasnt said what more he wants MBNA to do here. And I dont think that Mr C 
simply being unhappy here is in itself a compelling reason for me to depart from our usual 
approach in this case. 
Bearing in mind all of this, Im satisfied that what MBNA has already done to put things right 
for Mr C  removing any and all adverse information recorded on his credit file for May 2020, 
June 2020 and July 2020 is fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of the case. And Im 
not requiring MBNA to do anything more or anything further.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, Im satisfied that what MBNA Limited has already agreed to 
do to put things right for Mr C is fair and reasonable in the circumstances of his complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 28 February 2022.
 
Jeshen Narayanan
Ombudsman