DRN-3949202
The complaint
Mrs M is unhappy with the decision by Covea Insurance plc (Covea) following a claim for 
accidental damage under her home insurance policy. 
What happened
(Mr E is the appointed representative on this complaint and has dealt with this service. For 
ease of reference I have referred to Mrs M throughout this final decision).
Mrs M held a home insurance policy with Covea. The policy terms for accidental damage 
explained: 
Section A- Your Buildings Cover Accidental Damage
Accidental Damage. Well pay to repair your buildings if they are accidentally 
damaged. By accidental damage we mean damage that happens suddenly and 
wasnt expected. For example, paint being spilled on laminate flooring.
Accidental damage was further defined in the policy booklet as Sudden, unexpected 
damage where the cause can be determined. Accidental damage doesnt include damage 
caused by wear and tear or anything else that happens over time. 
The exclusions for Mrs Ms policy said 13. Wear and Tear Almost everything in your home 
will suffer wear and tear over time. We wont be able to pay a claim for any loss or damage 
caused by wear and tear, wet or dry rot or anything which happens slowly over time. 
In November 2021 Mrs M contacted company A to inspect and report upon the high hedge 
to the neighbouring property and damage to a concrete blockwork boundary / retaining wall 
and timber fence. Mrs M has explained to this service that shed noticed an outward leaning 
and cracking to [her] boundary wall and obtained a surveyors report which concluded that 
this had been caused by the actions of tree roots. 
Company A completed their findings and concluded To summarise, it is clear that the 
location, height and lack of adequate maintenance of the Leylandii hedge within the 
neighbouring property has caused the failure of the wall.
In August 2022 Mrs M contacted Covea to make a claim under the accidental damage part 
of her buildings insurance policy for the damage to her boundary wall. Covea told Mrs M that 
they wouldnt be able to cover her claim because of the policy exclusions. 
Mrs M wasnt happy with this response, and so referred her complaint to this service. Our 
investigator found that Covea had acted fairly and reasonably in reaching their decision, and 
didnt recommend Covea take any steps to put things right. Mrs M disagreed with the 
investigators view. As the complaint couldnt be resolved, it has been passed to me for 
decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mrs M feels strongly that Covea have treated her unfairly by rejecting her claim. I thank Mrs 
M for taking the time to explain everything thats happened while trying to resolve the issues 
with her boundary wall. 
When we investigate a complaint about an insurers decision on a claim, our role is to 
consider whether the insurer handled the claim in a fair and reasonable manner. So Ive 
considered the evidence to determine whether Covea have acted fairly and reasonably in 
reaching their decision on Mrs Ms claim.    
Mrs M feels strongly that her policy should cover her for the damage to her boundary wall. 
Covea say that Mrs Ms own report supports their findings that the damage has happened 
over time, and so isnt covered because of the policy terms which define accidental damage 
as Sudden, unexpected damage where the cause can be determined. Accidental damage 
doesnt include damage caused by wear and tear or anything else that happens over time. 
I have reviewed the comments of the surveyor Mrs M instructed to determine the extent of 
the issues with her boundary wall, and actions required to resolve the issues. I think this 
report reasonably supports what Covea have explained about their reasons for not covering 
Mrs Ms claim. The surveyors findings say it is clear that the location, height and lack of 
adequate maintenance of the Leylandii hedge within the neighbouring property has caused 
the failure of the wall. 
I think the term lack of adequate maintenance reasonably indicates that the issue with the 
boundary wall is one that has developed over time, and which Mrs M wouldve been 
reasonably aware of. There are also other references within the report which indicate that 
the issues with the boundary wall have happened over time, It is clear that the wall has 
failed due to the presence of the Leylandii hedge and the height that it has been allowed to 
grow to. Looking at the policy terms and what the policy was designed to cover, Im satisfied 
that this damage is not sudden and unexpected as required in order to be a valid claim. 
I appreciate that this will come as a great disappointment to Mrs M. But insurance policies do 
not cover every eventuality, and this is one of those circumstances, where the damage isnt 
covered by the policy. I cant say that Covea have acted unfairly or unreasonably in declining 
Mrs Ms claim. Because of this, I wont be asking Covea to do anything in settlement of this 
complaint.
My final decision
For the reasons provided I dont uphold this complaint.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs M to accept or 
reject my decision before 3 April 2023.
 
Neeta Karelia
Ombudsman