DRN-1639275
The complaint
Mrs L is unhappy Scottish Widows Limited didnt accept a life insurance claim for the late
Mr L.
What happened
In September 2007 Mrs L went into a branch of a bank Ill refer to as A.  Mrs L thought she 
had taken out life insurance for herself and Mr L. 
Sadly Mr L died on 19 September 2018. So Mrs L tried to make a claim. Scottish Widows 
told Mrs L that Mr L didnt have a life insurance policy. 
In January 2019 Mrs L made a complaint to A about Scottish Widows decision to decline 
the claim and its communication when the policy was taken out. A sent a final response 
letter to Mrs L saying Mr L had been declined cover with Scottish Widows. It said a letter  
dated 26 October 2007  was sent explaining Scottish Widows couldnt offer cover due to  
Mr Ls medical history. So Scottish Widows couldnt accept a claim.  
Mrs L was unhappy with this response. So she brought her complaint to this service. She 
said she didnt receive any letters from Scottish Widows telling her Mr Ls application had 
been declined. So it should accept the claim. 
Our investigator reviewed the complaint. He felt Scottish Widows decision to decline Mr Ls 
application was fair. He said that although its communication could have been clearer he 
didnt feel it had made a mistake so he couldnt ask it to accept a claim for Mr L. He did 
however add that Scottish Widows should pay £100 compensation for the unclear 
communication it had sent. 
Mrs L remained unhappy. She said Scottish Widows made a mistake when handling the 
insurance policy for Mr L. And she had never received a statement confirming the amount 
she was paying. She added that Scottish Widows had sent documents to Mr L about a 
premium protection policy for Mr Ls life plan which she says shows a life policy was in place. 
So this complaint has now been passed to me for a final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive reached the same conclusion as our investigator. And for largely the 
same reasons. I know Mrs L feels strongly about this complaint and this will come as a 
disappointment to her, so Ill explain why.
First of all I was sorry to hear about the death of Mr L. Im sure this situation has been hard 
for Mrs L and her family. Ive read and considered the whole file, but Ill concentrate my comments on what I think is 
relevant. If I dont mention any specific point, its not because Ive failed to take it on board 
and think about it, but because I dont think I need to comment on it to reach what I think is 
the right outcome.
Although A was responsible for the sale, the decision to decline cover for Mr L and send the 
documentation confirming this was from Scottish Widows. So in order to ask it to accept 
Mrs Ls claim, I would need to be satisfied a policy was set up or that Scottish Widows had 
made an error when reviewing the application that stopped Mr L from having a life insurance 
policy. 
Ive checked the underwriting guidance used by Scottish Windows and Im satisfied the 
reason to decline Mr Ls cover here was fair and in line with the relevant guidance. As Im 
satisfied Scottish Widows fairly declined Mr Ls application, I need to consider if it made a 
mistake or gave the impression Mr L was covered when communicating this decision in 
2007. 
The investigator has confirmed in detail the various letters Scottish Widows says it sent to  
Mr and Mrs L in October 2007 so I wont go into any more detail about those here. Mrs L 
says she didnt receive the letters in 2007 which said Mr L hadnt been given cover. She 
says if she had received the letters from Scottish Widows then she would have done 
something differently. I can understand Mrs Ls frustration with this situation. But this service 
needs to be satisfied the letters were sent by Scottish Widows. It has provided a copy of the 
correctly addressed letter it sent to Mr L in October 2007. This letter said it wasnt offering 
him cover and the reason why. So Im satisfied  on balance - it was sent. 
Mrs L was quoted a monthly cost for her life insurance policy of £108.88. Mr Ls policy quote 
was £181.97. Im satisfied Mrs L received a quote from A during their meeting in the branch 
in 2007, which showed the cost of the two life policies should have been £287.85 after a £3 
discount was applied to the total amount. I understand Mrs L hasnt received an annual 
statement from Scottish Widows showing what the cost of her policy was since 2007. But 
this money was taken out every month. And she has told this service she did see the direct 
debit. I believe the difference is a significant amount and shouldve reasonably been spotted 
by Mrs L since 2007. 
So Im satisfied Mr Ls cover was fairly declined and that Scottish Widows sent the letters to 
Mr and Mrs L in 2007 about the cover it was offering  which is what this service would 
expect it to do. So I dont think I can fairly ask it to accept a life insurance claim for Mr L. 
Putting things right
Although Im satisfied the letters were sent, I think Scottish Widows could have been clearer 
in its communication. I note it did send a letter to Mr L about a premium protection policy in 
2016 for a life policy. Im sure Scottish Widows communication and then its decision to 
reject the claim would have caused some distress and confusion here. I agree with the 
investigator that Scottish Widows communication could have been better and that £100 
would be a fair amount of compensation for this. However, this doesnt mean its decision to 
decline Mr Ls cover was unfair. Or that it made a mistake which wouldve made Mrs L 
believe Mr Ls life policy had been accepted in 2007.
My final decision
For the reasons given above Im upholding this complaint in part. Scottish Widows Limited's decision to decline Mr Ls life insurance application was fair so it 
fairly declined the claim from Mrs L.  
Scottish Widows Limited should pay the estate of Mr L £100 compensation. 
I make no further award against Scottish Widows Limited. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask the estate of Mr L 
to accept or reject my decision before 31 March 2020.
Mark Dobson
Ombudsman