DRN-2721789
The complaint
Mr S complained that EUI Limited trading as Admiral have not carried out repairs to his 
vehicle to what he believes to be an adequate standard and that he was not able to be 
present at the subsequent inspection.
  
What happened
Mr Ss vehicle was damaged in an incident in March 2019 and, in line with his motor vehicle 
insurance policy Admiral arranged for repairs to be carried out in June 2019. These repairs 
were not up to standard and Admiral arranged for them to be rectified in July 2019. These 
were not good enough either, so Admiral arranged for further works to be completed in 
August 2019. When Mr S said the August 2019 works still werent adequate Admiral 
arranged for an independent third party assessor to assess the repairs in Mr Ss presence. 
The independent assessor recommended further follow up works be completed as the 
repairs werent adequate. Mr S and Admiral arranged for his vehicle to have these further 
works carried out. In December 2019 after the works had been completed the independent 
assessor reviewed the works and signed them off as satisfactory in their report. Admiral 
accepted the report.
Mr S was not present when the independent assessor reviewed the final works and he 
complained stating that the paintwork on the bumper was still not to his satisfaction and the 
bonnet was still mis-aligned. 
Mr S brought his complaint to us in May 2020. 
Our Investigator upheld Mr Ss complaint and found he should have been invited to be 
present when the independent assessor carried out their final review, and recommended 
Admiral pay Mr S £150 for distress and inconvenience. Admiral disagreed with these 
findings and requested the case be reviewed by an ombudsman. 
  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
 I have considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. 
Ive decided to uphold Mr Ss complaint and Ill explain my reasons.
Mr Ss insurance policy covers him for damage to his vehicle and it also says Admiral can 
appoint their own approved repairer to make repairs to the vehicle. It goes on to say the 
approved repairer can rectify their work if the customer isnt satisfied. But if the customer is 
still not satisfied when the approved repairer has carried out their remedial work the 
customer can use another repairer. This requires Admirals agreement to the work, and the 
possibility of an additional excess if an approved repairer isnt used.
When, after the  August 2019 repairs Mr S remained unsatisfied, Admiral appointed an 
independent assessor. I havent seen any evidence Mr S wanted to use an alternative 
repairer, so I think this is fair. 
However, I agree with our investigator that it was surprising Mr S was not invited to be 
present when the independent assessor carried out their December 2019 review of the 
repair work. 
Mr S had been seeking to get his repairs completed since March 2019, around 9 months at 
that point and it is clear the repairs originally completed were not adequate, as the 
independent assessor found further rectification work should be completed. 
I can see that this will have been frustrating and inconvenient for Mr S. 
While Mr S was invited to the first independent assessor review in September 2019 (where 
they recommended further works) he wasnt invited to the December 2019 review and I can 
see no reason for him not to be. I agree with our investigator that if Mr S had been present, 
he could have spoken to the independent assessor directly and this may have helped, 
particularly given the history of unsatisfactory work.
Putting things right
Having considered the evidence I agree with our investigators recommended outcome. I 
think Mr S should have the option to arrange for repair works to his vehicle, specifically the 
work on the bonnet and the paintwork to be carried out, either by Admirals approved 
repairers or a repairer of his choice. If Mr S chooses a non-approved repairer then I dont 
think it would be fair for an excess to apply. Following this a different independent assessor 
should inspect the work in the presence of Mr S. 
I also think that the prolonged and frustrating history of Mr Ss claim has caused him distress 
and inconvenience and so I agree with the investigators award of £150 compensation.
  
My final decision
For the reasons I have outlined above it is my final decision that Mr Ss complaint is upheld. 
I require EUI Limited trading as Admiral to pay Mr P £150 compensation in recognition of the 
inconvenience caused. I also require EUI Limited trading as Admiral to arrange, with Mr S for 
repair works to be carried out specifically the work on the bonnet and the paintwork and for 
no excess to be incurred should Mr S choose a different, non-approved repairer.
  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 25 April 2021.
 
Sarah Scott
Ombudsman