DRN-1718415
The complaint
Ms B complained that Bank of Scotland plc trading as Halifax (Halifax) refused to pursue a 
chargeback against a business she was in dispute with.
What happened
Ms B and her partner employed a company Ill call C to build a conservatory.  By the end of 
2017, they had a number of problems with what had been built.  They raised these with C, 
but the problems werent sorted out.  After a number of weeks, Ms B and her partner 
complained to C.  C rejected their complaint and suggested they take legal advice.
Ms B and her partner didnt want to do that.  So, because C was a member of Trustmark (a 
government backed quality scheme for tradespeople), they contacted Trustmark for help to 
sort out the dispute.  They spent several months trying to do this but werent successful.
Ms B had paid £4000 towards the cost of the conservatory using her Halifax VISA debit 
card.  So, when she felt shed exhausted the Trustmark process, Ms B contacted Halifax in 
February 2019 and asked them to raise a chargeback.
At first, Halifax refused, because Ms B had made the payment in December 2017 and 
VISAs chargeback rules said that a chargeback request must be made within 120 days of 
the transaction.  But Ms B contacted Halifax and explained thered been a delay because 
she (and her partner) had been trying to sort the issues out with C.  Halifax asked for her 
evidence of this, which she sent them.  Halifax then made the request to Cs bank.
C defended the chargeback and said it was willing to work with Ms B and her partner to sort 
out the problems with the conservatory.  So Halifax wrote to Ms B to say they couldnt take 
the matter any further for her.  But they said they would look at any extra evidence if she had 
any.
Ms B sent Halifax examples of comments/statements from C, which she said showed C 
wasnt in fact willing to work with her and her partner.  Halifax looked at these, but said they 
didnt think they were strong enough for them to say that a chargeback would be decided in 
her favour.
Ms B complained that Halifax hadnt considered her evidence properly; she felt that, if they 
had, theyd have pursued the chargeback.  Halifax looked at her complaint but decided they 
couldnt do anything more.  They explained that they had to deal with chargebacks according 
to VISAs rules and that merchants can defend them; that doesnt mean that theyve decided 
the dispute itself in favour of one side or the other. 
Ms B complained to us.  Our investigator looked at her complaint and decided that Halifax 
had acted fairly in how they dealt with the chargeback; theyd made a request but had 
decided not to take it to arbitration because they didnt think that would succeed.
Ms B wasnt happy with the investigators view, so Ive been asked to make a decision. What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done that, Ive decided not to uphold Ms Bs complaint.  Ill explain why.
Chargeback schemes are voluntary.  The card issuers (in this case, VISA) set the rules and 
apply them strictly.  So Halifax didnt have to make a request at all.  But, when they did, they 
had to make sure they followed VISAs rules.
The rules say that chargebacks must be raised within so many days of the disputed 
transaction.   Ms B used her card to pay C in December 2017, but didnt ask Halifax to 
dispute the payment until February 2019.  On the face of it, this was too late, and Halifax 
refused her request.  But they did give Ms B the chance to tell them why the time limit 
shouldnt apply to her.  And when she sent them evidence to show why she hadnt got in 
touch earlier, they did make a request.  I think that was fair.
Ms B complained that Halifax didnt pursue the chargeback after it was defended by C.  And 
she thought that C wasnt being truthful in its defence about what it was willing to do to sort 
the problems with the conservatory out.  
Its clear from what Ive read that Halifax did look at evidence from both sides.   But Ms B 
and C have each given them their own version of events.  Halifax cant decide which is 
correct because it would mean they had to make a judgment on the dispute.  And they cant 
do that within the chargeback process.  Even if theyd continued the process and referred 
the matter to arbitration (as Ms B wanted) that wouldnt have resolved her dispute with C.  
So I dont think it was unfair of them not to take the matter further.
I know from all Ive read that Ms B has found the process of trying to sort out the issues with 
her conservatory very stressful. And Im sorry that my decision wont help her.  But I can only 
look at how Halifax dealt with the chargeback; I cant look at her dispute with C.  And 
because they made a request, gave her opportunities to comment on what they had 
received before making a decision and looked at extra evidence she sent in, I think Halifax 
dealt with the chargeback fairly.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above, Im not upholding Ms Bs complaint against Bank of 
Scotland plc trading as Halifax.For the reasons Ive given above, Im not upholding Ms Bs 
complaint against Bank of Scotland plc trading as Halifax.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms B to accept or 
reject my decision before 22 May 2020.
Helen Stacey
Ombudsman