DRN-3219350
The complaint
Mr G complains that TSB Bank plc (TSB) lent to him irresponsibly and didnt carry out 
sufficient checks when they gave him a loan and overdraft facility.
What happened
Mr G opened a current account online with TSB and applied for an overdraft of £900 in 
October 2015. Mr G also applied online for a loan of £5,000 with TSB and this was accepted 
in November 2015. Mr Gs current account was defaulted and charged off to Recoveries in 
October 2016 with an outstanding balance of £1,231.79. And, his loan account was 
defaulted and charged off to Recoveries in November 2016 with an outstanding balance of 
£5,480.10. 
Mr G says TSB shouldnt have given him a loan or overdraft facility as his credit file showed 
hed missed payments to other lenders and had taken out payday loans. Mr G complained to 
TSB and said he was unable to repay the loan or overdraft and both accounts were 
defaulted less than a year after both credit facilities were provided. He also said hed asked 
TSB to change his address on several occasions and sent them the relevant form together 
with evidence of his new address, but they still hadnt changed it. 
TSB responded and explained the steps they carry out when a customer applies for a loan. 
They set out the checks they carry out and referred to a process they use called credit 
scoring to assess a customers application and they also review their Credit Reference 
Agency (CRA) file. They said Mr G signed the loan agreement electronically which set out 
the interest rate, terms of the loan, monthly repayment amount and the total amount 
repayable, which means he was happy with the terms being offered. 
In relation to the overdraft on the current account, TSB said, with the passage of time, it has 
been difficult for them to establish exactly what happened so they could only base their 
review on the information they had available. And, this showed they hadnt made any error in 
giving Mr G an overdraft. In relation to the address change, TSB said, as Mr G opened his 
current account online, they dont hold a specimen signature for him. So, any address 
changes would need to be made at branch with Mr G providing identification. TSB didnt 
uphold the complaint.     
Our investigator looked into things for Mr G. She thought the information didnt support       
Mr Gs complaint. Mr G disagreed so the matter has come to me for a decision.   
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided not to uphold the complaint. I understand Mr G will be 
disappointed by this but Ill explain why I have made this decision.
The loan and overdraft 
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about short-term lending - including all of 
the relevant rules, guidance and good industry practice - on our website. 
TSB needed to take reasonable steps to ensure that they didnt lend irresponsibly. In 
practice this means that they shouldve carried out proportionate checks to make sure that 
Mr G could repay the credit in a sustainable manner. These checks could take into account a 
number of different things, such as how much was being lent, the repayment amounts and 
the consumers income and expenditure. 
The first point Ive addressed is whether I think TSB carried out reasonable and 
proportionate checks. Section 5 of the Consumer Credit (CONC) sourcebook, in place at the 
time, outline that the assessment that TSB needed to complete shouldve been dependent 
on, and proportionate to, a number of factors  including the amount and cost of the credit 
and the consumers borrowing history. CONC also provides guidance on the sources of 
information TSB may have wanted to consider as part of making a proportionate 
assessment. It then gives examples of factors a firm must consider and refers to whether the 
information the firm has is sufficient and whether to obtain additional information from the 
customer and any other sources of information to use.    
   
TSB is free to decide how to set their lending criteria but they should complete proportionate 
checks to ensure borrowing is sustainable. In this case, I can see our investigator has asked 
TSB for evidence of the application data completed by Mr G for the loan and overdraft, the 
results of TSBs credit checks at the point of lending and a copy of any income and 
expenditure calculations and/or affordability assessments. TSB say, due to the passage of 
time, and following their banking systems being upgraded in 2018, the information requested 
by our investigator is no longer available.   
TSB say, when a customer applies for any lending with TSB, they take into consideration the 
information the customer provides, such as their income and expenditure, employment and 
residential status. They also look at a combination of internal credit data held on the 
customer, like their risk profile and internal credit score, as well as credit bureau data that 
provides information, for example, on adverse bureau, levels of indebtedness and bureau 
credit score.
TSB say, with this data they complete a creditworthiness assessment and an affordability 
assessment to determine the amount theyre able to lend to the customer. This amount is 
then used to determine whether they can provide the limit requested by the customer based 
on the customer drawing the entire limit on day one and repaying an equivalent loan 
repayment over a 12-month term. They say they complete these creditworthiness and 
affordability assessments for both new limits and for limit increases. 
TSB say, the data they review is refreshed monthly and the calculations are automated and 
are deployed in their credit decision systems. They say they have a variety of controls in 
place to monitor their creditworthiness and affordability assessments to ensure that they 
continue to provide fair lending outcomes. 
TSB say, at the time of Mr Gs application for the loan and overdraft, if there was adverse 
bureau data recorded on his credit file with the CRAs, this wouldve been picked up as part 
of these checks and his applications would have been declined. 
TSB no longer have the information to show whether their checks were reasonable and 
proportionate. Looking at their explanation for the checks they wouldve carried out, I think 
these are reasonable and proportionate as they take into account a number of factors. And, 
the checks carried out are the type I would reasonably expect because they would help TSB to not only build a picture of Mr Gs financial situation, but also to assist in determining 
whether he could repay the credit in a sustainable way. 
 
The next point Ive considered is whether TSB made a fair lending decision bearing in mind 
the information gathered and what they knew about Mr Gs circumstances. TSB say they 
take into account information held by the CRAs, so Ive looked at Mr Gs credit file to see 
what this wouldve shown. 
Mr Gs credit report shows accounts with other lenders around the time he applied for the 
loan and overdraft with TSB. This shows loans, credit card, bank accounts and 
communication services accounts. I cant see theres a pattern of missed payments or 
defaulted accounts at the time of TSBs lending decision. There are a number of accounts 
which are defaulted in 2016 and after, but Im considering the information at the time of 
TSBs lending decisions. Taking this into account, I cant see there was any adverse 
information here which shouldve led to TSB declining Mr Gs application for a loan and 
overdraft. I note Mr G feels TSB shouldnt have opened the two accounts for him because of 
his other borrowing. But, I dont think evidence of other borrowing  particularly if those 
accounts are managed well, is reason alone for a lender to decline an application.  
Mr G says his primary bank account was with another bank and I think the TSB current 
account statements support this as they dont appear to show many transactions. It wouldve 
been helpful to see a copy of Mr Gs bank statements for his primary account to determine 
what his income and expenditure looked like, and what he was likely to have noted on his 
application when setting out his financial circumstances. I can see our investigator has 
asked Mr G to provide a copy of his bank statements for his primary account but he says he 
hasnt been able to get these. So, Ive based my decision on the information that is available. 
Taking this all into account, and based on the information provided by the CRAs, I think TSB 
could be satisfied that this information didnt suggest any issues with Mr Gs financial 
circumstances, and he was managing his other accounts well. I cant determine what Mr Gs 
income and expenditure looked like at the time, so I cant say TSB shouldve identified that 
Mr G wouldnt be able to make repayments without undue difficulty and wouldnt be able to 
meet other commitments without having to borrow further. I can see Mr G does experience 
financial difficulties in 2016 which leads to a number of accounts being defaulted  including 
the two TSB accounts. But, Im looking at the lending decision made by TSB in October and 
November. And, the information Ive seen doesnt suggest TSBs decision to lend was unfair. 
Change of address
TSB have provided evidence of the address they hold for Mr G  and I can see this is the 
address Mr G wants to be changed. TSB say, the only record they have of Mr G asking for 
his address to be changed is from February 2020 when they received a change of address 
form. They say they werent able to action this because they dont hold a record of Mr Gs 
signature, due to him opening his accounts online. They say they sent Mr G a text to let him 
know. TSB say theyre unable to update Mr Gs address until hes able to visit one of their 
branches with identification.  
I understand Mr G will be frustrated that his address hasnt been changed following his 
request, but I cant say TSB have acted unreasonably here. They say they dont have a 
specimen of Mr Gs signature  which is understandable given that Mr G applied for both 
accounts online. And, I dont think their request for Mr G to attend a branch with identification 
is unreasonable given that theyll need to verify Mr Gs identity. 
My final decision
For the reasons I have given, it is my final decision that the complaint is not upheld. Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision before 5 April 2022.
 
Paviter Dhaddy
Ombudsman