DRN-4077534
The complaint
Mr D complains that he hasnt received the maturity value he expected from a HealthMaster 
Plan he took out in 1986. 
Responsibility for the plan now sits with Phoenix Life Limited. To keep things simple Ill use 
Phoenix in this decision to mean them and their predecessors.
What happened
The plan Mr D took out provided him with life assurance, some income protection, and  if 
needed  disability benefits. The policy was set to run until 2022. Mr D paid a regular 
premium which was invested. The cost of the insurance benefits was taken from that 
investment. But the plan allowed for any value left when it ended to be returned to Mr D.
Mr Ds shown us a copy of the illustration he received in 1986. This said he might get back 
£11,205. This was qualified with a note saying what Mr D ultimately received would depend 
on the performance of the investment, which could go up or down.
Mr D received annual statements for the plan. These showed how many units his investment 
held, but didnt show their value. The plans premium increased in 2002 and 2007, although 
no ones been able to send me a copy of any letters that discussed the reason for this.
In 2022, Mr D received a letter telling him his plan was due to mature with a value under 
£200. He ultimately received £196.90.
Mr D complained, as this was much less than hed been expecting. Phoenix replied, saying 
the plan was primarily for protection  the insurance benefits it provided  rather than being 
an investment policy. They noted there were no guarantees given about the maturity value. 
They felt no loss had been suffered, even though Mr D didnt receive the value he expected.
Not satisfied with that response, Mr D came to us. I wrote last time how I intended to uphold 
Mr Ds complaint. That was a different view to our investigator, so I gave both sides an 
opportunity to respond to my provisional decision. 
Phoenix said they would accept the remedy I put forward. Mr D wrote to say he felt he 
wouldnt have continued with the policy if hed known it wouldnt give the sort of return 
indicated when it began. 
Ive considered these responses, and am now able to make a final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, my reasoning isnt changed from last time. Ive decided to uphold Mr Ds 
complaint, and Ill explain why by repeating what I wrote last time. Ill add a couple of lines to 
show how Ive considered Mr Ds latest comments. 
I can see the illustration Mr D received in 1986 made the maturity value seem like it would 
be significant. I appreciate this amount wasnt guaranteed. But there wasnt anything to say 
how likely it was the plan would achieve the amount shown in the illustration.
I can accept that Phoenix may have arrived at this maturity value by looking at investment 
performance and insurance costs at the time. But as time went on their expectations must 
have changed.
The 2002 increase in the premium suggests Phoenix had concerns the investments value 
wouldnt be enough to provide protection for the remainder of the plans term, let alone 
provide a maturity value. That awareness should have been passed on to Mr D, to allow him 
to make an informed decision about whether to continue with the contract.
Phoenix have said that the main benefit of the policy was the protection it offered. So they 
didnt review its potential maturity value. I dont consider that a reasonable position for them 
to take, given how significant the maturity value appeared in the illustration given to Mr D.
I can see the annual statements show a steady drop in the number of units held in Mr Ds 
investment. But the absence of a value meant these statements stopped short of highlighting 
that his plans maturity value was unlikely to be as previously indicated. I dont consider 
these statements were enough to warn Mr D things wouldnt be as he was expecting.
Phoenix should have done more to explain to Mr D in 2002 and 2007 that his premium was 
increasing because the value of his investment wasnt going to be enough to support the 
plans insurance benefits or provide a maturity value. If they had, Mr D would have had a 
chance at least by 2002 to consider whether the protection alone was worth the ongoing cost 
of the policy.
Putting things right
Looking at the benefits of this policy and Mr Ds circumstances, the protection benefits do 
look like they could have been useful for him. Any sudden changes affecting his ability to 
work would have affected his income in a way this plan could have helped with.
Ive also considered that when Mr D took this policy out he would have had other options 
available to save or invest his money that didnt include the protection offered by this plan. 
Those may have offered more of a guarantee about the final value that would be achieved. 
The fact Mr D didnt choose those options in 1986 suggests he saw some added value in the 
protection he received from this plan. 
I appreciate Mr Ds said his circumstances changed over the years, in terms of needing this 
protection. But it was always an option to him to end the policy early and take the value it 
held. He doesnt appear to have done that, or looked into doing that, from what I can see. 
When taken together, the above leads me to conclude that Mr D would likely have chosen to 
continue to have the protection offered by this plan, even if he was more aware that the 
redemption value wasnt going to be anything like initially estimated. Thered have always 
been a cost to that, which could well have been quite similar to what Mr D actually paid.
So Im not going to have Phoenix refund or adjust any of the premiums Mr D paid over the 
years. But I can see that with more information about the likelihood of achieving the 
previously estimated redemption value, Mr D would have been better prepared.
Again, exactly what hed have done is hard to say. But I can appreciate how distressing it is 
for Mr D to now have to adjust his plans and finances at a time when he may have been expecting to be working less, and so earning less.
Its that emotional impact that Phoenix need to acknowledge. They cant undo it, but some 
monetary compensation will recognise the upset and unwelcome surprise Mr D felt when he 
at last saw the redemption value of his plan was around 50 times less than had been 
estimated at the outset.
Mr D was planning on a five-figure sum from his plan, to use in his retirement. The distress 
caused leaves Mr D with a lingering feeling that Phoenix havent fulfilled their obligations to 
him as their customer.
Picking an amount here is a matter of opinion. But with the factors above in mind, Ive 
decided Phoenix should pay Mr D £1,000 compensation for the emotional impact this matter 
has had on him.
That fairly balances the fact that the value Mr D was expecting hadnt ever been guaranteed, 
with the shock he must have felt when  after more than 35 years of paying into the plan  
he found out the earlier estimates wouldnt be met.
My final decision
Ive decided to uphold Mr Ds complaint about Phoenix Life Limited. To acknowledge the 
emotional impact on him, Phoenix should pay Mr D £1,000 in compensation.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision before 16 May 2023.
 
Paul Mellor
Ombudsman