DRN-3972234
The complaint
Mr T complains that a car acquired with finance from Mercedes Benz Financial Services UK 
Limited wasnt of satisfactory quality. 
What happened
In June 2022 Mr T was supplied with a car and entered into a hire purchase agreement with 
MBFS. At the point of supply the car was around 3 years old and had covered mileage of 
around 8,700.
Before collecting the car from the dealership, Mr T was asked to sign a document stating 
that the car had been checked. Mr T asked the dealership if the car was in good condition 
and free from damage, and was advised that it was, so he signed the document.
On collecting the car, Mr T discovered that the alloy wheels had scratches and dents. The 
paintwork had scratches and there was a dent in the back of the drivers seat. Mr T raised 
these issues with the dealership, who said he could book the car in for the damage to be 
rectified.
Mr T chased the dealership over the course of around a week and asked when he could 
bring the car in. He didnt receive a response, so he drove to the dealership and asked to 
reject the car. The dealership refused to accept a rejection and said it would call Mr T later, 
but this didnt happen.
Mr T complained to MBFS. In response, MBFS said there were no grounds for rejection 
because the dealership was entitled to an opportunity to repair the car.
Mr T disputed this and said the dealership had already had several opportunities to repair 
the issues and had failed to do so.
Mr T exchanged several emails with the dealership regarding the issues with the car and 
trying to arrange a suitable date for repairs to take place. The car was eventually booked in 
for repair, but when it was returned to Mr T most of the damage was still present. The dent in 
the drivers seat hadnt been repaired and the alloy wheels were still damaged. 
Mr T brought his complaint to this service. He wants to reject the car.
Our investigator upheld the complaint. He said that based on the emails between Mr T and 
the dealership, he was satisfied that there were faults with the car. The investigator said that 
Mr T had provided the dealership with ample opportunities to repair the car and that with no 
attempt at repair having been made within the first 30 days, had asked to reject the car 
within this time. The investigator said that MBFS shouldve accepted rejection. He also said 
that (outside of the first 30 days) the dealership had attempted repairs, but these hadnt been 
successful at rectifying all the issues. The investigator concluded that the car wasnt of 
satisfactory quality and that Mr T should be allowed to reject the car.
Mr T contacted the investigator to explain that he had now sold the car and settled the 
finance agreement. He said hed suffered a loss of around £10,600.
Our investigator said that MBFS should refund the deposit, minus any net proceeds of sale, 
and calculated this figure at £9,088.72.
Mr T agreed with the investigators view. But MBFS didnt agree. It said that Mr T had 
accepted the car with cosmetic issues and that there was no evidence to suggest that there 
were any manufacturing faults. MBFS said that cosmetic issues were a wear and tear item 
and that it was reasonable to expect wear and tear on a second hand car. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The Consumer Rights Act 2015 is relevant to this complaint. This says that goods must be of 
satisfactory quality when supplied. Cars are of satisfactory quality if they are of a standard 
that a reasonable person would regard as acceptable, taking into account things such as the 
age and mileage of the car and the price paid. The legislation says that the quality of goods 
includes their general state and condition, and other things like fitness for purpose, 
appearance and finish, freedom from minor defects, safety and durability.
The car supplied to Mr T was around 3 years old and had travelled 8,700 miles at the point 
of supply. Because this is a second hand car, Id expect a degree of wear and tear. 
However, given the very low mileage, I wouldnt expect the wear and tear to be more than 
minimal.
Ive considered all of the available information and Ive thought about whether there was a 
fault with the car which made it of unsatisfactory quality at the point of supply. Mr T has 
provided evidence in the form of emails between him and the dealer which show that there 
were issues with the speaker, the window and the sat nav. The emails also show that the 
dealer accepted that there were issues which needed to be rectified, specifically there is an 
email in which the dealer states that it will fix the back of the seat, get the alloys done and 
sort out all the surface scratches.
Based on the evidence Ive seen, Im satisfied that there were faults with the car.
Ive gone on to consider whether the faults made the car of unsatisfactory quality. The 
relevant legislation includes appearance and finish as an aspect of satisfactory quality.
Ive taken account of what MBFS has said about the issues being cosmetic in nature, and 
that its reasonable to expect some cosmetic damage due to wear and tear.
In this case, I think the issues are more than cosmetic, and go beyond wear and tear. If the 
issues with the wheels and bodywork and drivers seat werent significant, I dont think the 
dealership wouldve agreed to repair them. The fact that the dealer agreed to carry our 
repairs suggests to me that the issues were more than cosmetic and went beyond what 
would be considered reasonable wear and tear for a car of this age and mileage.
MBFS has said that theres no evidence of a manufacturing fault and that it isnt responsible. 
I dont agree. The Consumer Rights Act 2015 specifically mentions general state and 
condition and appearance as factors to consider when deciding whether a car is of 
satisfactory quality. The legislation doesnt just refer to mechanical and/or manufacturing 
faults.Taking everything into account, Im satisfied that the condition and appearance of the car fell 
below the standard that a reasonable person would expect from a car of this age and 
mileage. The faults go beyond wear and tear. For this reason, I dont think the car was of 
satisfactory quality at the point of supply. MBFS must take steps to put things right.
Putting things right
Under the relevant legislation, the business is allowed one opportunity to repair the fault. In 
this case, Im satisfied that Mr T gave the dealership reasonable opportunity to carry out 
repairs within the first 30 days before he asked to reject it. The dealership failed to carry out 
the repirs during this time so I think the request to reject shouldve been allowed.
Even if the short term right to reject doesnt apply, Im persuaded that Mr T has the right to 
reject the car now. This is because the dealership attempt at repair in September 2022 
wasnt successful because not all of the faults were rectified. 
Mr T has told this service that hes now sold the car and settled the finance agreement. 
Having settled the agreement, Mr T received net proceeds of £614.28. 
To resolve the complaint, MBFS should refund Mr Ts deposit minus the profit he made on 
the sale.
Therefore, MBFS should refund the sum of £9,088.72 together with 8% simple interest per 
annum from the date of payment to the date of settlement.
MBFS should also pay compensation of £200 to Mr T for the distress and inconvenience 
caused to him as a result of supplying a car which wasnt of satisfactory quality. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold the complaint. Mercedes Benz Financial Services UK 
Limited must take the steps Ive set out above. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr T to accept or 
reject my decision before 26 April 2023.
 
Emma Davy
Ombudsman