DRN-3454705
The complaint
Mr T is complaining that Capital Com (UK) Limited closed some of his positions without his 
consent.
What happened
Mr T had a trading account with Capital Com which he used to trade contracts for difference 
(CFDs). On 28 May 2021, Mr T had six open positions. Four of those were linked to one 
particular stock which was particularly volatile on that day. The volatility in the price triggered 
a margin close out and Capital Com closed all of Mr Ts positions, crystallising his loss.   
Mr T complained. He didnt understand why Capital Com had closed all of his positions and 
said that if theyd closed one position at a time they wouldnt have needed to close all of 
them. He said that other platforms hed used closed positions gradually rather than all at 
once.
In response, Capital Com said the positions were closed in accordance with their Leverage 
and Margin Policy. They didnt think theyd done anything wrong.
Mr T remained unhappy so he brought his complaint to our service. Our investigator looked 
into the matter but didnt uphold the complaint  she said Capital Com had acted fairly and in 
line with their terms and conditions. Mr T asked for an ombudsman to review his complaint  
so its come to me. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im not upholding Mr Ts complaint. Ill explain why.
Capital Com are required to follow the rules set by the European Securities and Markets 
Authority (ESMA). These rules require providers to close out one or more open CFDs for a 
client as soon as the available margin on their account falls below 50% of the minimum 
required margin. ESMA doesnt say exactly how providers should go about this  so they 
can choose how they implement the rule.
Mr Ts main complaint is not that some of his positions were closed  its that all of them 
were. It seems he accepts that the volatility in the stock left him in a position where his 
account was in breach of the margin requirements. But, he says, Capital Com should have 
closed one position at a time  which might have allowed some of his positions to stay open.
I appreciate Mr Ts point of view  this does seem like it would be fairer. And, he says, other 
providers have done this with his accounts in the past. But theres no requirement on Capital 
Com to close one position at a time  ESMA gives them discretion in how they implement 
the margin close-outs. 
Capital Coms Leverage and Margin Policy is very clear about how they go about margin 
calls. It says that if the margin level is below 50% after all pending orders have been 
cancelled then all losing open positions on open markets are closed. Theres no ambiguity 
in this policy. All of Mr Ts open positions were losing positions at the time  so Im satisfied 
Capital Com followed their policy at the time of the close-out.
Mr Ts questioned whether Capital Com changed their policies around the time of his margin 
close-out and has sent us screenshots which he says demonstrate that the policy changed 
over time. These screenshots show the margin warnings Capital Com sent him by email and 
I can see that they do differ. But Capital Coms underlying policy hasnt changed since 
January 2020. And the screenshots say substantively the same thing as the policy, and 
wouldnt lead to a different outcome for Mr Ts close-out.
Although I realise Mr T will be disappointed, I cant say Capital Com have acted unfairly. 
Whilst it might have been beneficial for Mr T if theyd closed his positions gradually I cant 
say they ought to have done this. They provide an execution-only service and have a clearly 
set out and automated process to allow them to meet their regulatory requirements. 
My final decision
As Ive explained above, Im not upholding Mr Ts complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr T to accept or 
reject my decision before 14 March 2023.
 
Clare King
Ombudsman