DRN-3962620
The complaint
Mr S complains Advantage Insurance Company Limited unfairly cancelled his motor 
insurance policy.
What happened
In June 2022 a third-party made a claim against Mr S Advantage motor insurance policy. 
They said Mr S car had damaged their own in a collision. Mr S felt the claim was 
unwarranted. He said he wasnt agreeable to Advantage making any offer of settlement.  
In late July 2022 Advantage told Mr S it was disputing the third-party allegations. It said to 
support its defence, that he hadnt hit the third partys car, it had arranged an engineer to 
inspect his. In response Mr S said he was opposed to an inspection unless court 
proceedings began  and then he would insist on a side by side examination of both cars. 
He added he would defend himself in proceedings. 
Advantage wrote to Mr S again in early August 2022. It said its engineer hadnt been able to 
contact him for an inspection. It said one was needed to defend against the claim. In October 
2022, as it hadnt heard from Mr S, Advantage cancelled his policy for his failure to co-
operate. 
In December 2022 Advantage responded to a complaint from Mr S. It said he had refused to 
cooperate with its claims department. He hadnt allowed an independent inspection of his 
car. It said it had cancelled his cover as this was a breach of the policy terms. It added his 
failure to cooperate meant it had no grounds to defend the claim, so may have to settle. 
Mr S wasnt satisfied so came to this service. To resolve his complaint he would like the 
cancellation to be rescinded, his policy to be renewed without an increase in premium and 
any record of the incident to be removed from an industry claims database. 
In January 2023 Advantage closed the claim, without settlement, as the third-party hadnt 
followed it up. As there hasnt been a payment its been recorded, on the claims database, 
as notification only. 
Our investigator found Advantage had acted fairly and reasonably. She said it had handled 
the claim, and its recording, as shed expect it to. She felt the policy had been cancelled 
fairly and in line with the policy terms. She noted an instance of poor customer service, but 
didnt feel it was responsible for the policy being cancelled. So she didnt recommend 
Advantage reinstate the cover or do anything differently. Mr S didnt accept the outcome, so 
the complaint was passed to me for a final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr S policy covers him for damage to third-partys property following an incident involving 
his car. A third-party claimed against his policy, saying his car had damaged hers by hitting 
it. Mr S seems to feel Advantage shouldnt have entered into any discussion with the third-
party. But I wouldnt expect that sort of response. Advantage received a claim, so had to 
respond to it. And in these circumstances the policy terms allow Advantage to defend or 
settle any claim on his behalf. That means it might take a certain course, or make a decision, 
he disagrees with - but the policy allows it to do so. 
Having looked at Advantages records I can see it asked the third-party insurer for specific 
evidence for the claim. To support it, and Mr S position he didnt damage the third-partys 
car, it arranged an inspection. Im satisfied it acted reasonably when handling the claim in 
this way. 
Mr S policy terms require him to cooperate with Advantage so as not to compromise the 
outcome of a claim. Its unfortunate he didnt do so, despite attempts by Advantage to 
explain the need for an inspection. The terms give it the right to cancel the policy if Mr S 
refuses to allow it reasonable access to his car for a claim  and if he fails to provide 
reasonable co-operation for a claim. Advantage says his refusal meant it was unable to 
accurately determine if his vehicle had or hadnt caused damage to the third partys vehicle. 
Its reasonable for insurers to require policyholders to cooperate with claims. Policyholders 
that fail to do so can undermine their ability to make a successful defence. So in general I 
can understand why Advantage didnt wish to continue providing cover for Mr S. It took 
reasonable steps to explain why it wanted an inspection. Mr S says he was cooperating in 
other ways, by writing letters for example. But in the circumstances, I cant say Advantages 
decision to cancel the policy for non-cooperation was unfair or unreasonable. 
Ultimately Advantages position may not have been prejudiced by the lack of inspection - as 
the claim wasnt followed up. But that outcome wasnt known when the insurer was trying to 
arrange an inspection, nor when it cancelled the policy. So Im not going to require 
Advantage to reinstate the policy or remove any record of cancellation. 
Early in the claim Advantage provided some incorrect information. It said liability had been 
accepted. However, I dont feel this had any significant impact. It soon clarified to Mr S that 
the claim was being defended. 
Advantage says the claim is now recorded as notification only. I accept Mr S feels there 
wasnt an incident  there being no contact between the vehicles. But the insurer was 
notified of an incident, by the third-party. So Im satisfied notification only is a fair record. So 
Im not going to require Advantage to amend any claim records. 
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I dont uphold Mr S complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 25 April 2023.
 
Daniel Martin
Ombudsman