DRN-2455416
The complaint
Mr L complained that Capital One (Europe) plc trading as Capital One (Capital One) issued 
a default notice on his credit card when they had agreed a payment holiday.
What happened
Mr L had a credit card with Capital One. He had been in financial difficulty for some time. In 
November 2019 Capital One agreed a three-month payment plan. No interest was charged 
but minimum monthly payments were to be made. This ended in February 2020. In April 
2020, Capital One issued a default notice. This was registered in May 2020. Later in April 
2020, a three-month payment holiday was agreed under the coronavirus support 
arrangements. No interest was to be charged, and no payments were required.
Mr L complained that the default notice shouldnt have been issued as he had a payment 
holiday with Capital One.
Capital One responded in June 2020. They said that a default notice was issued on 6 April 
2020 due to the number of missed payments. They then agreed a payment holiday on 11 
April 2020 and confirmed this to Mr L in an email on 14 April 2020. The email said that if a 
default notice had been sent, then it still applied. They said the default notice stood as they 
had a responsibility to report accurately to the credit reference agencies.
Mr L complained to us in September 2020. Our investigator said Mr L had a payment plan in 
place from November 2019, but the minimum repayments hadnt been made. Then, Mr L 
had contacted Capital One in March 2020 to say his circumstances had changed and he 
offered to pay £10 per month. These payments werent made. Capital One asked that Mr L 
complete an income & expenditure form, but this hadnt been returned. So, Capital One 
issued the notice of default on 6 April 2020, which was registered on 9 May 2020. The 
default notice said that if payment wasnt received, the default would be applied. Mr L had 
requested the payment holiday after the notice of default was issued and so it had to stand. 
Capital One had a responsibility to report data to the credit reference agencies so she 
couldnt say the entry should be removed. She felt that Capital One had acted reasonably.
Mr L asked that his complaint be reviewed by an ombudsman.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
There are two issues to consider here: 
Did Capital One treat Mr Ls financial difficulties as they should have?
Did the new payment holiday agreed by Capital One in April 2020 replace the default 
notice that it had sent a few days previously? 
Mr L had been in financial difficulties. The notes on the files of Capital One show that they 
were aware that he had been through a period of unemployment. Businesses have an 
obligation to treat customers in financial difficulty sympathetically and the Financial Conduct 
Authority (FCA) says that businesses like Capital One should treat customers in difficulties 
with forbearance and due consideration. For example, a business might suspend or waive 
interest, accept lower payments or defer them, and allow customers more time to repay their 
debt.
Capital One agreed a payment plan for Mr L for three months from November 2019. This 
was interest-free and needed him to make the minimum monthly payments. When it came to 
an end in February 2020, Capital One got in touch again and asked if he needed more help. 
And in April 2020, Capital One agree a new three-month payment holiday, interest free, with 
no payments due under the coronavirus support scheme. Measures like this are in line with 
what the FCAs rules say and so, I think that over the period, Capital One did support Mr L 
reasonably and with forbearance as they should.
Turning to the default notice. Some of the monthly payments of the November 2019 plan 
were missed. Capital One advised Mr L that this had happened and that the account was in 
arrears. When the plan came to an end in February 2020, Mr L didnt reply to them to get in 
touch to discuss his situation. I can see that they asked Mr L for an income and expenditure 
schedule twice, but Mr L didnt send this in.
Mr L contacted Capital One in March 2020. He offered to pay £10 per month. They asked to 
see an income & expenditure schedule. Mr L didnt send this in, nor did he make any 
payments into the account. In those circumstances, it was reasonable for Capital One to 
send a notice of default on 7 April 2020. 
Mr L then asked for a payment holiday on 11 April 2020 and this was agreed. Capital One 
emailed Mr L with the terms of this on 14 April 2020. 
I can appreciate where Mr L is coming from  he had got a notice of default dated 7 April 
2020 and after that, he agreed a payment plan. The plan said it was interest free and there 
was no need to make any payments, and it also said, We won't report your payment holiday 
to credit reference agencies and your account will not fall any further behind with payments. 
I can see how Mr L might have thought that the terms of the new plan replaced the default 
notice of only a few days earlier. 
But the terms of the new payment holiday were clear and said If your account is already on 
an existing arrangement, we may still report this. if we have sent you a Default Notice, this 
still applies and your account may go on to default. The only way that the default could have 
been stopped was if Mr L had paid the arrears, as the notice of default had said. Ive seen no 
evidence that Mr L tried to pay the arrears, and he hasnt said that he could have done. Had 
he done so, there may have been an argument that Capital One should have removed the 
default entry on Mr Ls credit file. But that didnt happen.
Capital One were entitled to send Mr L a Mr L a notice of default given that his account was 
more than three months in arrears and, in the circumstances here, I think it did so fairly. I 
can see how Mr L could have thought that the default notice didnt apply - but Capital One 
were clear in their communications that they would follow through with the default notice and 
report the default to the credit reference agency. 
Mr L has also said to us that he didnt receive the notice of default or account statements. I 
have seen evidence from Capital One that these were sent. Unfortunately, sometimes post 
goes astray, but Capital One cannot be blamed for that. In any event, I think Capital One acted fairly in taking the action it did here and I cant see that the situation wouldve been 
any different if Mr L did receive these letters given his situation.
Over several months, it seems to me that Capital One had done all they could to help Mr L 
and treated him fairly and reasonably. It was really unfortunate that the default notice was 
issued just before a new payment holiday was agreed. But I dont think they have done 
anything wrong here. So, I wont be asking them to do anymore.
My final decision
I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr L to accept or 
reject my decision before 16 February 2021.
 
Martin Lord
Ombudsman