DRN-3770847
The complaint
Mr H is unhappy with the service he received from TSB Bank plc surrounding the blocking of 
his debit card.
What happened
On 23 December 2021, Mr H noticed his TSB debit card transactions were being declined. 
However, he was able to continue using his debit card via contactless for the next few days. 
On 27 December 2021, Mr H called TSB to ask why he was having trouble using his debit 
card. TSB explained a block had been placed on the card and that it needed to be replaced. 
Mr H wasnt happy about this because he would be without a debit card until a new card was 
sent to him, and because the banks were closed for the Christmas holiday, meaning he 
wasnt able to access the money in his account until that time. So, he raised a complaint.
TSB looked at Mr Hs complaint. They explained that it was the card issuer  whose symbol 
was on the card  who had held concerns about the debit card and who had instructed the 
block. TSB also explained that when Mr H had contacted them on 27 December, they had 
no choice but to cancel Mr Hs debit card and issue him with a new one, as this was in line 
with the card rules as set by the card issuer. As such, TSB didnt feel theyd acted unfairly 
towards Mr H, given that theyd acted as required by the card issuer. Mr H wasnt satisfied 
with TSBs response, so he referred his complaint to this service. 
One of our investigators looked at this complaint. They didnt feel that TSB had acted unfairly 
in how theyd managed this situation, and so they also didnt uphold the complaint. Mr H 
remained dissatisfied, so the matter was escalated to an ombudsman for a final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I can appreciate how Mr H would have been frustrated to discover that his debit card had 
been blocked during the Christmas period, and at how TSB then cancelled the card when he 
spoke with them shortly after Christmas, when banks were closed, meaning that he couldnt 
visit a branch to withdraw money for a few days while he waited for his new card to arrive. 
But Im satisfied that TSB were acting as was required of them by the card issuer here, as 
well as in accordance with their own processes, which involved applying an initial block 
which didnt completely restrict the debit card and which was intended to prompt the genuine 
card holder to contact them  which Mr H did, and at which point the card was cancelled and 
a new one ordered. Mr H may disagree, but this process seems reasonable to me, and I 
note that its structure  whereby the card holder is prompted to contact the bank  is 
designed to ensure that the bank only speak with the legitimate account holder.
What isnt in dispute is that the timing of the events under consideration here, which took 
place during the Christmas bank holiday period, was particularly impactful on Mr H. But while 
I acknowledge this was unfortunate, I dont feel that it was unfair. 
This is because Im satisfied that the same process would have been followed by TSB if the 
card issuer had informed TSB of its concerns about Mr Hs debit card in a different month, or 
regarding a different customer. And given that Im satisfied that TSB applied the same 
process in this instance that they would have done in all other similar instances, I dont feel 
that it can be reasonably said that TSB applied that process unfairly in Mr Hs case. It was 
just unfortunate for Mr H that these events happened when they did. But it doesnt follow 
from the unfortunate timing of these events that TSB did anything wrong.
Im aware that Mr H feels that TSB should have restricted the debit card completely on 23 
December instead of placing the limited restriction on the card as they did. Mr H further feels 
that had TSB restricted the debit card completely on 23 December, that he would have 
contacted TSB on that date and his card would have been cancelled at a time when hed 
have been able to visit a bank and withdraw cash in person before the Christmas bank 
holiday period began.
I can appreciate how, in hindsight, Mr H would have preferred his card to have been 
cancelled on 23 December, rather than on 27 December. But as explained, Im satisfied that 
TSBs process here isnt unfair, and Im also satisfied that its one theyre entitled to follow. 
And I dont agree that TSB were compelled to have placed a full block on Mr Hs debit card 
on 23 December, as Mr H contends.
Finally, I feel TSB clearly explained what was happening in regard to the block to Mr H, both 
in the telephone conversations between Mr H and TSB that took place on 27 December, and 
also in TSBs written response to Mr Hs complaint, dated 11 January 2022.
I realise this might not be the outcome Mr H was wanting, but I dont feel that TSB did 
anything wrong here, and it follows from this that I wont be upholding this complaint or 
instructing TSB to take any further action. I hope Mr H will understand, given what Ive 
explained, why Ive made the final decision I have.  
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 20 December 2022.
 
Paul Cooper
Ombudsman