DRN-2228617
The complaint
Mr Fs complaint is that the kitchen he acquired through a fixed sum loan agreement with 
Clydesdale Financial Services Limited trading as Barclays Partner Finance (BPF) wasnt of 
satisfactory quality. He said that there had been a breach of contract regarding the worktops 
that he ordered, and he wants a refund for this portion of the contract along with 
compensation for the distress and inconvenience he has been caused.
What happened
Mr F entered into a fixed sum loan agreement in March 2019 to acquire a kitchen. The 
kitchen was supplied by the retailer, but Mr F says there were several issues including items 
being delivered that were damaged or incorrect and the worktops being supplied by 
contractor not the retailer. He says he wasnt provided the service he should have been and 
that this has caused stress and inconvenience. Mr F wants the cost of the worktops refunded 
and compensation for the distress and inconvenience he has been caused.
BPF didnt uphold Mr Fs complaint. It said that Mr F contacted it in May 2019 as he wasnt 
happy with the worktops supplied as part of his kitchen contract. It said the worktops were 
bespoke and measured by a specialist contractor and that Mr F signed the template 
document to confirm the order. Three worktops and one breakfast bar were ordered, and the 
contractor was to install these. However only one worktop could be fitted due to damage to 
two of the worktops and the breakfast bar. It says the contractor agreed to take the three 
damaged units back for reworking and these were ready to be installed. 
Regarding the fitted worktop Mr F had complained about the overhang. BPF says that the 
contractor confirmed the worktops were made to the specification agreed with Mr F but that 
an adjustment could be made to reduce the overhang. It said this would be done at no cost 
to Mr F as a gesture of goodwill. 
Mr F didnt accept BPFs response and referred his complaint to this service. 
Our investigator didnt uphold this complaint. She said the worktops were supplied in 
accordance with the measurements from the template that Mr F had signed on 17 April 
2019. She said that the retailer had offered to address the issues that Mr F had raised which 
she found was more that she would have required. She said that the goods were provided 
on a supply only basis and BPF didnt do anything wrong by paying the loan amount when 
the goods had been delivered.
Regarding the service provided by the retailer she didnt think it had done anything wrong. 
She noted the worktops were made to measure and while supplied by the retailer were 
ordered from another contractor which she didnt think meant a misrepresentation had 
occurred. She said the retailer had offered to assist Mr F and have the contractor carry out 
alterations as required so she thought the service provided was reasonable.
Mr F didnt agree with our investigators view. He said that the measurements were carried 
out on his behalf and while he questioned the overhang he was told this was all correct and 
so he signed the form. He says it wasnt reasonable to expect him to have alterations carried 
out in his home as this was a health and safety risk. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr F is clearly dissatisfied with the worktops supplied as part of his contract with the retailer 
and the service he has been provided. He has raised his concerns with the retailer, but the 
issues havent been resolved to his satisfaction. He has also raised his complaint with BPF 
as the finance provider. Under the regulations, the finance provider can, in certain 
circumstances, be held liable if the goods provided were misrepresented or there was a 
breach in contract. In this case Mr F has said that the retailer breached the contract because 
the worktops werent of satisfactory quality.
The worktops were made to measure and supplied by a contractor. A template survey form 
was completed before the worktops were made and this is headed both with the retailers 
name and the contractors name. Therefore, I find that Mr F accepted the worktops would be 
provided by the contractor and so this wasnt misrepresented to him.
I have looked through the template survey form and this provides the measurements and the 
edging design and Mr F has initialled the relevant sections. I can see that Mr F has also 
initialled the boxes confirming the information he has been provided with including The edge 
details has been confirmed with you and The overhang allowance has been explained and 
agreed with you. I understand that the worktops were made in accordance with the requests 
by Mr F and so I cannot say that they were misrepresented. 
The worktops were made in line with the measurements agreed in the template survey. Mr F 
has said that the measurements were carried out by the contractor and although he 
questioned the overhang he was told this was what it had to be. As I wasnt present, I cannot 
say what was discussed before Mr F agreed to the template. But as he agreed to the details 
in the template survey form I cannot say the worktops were incorrect as they were made to 
these measurements.
That said, Mr F isnt the expert here and so it is reasonable he would accept the information 
provided by the contractor regarding the overhang and sign the form accordingly. But when 
the worktop was fitted it became apparent there was an issue. This was confirmed by the 
inspection Mr F had carried out which said that the overhang appeared excessive. 
Therefore, while I accept that the worktops were made to the correct order details it does 
appear that the overhang wasnt reasonable given the style of the kitchen doors. 
Given the above, I find it reasonable that the contractor offered to remedy the situation at no 
cost to Mr F. I note Mr Fs concerns about the adjustments taking place at his home and I 
also have considered the comments in the inspection report about this issue. I think it 
reasonable that Mr F raised these concerns and I would expect any remedy to take place in 
a way that was in line with the relevant health regulations and guidance. Subject to this, I 
find the offer made by the contractor to remedy the issue with the worktop was reasonable.
As the damaged worktops were taken back and the required actions taken and I have 
nothing to suggest that this didnt resolve the issue within a reasonable timeframe, I find that 
the retailer did what was required of it under the contract. As the worktops are made to 
measure they will not be able to be sold on. Therefore, I find it reasonable that these are 
installed for Mr F in line with the original agreement if still required. If the worktops are no 
longer required I still find that Mr F is liable for the costs of these.Overall, I find that the remedies undertaken regarding the damaged goods and the offer of 
remedial action due to the issues relating to the overhang were reasonable and I do not 
require BPF to take any further action.
Mr F also raised concerns about the loan being paid out. However, having looked at the 
fixed loan agreement pre contract information this sets out that We will pay the amount of 
the loan to the retailer once we approve the loan and receive the signed agreement or when 
the supplier has supplied the goods or services to you, if this is later. So, while I note Mr Fs 
comments about the installation of the worktops, I do not find I can say BPF did anything 
wrong by providing the funds after the goods had been delivered.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint about Clydesdale Financial Services 
Limited trading as Barclays Partner Finance.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr F to accept or 
reject my decision before 5 January 2021.
 
Jane Archer
Ombudsman