DRN-3031369
The rules about complaining to the ombudsman set out when we can  and cant  look into 
complaints. In my decision, Ive explained what this means for Mr As complaint.      
summary and background to complaint
Mr A said Lloyds Bank PLC mis-sold him payment protection insurance (PPI) alongside 
two linked loans in 2005 and 2006.
Lloyds didnt agree we could look at a complaint about how the PPI was sold - because it 
said Mr A had referred the complaint to us too late.   
But Lloyds did pay back the amount of commission and profit share that was above 50% of 
Mr As PPI premium. It did this because it didnt tell Mr A about the high level of commission 
and profit share hed pay  which was unfair.
Our adjudicator looked at all of this  but didnt think we could help with Mr As complaint 
about how the policies were sold. And they thought Lloydss payment was a fair way to 
resolve the complaint
Mr As representative disagreed with the adjudicators opinion  they didnt raise any new or 
additional points but repeated the same complaint points and arguments theyd previously 
made. 
The complaint has been passed to me for a decision. 
my findings
I cant look at all the complaints referred to me. The rules applying to this service say that, 
where a business doesnt agree, I cant look at a complaint made more than six years after 
the event being complained about  or (if later) more than three years after the complainant 
was aware, or ought reasonably to have been aware, of cause for complaint. This is Dispute 
Resolution rule 2.8.2R(2)  which can be found online in the Financial Conduct Authoritys 
handbook. And in this case Lloyds hasnt agreed.  
Mr As complaint about the PPI policies attached to both loans was made in October 2017. 
This is more than six years after Lloyds sold the policies to him  in 2005 and 2006  which 
are the events hes complaining about here. So I need to think about whether the complaint 
was made within three years of when Mr A should reasonably have been aware he had 
cause to complain. 
Lloyds says it sent Mr A the same letter in July 2013 and September 2013 which alerted him 
to the possibility something might have gone wrong with his policy sale. Given what Mr A is 
complaining about, I think he should reasonably have been aware he had reason to 
complain when he got this letter. I say this because Mr As complaint is that he was unlikely 
to be able to claim due to him being a temporary worker at the time, and that the exclusions 
and limitation werent properly explained to him. The letter explains possible points where 
the sale could have gone wrong and says the advisor should have informed Mr A about the 
suitability of the policy and the terms and conditions, including the limitations and exclusions. 
So, I think it could have put Mr A on notice that he had cause to complain.
Three years from the first letter is July 2016, this means Mr A needed to make his complaint 
about the policy sales by July 2016. As he didnt complain until October 2017, his complaint 
is out of time under the rules I have to apply. 
I can still look into complaints made outside the time limits if Im satisfied the failure to 
comply with them was due to exceptional circumstances.
But, other than what Ive looked at above, Mr A hasnt given any reasons for the delay. So 
Im sorry that were unable to help Mr A with his complaint about how these policies were 
sold.
non-disclosure of commission
But I have considered the issue of non-disclosure of commission, including whether the non-
disclosure resulted in an unfair relationship under section 140A of the Consumer Credit Act  
and if so, what fair compensation would be to remedy that unfairness.
Having done so Ive decided Lloyds should have disclosed the commission it received and 
that Lloydss offer to refund some of the cost of PPI to compensate for the unfairness caused 
is fair. My reasons are set out below.
was there an unfair relationship?
Lloyds didnt tell Mr A about the high levels of commission and profit share paid in 
this case. So taking into account: 
- The Supreme Court judgment in Plevin1 and the conclusion in that case that the non-
disclosure of commission could lead to an unfair relationship;
- The FCAs rules and guidance for handling complaints about the non-disclosure of 
commission and profit share - introduced in light of the Supreme Court judgment in 
Plevin - which requires a business to presume that the failure to disclose commission 
gave rise to an unfair relationship where the business expected commission and profit 
share to be more than 50% of the cost of the policy; and 
- the likelihood, in my view, that a court would determine that the relationship between 
Lloyds and Mr A was unfair under section 140A of the Consumer Credit Act because 
Lloyds didnt tell him about the high levels of commission and profit share in this case. 
I dont think Lloyds acted fairly and reasonably in its dealings with Mr A because it failed to 
disclose the high commission and profit share.
redress to remedy that unfair relationship
Im now required to consider what is fair compensation in all the circumstances to remedy 
the unfairness I have identified.
Mr As representative has made a number of representations about this part of the complaint 
including the impact of the Plevin judgment and sections 140A and 140B of the Consumer 
Credit Act on his complaint.
1 Plevin v Paragon Personal Finance Limited [2014] UKSC 61 in which the Supreme Court concluded 
that the non-disclosure of commission could lead to an unfair relationshipIn summary they have said Mr A should get back all the money he paid for the policies 
because: Lloyds failed to tell Mr A about the high commission and profit-share rates paid, the 
low claims ratio and the restrictions and exclusions on cover. Because they say that meant 
the policy was poor value, I should find that Mr A wouldnt have taken out the policies had 
they known about the level of commission and he should receive a refund of all the 
premiums he paid.
But I dont agree. Im mindful of the following:
- The Supreme Court judgment in Plevin made no specific finding about whether the 
consumer in that case would or would not have bought the PPI had the commission 
been disclosed; 
- A court would have a range of powers available under section 140 B to remedy the 
unfairness caused by the non-disclosure of commission  it does not follow that a 
court would automatically order a return of all the premiums paid or conclude that a 
consumer would not have purchased the policies had the commission been 
disclosed; and
- The FCA considered the matter and decided that it wouldnt be appropriate to merge 
the considerations about undisclosed commission in the existing rules and guidance 
about mis-selling (hence the two-step approach for firms handling PPI complaints) 
and that the impact of any undisclosed commission and any remedy caused by it 
should be considered at step 2.
Taking into account relevant law and the FCAs rules and guidance, my role as an 
ombudsman in this case is to determine what redress, if any, would represent fair 
compensation for Mr A in order to remedy the unfairness caused by Lloyds not disclosing the 
high level of commission to him before he purchased the policies.
So, taking into account: 
- The FCAs guidance usually requires a business to refund the amounts paid by the 
consumer in commission and profit share above 50% of the policys cost, plus interest in 
order to remedy the unfairness caused by the failure to disclose the level of commission;
- refunding some of the money paid for the PPI in this way is an order which, in my view a 
court could, in the exercise of its discretion, make under section 140B of the Consumer 
Credit Act in order to remedy any unfairness; and
- I am not, as Mr As representative suggests, driven to conclude that he wouldnt have 
purchased the policies but for Lloydss failure to disclose the level of commission for the 
reasons Ive given above.
I think it was fair for Lloyds to calculate compensation in line with the FCAs guidance and 
return some of the money Mr A paid for his PPI policies -  I consider this fairly removes the 
source of the unfairness. 
So I consider that Lloydss payment of an amount equivalent to the commission and profit 
share paid in excess of 50% of the policies costs (plus associated interest where applicable) 
in line with the FCAs guidance to firms is fair in all the circumstances.As Lloyds has already paid Mr A compensation on this basis, I dont consider it should do 
anything further. 
my decision
Im unable to consider Mr As complaint about how his policies were sold, because it was 
referred to us too late  and Im not persuaded the failure to comply with the time limits was 
because of exceptional circumstances.
But because of the non-disclosure of commission and profit share, Ive decided that Lloyds 
Bank PLC should pay Mr A an amount equivalent to the commission and profit share paid in 
excess of 50% of the policies cost (plus associated interest where applicable) As Lloyds 
Bank PLC has already paid compensation on this basis, I do not consider that Lloyds Bank 
PLC should do anything more.
 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, I am required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision before 30 November 2021.
 
Rebecca Norris
Ombudsman