DRN-2530223
The complaint
Mr Y complains that FIL Investment Services (UK) Limited (FIL) transferred his personal 
pension to a new pension provider. Mr Y believes that he lost his guaranteed annuity rate 
(GAR) when his policy was transferred which caused him a loss of benefits.
What happened
In 1989 Mr Y transferred an occupational pension to a personal pension plan with FIL (who 
were then Fidelity). By 1993 FIL had made a commercial decision to stop providing personal 
pensions. FIL found a different pension company (firm A) who would accept the transfers of 
the pensions of FILs existing customers.
Mr Ys pension was transferred to firm A in 1993. The pension was transferred in specie, 
meaning Mr Y retained the existing investments that hed had in his personal pension with 
FIL.
Mr Y complained to FIL about the transfer of his pension. His complaint, amongst other 
points, was that FIL never told him that he would lose his GAR when he transferred to firm A, 
and that he was never told that firm A would offer him a way to take his pension benefits at 
retirement age.
FIL didnt uphold Mr Ys complaint, so Mr Y brought his complaint to our service. Initial 
considerations, about whether Mr Y had made his complaint in time for us to consider it 
under our rules, were resolved when FIL consented to our looking at it. Our investigator then 
looked at the merits of the complaint but didnt uphold it. He didnt think that FIL provided 
advice to Mr Y to switch to firm A and didnt think theyd done anything wrong in the transfer. 
He explained that he didnt have evidence that there was a GAR attached to the original 
policy with FIL.
Mr Y disagreed with our investigators opinion. He asked for the case to be considered by an 
ombudsman and raised the following points:
He was misled by FIL as firm A didnt provide annuities, so didnt consider that they 
were a pension provider
He wasnt informed hed lose existing benefits like his GAR when transferring
The charges were higher following the transfer
He considers he was rushed into deciding because of FILs last minute 
correspondence in November 1993 about his protected rights
FIL should have informed him more clearly that he could have chosen a different 
pension provider to move to
He believes that his correspondence from FIL amounted to advice to transfer.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I would like to assure Mr Y that in reaching my decision Ive considered everything that hes 
submitted in writing as well as the things hes explained to me and our investigator on the 
phone. I know how strongly Mr Y feels about these issues but for similar reasons to our 
investigator I wont be upholding this complaint. 
In coming to decisions I have to base my findings on the evidence available. Unfortunately 
theres little documentary evidence to rely on in this case. Which is understandable given the 
events described happened over 27 years ago. FIL wasnt required to keep pension records 
indefinitely after the transfer of business from that time. And Mr Y is unable to provide much 
documentary evidence from the time either. Where the evidence is incomplete, as it is in this 
case, I have to decide on the balance of probability, what was more likely than not to have 
been the case.
Ill start by addressing Mr Ys belief that he lost a GAR because of the transfer. Which I think 
is the main issue as it would be the cause of a loss in benefits. This isnt a question that its 
appropriate for me to consider. In 2017 one of our ombudsman issued a final decision on 
another complaint that Mr Y brought to us regarding the same circumstances. That 
complaint was made against the business that was managing this pension at that time. In 
that decision the ombudsman issued the finding that said it was more likely than not that 
Mr Ys FIL pension didnt have a GAR. I understand that Mr Y disagreed with that and still 
does. But I have no evidence that wasnt available to the ombudsman making that original 
finding and will not revisit that decision.
In relation to the transfer, FIL was entitled to make a commercial decision to close down its 
pension business. I dont think that they were treating Mr Y unfairly in making that decision. 
In circumstances such as that, Id expect a financial business to have a plan in place for their 
customers. Some customers may seek financial advice or arrange a move to a new pension 
provider themselves. But some may not. FIL had to have a default position so that their 
clients pension ended up somewhere when they ended their pension provision. 
FIL wrote to Mr Y in August 1993 explaining why it had become necessary for them to 
withdraw from providing pensions. And proposed that existing pensions be transferred to a 
new pension provider. The letter referred to a separate document explaining the details of 
the new personal pension  which I dont have. And I only have the first page of the letter. 
From it though, I think its more likely than not that this correspondence provided Mr Y with 
information on how the proposed pension scheme with firm A would work. I dont think it 
constituted financial advice as the transfer wasnt being recommended. Mr Ys existing 
personal pension was going to become untenable, so a proposal had to be in place as Ive 
explained. Mr Y could have obtained financial advice at that point for specific advice about 
what would be best for him. I think its more likely than not that he understood that, as hed 
used a financial adviser to transfer his pension to FIL four years earlier. But it wasnt 
something that FIL could insist upon.
In relation to any change in charges, I dont think that FIL did anything wrong. We havent 
been provided with any evidence of the charges applied to the personal pension when it was 
with FIL or the charges subsequently. But FIL would only be responsible for any charges that 
they applied to the pension when they managed it. Their letter of August 1993 said that in 
identifying an alternative pension provider they wanted to ensure that clients didnt suffer 
significantly different charging structures. But this didnt amount to a guarantee that charging 
structures would be the same. It would have been for firm A to inform customers of their terms to allow customers to make their own minds up about whether they wanted to use 
them as their pension provider.
Mr Y has referred to a letter from FIL on 15 November 1993 that he says was too late for him 
to act upon. It was sent on Wednesday 15 November so would most likely have been 
received by Friday 17 November. It gave a deadline for responding by 24 November 1993 
which I agree was short. But was likely limited by the deadlines by which policies would 
transfer. I can understand Mr Ys frustration but cannot say that he was necessarily 
disadvantaged by this letter. It didnt allow much time for him to seek financial advice, but I 
have to consider that hed had since August to get independent advice if hed wished. 
Ultimately it was informing him of the implications of moving his pension to a new pension 
plan. Which was unavoidable anyway given his existing plan was going to close.
Mr Y has raised his concern that it wasnt suitable for his personal pension to be transferred 
to firm A because they never provided annuities. On this point, a personal pension plan is a 
type of account where pension contributions, that have received tax relief, can be invested in 
order to build up a fund to be used in retirement. The fact that firm A didnt provide annuities 
didnt mean that it wasnt suitable to receive his pension fund. Mr Y was always able to use 
his pension pot with firm A, to purchase an annuity from an insurance company. So in this 
regard there was nothing wrong with the proposed transfer that FIL put in place. 
Ultimately, on the basis of the evidence available, I cant say that FIL treated Mr Y in an 
unfair or unreasonable way in 1993. I know this isnt the answer Mr Y wants, but this is now 
the end of our process, so well be unable to help him any further in this matter.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given, Im not upholding Mr Ys complaint against FIL Investment 
Services (UK) Limited.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr Y to accept or 
reject my decision before 28 July 2021.
 
Gary Lane
Ombudsman