DRN-1540604
 
The complaint
Mr O says Nationwide Building Society mis-sold him a payment protection insurance (PPI) 
policy.
 
 What happened
Mr O bought the policy in 1999 at the same time as taking out a loan. He applied for the loan 
and the PPI during a phone call, and a credit agreement was then sent to him for signature. 
The loan included an amount to pay for the policy. If Mr O had made a successful claim 
under the policy, it would have paid his loan repayments for up to 12 months per claim for 
unemployment, or until the loan was repaid (or, if earlier, until Mr O returned to work) if he 
was off sick.
Our adjudicator didnt uphold the complaint. Mr O disagreed with the adjudicators opinion so 
the complaints been passed to me.
 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Weve set out our general approach to 
complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding 
Mr Os case.
Where the evidence is incomplete or inconclusive I need to decide what I thinks most likely 
to have happened, based on the information I have.
Ive decided not to uphold the complaint. Ill explain why.
Mr O applied for the loan and PPI over the phone. Ive seen a sample of the form that 
Nationwides agents were using for phone sales at the time. Im satisfied from this 
that it would have been made clear that the PPI was optional. And I dont know of 
any reason to believe that its likely that the agent wouldnt have followed the usual 
process in this case. Ive also seen a copy of the paper loan agreement, which Mr O 
signed after the phone call. It includes a relatively concise table which sets out details 
of the cost of the loan and PPI. The columns show the principal loan, Optional Credit 
Insurance and the total. 
 
Taking everything into account, I think Mr O would have realised that he had a choice 
about whether to take the PPI. And I think he chose to take it. Ive borne in mind that the sale took place more than 20 years ago. So I can understand why he may no 
longer remember this.
 
Mr O says Nationwide recommended the PPI to him. But Nationwide says no 
recommendation would have been made. And based on what we know about the 
way Nationwide sold single premium PPI policies over the phone at the time, I think it 
thats likely to be right. This means that it didnt have to check if the PPI was suitable 
for Mr O. But it did need to provide him with enough information to enable him to 
decide for himself whether the PPI was right for him, knowing what alternative means 
hed have had of making his monthly loan repayments if he was off sick, or if he lost 
his job.
 
Mr Os told us hed have been entitled to unusually generous sick pay from his 
employer. But the policy would potentially have covered his monthly loan repayments 
until the loan was repaid if hed made a successful claim for accident or sickness. So 
it could potentially have paid out for significantly longer than Mr Os told us hed have 
been entitled to full sick pay from his employer for. And it would have paid out for up 
to 12 months if Mr O had lost his job. Whats more, the policy would have paid out in 
addition to any payments Mr O received from his employer. So Mr O could have used 
those to meet other living costs.
 
I acknowledge that Mr Os told us that he had significant savings when he took out 
the loan. But Ive borne in mind that hed chosen to keep those intact, rather than 
taking out a smaller loan. And having the PPI meant that he could have continued to 
keep hold of his savings, or use them to pay for other things if he was off sick, or if he 
lost his job. So taking everything into account, I think the policy could have been 
useful to Mr O.
 
Its possible the information Nationwide gave Mr O about the PPI wasnt as clear as it 
should have been. But Ive explained that I think he chose to take out the PPI - so I 
think its likely he wanted this type of cover, even if hes understandably forgotten that 
now, so long after the event. Based on what Ive seen of his circumstances at the 
time, Mr O was eligible for the policy. And he doesnt appear to have been affected 
by any of the main things it didnt cover (for example provisions about unusual 
working arrangements or existing medical conditions).
 
The monthly premium for the policy was shown on the loan agreement which Mr O 
signed. So I think he'd have understood how much the PPI would cost each month. 
The loan was repayable in monthly instalments over four years. It's true that the 
premium for the PPI was payable up-front. But the policy provided for a proportionate 
refund of the PPI premium if the loan was repaid early.
 
Taking everything into account, Im not convinced that Mr O would have made a 
different decision about taking the PPI out even if hed been given better information 
about the policy. So I dont think the policy was mis-sold.
 
Ive taken account of all Mr Os comments, including what hes said about Nationwides 
agent having implied that his loan application was more likely to succeed if he took out the PPI. Of course, I cant know exactly what was said to Mr O during the phone call when he 
applied for the loan. And I dont doubt that hes given us his honest recollection. But its more 
than 20 years since he took out the loan. And without stronger evidence I cant conclude that 
its more likely than not that Nationwide led Mr O to believe that taking the PPI would 
improve his chances of getting the loan. Nor do I think there was anything to suggest that the 
loan offer might be withdrawn if Mr O didnt go ahead with the PPI. So I'm sorry to disappoint 
Mr O, but these points don't change my view.
  
My final decision
My decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
 Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr O to accept or 
reject my decision before 26 May 2020.
Juliet Collins
Ombudsman