DRN-4287511
The complaint
Miss W complains that Bank of Scotland plc trading as Halifax wont refund her for 
transactions she says she didnt authorise, and also applied a default to her credit file. Shed 
like the disputed transactions refunded, and the default removed. 
What happened
Miss W says she was living abroad for 10 years, but bought a house back in the UK in 2020. 
During the time she was away from the UK, she had a current account with Halifax, that was 
registered to her parents address. But they moved out of this address in 2019 and Miss W 
didnt give Halifax an alternative one to use. When Miss W visited the UK for holidays across 
the 10-year period, shed put money into the Halifax account to use, but she said she wasnt 
aware that the account was overdrawn at any stage, as she wasnt monitoring it.  
During her time abroad, some transactions debited Miss Ws Halifax account that she says 
she didnt authorise. The last disputed transaction debited in 2018. She says she wasnt 
aware of such transactions until 2020 when she was contacted by a debt collections agency 
about an overdraft on the account. 
Halifax applied a default to Miss Ws credit file in September 2021 due to non-payment of the 
overdraft, despite requests for Miss W to repay the outstanding balance. It has since 
backdated this default to December 2020 as following a review, it believes it wouldve been 
more appropriate to default the account at this time instead. 
Miss W contacted Halifax about the disputed transactions in 2022, asking for the default to 
be removed and for a refund of the amounts she says she didnt authorise. But despite 
agreeing to backdate the default due to what it believed was an error on its part, it didnt feel 
it would be appropriate to remove it. And, as for the disputed transactions, Halifax said that 
as Miss W hadnt reported them within 13 months of the last transactions debiting her 
account, it wouldnt be investigating them any further. 
Unhappy with this, Miss W referred it to our service where it was considered by one of our 
investigators. He didnt feel Halifax had made any mistake by declining to investigate the 
disputed transactions due to the time that had passed. And, he also felt it was reasonable 
that Halifax continue to record a default to Miss Ws credit file. 
Miss W remained unhappy, and so the complaint has been passed to me to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The relevant regulations in place are the Payment Services Regulations (PSRs). Across the 
period of Miss Ws complaint there are two sets of regulations (2009 and 2017). But both 
regulations say that a consumer is only entitled to a refund for unauthorised transactions if 
they report them to their bank without undue delay, and no later than 13 months after the 
transaction took place.
The terms of Miss Ws account also say that the bank wont refund transactions which took 
place over 13 months from when theyre reported. The expectation is that a consumer would 
be expected to manage their account effectively, and if they notice a transaction which they 
dont recognise to report it without delay.
Our investigator has already pointed out that Miss W continued to be responsible for 
monitoring her account and ensuring that Halifax had an appropriate correspondence 
address, and this is despite her being out of the country for a number of years. I agree with 
this, and Im not aware of any reason why Halifax wouldnt have been able to amend her 
correspondence address to her overseas one, or that she was prevented from using online 
banking during her time abroad. I appreciate Miss W says she was unaware of the disputed 
transactions or the overdrawn balance of the account, but I find that she shouldve been, for 
the reasons above. 
I also note that Miss W deposited money and used the Halifax account in November 2019, 
and April and June 2020 for genuine transactions. She says she did this as she was visiting 
the UK and needed an account to use during this time. But she still didnt see the disputed 
transactions that had happened before this time. 
But in 2022 when Miss W raised her complaint, all the transactions in dispute were over 13 
months previous. Miss W has told our investigator that she believes she made Halifax aware 
of the transactions in 2021 or even 2020. I havent seen any record of this, but even if she 
did, this is still more than 13 months since the last disputed transaction debited. I appreciate 
this will come as a disappointment to Miss W, but Im satisfied that its not unreasonable for 
Halifax to decline to investigate the transactions further  based on the relevant regulations 
and its own terms and conditions.
The default was applied to Miss Ws credit file as a result of the overdrawn position of the 
account, following requests for Miss W to fund the account to clear the overdrawn balance. 
Ive seen the letters sent to the address Miss W had registered with Halifax before the 
default was applied, and I find these gave appropriate notification and an explanation as to 
what would happen if the account remained overdrawn, including Halifaxs intention to 
register a default to Miss Ws credit file. Miss Ws Halifax account did have an agreed 
overdraft limit available, but as per Halifax account terms which say, an overdraft will 
continue until we or you end it. We can ask you to repay an overdraft at any time, I cant 
agree it has made an error in the way it handled the collections activity for the overdrawn 
balance. I appreciate Miss W didnt receive these letters as her parents no longer lived at the 
address they were sent to, but Halifax wasnt aware of that, and therefore it was appropriate 
that the letters were sent to the address it held on file for her. 
I was sorry to hear of the difficulties Miss W has faced since discovering the default on her 
credit file. This cant have been an easy time for her. But in the circumstances of this 
complaint, I cant agree that Halifax has made any errors, so I wont be asking it to do 
anything further. 
I note Halifax has already agreed to backdate the default to December 2020 instead of 
September 2021, I find this appropriate as its an accurate reflection of the account activity at 
the time. 
Halifax has already paid a total of £105 for a delayed response to Miss Ws complaint about 
the disputed transactions, and for recording the default when it did. I think this is very fair, 
and therefore I wont be asking it to pay anything further. My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss W to accept 
or reject my decision before 13 November 2023. 
Lorna Wall
Ombudsman