DRN-3212681
The complaint
Mr and Mrs E complain about how Soteria Insurance Limited (trading at the time as CIS 
General insurance Limited) dealt with an incident that they told them about which resulted in 
an increase in premiums for the following renewal.
What happened
Mr and Mrs E took out a home insurance policy with Soteria. Mr and Mrs E renewed their 
policy in April 2020 and it provided cover for both buildings and contents. 
In October 2020 Mr and Mrs Es iPad was damaged so they contacted Soteria to discuss the 
incident. Mr and Mrs E say that they only contacted them to make an enquiry, but Soteria 
have recorded this incident as a loss. They say that means that they pay more for the 
insurance now than they had before. 
Mr and Mrs E said they only noticed the increase when the policy was up for renewal and 
realised that the premiums were higher on the renewal than the online quote. So they 
contacted Soteria and were told the premiums were higher because they had suffered a loss 
during the previous policy year. Mr and Mrs E werent happy so complained.   
Soteria said they had recorded the incident of loss appropriately. And they said that the 
claim didnt proceed because Mr and Mrs E werent covered but as they had suffered a loss 
this incident was correctly recorded. Mr and Mrs E remained unhappy so referred the 
complaint to our service. 
Our investigator didnt uphold this complaint. She said Soteria hadnt done anything wrong in 
the way it had recorded the incident and it was usual for an insurer to record and reflect a 
loss accurately. So she didnt think Soteria needed to do anything further regarding the 
registering of the loss or the increased premiums. 
Mr and Mrs E didnt think it was fair for insurers to record incidents in this way. Because they 
didnt agree with the investigator the complaint has been passed to me for a final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive reached the same conclusions as our investigator for largely the same 
reasons. Ill explain why. 
Mr and Mrs E reported the damage to their iPad on 15 October 2020. This was reviewed by 
Soteria and they advised Mr and Mrs E in a follow up call that the incident wasnt covered 
under the policy because they didnt have the additional accidental damage or personal 
possessions cover. I have seen the policy documents and Im satisfied that Soteria correctly 
declined to cover the claim because Mr and Mrs E didnt have the required cover for their 
iPad. 
Mr and Mrs E say they only called Soteria to make an enquiry to see if they were covered for 
the damage. They say they werent making a claim. They also say that as the policy didnt 
cover the cause of their damage and they couldnt make a claim it shouldnt have been 
recorded as a loss. 
When Mr and Mrs E called Soteria to discuss the incident the notes provided suggest it was 
logged as a claim and investigated by Soteria. Mr and Mrs E were then told that they werent 
covered. Mr and Mrs E were unhappy with the response but decided against complaining 
about it at the time. 
I think Mr and Mrs E intended and wanted to claim against the policy if they could. In 
response to the reporting of the incident Soteria considered the incident for the damage to 
the iPad. I appreciate that after considering it Soteria decided the damage wasnt covered by 
the policy and so they didnt pay for the cost of repairs. But in the circumstances, I think it is 
still reasonable for Soteria to record this incident on their file as a loss for which nothing was 
paid.
I understand that because this has been recorded as a loss on their file Mr and Mrs E will 
need to declare it to any future insurers and this may lead to an increase in premiums. I also 
understand why they feel as though they have been penalised. But this will be a separate 
commercial decision for future insurers and I dont think it would be reasonable for me to 
require Soteria to remove the loss for their records for this reason.
My final decision
For the reasons mentioned above, I dont uphold Mr and Mrs Es complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr and Mrs E to 
accept or reject my decision before 12 January 2022.
 
Jag Dhuphar
Ombudsman