DRN-4161342
The complaint
Mr and Mrs M complain that Barclays Bank UK PLC didnt agree to waive an early 
repayment charge (ERC) when they switched interest rate products. 
What happened
Mr and Mrs M had a mortgage with Barclays. Theyd taken out fixed interest rate products 
which applied until July 2023. These products included an ERC.
Mr M contacted Barclays in mid-2022. He wanted to take out a longer-term fixed interest rate 
product, to protect their future financial well-being. He says its unfair for Barclays to apply 
the ERC of £12,000 if they switch products. Mr M says Barclays should take into account 
that they were acting responsibly, staying with Barclays and moving to a higher interest rate 
over a longer term. So Barclays wouldnt be losing out by allowing the switch.
Our investigator said Barclays had applied the ERC in accordance with the product terms. 
She said it had given Mr and Mrs M clear information about the ERC, and she couldnt fairly 
require it to waive or refund the ERC.
Mr and Mrs M didnt agree and asked that an ombudsman re-consider the complaint.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr and Mrs M took out a mortgage with Barclays in 2018. They chose a five-year fixed 
interest rate product which expired in July 2023. Barclays sent a mortgage offer which set 
out the product terms, which included an ERC if the mortgage was repaid during the product 
term. The amount of the ERC and when it applied was set out clearly. Mr and Mrs M took out 
further borrowing in 2020, with a product with an ERC which expired in July 2023.
Mr and Mrs M agreed to the ERC when they took out the fixed rate products. 
It's clear from the complaint raised by Mr M in 2022 that he knew an ERC would apply if they 
switched to a new product. Mr M said this was unfair and wanted Barclays to waive the ERC. 
He said theyd go ahead with the product switch regardless as he was concerned that 
interest rates would further increase by mid-2023.
Barclays sent a redemption statement in late 2022 which set out the ERC of about £12,000.
In January 2023 Barclays told Mr and Mrs M it had extended the rate switch booking 
window to 180 days. It said Mr and Mrs M could book a new rate from 2 February 2023 
without paying an ERC. Barclays said they wouldnt be able to switch to the rate theyd 
chosen in August 2023 without paying an ERC.
I think Barclays gave Mr and Mrs M clear information about the ERC and their options for 
taking out a new product without incurring the ERC. It was for Mr and Mrs M to decide what 
was best for them, from the available options.
This didnt include the option Mr M wanted  to take out the product hed chosen in August 
2022 without paying an ERC. And I understand the reasons hes given for why he says 
Barclays should have allowed this. 
I appreciate that Mr and Mrs M will be disappointed. But I think Barclays is entitled to apply 
the terms of the product that Mr and Mrs M agreed to, including applying the ERC if they 
repay the mortgage or switch products during the product term. Barclays didnt have to 
waive the ERC so that Mr and Mrs M could switch products early and I dont think its fair 
and reasonable to require it to do so.
Barclays paid £200 for upset and inconvenience caused by the way it dealt with the 
complaint. I think this is fair and reasonable in the circumstances.
My final decision
My decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M and Mrs M to 
accept or reject my decision before 9 January 2024.
 
Ruth Stevenson
Ombudsman