DRN-2403305
The complaint
Mr C complains that, in 2003, Lloyds Bank PLC mis-sold him a package bank account 
(PBA). He says he didnt agree to an upgrade of his account then, and didnt realise until 
several years later that he had been paying monthly fees. 
What happened
Mr C had had a bank account with Lloyds since 1999. This was a Gold account for which 
there was a monthly fee of £8 (with a waiver if the monthly balance was over a certain 
amount). I can see that Mr C paid for the Gold account some months, and not others, 
depending on his balance. It came with some benefits, such as worldwide travel insurance 
and Sentinel card protection. Mr C says he didnt know he was paying for the Gold account  
but he hasnt asked us to look into the sale of that account. 
In November 2003, Mr Cs account was changed to a Platinum account, which was also a 
PBA. It cost £12 per month (with a waiver if the monthly balance was over a certain, higher, 
amount). It came with benefits that included worldwide travel insurance, breakdown cover 
and Sentinel card protection. Mr C says he didnt know he had been paying for it.
One of our adjudicators looked at the evidence and said they thought the complaint shouldnt 
be upheld. Mr C didnt agree, and so the matter has been passed to me to make a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive decided not to uphold this complaint. Ill explain why.
Mr Cs main complaint is that he didnt authorise the change to a Platinum account, and 
wasnt aware of it, and so spent several years paying a monthly fee for it. Ive looked at that 
specific point, but also Ive assessed generally whether Lloyds mis-sold him the Platinum 
account. 
Did Mr C give informed consent for the change to a Platinum account?
Ive got to decide what is most likely to have happened, based on the balance of 
probabilities. This can be difficult when we are talking about events that happened many 
years ago, when documentary evidence may be missing, and people may not remember 
everything that happened.  
The evidence that is available does, in my view, point to a conclusion that its likely Lloyds 
got Mr Cs agreement to the change of the account to a Platinum PBA.
I accept that Mr C is certain he didnt agree to it, but this was about 15 years before Mr C 
first complained about it, and it wouldnt be surprising if someone forgot certain details over 
that time period. And the bank records do suggest there was some discussion about it:
27 Nov 2003  [named bank worker] called from [branch identifier number]. Cust 
wanting to upgrade acc to plat otherwise will move banking for better rate on 
savings. [bank worker who called] will do upgrade in branch...
I accept this isnt conclusive  it still could have been a miscommunication within the bank 
over whether Mr C had actually requested the change, or whether someone had properly 
explained to him what it involved. Mr C has said that the entry Ive quoted above is entirely 
fabricated, but Ive seen no persuasive evidence of that.
Additionally, bank statements show that, in December 2003, Mr C paid a substantial amount 
of money into his Platinum saver account (which was a benefit of the new account). This 
suggests there had been some degree of discussion and that, at the time, he was aware of 
some change in arrangements (although again it isnt clear proof that he understood his 
main account would change and would incur new charges). 
However, on balance, I think the evidence does suggest its more likely that Mr C authorised 
the change to the Platinum account; although it isnt overwhelming evidence. 
But, overall, it wouldnt be fair for me to conclude that the bank did do something wrong in 
this way, unless there was reasonable supporting evidence of it  and, in my view, there 
isnt. 
Was the Platinum account mis-sold in some other way?
Assuming there was some discussion about it, I think Lloyds probably recommended the 
PBA to Mr C. This means Lloyds had to take into account Mr Cs personal circumstances, to 
make sure a recommendation was a good fit for him. And I think it would have been. It looks 
like Mr C could have made use of the travel insurance and breakdown insurance, and it 
seems the banking benefits, such as the special saver account, could have been useful to 
him. And it doesnt look like the restrictions in the insurance policies were likely to have 
affected him significantly. 
I cant be sure how good the information was that Lloyds gave to Mr C about the new 
account (again assuming it did give information). But, because the product seems to have 
been a reasonable fit for Mr Cs needs, I cant say that full information would have changed 
whether Mr C took the new account. 
So I dont think the PBA was mis-sold in these ways either. 
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, Im not upholding Mr Cs complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 11 March 2021.
 
Timothy Bailey
Ombudsman