DRN-2893276
The complaint
Mr G has complained about the advice he was given by St Pauls Marketing Limited (an
Appointed Representative of Alexander David Securities Limited) to transfer his pension to a
self-invested personal pension (SIPP) and invest in an unsuitable investment.
What happened
The background to the complaint was set out by the investigator in her assessment, a copy
of which was sent to both parties. In brief, Mr G had said St Pauls Marketing cold called him 
in 2016 and offered him a pension review. He says that St Pauls Marketing told him that if he 
transferred one of his personal pensions to a SIPP his funds would be invested to give him a 
better return. The investigator understood St Pauls Marketing sent Mr G promotional 
material relating to the investment in debentures issued by Just Loans.
Mr G subsequently opened a SIPP and the value of the personal pension of £22,319 was
transferred to it in June 2016. A stockbroking account was set up and the majority of the
money was transferred to that account and invested in Just Loans debentures.
Mr G, through his representative, subsequently complained to Alexander David Securities
Limited in March 2019. It said that the advice given by St Pauls Marketing to switch pensions 
was unsuitable; that Mr G had a low tolerance for risk and low capacity for loss. 
I understand Alexander David didnt acknowledge or respond to the complaint. The
representative subsequently referred it to us. Our investigator asked Alexander David for its
files and to provide any other evidence it wanted us to take into account. However, no files
or evidence or arguments were received.
The investigator said that Mr G had said St Pauls Marketing had recommended the 
investment as it would provide better returns; that he would receive returns of at least 8.25%.
She said that given Mr Gs circumstances at the time; he was in his early 50s; the pension 
represented a significant portion of his pension provision;  hed said he wanted a low risk 
investment which seemed consistent with his circumstances; she thought the investment in 
illiquid bonds from a single issuer was unsuitable.  
The investigator said that even if St Pauls Marketing hadnt recommended the investment it 
had arranged it, and she understood it was a non-readily realisable security. She believed 
that COBS 10 applied (Conduct of Business Rules). 
The investigator said that COBS 10 required St Pauls Marketing to assess Mr Gs 
knowledge and experience in the investment field relevant to the specific type of product or 
service offered or demanded so as to enable the firm to assess whether the service or 
product envisaged is appropriate. She said Mr G had no significant investment knowledge 
and no experience of making investments of this nature. She concluded that the investment 
wasnt appropriate. And that if it wasnt for St Pauls Marketings involvement it was unlikely 
that Mr G would have gone ahead with the investment.
The investigator also noted that one of the Regulators strategic objectives was to protect
consumers, and its rules reflected this objective. She said the Principles required St Pauls
Marketing to, amongst other things, pay due regard to its customers interests and treat them
fairly.  The investigator said that St Pauls Marketings involvement directly resulted in an 
inexperienced investor investing a significant proportion of their pension in illiquid high-risk 
bonds. The investigator didnt think St Pauls Marketing had acted in accordance with the 
Principles and in Mr Gs best interests.
The investigator sent her view of the complaint to Alexander David. But it didnt respond. 
She wrote to both parties on 11 February 2021 to say the complaint would be passed to an 
ombudsman. The investigator subsequently wrote to both parties on 9 March 2021 
explaining that she thought the compensation she had recommended in her assessment 
should be amended given that Mr Gs original investment had matured and hed decided to 
roll over his money and reinvest in new debentures in January 2019. She asked both parties 
to provide any further evidence or arguments that they wanted to be considered. No further 
evidence or arguments were presented.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Alexander David didnt respond to Mr Gs original complaint or to the investigators requests 
for information. So theres only very limited evidence available to establish what happened at 
the time of the transfer (technically known as a switch) and investment.
Ive carefully considered the evidence that is available. The investigator set out her thoughts
on the matter in her assessment, and Alexander David hasnt disputed what she said or
provided any further evidence or arguments.
Im satisfied, on the balance of the evidence that is available, that St Pauls Marketing was
involved from the outset and following its input Mr G transferred his pension to the SIPP
and invested in the debentures. In my experience its unusual for someone of Mr Gs
background and experience to want to transfer an existing pension in order to invest in this
type of investment without prompting. I think it was unlikely to have happened without the
involvement of St Pauls Marketing. Im satisfied that it initiated the transfer and investment in
the debentures. It was aware of where the investment was going to be made and facilitated
it.
When Mr G complained to Alexander David he said it had advised him to switch his pension 
to invest in the debentures through the SIPP. The investigator said she didnt think the 
advice was suitable. The firm hasnt disputed this. In all the circumstances and on the
balance of the limited evidence thats available, I think its more likely than not that St Pauls
Marketing did advise Mr G to switch his pension and invest in the debentures. And given the
significant risks presented by the investment, I dont think it was suitable for Mr G in his
circumstances, particularly given he has said that he wanted a low risk investment, had little 
capacity for loss and had no investment experience.
However, even if St Pauls Marketing didnt give advice to Mr G, I think the evidence shows
it was involved in arranging the transaction. The debentures were a non-readily realisable
security. COBS 10 required St Pauls Marketing to assess Mr Gs knowledge and
experience in the investment field relevant to the specific type of product or service offered
or demand so that it could assess whether the debentures were appropriate for him.
Mr G said he had little investment experience and Alexander David hasnt disputed this.
The debentures presented significant risks. In my view they werent appropriate for Mr Ggiven his knowledge and experience and this should have been clear to St Pauls Marketing.
Taking all the circumstances of the transaction into account, I think it was clear that the
debentures werent suitable or appropriate for Mr G. Like the investigator, I also dont think
the firm met its obligations under the regulators Principles for Business, in particular that it
didnt pay due regard to the interests of Mr G and treat him fairly.
Im satisfied that if St Pauls Marketing hadnt advised Mr G to transfer and invest in the
debentures, or if it had told him they werent suitable or appropriate for him, he wouldnt
have transferred and invested in them.
Accordingly, Im satisfied that St Pauls Marketings failures caused Mr G to transfer and
invest in a product that he would otherwise not have invested into. Im satisfied its failures
caused the losses that Mr G has claimed
Putting things right
fair compensation
In assessing what would be fair compensation, my aim is to put Mr G as close as possible
to the position he would probably now be in but for St Pauls Marketings failures. I think Mr G 
would have invested differently. Its not possible to say precisely what he would have
done, but Im satisfied that what I have set out below is fair and reasonable given Mr Gs
circumstances and objectives when he invested.
what should Alexander David do?
To compensate Mr G fairly Alexander David Limited should compare the performance of
Mr Gs investment with that of the benchmark shown below. If the fair value is greater than
the actual value, there is a loss and compensation is payable. If the actual value is greater
than the fair value, no compensation is payable.
Alexander David Securities Limited should also pay any interest as set out below. If there is
a loss, Alexander David Securities Limited should pay into Mr Gs pension plan to increase
its value by the amount of the compensation and any interest. The payment should allow for
the effect of charges and any available tax relief. Alexander David Securities Limited
shouldnt pay the compensation into the pension plan if it would conflict with any existing
protection or allowance.
If Alexander David Securities Limited is unable to pay the compensation into Mr Gs
pension plan it should pay that amount direct to him. But had it been possible to pay into the
plan it would have provided a taxable income. Therefore the compensation should be
reduced to notionally allow for any income tax that would otherwise have been paid. The
notional allowance should be calculated using Mr Gs actual or expected marginal rate of
tax at his selected retirement age.
I think Mr G is likely to be a basic rate taxpayer at his selected retirement age, so the
reduction should equal the current basic rate of tax. However, if Mr G would have been able
to take a tax-free lump sum, the reduction should be applied to 75% of the compensation.investment 
name status Benchmarkfrom
(start date)to
(end 
date)additional 
interest
SIPP still exists for half the
investment:
FTSE UK
Private
Investors
Income Total
Return Index;
for the other
half: average
rate from fixed
rate bondsDate of 
transferDate of 
reinvest
ment - 
25 
January 
2019The same benchmark 
on the loss calculated 
as at 25 January 2019 
to decision date. Then 
8% simple a
year from date
of decision to
date of
settlement if
settlement isnt
made within
28 days of
Alexander
David being
notified of
Mr Gs  
acceptance of
this decision
In addition, Alexander David Securities Limited should:
Pay Mr G £100 for the distress and inconvenience Im satisfied the matter has 
caused him.
Provide details of the calculation to Mr G in a clear, simple format.
Income tax may be payable on any interest paid. If Alexander David Securities  
limited considers that it is required by HM Revenue & Customs to deduct income tax 
from that interest, it should tell Mr G how much it has taken off. It should also give Mr 
G a tax deduction certificate if he asks for one, so he can reclaim the tax from HM 
Revenue & Customs if appropriate.
Actual value
This means the actual transfer value of the SIPP at the end date (the date of re-investment).
Fair value
This is what the sum transferred from the pension provider plus any charges incurred on
transfer would have been worth at the end date had it grown in line with the benchmark.
Any additional sum paid into the SIPP should be added to the fair value calculation from the
point in time when it was actually paid in. Any withdrawal, income or other distribution out of
the SIPP should be deducted from the fair value at the point it was actually paid so it ceases
to accrue any return in the calculation from that point on.
Why is this remedy suitable?
Mr G has said that he wanted a low risk investment which appears to be consistent with his 
circumstances.The average rate for the fixed rate bonds would be a fair measure for someone who 
wanted to achieve a reasonable return without risk to their capital.
The FTSE UK Private Investors Income total return index (prior to 1 March 2017, the 
FTSE WMA Stock Market Income total return index) is made up of a range of indices 
with different asset classes, mainly UK equities and government bonds. Its a fair 
measure for someone who was prepared to take some risk to get a higher return. 
I consider that Mr Gs risk profile was in between, in the sense that he was only 
prepared to take a limited risk to attain his investment objectives. So, the 50/50 
combination would reasonably put Mr G into that position. It doesnt mean that Mr G 
would have invested 50% in some kind of index tracker investment. Rather I consider 
this is a reasonable compromise that broadly reflects the sort of return Mr G could 
have obtained from investments suited to his objectives and risk attitude.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold Mr Gs complaint.
I order Alexander David Securities Limited to calculate and pay compensation to Mr G as I
have set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision before 30 July 2021.
 
David Ashley
Ombudsman