DRN-3197767
The complaint
This complaint is about a mortgage payment protection insurance (PPI) policy taken out in 
1993. Mrs E says Nationwide Building Society mis-sold her PPI.
What happened
Mrs E took out her mortgage in 1993, and also took out a PPI policy to cover the borrowing 
at that time. She says that she was unaware she had PPI, and believes this is evidenced by 
the fact she was living abroad and not working for a few years during the time she had the 
policy. 
Our adjudicator did not uphold the complaint. They felt that based on the likely documents 
Mrs E completed at the time of the sale, it would have been clear she was selecting to take 
out PPI. 
Mr E disagreed, as the complaint couldnt be resolved informally, it has been passed to me 
for a final decision.   
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
When considering what is fair and reasonable, I am required to take into account relevant: 
law and regulations; regulators rules, guidance and standards; codes of practice; and, 
where appropriate, what I consider to have been good industry practice at the time. Weve 
set out our general approach to PPI mis-sale complaints on our website.
Having carefully considered everything available to me, Ive decided not to uphold this 
complaint and Ive summarised my reasons for this conclusion below.
Nationwide had to make it clear to Mrs E that she had a choice in taking out the PPI policy. 
Mrs E has said she was unaware she had taken out PPI and didnt believe in taking out 
additional insurance. Nationwide no longer has copies of all the documents that were 
completed at the time of the sale. I dont think this is unreasonable considering the sale was 
almost 30 years ago now. But it has given me a sample mortgage application form that was 
in use at the time of Mrs Es sale, and I think its more likely this represents what Mrs E 
would have seen when she applied for the mortgage. This had a separate section for PPI 
that had a clear yes or no option to choose from. So I think its more likely it was clear that 
Mrs E had a choice in taking the policy.
Nationwide has also provided contact notes for Mrs Es account. These arent particularly 
detailed, but there is one call note that says the borrower (Mrs E) had called in on 6 
September 1994 to discuss the PPI policy. It isnt clear what was actually discussed, but this 
suggests that in 1994 Mrs E was aware she had a PPI policy. Mrs E has said that the PPI 
must have been added to the account without her knowledge. In order for me to agree, Id 
have to say I think its more likely a member of staff from Nationwide fraudulently added 
insurance to her mortgage without her knowledge or consent. While this is possible, I dont 
think its the more likely scenario. Instead, considering the sample mortgage application and 
the contact note from after the sale, I think its more likely Mrs E chose to take out the policy 
at the time. 
I appreciate Mrs E has said she lived abroad and did not work from 1995 to 1999  but I 
dont think this therefore means she didnt choose to take out the PPI. And for the reasons 
explained above, I think its more likely she did select to take out the policy, knowing she 
didnt have to. 
Nationwide didnt recommend the PPI to Mrs E - so it didnt have to check that the PPI was 
right or suitable for her. But it did have to give Mrs E enough clear and timely information so 
she could decide for herself if it was right for her.
Its possible the information Nationwide gave Mrs E about the PPI wasnt as clear as it 
shouldve been. But Ive found that she chose to take it out - so it looks like she wanted this 
type of cover. The cover wasnt fundamentally wrong for Mrs E  for example she wasnt 
affected by the significant exclusions on or limits to the cover. While she was self-employed 
at the time of the sale, it was no more difficult for her to claim compared to if she was not 
self-employed. And it wasnt too dissimilar to what she reasonably thought she was buying 
from the information she was given. It also looks like it was affordable  so it seems like it 
would have been useful for her if something went wrong. The policy could have covered her 
mortgage repayments for up to 24 months per claim if she was too sick to work, had an 
accident or was unemployed. Because of this I dont think Mrs E would have declined the 
cover had Nationwide done anything more.   
My final decision
Overall, having considered all the evidence and arguments to decide what is, in my opinion, 
fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of this complaint and for the reasons I have set 
out above, I dont uphold Mr Es complaint  so I make no award.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs E to accept or 
reject my decision before 7 April 2022.
 
Rebecca Norris
Ombudsman