DRN-3638557
The complaint
Ms R complains about the way The Co-operative Bank Plc (Co-Op) managed her account 
relating to transactions she didnt recognise and allowing her account to go into an 
unauthorised overdraft.
What happened
Ms R held an account with Co-Op. Ms R disputed a number of transactions and she was 
concerned that Co-Op allowed her account to go into an unauthorised overdraft, despite the 
type of account she held not permitting overdrafts as a feature.
Co-Op looked into Ms Rs concerns and said the recent transactions didnt appear to be 
disputes as they involved transfers to accounts which appeared to have financial links with 
Ms R. Co-Op also confirmed that while Ms Rs account didnt feature an overdraft, the 
account could be placed into an unauthorised overdraft if payments were made and there 
was a lack of funds available to cover the payments in full.
Ms R referred her complaint to our service. She said the situation affected her financially and 
wanted all incorrect transactions to be put right. Ms R confirmed during a telephone 
conversation with our investigator that she didnt access online banking.
Our investigator reviewed things and didnt uphold Ms Rs complaint. In summary, she said 
that she was satisfied Ms R used mobile and online banking from telephone recordings she 
had with Co-Op. Our investigator also explained that some transfers were to an alternative 
account in Ms Rs name, and other transfers were made to an account which had numerous 
transfers, of which not all have been disputed, made throughout 2018. And she was satisfied 
that Co-Ops terms and conditions allowed Ms Rs account to go into an unauthorised 
overdraft. So, she didnt think Co-Op had to do anything differently.
Ms R disagreed and asked an ombudsman to review things. So, the complaint has been 
passed to me. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Firstly, Im very aware that Ive summarised the events in this complaint. No discourtesy is 
intended by me in taking this approach. Instead, Ive focussed on what I think are the key 
issues here. Our rules allow me to do this. This simply reflects the informal nature of our 
service as a free alternative to the courts. If theres something Ive not mentioned, it isnt 
because Ive ignored it. Im satisfied I dont need to comment on every individual argument to 
be able to reach what I think is the right outcome. Its also important to point out that I 
havent looked at any transactions from 2011, 2012 and 2014 due to Co-Op time barring 
them. Ms R hasnt raised the jurisdiction issue as part of her ombudsman referral, so I 
havent considered it in this decision.
Where there is a dispute about what happened, as there is in this case, I have to base my 
decision on the balance of probabilities. In other words, on what I consider is most likely to 
have happened in the light of the evidence that is available.
The unauthorised overdraft
Ive carefully reviewed the terms and conditions applicable to Ms Rs account. Section 13 
related to overdrafts and 13.2 in particular states;
13.2 In certain circumstances, we may allow a payment to be made from your 
account despite there being a lack of funds in your account to cover the 
payment in full. Making the payment will cause your account to become 
temporarily overdrawn (on an unarranged basis).
Based on this, Im satisfied Co-Op didnt do anything wrong by allowing Ms Rs account to 
go into an unauthorised overdraft and therefore, I cant fairly uphold the complaint on this 
point.
The disputed transfers
Ms R confirmed during a telephone conversation with our service that she didnt use online 
banking. However, a phone call with Co-Op has identified that Ms R used both online and 
mobile banking. While I have no reason to doubt Ms Rs version of events, based on the call 
recordings I have been able to listen to, I think its more likely than not Ms R did use online 
and mobile banking. I also havent seen any evidence to show anybody else would have had 
been able to access Ms Rs online and/or mobile banking security details to be able to log on 
and make transfers from her account without her permission. So, I cant reasonably say 
Ms R didnt consent to the transfers and payments in question.
Ive considered the transfers in question and Im aware multiple payments were made to an 
account held with another bank. The other bank has confirmed the account belongs to Ms R 
and therefore, I cant reasonably agree these transfers are in dispute.
Transfers made to an alternative account show that numerous, successful, and undisputed 
transfers were made around the same time as the transactions Ms R disputes. I havent 
seen a reasonable explanation as to why some of these payments were disputed and not 
others, and so on the balance of probabilities I think these transfers were made and 
authorised by Ms R. 
Overall
Overall, I recognise my decision will disappoint Ms R. But based on the evidence and 
information I have received; I think its more likely than not Ms R authorised the payments 
and transfers she is disputing. I also consider Co-Op were entitled to allow Ms Rs account 
to go into an unauthorised overdraft. So, I wont be asking them to do anything differently.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained above, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms R to accept or 
reject my decision before 24 October 2022.
 
Hayley West
Ombudsman