DRN-2586885
The complaint
Mr E and Ms M complain that their travel insurance policy was mis-sold by Ancile Insurance 
Group Ltd. 
What happened
The background to this complaint is well known by both parties so I have only provided a 
brief summary of what happened below. 
Mr E and Ms M bought an annual travel insurance policy online. The policy was provided by 
Ancile and underwritten by a different business, which Ill call Business X.
Mr E and Ms M made a claim on their policy when Ms M fell over on holiday and required 
medical attention. Business X considered their claim, but Mr E and Ms M went on to 
complain about the way it had handled matters. 
Mr E and Ms M also complained about the sale of the policy. In doing so, they said Ancile 
hadnt done enough to ensure their policy provided adequate emergency medical assistance 
or legal expenses cover. They also said Ancile had misrepresented itself as the insurer. And 
they raised issues with the way Ancile had dealt with their concerns. 
Ancile looked into Mr E and Ms Ms complaint but didnt think the policy had been mis-sold. It 
said the above coverage was included within the policy, and it hadnt misrepresented itself 
as the insurer. Ancile also said it had handled Mr E and Mrs Ms concerns appropriately, and 
couldnt be held responsible for any issues relating to them and their complaint with 
Business X. 
Having approached this service, one of our investigators looked into what had happened but 
didnt recommend Mr E and Ms Ms complaint be upheld. 
Our investigator said the policy wording clearly stated that emergency medical assistance 
and legal expenses cover were provided, and Mr E and Ms M had already made a 
successful claim under the medical expenses and curtailment sections of their policy. Our 
investigator also said Ancile wasnt responsible for the way Business X had handled Mr E 
and Ms Ms claim, and the policy documentation theyd received at the time of the sale made 
it clear that Ancile was not the insurer.
Mr E and Ms M disagreed and said their complaint against Ancile could not be fully 
considered without full consideration of their complaint against Business X. But our 
investigator explained Ancile and Business X were different businesses with different roles 
and responsibilities; and considering the mis-sale complaint against Ancile and the claim 
complaint against Business X separately was the right approach for us to take. 
Mr E and Ms M remained unhappy. And so as no agreement was reached the matter was 
passed to me to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr E and Ms M have set out their position at length and I would like to thank them for taking 
the time to do so, but I do want to highlight that my findings will only focus on those matters I 
consider central to the outcome of this complaint. I have considered everything that has 
been made available, but I will not address every point or argument that has been raised.
I also want to highlight that my findings will only focus on the actions of Ancile. I am aware of 
the content of Mr E and Ms Ms complaint against Business X, but I will not be considering 
Business Xs actions here because, as has rightly been explained, Ancile and Business X 
are separate businesses with separate roles and responsibilities. 
Ancile sold Mr E and Ms Ms policy on a non-advised basis. So, it needed to provide enough 
clear, fair and not misleading information to allow Mr E and Ms M to make an informed 
choice about whether the policy was right for them. 
Mr E and Ms M argue that Ancile did not do that, and did not do enough to ensure the policy 
sold to them provided adequate cover for emergency medical assistance and legal 
expenses. 
Looking at the policy documentation provided to Mr E and Ms M I can see that emergency 
medical assistance and legal expenses, including the terms under which they would be 
available, were features of the cover provided. I also note that Mr E and Ms M have already 
received a settlement from Business X in relation to the medical costs incurred following 
Ms Ms fall. 
I know Mr E and Mrs M disagree with Business Xs position in relation to that settlement and 
the assistance it provided. But that is not a matter for this complaint. Based on the available 
evidence here, I am of the opinion that the policy Ancile sold did include cover for both 
emergency medical assistance and legal expenses.
The documentation available to Mr E and Ms M also set out that Ancile was not the insurer. 
I say this because, for example, when Mr E and Ms M purchased their policy online Anile 
explained it was an insurance intermediary acting on your behalf. It also set out that the 
information provided during this quotation will be shared with our insurers. 
The policy terms received following the sale also reiterated that and referred to Ancile as 
having arranged the policy on behalf of the insurer, Business X.  So I dont think Ancile 
misrepresented its position during the sale of the policy. 
I do appreciate the concerns that Mr E and Ms M have set out in relation to Anciles 
complaints procedure, but as I think our investigator rightly set out, the majority of their 
complaint at the time centred around how their claim had been handled and settled. 
The terms of Mr E and Ms Ms policy set out that (in the event the insured wanted to 
complain) complaints about the sale of the policy should be directed to Ancile, and 
complaints about the outcome of a claim or the assistance provided should be directed to 
Business X. So, given Mr E and Ms Ms concern about the sale of the policy appeared to rise 
from the way in which Business X had handled matters, I dont think Ancile acted 
inappropriately by directing them to refer their concerns to Business X in the first instance.
Having considered all the available evidence and arguments I recognise how strongly Mr E 
and Ms M feel about the level of cover their policy provided. But for the reasons I have given above I cannot fairly conclude that Ancile mis-sold this policy. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr E and Ms M to 
accept or reject my decision before 3 September 2021.
 
Jade Alexander
Ombudsman