DRN-3219791
The complaint
Ms C complains about incorrect information Bank of Scotland, trading as Intelligent Finance 
(IF), reported on her credit file and that IF gave her incorrect information about whether she 
could port her mortgage.
What happened
Ms C took out an offset mortgage with IF in around October 2005. She initially had an 
interest rate product under which the interest rate she paid tracked the Bank of Englands 
base rate. That came to an end in 2007 when she began to pay interest at IFs offset 
variable rate.
In 2020 Ms C discovered IF had reported to credit reference agencies (CRAs) that shed 
missed a mortgage payment in November 2016. She felt this was wrong. And she was 
unhappy IF had also been reporting that shed had arrangements with them about the 
amount shed pay towards her contractual monthly mortgage payments (CMPs).
Ms C says IF told her in August 2020 her mortgage was portable, but that information was 
incorrect. And she spent time looking for a new property on the understanding she could 
take her mortgage with her.
When Ms C complained to IF about these issues, they acknowledged the November 2016 
CRA entry was incorrect, but said the other reporting was accurate. And IF agreed theyd 
given Ms C incorrect information about porting her mortgage.  
To put things right IF apologised for their errors and offered Ms C £200 compensation for the 
inconvenience theyd caused her. Ms C didnt feel that was enough to cover her financial 
losses and the trouble and upset shed suffered. So, she brought her complaint to this 
service. Our investigator thought IF had done enough to put things right and didnt uphold 
Ms Cs complaint. Since she wasnt happy with that outcome, Ms Cs complaints been 
referred to me for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ms Cs complaint is about two largely unrelated issues, so Ill consider them separately using 
headings to make things easier to follow:
The CRA entries 
I can see Ms C was in difficulties in making her CMPs from around March 2016 onwards. 
She and IF worked closely together to manage her account. Ms C agreed several payment 
arrangements with IF. And, although she had some assistance with paying her mortgage 
from the Department of Work and Pensions, she was in arrears with the mortgage until they 
were capitalised in February 2019.
Ms C had arranged to make underpayments between March 2016 and December 2016. 
Although Ms C was making her CMP between January 2017 and January 2019, there were 
still arrears on her account. Lenders are obliged to report arrangements to pay and arrears 
on mortgages to CRAs. So, whilst Ms C was in an arrangement or there were arrears on her 
account, Id expect IF to have reported them.
Given the overall situation on her mortgage account, I dont think IFs mistake in reporting a 
missed payment in November 2016 is likely to have significantly affected her access to credit 
or the terms on which it was available to her. And, although Ms Cs told us, amongst other 
things, shes paid a high amount of interest on a credit card, she hasnt provided evidence 
IFs mistake led to any difficulties shes faced in getting credit.
IF acknowledged their mistake once Ms C had pointed it out to them and took action to 
rectify the credit file entry. I understand Ms C paid £40 to check theyd done that. I can 
understand she wanted to be sure theyd put things right. But it was her choice to incur a fee 
for doing that and I wont ask IF to refund it.
Ms Cs argued IF failed to capitalise the interest on her account for a few months after they 
said they would. IF have acknowledged they said in November 2018 theyd agree to this but 
didnt capitalise the arrears until February 2019. Theyve explained they amended Ms Cs 
credit file to reflect the mortgage account as being up to date in November 2018 as part of 
an earlier complaint.
Porting
The terms of Ms Cs mortgage said that if she moved, she could transfer the interest rate 
product she took out initially to a new mortgage - subject to various conditions set out in the 
mortgage offer. Since the product had ended in 2007, there was no product to transfer to a 
new mortgage after that. Even if shed applied to port the product during the product period, 
Ms C would have had to apply for a new mortgage with IF. 
Ms C says she wasted time looking for a new property on the basis IF had told her in August 
2020 shed be able to port her mortgage. I can understand it was disappointing for Ms C to 
find out shed been given the wrong information and she suffered some inconvenience 
because of the time shed spent looking to move. But IF had explained the correct position 
by October 2020 and they apologised to Ms C for their mistake. So, I think the impact on   
Ms C was limited.
I appreciate Ms Cs strength of feeling about what happened. I accept she suffered some 
distress and disappointment when she found out her credit file was inaccurate, and she 
couldnt port her mortgage product. And I agree Ms C was inconvenienced over a short 
period of time when she was looking at new properties. Bearing everything in mind I think 
IFs apologies and their offer to pay Ms C £200 compensation are a fair way of putting things 
right. If IF havent already paid that amount to Ms C, Id encourage them to do so now. But 
for the reasons Ive explained, I dont uphold Ms Cs complaint.
My final decision
I dont uphold Ms Cs complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms C to accept or 
reject my decision before 24 February 2022.
 
Julia WilkinsonOmbudsman