DRN-1060178
The complaint
Mr R says Barclays Bank UK PLC (Barclays) mis-sold payment protection insurance (PPI) 
alongside a credit card in 2000.
What happened
In 2000, Mr R applied for a credit card. At the same time, Barclays sold him PPI. The cost of 
the PPI was charged to the card, so he'd repay this cost with interest in line with the card's 
terms and conditions.
Mr R says the PPI was mis-sold.
Our adjudicator looked at the complaint and didn't think it should be upheld. Mr R didn't 
agree. The complaint has been referred to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding Mr Rs case.
I've decided the policy wasn't mis-sold. I'll explain why.
I've first looked at whether Mr R knew he had a choice to buy the PPI. Mr R says he wasn't 
advised the PPI was optional. He says he was never offered the policy within a meeting. And 
he says the PPI was set up without his knowledge or consent. So I've thought about this 
alongside the other information I've seen about the sale.
Barclays has sent us a copy of the application form for the card and PPI. I see this shows 
that to buy PPI Mr R had to tick a box labelled "Yes, I do require Payment Protection 
Insurance". I note that Mr R thinks that he applied for the card over the internet - but the 
application I've seen is completed by hand, and I think it's more likely he applied for the card 
in a branch. And so I think it's most likely that Mr R knew he had a choice and chose to buy 
the policy - though it's understandable, after all this time, if Mr R no longer remembers this.
Barclays recommended Mr R buy the PPI, so it had to make sure it was right for him. Based 
on what I've seen of his circumstances, I think it was. He doesn't appear to have been 
affected by any of the main things the policy didn't cover. And he's told us that if he was off 
work sick his employer would only pay him statutory sick pay. This policy would have paid 
10% of what he owed each month for up to 12 months if he lost his job or was off work sick. 
Though he says he could have relied on his partner's income or support from his family, I 
don't think this was guaranteed to be available when he needed it. The PPI would also 
meant he wouldn't have needed to use his savings to meet his credit card repayments.
It's possible that the information Barclays gave Mr R about the policy wasn't as clear as it 
could have been. But Mr R chose to buy the policy - so it looks as though he wanted this type of cover. And based on his circumstances it looks as though it would have been useful 
to him if something went wrong. So I don't think better information would have changed his 
decision to buy the policy.
I've considered everything else Mr R has said, but this doesn't change my decision.
My final decision
I don't uphold the complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision before 15 November 2019.
Edward Hardman
Ombudsman