DRN-1152761
The complaint
Ms R complains about assistance provided by Inter Partner Assistance SA (IPA) when her 
vehicle broke down.
What happened
Ms R was making a long journey by car in May 2019. When around 90 miles from her 
destination, a warning light came on the dashboard. Ms R pulled over and called IPA for 
road side assistance. An operator assessed the vehicle and told Ms R it was likely that there 
was a fault with the sensor, which was a common problem with Audi cars. The operator 
called a supervisor for a second opinion; he agreed that the warning light was likely due to a 
faulty sensor. The operator advised Ms R that she could continue to her destination but 
ought to take the vehicle to a garage when returned home (a distance of over 250 miles).
Ms R reached her destination and a few days later she commenced the long trip home. The 
vehicle broke down for a second time when Ms R was near her home. Again she called IPA 
for roadside assistance. The vehicle was recovered and taken to a garage. Significant 
engine damage was identified due to lack of lubrication and the car was deemed a write 
off. Ms R was told that the extent of damage could have been avoided if the vehicle had 
been taken to a garage sooner.
Ms R says she relied upon IPAs advice that she was safe to continue with the journey and 
didnt need to take any steps until she got home. The car means a lot to Ms R, as she had it 
from new and its now a classic. She had also just paid for a series of improvements to the 
bodywork. Ms R says she would not have taken the risk of causing damage or continuing to 
drive with a warning light unless she had been told she could do so safely. Despite the 
vehicle being deemed a write off, Ms R elected to keep it and have repairs undertaken as 
the vehicle was important to her. She asks for IPA to reimburse the cost of repair.
IPA say that no assurance was given to Ms R. The original operator told Ms R that she 
proceeded at her own risk and should go to a garage. As Ms R chose to proceed and drove 
over 240 miles, IPA say that it isnt fair and reasonable to ask them to pay for the cost of 
repair.
Our investigator considered the complaint. He noted there was very little documentation from 
the time as the job sheet was no longer available. The only system note said:
on scene 14:00 checked vehicle over there is no oil leak and oil level is fine engine 
sounds ok suspect oil l customer wants to carry on
Our investigator accepted Ms Rs assertion that she would not have risked damaging her 
car. On balance, he thought it was more likely than not that IPA had given Ms R an 
assurance that she could continue to drive the vehicle. Our investigator was satisfied that 
Ms R would have taken the vehicle to a garage straight away if that had been recommended 
to her. Our investigator upheld the complaint and asked IPA to reimburse the repair costs 
with 8% simple interest per annum added from the date the loss was incurred to date of 
payment. He further recommended a payment of £150 for the trouble and upset this matter 
caused Ms R, having noted that she was without a vehicle for a couple of months.
IPA disagree with the view. Whilst they agree that no fault was found using the diagnostic 
machine when the vehicle was inspected, they maintain that the operative told Ms R to take 
the vehicle to a garage. Ms R failed to do so and proceeded at her own risk.
As the parties do not agree, this matter has come to me for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The crux of this matter boils down to what Ms R was told when the operator attended the 
vehicle at the first breakdown. There are differing accounts as to what was said, so Ive 
made my decision based upon what I think is more likely than not to have happened at the 
time.
Ms R has given a consistent account, namely that she was told no fault could be identified 
with the vehicle and the problem was likely to be a faulty sensor. She has consistently said 
that she was advised she could continue her trip but should take the vehicle for a check 
when she got home (a distance over 250 miles away).
In contrast, IPA say Ms R was told to take the vehicle to a garage. Its conceded by IPA that 
there is very little documentary evidence. Its unclear why the job sheet is no longer 
available. I havent seen anything from the operator who attended at the time other than the 
note on the system. The notes from IPA show that the operators manager said Ms R was 
told she continued her journey at her own risk and the vehicle needed workshop diagnosis. 
That isnt supported from the notes from the time. In another call with the manager it was 
recorded that the oil levels were checked and were satisfactory, no rattling was heard in the 
engine and the vehicle was running fine. In this note it was not said that the consumer was 
told to take the vehicle to a garage or that it was unsafe to drive.
Ive had to take into account that theres no record that Ms R was told to take further steps. 
Whilst I can see the note says that Ms R wanted to carry on, there is nothing to show that 
she was told not to.
Ive thought very carefully about this matter, but on balance I am persuaded that Ms Rs 
version of events is more reliable. She has been unwavering in her recollection of events. 
Ive listened to calls between Ms R and the complaints team, in which she was adamant that 
she would not have risked driving the vehicle if she had been told not to. Ive taken into 
account that Ms R did call for assistance when she thought something was wrong when the 
warning light came on, so it would be inconsistent for her to then drive a long distance 
against advance. Ive balanced this against the lack of clear contemporaneous evidence 
from IPA.
On this particular occasion, I consider that the operative did tell Ms R that she could continue 
with her journey and later return home as there appeared to be no fault with the vehicle. Ms 
R was led to believe there was nothing wrong, save for a faulty sensor, and thats consistent 
with the note from the time which records that the oil level was fine and engine was OK. It wasnt unreasonable to rely upon this information, especially given that the operator also 
took a second opinion. IPA dont deny that the operator took advice from a supervisor at the 
time. Im satisfied that if Ms R had been told to take the vehicle to a garage, she would have 
followed that instruction and shes been clear that she was ready to have the car recovered 
at that first call out, but that wasnt the advice given.
As a result of being given the wrong information, substantial damage was caused to the 
vehicle leading to catastrophic engine failure. I consider that it is fair and reasonable to put 
Ms R back in the position as if the damage had not occurred. 
Its clear that Ms R was put to inconvenience as a result of the car being in the garage for 
repair. Shes explained that she had to borrow another vehicle, she had difficulty visiting an 
elderly relative and she was put to the inconvenience of raising a complaint. I consider that it 
is also fair and reasonable to pay £150 to compensate for the distress caused. 
Putting things right
To put things right, IPA should:
1. Reimburse Ms R for the cost of repairs of £5,430;
2. Add 8% simple interest per annum from the date the invoice was paid to date of 
settlement;
3. Pay Ms R £150 for trouble and upset.
My final decision
For the reasons given, I am upholding this complaint. I direct Inter Partner Assistance SA to 
put things right for Ms R as set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms R to accept or 
reject my decision before 30 October 2020.
 
Sarah Tozzi
Ombudsman