DRN-4360632
The complaint
Mrs D has complained to The Prudential Assurance Company Limited about advice she 
received to take out a Free Standing Additional Voluntary Contribution (FSAVC) plan.
Mrs D also referred a complaint to this service about the sale of a personal pension plan but 
that has been dealt with separately to this complaint about the FSAVC sale.
What happened
Mrs D received advice from Prudential in 1999. The fact find document completed at the 
time of the sale recorded the following:
Mrs D had started with her current employer in April 1999, earning £35,000 per year. 
She was a member its occupational pension scheme (OPS). Her retirement age was 
65.
Mrs Ds employer didnt contribute to the in-house Additional Voluntary Contribution 
(AVC) arrangement.
Mrs D had been made aware of the in-house AVC offered by her employer.
The suitability letter issued to Mrs D after the meeting confirmed the advisers 
recommendation to take out an FSAVC and it said that Mrs D had been provided with a 
leaflet about AVCs.
Mrs D accepted the advisers recommendation and her FSAVC plan started in 1999.
In 2022, Mrs D complained to Prudential about the sale of her FSAVC plan. Prudential 
reviewed the complaint but didnt think it had been mis-sold as it met Mrs Ds desire to 
increase her retirement provision. It was also satisfied that the benefits between the FSAVC 
and the in-house AVC had been discussed with Mrs D and that she had been provided with 
a leaflet explaining the main features of both arrangements.
Mrs D didnt accept Prudentials conclusion so she referred the matter to this service for 
review.
Ombudsmans provisional decision 
I issued a provisional decision on this matter on 13 September 2023, explaining why I didnt 
think the complaint should be upheld. I said that:
In deciding this complaint Ive taken into account the law, any relevant regulatory rules 
and good industry practice at the time. I have also carefully considered the submissions 
that have been made by Mrs D and Prudential. Where the evidence is unclear, or there 
are conflicts, I have made my decision based on the balance of probabilities. In other 
words I have looked at what evidence we do have, and the surrounding circumstances, to 
help me decide what I think is more likely to have happened.
Having reviewed all the information on file, Ive reached a different conclusion to our 
investigator; I dont intend to uphold the complaint as I dont think the FSAVC plan was 
mis- sold. Ive set out my reasoning for this below.
I think its helpful to say at the outset that the adviser wasnt able to actively recommend 
products offered by other providers, including those available within the employers in 
house pension scheme. Thats because, as a tied adviser, employed by Prudential, he 
could only recommend Prudentials products.
Thats not to say that Prudential didnt have other important obligations. The regulator set 
out a number of responsibilities for tied advisers.
Before May 1996 the regulator required company representatives to exercise due skill, 
care and diligence in dealing fairly with investors. In relation to FSAVC sales this meant 
knowing that in-house AVC options existed and explaining the generic benefits of these 
options as well as highlighting the benefits of their own FSAVC plan.
But in May 1996 the regulator issued a regulatory update called RU20. This was an 
article which set out the procedures it expected product providers to follow. The update 
said that a tied adviser shouldnt recommend their own companys FSAVC until they had:
drawn the clients attention to the in-house scheme alternative
discussed the differences between the two routes in generic terms (taking 
account, among other things, of the features described in this article)
directed the client to his employer, or to the scheme trustees, for more 
information on the in-scheme option.
The article included discussion of the tax treatment of contributions and benefits, 
employers being willing to match or top-up benefits, and the ability to provide additional 
life cover. It also referred to the lower charges under an in-house scheme in general 
terms noting that, charges under the scheme will usually be lower than those under 
FSAVCs, reflecting economies of scale, rebated commission or a contribution to 
administration expenses by the employer. Of all the differences between the two routes, 
this is likely to exert the greatest impact on which route would offer the greater benefit to 
the client.
So the guidance  which wasnt new guidance as such, made it clear that of the factors 
which needed to be discussed about the differences between AVCs and FSAVCs, the 
lower charges of an in-house AVC was a very important difference.
Ive therefore looked at whether Prudential met these requirements when it made its 
recommendation to Mrs D. Having done so, I think on balance its likely that it did.Ive firstly considered the fact find document. The adviser noted that an in-house AVC 
was available and that hed been in contact with the employer for further information. The 
notes confirmed the name of the person the adviser had spoken to at Mrs Ds employer. 
And that Mrs Ds employer wouldnt make additional contributions if she joined the in-
house arrangement. The notes also suggest that Mrs D had been made aware of the 
AVC her employer offered.
Bearing in mind that a fact find document is generally a contemporaneous record of what 
happened at the time, it seems more likely than not that some form of discussion took 
place at the time of the advice. And Mrs D has signed the fact find document, so I think 
its likely its a good representation of what was discussed during the meeting.
Just over a week after the meeting, the adviser sent Mrs D a letter setting out his 
recommendation. This letter also confirmed that the adviser had given Mrs D a copy of the 
leaflet AVC  some important features and that the content had been explained to her.
Ive thought about what format the discussion around the leaflet is likely to have followed. 
As it happened at the same time that Mrs D was given a copy, I think its reasonable to 
conclude that the discussion likely covered, in general terms, the differences between 
AVCs and FSAVCs, following a similar format to the leaflet.
So, as Im satisfied that a discussion took place and that its likely to have followed the 
format of the leaflet, I think Prudential would have made Mrs D aware that an in house 
AVC scheme existed.
Mrs D met with the adviser not long after joining her new employer. So it seems likely 
shed also have received information about making additional contributions upon joining 
her employers scheme. Taking those things together, I think Mrs D would have been 
aware of the existence of an in house option. And, given what the leaflet says, it seems 
likely to me that, during the discussion, Prudential would have told Mrs D she could 
obtain further information from her employer if she wanted it. So, I think it was open to 
her to seek further details if she thought it necessary. Based on what Ive seen here, I 
think Prudential met at least two of the requirements set out in RU20.
The leaflet, a copy of which Im satisfied Mrs D received, then goes on to say the 
following about charges:
It is difficult to be specific with regard to the differences in costs between AVCs and 
FSAVCs as product structures vary considerably. The cost of running your AVC or 
FSAVC is important as it will affect your final benefits, however you should take into 
account other factors such as the funds you are investing in and the financial strength of 
your provider to be able to select the appropriate investments that make up these funds 
in the case of with profits plans. In many cases the employer bears some, or all of the 
administrative costs whereas in the case of an FSAVC these costs are borne by the 
customer.
And
Due to the close link between an in house AVC facility and the main occupational 
pension scheme the benefits of both schemes have to be taken at the same time, 
which is usually the normal retirement date of your employers scheme. In the case of 
an FSAVC you could on leaving the main company pension scheme draw your benefits 
at any time between 50 and 75, irrespective of when the main scheme benefits are 
paid.As Im satisfied Prudential discussed the leaflet, it seems likely it would have said it was 
difficult to explain the actual difference in charges due to the different product structures. 
But the leaflet does say quite clearly that in many cases the employer bears some, or all 
of the administrative costs whereas in the case of an FSAVC these costs are borne by the 
customer. So, again, it seems likely that during the discussion, Prudential would have 
told Mrs D that unlike an in house AVC, shed be responsible for meeting the costs 
associated with an FSAVC. And, as the FSAVC attracted costs and the in house AVC 
didnt, I think Mrs D ought to have been aware that the costs associated with the AVC 
were likely to be lower.
I think it is worth mentioning here that the documents Ive seen suggest Mrs D was 
converting her existing Prudential Personal Pension into the FSAVC, and the suitability 
letter says this was being done at no extra charge. So it may well be the case that Mrs D 
saved on the additional set up charge of the FSAVC which is often a key reason the in-
house AVC is cheaper.
I know Mrs D provided some additional comments in relation to the personal pension plan 
she was sold. However, these comments dont have any bearing on the complaint Im 
considering about the sale of her FSAVC. So I dont intend to comment further on those 
here.
To conclude, although Im not able to say with any certainty exactly what was discussed, Im 
satisfied, on balance, that Prudential did enough to meet its regulatory responsibilities in 
giving Mrs D the information needed to help her to make an informed decision. Overall, 
given her circumstances and objectives at the time, Im satisfied the advice Prudential gave 
wasnt unsuitable for her so I dont intend to uphold the complaint
Mrs D responded to the provisional decision. She said she as the exact conversations 
cannot be proven, only exchanges of documentation she feels that a gesture of goodwill 
should be offered by Prudential.
Prudential didnt provide any additional comments. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having reconsidered matters, Im satisfied that the position set out in my provision decision 
is fair. So Im not upholding this complaint. 
The sale of this plan happened more than 20 years ago so its understandable if Mrs D cant 
recall exactly what was discussed during the sales meeting. And of course, with face to face 
meetings, it is often the case that there is no actual recording the discussion. But I consider 
the sales paperwork provides an accurate reflection of the discussion that would have taken 
place. 
The suitability letter, which was sent to Mrs D, explained that she had been provided with a 
leaflet and that the differences between the FSAVC and the in-house options had been 
explained. If this was not the case, I would have expected Mrs D to have queried this with 
Prudential and to have requested the leaflet if she hadnt already been provided with one. I do appreciate that Mrs D will be disappointed. And I note that she thinks Prudential should 
make a goodwill offer. But I wont be asking it to do this as Im satisfied, for reasons set out 
in my provision decision, it fulfilled its obligations when the FSAVC plan was sold.   
My final decision
For the reasons explained, Im not upholding this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs D to accept or 
reject my decision before 19 October 2023. 
Lorna Goulding
Ombudsman