DRN-4214849
The complaint
Mr C complains Standard Life Assurance Limited didnt safeguard his group personal 
pension (GPP) investments as he approached retirement, causing him a financial loss.
What happened
In 2013, Mr C joined a Standard Life GPP through his employer. The welcome pack 
Standard Life sent Mr C at that time said his chosen retirement age was 65 and explained 
Mr Cs pension was in a lifestyle profile that would protect his pension investments by 
making fund switches as he approached his chosen retirement age. 
Over time, Mr Cs recorded retirement age with Standard Life changed. In 2016, Mr C asked 
for it to be changed to age 66, which he would reach in 2025. In 2021, Mr C asked for it to be 
changed to age 63 which he would reach in 2022. So in May 2022, Standard Life wrote to 
Mr C to say his chosen retirement age was approaching and to ask how hed like to take his 
pension benefits. In July 2022, Standard Life wrote to Mr C to say it hadnt received a 
response to its May 2022 letter so it had changed his chosen retirement age to 74 as it 
assumed he didnt want to take his pension benefits yet. 
Around this time, Mr C complained to Standard Life that it hadnt done anything to protect his 
pension as his chosen retirement age approached, for example by moving it into safer 
investments, so its value had fallen by about £100,000. 
Standard Life said it hadnt done anything wrong. It explained that lifestyle profiles worked by 
initially investing in a fund with long-term growth potential and gradually switching to other 
funds as retirement approaches, either to reduce risk or meet retirement plans. Mr Cs 
lifestyle profile was designed for people who wanted maximum tax free cash plus an annuity 
at retirement. So ultimately, 75% of his pension would be invested in a long gilt fund and 
25% in a cash deposit fund. But these werent immune to risk and global events had affected 
most investments, with increased inflation and interest causing gilt values to fall significantly. 
Standard Life said it didnt provide financial advice and it was for Mr C to check his pension 
investments remained suitable for him, and he could change these through its online portal if 
he wanted. That all funds had risks and it gave its funds a volatility rating. And Mr C could 
consult a financial adviser if he wanted support deciding what was right for him. 
Mr C brought his complaint to our Service. He said he couldnt now afford to retire in 2022 as 
planned. And he thought it was unacceptable for Standard Life to say it was up to him to 
move his investments, as it was the expert and he wouldnt know what to do.
Our Investigator didnt uphold Mr Cs complaint. He said Standard Life wasnt responsible for 
the sale of Mr Cs pension or for giving him personal advice. That it hadnt been responsible 
for the unfortunate fall in value of Mr Cs pension fund. And it had correctly suggested Mr C 
seek financial advice if he wasnt sure what to do with his pension investments. 
Mr C asked for evidence that Standard Life had told him it changed his chosen retirement 
age to 74, as he said hed not received anything and hed just changed it to age 64. And he 
thought Standard Life hadnt switched his pension investments over time as it should have.
Our Investigator gave Mr C a copy of Standard Lifes July 2022 change of chosen retirement 
age letter. But ultimately, he didnt change his view of Mr Cs complaint. And Mr C still 
thought Standard Life hadnt switched his pension investments as it should have. 
As agreement couldnt be reached, this complaint was passed to me for a decision.  On 9 
June 2023, I issued my provisional decision in which I explained why I didnt intend to uphold 
Mr Cs complaint.
Standard Lifes response to my provisional decision said it had no further comments. 
In his response, Mr C said he was disappointed but trusted my opinion was fair and 
reasonable. But he thought that at some point prior to 2018, hed changed his chosen 
retirement date to age 63, although he didnt have any evidence of this. Mr C said the 
lifestyle profile fund switches should therefore have been completed by 2022, but werent. 
And the reason he couldnt retire at age 63 as hed wanted was because his pensions value 
had fallen.
I asked Standard Life for further information about requested changes to Mr Cs chosen 
retirement date. It provided evidence to show that Mr C had submitted online requests in 
2016 and 2021 to change his chosen retirement age, which Standard Life had agreed to. It 
said Mr Cs current chosen retirement age was 66. And it reiterated that it had switched 
Mr Cs funds in line with his lifestyle profile and chosen retirement ages. 
Im now in a position to make my final decision.
 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im not upholding this complaint. I realise this will be very disappointing to 
Mr C, but Ill explain my reasons.
One of Standard Lifes lifestyle profiles was chosen when Mr C started this pension, as it 
seems this was the default profile for his employer. Lifestyle profiles are used to manage 
investment risk as a customers chosen retirement age approaches. Over a number of years, 
they gradually move investments out of equity type assets and into cash and fixed interest 
assets, such as gilts, because generally speaking, investments like this are less volatile and 
lower risk over the long term than equity assets. Standard Life has provided a copy of the 
welcome pack it sent Mr C in August 2013, and this set out the lifestyle profile Mr Cs 
pension followed and the fund switches that would start to happen when Mr C was five years 
from his chosen retirement age. So Im satisfied it was made reasonably clear to Mr C that 
his pension was in a lifestyle profile.
Mr C says Standard Life didnt switch his pension investments as it should have, so Ive 
considered this. 
I appreciate its Mr Cs recollection that he asked Standard Life to change his chosen 
retirement age to 63 at some point prior to 2018. But Mr C hasnt been able to provide any 
evidence to support that. Whereas Standard Life has provided system screenshots which Im 
satisfied show that Mr C asked to change his chosen retirement age to age 66 in 2016 and 
to age 63 in 2021. So I cant fairly conclude that Mr Cs chosen retirement age was 63 prior 
to 2018.In 2020, Mr C reached the point where he had five years before his chosen retirement age of 
66. And based on the annual statements Standard Life sent Mr C, I can see Standard Life 
began the series of fund switches called for by Mr Cs lifestyle profile. 
In 2021, Mr Cs chosen retirement age had changed so that it came forward by three years 
to age 63. This meant Mr C would now reach his chosen retirement age in 2022. Based on 
the annual statements, I can see Standard Life took account of this by accelerating through 
the fund switches so that by July 2022, 26.18% of Mr Cs pension was invested in a cash 
deposit fund and 73.82% was invested in a long gilt fund. This is in line with the lifestyle 
profile fund switches Standard Life told Mr C it would make at the start of his plan. So Im 
satisfied Standard Life correctly followed the fund switches called for by Mr Cs lifestyle 
profile.
As Ive said, the lifestyling approach is used to manage investment risks as a customers 
chosen retirement age approaches. But even then, risk is not eliminated. In certain 
situations, fixed interest investments can fall in value sharply. Unforeseeable global events 
meant that the value of gilts fell, and most of Mr Cs pension fund was invested in gilts in line 
with his chosen lifestyle approach. So Im satisfied that the fall in value Mr C unfortunately 
suffered wasnt due to any error by Standard Life. The underlying funds themselves seem to 
have achieved similar returns to the appropriate benchmarks, indicating that they didnt 
perform any worse than comparable funds.
I understand Mr C thinks its unacceptable for Standard Life to say it was for Mr C to move 
his investments, as it was the expert and he wouldnt know what to do. But the welcome 
pack Standard Life sent to Mr C in 2013 said that Standard Life was responsible for 
administering Mr Cs pension investments in line with his chosen approach. So it wasnt 
responsible for monitoring them on Mr Cs behalf or advising him about them. Instead, it was 
for Mr C to review his investments, with the support of a financial adviser if necessary. And I 
can see the annual statements Standard Life sent to Mr C each year made this reasonably 
clear, as well as explaining that Mr C could view and switch funds on its website. 
In summary then, I think Standard Life followed the fund switches called for by Mr Cs 
chosen lifestyle profile. It was for Mr C to check his pension investments were suitable for his 
requirements and he could have switched his funds if he thought that suited his particular 
circumstances at that time. So, I dont think Standard Life has made an error or treated Mr C 
unfairly. Therefore, Im not asking Standard Life to do anything here.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 26 July 2023.
 
Ailsa Wiltshire
Ombudsman