DRN-3688630
The complaint
Mr T has complained about Aviva Insurance Limiteds decision to reject a claim for storm 
damage under a home and buildings insurance policy he holds jointly with Miss A. 
Any reference to the insurer Aviva in my decision includes its agents. 
What happened
In November 2021 Mr T contacted Aviva to report damage to part of their roof which was flat 
with a felt covering following a named storm. 
Aviva arranged for a Surveyor to attend in order to validate their claim. The Surveyor found 
that the damage wasnt caused by a storm but due to gradual deterioration caused by wear 
and tear. The Surveyor didnt agree that storm conditions had occurred.
So Aviva rejected Mr Ts claim. Mr T raised a complaint but Aviva didnt uphold it. 
Mr T asked us to look at his complaint. He said storm conditions had occurred at the time of 
the event. He believed the felt roof was in a good state of repair before the damage. He was 
unhappy with the length of time it took for Aviva to tell him it had declined the claim. 
Our Investigator thought there was enough information about local weather conditions to say 
that storm conditions had occurred. But he didnt find that the damage was consistent with 
what a storm would cause - or that a storm was the main cause of the damage. The 
Investigator thought Aviva had told Mr T of its decision within a reasonable period of time. 
Mr T didnt agree. In summary he says the felt roof had an average life expectancy of up to 
20 years - and was therefore within this period being around 14 years old. He said there 
were no signs of deterioration as there were no leaks. Mr T says its unreasonable to expect 
a customer to check the condition of a roof for wear and tear due to the costs involved - for 
example - in providing scaffolding. 
Mr T believes Aviva didnt act fairly in relying on the photos provided by the Surveyor to 
reach its decision. He says Aviva hasnt shown there was pre-existing damage to the roof. 
So Mr T wants an ombudsman to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Aviva, like most if not all insurers, provides cover for specific insured perils. In other words, 
sudden unforeseen events such as storm, fire or flood. 
And so it isnt unusual for Aviva to exclude cover for damage caused by other means such 
as wear and tear or gradual deterioration of materials. Aviva sets this out under its General 
Exclusions on page 9 of the policy:
Gradually occurring damage - wear and tear (natural and predictable damage which 
happens over time or due to normal use or ageing) this includes, but is not limited to, 
gradual weathering, the effect of light; deterioration or depreciation; any other 
gradually occurring damage (except subsidence, heave and landslip).
And Aviva sets out under the policy the following condition:
Keeping your property in good condition
One important policy condition is that you keep all the property youre insuring in 
good condition. Your policy doesnt cover loss or damage caused by wear and tear or 
a lack of maintenance. In particular, you need to maintain your home, there are some 
basic things you can do..
I appreciate that Mr T says it would be of cost and inconvenience to regularly check the 
condition of the roof. But I think Avivas policy clearly says that this is the responsibility of the 
customer, as Aviva doesnt provide cover where damage isnt caused by an insured peril. 
Ive looked at what Avivas policy says about storm damage claims:
How we deal with claims for storm damage
We explain what we mean by storm in the words with special meanings section. We 
try to be fair, so we dont just look at wind speed well take other factors into account 
like where your home is sited.
Well check what the weather was like when the damage happened and may ask for 
pictures or ask an expert to look at the damage to decide if it was caused by a storm 
and confirm that a lack of maintenance didnt cause or contribute to the damage.
If your property isnt in good condition 
Whether youre claiming for storm or something else its a policy condition that you 
keep your property in good condition so if you havent done this and this was the 
reason (or main reason) for the damage then we may not pay your claim or may not 
pay it in full.
As the Investigator explained, we ask three questions when considering storm damage 
claims to help decide whether an insurer has acted reasonably - and in line with the policy. 
These are: 
 Do we agree that storm conditions occurred on or around the date the damage is 
said to have happened?
 If so, is the damage being claimed for consistent with damage that a storm typically 
causes? and;
 Were storm conditions the main cause of the damage? 
If the answer to all these questions is 'yes' then we think the claim is likely to succeed. But, if 
the answer to any of the above questions is 'no' - the claim for storm damage is unlikely to 
be covered.
Aviva defines storm as follows under the policy:
Storm
An unusual weather event with persistent high winds usually associated with rain, 
thunder, lightning or snow. The wind speed or gust should normally exceed 55mph 
(48 knots) to be a storm but we take other factors into consideration such as where 
the property is sited. A storm can highlight defects rather than cause them and 
damage due to lack of maintenance, wear and tear or which happens gradually is not 
covered.The most local weather data to Mr Ts address shows that wind gusts reached 44 mph. The 
Surveyor reported there were wind gusts up to 47mph in the local area. On this basis, Aviva 
said storm conditions didnt occur. 
Although there was a named storm at the time the damage occurred, this doesnt mean that 
the same severity of weather conditions reached all parts of the UK. So I think it was 
reasonable for Aviva to rely on local weather data when deciding if storm conditions 
occurred. I can see that the location of Mr T and Miss As home is on a hill and more 
exposed to the elements. Ive taken this into account along with the other information 
available. 
I think its possible that storm conditions occurred. But even if I agree with Mr T on this point, 
because of my findings for the remaining questions, this doesnt change the outcome. 
Aviva appointed an independent Surveyor to inspect the damage to Mr T and Miss As roof. 
The inspection took place five days after Mr T made his claim.
The damage occurred when a second storey dormer felt roof came away, causing damage 
to a neighbours car. 
The Surveyor took photos of the debris of the flat roof, the roof area where the felt had come 
away and the section of the neighbours roof which was also a felt flat roof. 
The Surveyor identified various fatigue cracks to the felt roof cover from the debris - and the 
photos provided support this view. The Surveyor also noted (and provided a clear photo of) 
the neighbours felt roof directly next to Mr Ts damaged roof which showed no signs of 
damage - which the Surveyor would expect to see to show damage consistent with what a 
storm would cause. 
The Surveyor concluded that in his opinion strong winds highlighted an existing maintenance 
issue with the roof. 
Mr T says the fatigue cracks the Surveyor identified would have been caused when the 
damaged roof hit the ground. He says the roof had a maintenance life of up to 20 years - and 
so as it was within its maintenance life there is nothing to suggest it wasnt in a good state of 
repair. Mr T says his neighbours roof was damaged and required repair. 
General research on the life span of a felt roof ranges between 10 and 20 years and 
depends on the maintenance of the roof. Mr T hasnt provided any evidence to suggest the 
roof was inspected at any point since it was installed around 14 years before.  
I understand Mr T is unhappy that Aviva has relied on the information provided by the 
Surveyor. But Avivas policy says it will look at whether an existing maintenance issue 
caused or contributed to the damage. I think the photos along with the professional opinion 
of an expert in this case are clear. And there isnt any other evidence to show Aviva acted 
unreasonably in relying on the Surveyors report to reach its decision. 
So I think the answer is no to the remaining two questions. This means I think Avivas 
decision to decline Mr Ts claim for storm damage was fair and in line with the policy. 
Aviva explained that it puts measures in place to deal with high volumes of storm related 
claims - but even with these measures in place it can be hard to manage every claim as 
promptly as it would like. Aviva informed Mr T of its decision to decline the claim within three 
weeks. I dont think this was an unreasonable delay, particularly given that a named storm 
affected many areas of the UK which led to a high number of claims being logged by 
customers. So in these circumstances, I dont think Aviva provided a poor service or caused 
an unreasonable delay in its handling of Mr Ts claim. 
I realise Mr T and Miss A will be very disappointed with my decision. But I think Aviva 
properly considered their claim and its decision to decline it was reasonable and in line with 
the policy. So Im not asking it to do any more. My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss A and Mr T to 
accept or reject my decision before 20 October 2022.
 
Geraldine Newbold
Ombudsman