DRN-4135765
The complaint
Mr M complains that the settlement figure quoted for his hire purchase agreement with 
N.I.I.B. Group Limited trading as Northridge Finance (NGL), was calculated incorrectly and is 
too high. 
What happened
In May 2022, Mr M acquired a new car through a hire purchase agreement with NGL. The 
cash price of the car was £30,095. Mr M paid a deposit of £17,500 so the total amount 
financed on the agreement was £12,595 payable over 37 monthly repayments of £370 and 
one final repayment of £380.
Around February 2023, Mr M requested an early settlement figure from NGL to repay the 
balance of the agreement.
On 2 March 2023, NGL issued a settlement quote to Mr M which he said was calculated 
incorrectly. Mr M complained to NGL that the settlement figure was around £240 more than 
what he should have been quoted.
The basic details of the settlement quote are noted below:
Settlement quotation before the rebate: £10,380
Early settlement interest rebate: £538
Total amount required to settle the agreement: £9,841.73
In March 2023, NGL issued their final response to Mr Ms complaint which they didnt 
uphold. NGL explained that the early settlement interest rebate is calculated using a formula 
set by the Consumer Credit (Early settlement) Regulations 2004 (CCR). NGL said they 
adhered to that legislation and so their settlement calculations were correct.
Unhappy with their decision, Mr M brought his complaint to our service for investigation. 
Having reviewed all the information on file, our investigator recommended that Mr Ms 
complaint should not be upheld. Our investigator couldnt see any evidence which suggested 
the calculations used by NGL were incorrect.
Mr M responded to say that NGL should have made it clearer in their terms and conditions 
that they were bound by the CCR. So, he asked that his complaint be referred to an 
ombudsman for a final decision.
NGL hasnt responded to our request for information or to our investigators view. However, 
having considered all the information on file, Im satisfied that Mr M has provided our service 
with sufficient information and evidence, that enables me to reach a fair and reasonable 
decision on this complaint and without undue delay.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In considering what is fair and reasonable, Ive thought about all the evidence and 
information provided afresh and the relevant law and regulations, regulators rules, guidance 
and standards, codes of practice and (where appropriate) what I consider to have been good 
industry practice at the relevant time. 
The agreement in this case is a regulated hire purchase agreement. As such, this service is 
able to consider complaints relating to it. 
The Consumer Credit (early settlement) regulations 2004 (CCR) is relevant in this case. 
Under this legislation the borrower is entitled, under a regulated consumer credit agreement 
to a rebate, where all or part of the amount payable to the lender is paid before the date its 
due. The regulations are there to protect borrowers to make sure they dont pay more than 
they need to, especially if they repay a loan very early in its term.
Here, having made around nine monthly payments into his 37-month hire purchase 
agreement, Mr M requested a settlement figure from NGL. Mr M disputed the figure with his 
main concern being that the terms and conditions of the agreement suggests that up to a 
maximum of 58 days interest will be added from the date the notice of settlement was 
received. Mr M appears to have calculated 58 days interest by dividing the total amount of 
interest chargeable on the agreement by the duration of days on the agreement and then 
multiplying by the days remaining (from the date of settlement). 
In their final response, NGL pointed out that their hire purchase agreements are structured in 
a way that front loads the interest, meaning that a higher percentage of interest is repaid at 
the beginning of the agreement, and less is repaid towards the end. In consideration of this, I 
dont think the way in which Mr M has calculated the interest rebate gives an accurate figure 
on a loan that is structured in that way. I say this because the interest doesnt appear to be 
equally split over the term of the loan.
For Mr Ms hire purchase agreement, the settlement figure is based on the total amount 
payable, less any payments Mr M has already paid. The remaining sum may then be 
reduced by a rebate of the remaining interest, to give a final settlement figure. To calculate 
the value of the interest rebate, NGL should apply a mathematical formula as set out in the 
CCR, to work out what the rebate should be. The formula works out how much of the 
amount borrowed is left to be repaid, and much of the future interest and charges will no 
longer need to be paid if the loan is settled by the settlement date.
In their final response NGL explained that they adhere to the CCR when providing early 
settlement figures, and that due to the complex nature of the formula, the calculations have 
been programmed into their systems.
Having considered the calculations as set out in the CCR, I think its fair to say that the 
formula used within it, would be reasonably considered as complex. However, as noted 
above, the regulations are there to ensure fairness for consumers when theyre settling a 
loan early.
I acknowledge Mr Ms strength of feeling that hes being overcharged by NGL. Having seen 
his method of calculation, and his interpretation of the terms of the hire purchase agreement, I can understand why he may see it this way. However, I would refer Mr M to the calculations 
of the early settlement rebate, as set out in the CCR, so he can better understand how it 
works. 
All things considered, Im satisfied with the explanation and approach that NGL has taken 
when working out the settlement figure. Im also satisfied that their terms and conditions set 
this out fairly. Im also persuaded Mr M realises that a different calculation applies, as noted 
in his email to our investigator in May 2023 when he said if Northridge Finance want the 
customer to be bound by the Legislation pertaining to Settlement Figures they should make 
that abundantly clear in the Terms and Conditions which the customer signs. I think the 
issue here is that Mr M is using a different method of calculating the interest rebate than 
what is advised in the CCR. 
All things considered, Im satisfied that NGL have used a fair and reasonable method when 
working out the early settlement of Mr Ms hire purchase agreement.
As Ive concluded that NGL were acting fairly when they calculated the early settlement on 
Mr Ms agreement, I dont require them to take any action in respect of this complaint. 
My final decision
Having thought about everything above along with what is fair and reasonable in the 
circumstances I dont uphold Mr Ms complaint about N.I.I.B. Group Limited trading as 
Northridge Finance. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 11 September 2023.
 
Benjamin John
Ombudsman