DRN-4321734
The complaint
Mrs B complains Accredited Insurance (Europe) Ltd (Accredited Insurance) caused delays 
affecting completion of the repairs to her car after she made a claim on her motor insurance 
policy.
Accredited Insurance are the underwriters of this policy i.e. the insurer. Part of this complaint 
concerns the actions of the agent. As Accredited Insurance have accepted it is accountable 
for the actions of the agent, in my decision, any reference to Accredited Insurance includes 
the actions of the agent.
There are several parties and representatives of Accredited Insurance involved throughout 
the complaint but for the purposes of this complaint Im only going to refer to 
Accredited Insurance.
What happened
Mrs B made a claim on her motor insurance policy after she was involved in an accident 
whilst driving her car.
The car was taken into storage at the main dealer as it was not drivable. It remained here for 
two weeks before going to Accredited Insurances approved repairer. 
During the process of validating Mrs Bs claim Accredited Insurance found she had not 
disclosed a claim from 2019. 
When the car was inspected by Accredited Insurances approved repairer on 9 February 
2023 it queried if some of the damage was accident related or a warranty issue. It advised 
the car needed to go to the main dealer for diagnostic tests. The main dealer was unable to 
do this until the beginning of March 2023, 
After inspection by the main dealer the repairs to the car were authorised and then started 
on 23 March 2023. They were completed on 28 March 2023. Mrs B was allocated a courtesy 
car for the duration of the repairs.
As Mrs B was not happy with Accredited Insurance, she brought the complaint to our 
service.
Our investigator upheld the complaint. They looked into the case and said although they 
acknowledged the delays were outside of Accredited Insurances control it still had the 
responsibility to deal with her claim promptly or offer alternatives when it was unable to do 
this. They recommended £150 compensation be paid to Mrs B to recognise the impact on 
her being without a car for around three weeks where there was no movement on her claim.
As Accredited Insurance is unhappy with our investigators view the complaint has been 
brought to me for a final decision to be made.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I saw the incident took place on 18 January 2023 and Mrs Bs car was recovered to the main 
dealer. 
When Accredited Insurance looked into Mrs Bs claim it identified an undisclosed claim from 
2019. Her claim did not proceed whilst Accredited Insurance undertook investigations into 
this. Mrs B accepts this was her mistake. Accredited Insurances investigations took until 27 
January 2023 for her claim to be authorised.
I think it was reasonable for Accredited Insurance to verify the anomalies on Mrs Bs records 
before authorising the claim. I cannot hold it responsible for this delay as the mistake was 
that of Mrs B for forgetting to disclose the claim when she took out her policy. 
I saw Accredited Insurances approved repairer collected Mrs Bs car on 2 February 2023. 
The damage was assessed on 9 February 2023 at which point it advised the car needed to 
go to the main dealer for diagnostic before any repair work was authorised. This was 
because it needed to check if some of the damage found was a warranty issue.
I saw the main dealer was unable to offer an appointment for the diagnostic to take place 
until March 2023. 
I think it was reasonable for Accredited Insurance to check if some of the damage was a 
warranty issue before it authorised repairs to Mrs Bs car. And I understand the delay for an 
appointment at the main dealer was not within Accredited Insurances control. However Mrs 
B was without her car for around three weeks before the repairs were authorised, and I have 
seen no evidence it looked at alternative options to progress her claim. 
I saw Mrs B contacted Accredited Insurance a number of times to chase up progress on her 
claim and to request a courtesy car to be provided.
I looked at the terms and conditions of Mrs Bs policy and on page four it says;
 Courtesy car
A small hatchback that we arrange to lend you while your car is being repaired.
This means a courtesy car was only due to be provided whilst Mrs Bs car was being 
repaired. I saw that Accredited Insurance did provide a courtesy car to her after the repairs 
had been authorised and her car was with its approved repairer.
It was Accredited Insurances responsibility to deal with Mrs Bs claim promptly. As there 
was no progression on Mrs Bs claim for approximately three weeks I dont think 
Accredited Insurance dealt with the claim promptly. And as no alternatives were offered to 
her, it should compensate her for the inconvenience caused due to being without a car 
during this delay.
Therefore, I uphold Mrs Bs complaint and require Accredited Insurance to pay her £150 
compensation for the distress and inconvenience caused when she was without a car whilst 
there was no movement on her claim.
My final decision
For the reasons I have given I uphold this complaint.I require Accredited Insurance (Europe) Ltd to pay Mrs B £150 compensation for the distress 
and inconvenience caused when she was without a car whilst there was no movement on 
her claim.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs B to accept or 
reject my decision before 27 November 2023.
 
Sally-Ann Harding
Ombudsman