DRN-3461088
The complaint
Mrs P complains about a delay in transferring her SIPP (self invested personal pension) with 
AJ Bell Management Limited trading as AJ Bell Investcentre (AJ Bell) to a new provider. Mrs 
P says the delay caused her financial loss. 
What happened
Mrs P and her husband had SIPPs with AJ Bell. They both wanted to transfer to a new 
provider and their requests to transfer were made on the same day. AJ Bell received the full 
transfer instructions from the new provider via an electronic transfer system on 13 May 2020. 
On the same day AJ Bell emailed the investment manager about the transfers. An error was 
made in respect of Mrs Ps transfer in that the electronic signature was omitted from the 
email. On 18 May 2020 the investment manager emailed AJ Bell to re send the closing 
instruction for Mrs P to include the electronic signature. AJ Bell did that the same day. 
AJ Bell received Mrs Ps SIPP proceeds from the investment manager on 26 May 2020 and 
reconciled and applied them to the SIPP cash account on 28 May 2020. The next day, 29 
May 2020, the transfer value of £282,123.05 was paid to the new provider to complete the 
transfer. By then Mr Ps transfer had already been completed some days earlier. His funds 
had been transferred on 19 May 2020 and were received by the new provider on 22 May 
2020.  
Mrs P complained to AJ Bell on 16 June 2020. She said it had become apparent that 
something had gone wrong with her transfer when her husbands transfer completed but 
hers hadnt. Shed asked her financial adviser to look into what had happened and how 
much shed lost as a result of the delay and she attached his comments. Mrs P said the 
delay originated because AJ Bell failed to provide the correct signatures. All the differences 
in the timescales between her transfer and her husbands could be traced back to that and 
had cost her approximately 3.58% of her fund value (about £11,000). 
AJ Bell emailed Mrs P on 22 June 2020 setting out a timeline. It noted that the main area of 
complaint was the difference in timescales between Mrs Ps transfer and her husbands. But 
it said the transfers had to be judged as separate transactions. It referred to its service level 
agreement which included acknowledging and initiating a transfer within five working days 
and making a payment within five working days once funds were received. Although an initial 
mistake was made, the transfer was completed well within the service level agreement and 
in a timely manner. 
Mrs P replied saying that her husbands transfer was relevant as it demonstrated she and 
her husband had been treated inconsistently and it showed what the timeline of her transfer 
wouldve been, but for AJ Bells initial error. Everything in relation to the transfers had been 
in tandem and there was every reason to believe that wouldve continued. 
AJ Bell responded to the complaint on 6 August 2020. It set out how the transfer had been 
progressed. It said it was unable to comment on Mrs Ps husbands transfer. It reiterated 
that, although the closure email had to be reissued, the overall time taken to complete the 
transfer wasnt unreasonable. Despite the initial error in not including the electronic signature 
on 13 May 2020, the correct closure instruction had been sent within five working days after 
receipt of the transfer request from the receiving scheme. The transfer was completed 
twelve working days after AJ Bell had received the transfer request.
Mrs P remained dissatisfied and referred her complaint to us. She said, as a result of AJ 
Bells admitted error, her funds had been transferred later than her husbands and shed 
been financially disadvantaged due to market changes in the intervening ten days. AJ Bell 
had refused to take into account the comparison with her husbands timeline but, had it not 
been for AJ Bells error, it was reasonable to assume that her transfer wouldve completed 
on the same day as her husbands. 
One of our investigators looked into what had happened. She upheld the complaint. She 
noted what AJ Bell had said about the total time taken for the transfer to complete (eleven 
working days) which wasnt unreasonable. But an error had been made. And that had 
caused a delay. She set out how AJ Bell should work out the compensation due to Mrs P. 
AJ Bell accepted the investigators view. It said it would carry out the calculations required 
and liaise with Mrs P about any payment due. But Mrs P was unhappy with the amount of 
compensation offered. AJ Bells approach was that one transfer couldnt be compared to 
another unrelated transfer, even if both transfers were initiated on the same day. The delay 
AJ Bell had caused was clear and measurable  a period of three working days from when 
the transfer was initially instructed without the required signature and when it was correctly 
instructed.
The investigator thought AJ Bell had calculated the compensation in line with her 
recommendation.  She explained, although shed said Mrs Ps transfer wouldve happened 
at the same time as Mr Ps, that wasnt a certainty. AJ Bell had to follow the actual events 
that took place, apart from the delay between 13 May 2020 and 18 May 2020 which was 
three working days. 
As Mrs P remained unhappy, the investigator said shed refer the complaint for an 
ombudsmans decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive considered very carefully all Mrs P has said. I understand why Mrs P considers that the 
timeline for her husbands transfer is directly relevant and demonstrates how her transfer 
wouldve progressed and been completed, but for AJ Bells initial mistake with the electronic 
signature. But I dont think it can be assumed that exactly the same timescale wouldve 
prevailed. Mrs P and her husband each had their own individual SIPP with AJ Bell. The 
transfers were separate and, although initiated at the same time and to the same new 
provider, were processed separately. There was no guarantee that everything in respect of 
each transfer would be done at the same time. 
The fact that Mr Ps transfer was completed first didnt necessarily mean that something 
must have gone wrong with Mrs Ps transfer. But the disparity in the time taken prompted 
Mrs P and her adviser to look into what had happened. It then transpired that AJ Bell had 
made a mistake  the electronic signature on the email to the investment manager 
instructing disinvestment had been omitted, which meant the instruction had to be resent. So 
there had been delay. That delay was avoidable and wouldnt have occurred if the original 
email had been complete and correct. AJ Bell has said that, despite that delay, the overall time taken to complete the transfer was 
still reasonable. I accept that. But the fact is that a mistake was made and resulted in the 
transfer taking three working days longer than it would otherwise have done. I dont think it 
would be fair to ignore that delay. I think its reasonable to say that, but for that mistake, the 
transfer wouldve been completed three working days earlier. 
But I think its also reasonable to assume that everything else wouldve happened as it 
actually did. An adjustment for the three working days delay doesnt bring Mrs Ps transfer in 
line with her husbands. But the issue isnt whether Mrs Ps transfer couldve been completed 
any quicker. Or if it shouldve been completed at the same as her husbands. Its whether the 
time actually taken to complete her transfer was reasonable and after allowing for any delays 
which were a direct result of something AJ Bell did (or didnt do).  
As far as Ive seen, AJ Bells only mistake was in respect of the initial email instruction. Once 
the SIPP proceeds were received from the investment manager, AJ Bell was able to       
reconcile them and pay the transfer value to the receiving scheme promptly. I note Mrs Ps 
comments about the service standards being set so as to allow plenty of time to complete 
each process. And I agree that adherence to the time frames set would be of little value if 
the times allowed were excessive. But I dont think thats the case here  the service 
standards seem to me to be reasonable. 
 
In summary, I can understand Mrs Ps disappointment with the time taken to complete her 
transfer and when her husbands transfer was completed quicker. Particularly as, during a 
period of market volatility, the timing of any disinvestment and reinvestment can make a 
significant difference to values. But, for the reasons Ive explained, I dont think AJ Bell can 
fairly be held responsible for any delay beyond the three working days which its admitted 
error caused. It follows that I think the approach taken by AJ Bell to calculate Mrs Ps 
compensation is fair and reasonable and puts Mrs P in the position shed be in, but for AJ 
Bells admitted error. 
Putting things right
AJ Bell should calculate and pay compensation to Mrs P as set out in the investigators view. 
For completeness Ive repeated it here. Ive made some small adjustments to make it clearer 
that compensation is based on the time scale that wouldve applied but for the three working 
days delay caused by AJ Bells admitted error. 
To compensate Mrs P fairly AJ Bell Management Limited trading as AJ Bell lnvestcentre 
should compare the actual value of Mrs Ps investment with what it wouldve been worth had 
there not been the delay (three working days). If the fair value is greater than the actual 
value, theres a loss and compensation is payable. If the actual value is greater than the fair 
value, no compensation is payable.
If theres a loss it should be paid into Mrs Ps pension plan, to increase its value by the 
amount of the compensation and any interest. The payment should allow for the effect of 
charges and any available tax relief. It shouldnt be paid into the pension plan if it would 
conflict with any existing protection or allowance.
If it cant be paid into Mrs Ps pension plan, it should be paid direct to her. But, had it been 
possible to pay into the plan, it wouldve provided a taxable income. Therefore the 
compensation should be reduced to notionally allow for any income tax that would otherwise 
have been paid. The notional allowance should be calculated using Mrs Ps actual or 
expected marginal rate of tax at her selected retirement age. For example, if shes likely to 
be a basic rate taxpayer at the selected retirement age, the reduction would equal the current basic rate of tax. However, if she would have been able to take a tax free lump sum, 
the reduction should be applied to 75% of the compensation.
Details of the calculation should be provided to Mrs P in a clear, simple format. 
investment 
namestatus Benchmarkfrom 
(start date)to 
(end date)additional 
loss
Aviva Plan still exists initial 
investments in 
Mrs Ps Aviva 
Plandate the 
investment 
should have 
happeneddate of actual 
investmentthe loss 
calculated 
should be 
brought up to 
date with the 
growth 
experienced 
in the plan.
Mrs P to provide details of the investments and/or authority for her Aviva Plan.
Actual value
This means the actual amount payable from the investment at the end date.
Fair value
This is what the investment would have been worth at the end date had it produced a return
using the benchmark.
Why is this remedy suitable?
Ive chosen this method of compensation because Mrs P wouldve invested earlier with 
Aviva but for the delay and the calculated loss wouldve been part of her portfolio. 
My final decision
I uphold the complaint. AJ Bell Management Limited trading as AJ Bell lnvestcentre should 
compensate Mrs P as Ive set out above. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs P to accept or 
reject my decision before 25 August 2022.
 
Lesley Stead
Ombudsman