DRN-4303318
The complaint
Mr F is unhappy with several aspects of the service hes received from American Express 
Services Europe Limited (AmEx)
What happened
Mr F had an AmEx account with a £67,000 credit limit. But while his balance was much 
lower than that limit, AmEx suspended and then defaulted his account. Mr F wasnt happy 
about this, or with the impact the default had on his credit file, so he raised a complaint.
AmEx responded to Mr F and explained that the credit limit of his account had never been 
£67,000 but had always been £6,600. And AmEx also explained that they didnt feel theyd 
done anything wrong in how theyd administered Mr Fs credit account, including in how 
theyd defaulted the account. Mr F wasnt satisfied with AmExs response, so he referred his 
complaint to this service.
One of our investigators looked at this complaint. But they didnt feel AmEx had acted 
unfairly in how theyd managed the situation and so didnt uphold the complaint. Mr F 
remained dissatisfied, so the matter was escalated to an ombudsman for a final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr F has explained that he believes his AmEx account had a £67,000 credit limit is because 
of digits within the long card number that is printed on the card. But Mr Fs belief that the 
long card number includes information about the credit limit of an account is mistaken. 
AmEx have demonstrated to my satisfaction that the credit limit of Mr Fs account was 
always £6,600 and was never changed. This is demonstrated by the account statements for 
Mr Fs account, all of which confirm the credit limit of the account as being £6,600.
In October 2022, AmEx wrote to Mr F and explained they were conducting a review of his 
account and required evidence of Mr Fs income. AmEx didnt receive this requested income 
verification information from Mr F to their satisfaction, and this led them to develop concerns 
about Mr Fs ability to afford the credit account and to repay the balance he owed to them. 
AmExs concerns were compounded when Mr F then failed to make any payments towards 
the account for several months. This led to the balance of Mr Fs account exceeding the 
£6,600 credit limit and, along with the lack of Mr F making at least the monthly minimum 
payment, was in breach of the terms of the credit account.
AmEx therefore made the commercial decision to suspend Mr Fs credit account. And 
AmExs decision here seems reasonable to me, given the lack of payment towards the 
account and that the balance of the account was in excess of the agreed credit limit, and 
given that Mr F hadnt provided the information AmEx had requested to AmExs satisfaction. 
It's also evident that Mr F was aware of the status of his account, and I note several phone 
calls in late 2022 where Mr F discusses the suspension of his account with Amex.
Ultimately, Mr F didnt make the payments towards his AmEx account that he was 
contractually obliged to, and he didnt maintain the balance of his account within the agreed 
credit limit. And AmEx communicated these facts to Mr F on several occasions and thus 
gave Mr F what Im satisfied was a fair opportunity to rectify the position of his account 
before they took any action. 
Accordingly, Im satisfied that AmEx didnt act unfairly or unreasonably when, with Mr F 
having not taken action to clear the accrued arrears and rectify the position of his account, 
they took the further commercial decision to default Mr Fs account.
Im aware that Mr F is unhappy with the impact of the default on his credit file. But as per the 
above, I dont feel AmEx did anything wrong or acted unfairly by defaulting Mr Fs account. 
And AmEx have an obligation to make accurate reports about the status of an account to the 
credit reference agencies  including when an account is defaulted.
Finally, Mr F has asked this service to delay reaching a decision on this complaint until hes 
received a response from AmEx to a subject access request that hes made to them. But   
Mr F hasnt explained what information hes expecting to receive that would reasonably 
impact my decision here. And Im satisfied that I have already have the information needed 
for me to reach a fair and reasonable final decision on this complaint at this time, and so I 
see no reason to delay reaching such a decision at this time.
All of which means that my final decision here is that I do not uphold this complaint. I realise 
this wont be the outcome Mr F was wanting, but I trust that hell understand, given what Ive 
explained, why Ive made the final decision that I have.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr F to accept or 
reject my decision before 11 December 2023.
 
Paul Cooper
Ombudsman