DRN-4403208
The complaint
Mr H is complaining about Secure Trust Bank Plc trading as Moneyway. He says they were 
irresponsible in lending to him. Mr Hs complaint was brought to our service by a 
representative but for ease Ive written as if weve dealt directly with him.
What happened
In May 2021, Mr H took out a hire purchase agreement with Moneyway to finance the 
purchase of a car. He paid a deposit of £2,000 and borrowed £14,698 - the cash price of the 
vehicle was £16,698. The agreement required Mr H to make 59 monthly repayments of 
£361.32 and a final instalment of £371.32  so the total amount payable was £23,689.20. 
Mr H made payments sporadically and then decided to surrender the vehicle, in 
December 2022.
In January 2023, Mr H complained to Moneyway, saying that it had been too easy for him to 
get a loan for a car which he clearly couldnt sustain repayments for. He said hed had to 
hand the car back but still owed Moneyway, hed ended up having to enter another Individual 
Voluntary Arrangement (IVA), and had now gone back to driving a much older car which he 
could afford.
Moneyway didnt uphold Mr Hs complaint. They said Mr H had told them his monthly income 
was £1,193. Theyd used his credit file to assess the amount he paid towards debts and 
revolving credit, and used statistical data from the Office for National Statistics (ONS) to 
estimate his cost of living including rent. This was based on Mr H being a married tenant  
which is what hed told Moneyway. 
When they added up Mr Hs estimated expenditure, including the proposed repayments 
under this agreement, the total was around £1,088 per month. As this was less than Mr Hs 
income, they concluded that the finance was affordable for Mr H. When the complaint came 
to us, Moneyway also said theyd used one of the credit reference agency (CRA) tools to 
check that Mr Hs income was higher than his expenditure.
Mr H was unhappy with Moneyways response so brought his complaint to our service. One 
of our investigators looked into it but didnt uphold it. He said from the evidence hed seen, 
he thought Moneyway hadnt conducted proportionate checks. But when he looked at Mr Hs 
bank statements from the time of lending, he thought these showed the agreement was 
affordable for Mr H.
Mr H replied, saying our investigator shouldnt have included income from his pension in 
assessing his income and expenditure  he said he was using that in the short-term to help 
cover his bills but would have preferred to have kept his pension for retirement. Because 
Mr H disagreed with our investigator, the complaint was referred for a decision  and its 
come to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, and recognising itll be disappointing for Mr H, Im not upholding his 
complaint. My reasons are broadly the same as our investigators  Ill explain below.
The Financial Conduct Authority (FCA) sets out in a part of its handbook known as CONC 
what lenders must do when deciding whether or not to lend to a consumer. In summary, a 
firm must consider a customers ability to make repayments under the agreement without 
having to borrow further to meet repayments or default on other obligations, and without the 
repayments having a significant adverse impact on the customers financial situation. 
CONC says a firm must carry out checks which are proportionate to the individual 
circumstances of each case. 
Did Moneyway carry out proportionate checks?
Moneyway said they carried out the following checks:
reviewed Mr Hs credit file;
used ONS data to estimate Mr Hs expenditure; and
used one of the CRA tools to check that Mr Hs income exceeded his expenditure.
Whether or not these checks were proportionate depends on various factors, including the 
size and length of the loan, and the cost of credit. Mr H was largely dependent on benefits, 
and the repayments on the hire purchase agreement were over 30% of his stated income. 
So the checks needed to be thorough. 
Moneyway said Mr Hs credit file didnt give them any cause for concern. But Ive looked at 
the credit report Moneyway used and I can see Mr H had defaulted on one of the utilities 
accounts, missed payments on another utility account, defaulted on a loan, and defaulted on 
a communications contract. So although his total credit balance was low, at around £430, 
these defaults were fairly recent  and indicative that Mr H might be struggling financially.
 CONC allows firms to use statistical data in their affordability assessments unless they have 
reason to suspect that a customers non-discretionary expenditure is significantly higher than 
that described in the data. Mr Hs recent missed payments and defaults were a good reason 
to suspect that his expenditure might be higher  so I dont think it was appropriate for 
Moneyway to rely on ONS data when estimating Mr Hs expenditure.
CONC also says that firms shouldnt rely solely on a statement from a customer to verify a 
customers income. Moneyway said they used a CRA tool to check that Mr Hs income 
exceeded his expenditure but its not clear whether they used the CRA tool to verify the 
amount of his income or simply used the income figure Mr H had given them. That makes it 
difficult for me to say Moneyway did proportionate checks  I cant see that they verified his 
income and I think proportionate checks needed to include this step.
If Moneyway had carried out proportionate checks, what would they have found?
As Ive explained above, I think Moneyway should have independently verified Mr Hs 
income using some third-party information. And I think proportionate checks would have 
involved finding out more about Mr Hs expenditure.
Ive looked at statements for Mr Hs main bank account for the three months leading up to 
his application to Moneyway. In the absence of any other information, bank statements 
provide a good indication of Mr Hs income and expenditure at the time the lending decision 
was made.
Having done so, I can see Mr Hs income averaged around £2,015 per month. This takes 
into account his benefits and his pension income of £800 per month. I appreciate Mr H has 
disputed our inclusion of this pension income in our assessment. But he was receiving these payments regularly and had stopped working. Im satisfied that they formed part of his 
regular income at the time and that it would have been reasonable for Moneyway to take this 
income into account when assessing the affordability of the loan.
Turning to Mr Hs expenditure, he was making payments totalling around £815 per month for 
rent, council tax, water and energy. His TV, internet and phone services cost him around 
£150 per month. He was also spending £200 per month on storage, and around £350 on 
food, fuel, and other financial commitments. So his regular committed and non-discretionary 
expenditure totalled around £1,510 per month. Once the repayments for this new loan 
agreement were added on, Mr Hs total regular expenditure would be expected to be around 
£1,870 per month. With income of around £2,015 per month, this left around £145 for 
emergencies and discretionary spend, as well as any increase in costs arising from changing 
vehicle. Although this isnt a large amount, Im satisfied it would have been enough for 
Moneyway to decide the repayments under the hire purchase agreement would be 
affordable for Mr H.
In conclusion, although on balance Im not satisfied Moneyway did proportionate checks, Im 
satisfied that if they had, they could have fairly lent to Mr H.
My final decision
As Ive explained above, Im not upholding Mr Hs complaint about Secure Trust Bank PLC 
trading as Moneyway.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 12 December 2023.
 
Clare King
Ombudsman