DRN-3746154
The complaint
Mrs T has complained that National Westminster Bank Plc (NatWest) wont refund 
transactions she says she didnt make or otherwise authorise.
What happened
Between March 2018 and January 2020, several hundred online purchases were made from 
Mrs Ts NatWest account to Argos Online using her card details, usually for small and round 
amounts. These payments totalled about £11,000 over the years.
Mrs T reported this in January 2020, saying shed recently noticed a run of such payments 
depleting her balance. She explained she didnt really use online banking, didnt check her 
account often, and had been dealing with caring for a relative and a death in the family, so 
she didnt notice these payments before. She confirmed that she was only disputing the 
Argos Online payments, and all the other account transactions were genuine.
NatWest initially told Mrs T thered been no payments to Argos on her account. They later 
accepted theyd been mistaken and told Mrs T theyd investigate, and that she didnt need to 
go to the police. But NatWest then refused to investigate without a police reference number, 
despite what theyd told her. And after Mrs Ts partner phoned NatWest to enquire about the 
case, they refused to deal with her until she went to branch with ID. Mrs T asked for copy 
statements so she could see how far back the payments went, but NatWest didnt send her 
them. Then when Mrs T was unsure about how many payments had been made to Argos 
Online over the years and therefore what amount she should dispute, NatWest accused her 
of being inconsistent.
So NatWest did little investigation at the time, and evidence from the merchant is no longer 
available. From what NatWest did find, the purchases had been made in Mrs Ts partners 
name, were delivered to an address some distance away from where she and her partner 
lived, and were made from IP addresses that did not match Mrs Ts genuine activity. But 
NatWest felt that because the payments had been made in Mrs Ts partners name, it was a 
civil dispute between Mrs T and her partner. They declined to help further.
Our adjudicator looked into things and suggested Mrs T might have given her partner the 
apparent authority to use her account. Mrs T didnt agree, so the complaints been passed to 
me to decide.
I sent Mrs T and NatWest a provisional decision on 7 September 2022, to explain why 
I thought the complaint should be upheld. In that decision, I said:
According to NatWests technical evidence, the payments in dispute were made online using 
Mrs Ts correct card details. This is not enough, on its own, for NatWest to hold Mrs T liable 
 they also need to be able to evidence that Mrs T consented to the transactions. Otherwise, 
NatWest have to refund them.
Because NatWest didnt really investigate things at the time, they have not provided much 
evidence that Mrs T consented to these payments, and the merchant has said its been too 
long to be able to provide further information now. There are a number of ways in which 
Mrs Ts card details might have been compromised, and Ive not seen any evidence that her 
physical card was used, nor any two-factor authentication, and so on. It looks like these 
payments just needed the card details.
The goods were delivered in someone elses name, to a different address, some distance 
from where Mrs T and her partner actually live. And while NatWest didnt get information 
about what was purchased, it seems unlikely that Mrs T would need £11,000 worth of things 
from Argos in repeated small, round amounts over just two years, and it seems unlikely that 
shed deliver them all to someone elses seemingly unrelated address several towns over. 
Given the repeated round amounts, Im concerned that the payments may have been for 
vouchers or other goods that could easily be passed on.
Further, from what little NatWest could provide, it seems that the online payments were 
made from an IP address which does not match Mrs Ts genuine activity. This also suggests 
that the payments may have been fraudulent.
So based on what Ive seen so far, I do not think NatWest have evidenced that Mrs T 
consented to these payments, and Im not persuaded that she did. So I dont think NatWest 
can hold her liable for them. It follows that I plan to direct NatWest to give Mrs T a refund.
Our adjudicator suggested Mrs T might have previously given her partner authority to use 
her account. But this is too assumptive  theres no evidence which shows that Mrs T gave 
her partner such apparent authority. And such authority doesnt last forever after being given 
once  so theres nothing to say that such authority wouldve stretched to all these Argos 
Online payments, which Mrs T otherwise seems not to have consented to. And in any case, 
given that the delivery address and IP addresses didnt match Mrs T and her partners 
location, I dont think we have enough to conclusively say that Mrs Ts partner made these 
payments in the first place, let alone with Mrs Ts authority. Its possible a fraudster may 
have used Mrs Ts partners name in order to make the purchases seem more legitimate.
NatWest may argue that Mrs T was grossly negligent, such as in not checking her account 
more often. But these online purchases were distance contracts, and given the merchant, 
they wont be excepted contracts like financial services or investments. Certainly, since 
NatWest didnt get the proper evidence from the merchant to show what was bought, 
I cannot fairly conclude that any of these were excepted contracts. I also note that a number 
of these payments were made from a credit facility. And because of the rules around 
distance contracts and credit facilities, NatWest cannot hold Mrs T liable for the disputed 
transactions on the basis of gross negligence. I have also not currently seen anything which 
shows that Mrs T was partly to blame for the loss.
I do, however, accept that under the Payment Services Regulations, NatWest do not have to 
refund the payments which were made more than 13 months before Mrs T reported them as 
fraudulent  so long as they were made from a positive balance, and not from a credit facility 
like the overdraft. And in this case, I can see that all of the disputed payments from more 
than 13 months before Mrs Ts fraud report were made from a positive balance, and not from 
her overdraft. So NatWest are correct that they do not need to refund those.Lastly, I am concerned with how NatWest handled this case. For example, telling Mrs T 
there were no Argos Online payments on her account, or telling her she didnt need to go to 
the police then refusing to help without a police reference number. I do not see what a police 
reference number would have achieved here, and NatWests mis-advice really delayed 
things and caused Mrs T unfair distress. Similarly, NatWest didnt send Mrs T the statements 
she asked for to help her see how many transactions thered been to Argos Online. Then 
NatWest held this against her when she was unable to conclusively say how much she 
wanted to dispute. And having listened to Mrs Ts calls with NatWest, I note that some of 
their staff were unnecessarily impolite and unhelpful. It looks like NatWest caused Mrs T 
some real stress. That needs to be put right too.
When a business gets things wrong like that, we often tell them to pay compensation  to 
acknowledge their errors and the impact they had. In terms of the amounts, its worth 
bearing in mind that were not here to punish businesses or issue fines. Looking at our 
guidelines for compensation, I think NatWest should pay Mrs T an additional £250 for the 
trouble and upset caused. 
I said Id consider anything else anyone wanted to give me  so long as I received it by 
5 October 2022. NatWest agreed to the proposed redress. We didnt receive a reply from 
Mrs T.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Neither side have sent me any new evidence or arguments. So having reconsidered the 
case, Ive come to the same conclusion as before, and for the same reasons as set out in 
my provisional decision above.
Putting things right
I direct National Westminster Bank Plc to:
refund the disputed transactions, except for the ones which were made more than 13 
months before Mrs T first reported this;
for refunded transactions that were made from a credit balance: pay simple interest 
to Mrs T on those refunded transactions, at the rate of 8% simple a year, payable 
from the date they were last debited until the date theyre returned. This is to 
compensate Mrs T for the time she didnt have her money.
for refunded transactions that were made from an overdraft: refund any interest, 
charges, or fees that were added because of those payments.
pay Mrs T £250 compensation for the trouble and upset caused.
 HM Revenue & Customs requires NatWest to take off tax from this simple interest. NatWest must 
give Mrs T a certificate showing how much tax theyve taken off if she asks for one. Mrs T may then 
be able to claim the tax back from HMRC if she doesnt normally pay tax.My final decision
I uphold Mrs Ts complaint and direct National Westminster Bank Plc to put things right in the 
way I set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs T to accept or 
reject my decision before 7 November 2022.
 
Adam Charles
Ombudsman