DRN-4069559
The complaint
Mr M complains about the actions of eBay Commerce UK Ltd after a restriction was placed 
on his account and funds were withheld from him. Hes also raised concerns about refunds 
issued to a buyer who had raised disputes.
What happened
In late 2022, a restriction was placed on Mr Ms eBay account. Mr M was told that his selling 
privileges were temporarily restricted. He wouldnt be able to create new listings or revise 
any live listings on eBays site, and a number of his listings had been removed. 
Mr M was told that his payouts would be withheld until his account restriction was resolved. 
He was asked to provide some documentation and resolve any outstanding issues with 
buyers. 
Mr M complained to eBay but the matter wasnt resolved so he asked our service to consider 
his concerns. Mr M didnt think it was fair for eBay to withhold funds for items hed sold prior 
to the restriction being placed on his account.  He wanted the funds to be released, including 
the amounts he said hed been forced to accept returns on. Mr M also asked that he be 
compensated for the stress and inconvenience he experienced from his account being 
suspended and the suspension not being removed after he was promised it would be.
Our investigator looked into Mr Ms concerns, but she didnt think his complaint should be 
upheld. She explained that our service doesnt have the power to consider some of the 
matters Mr M had raised as they related to eBay as an online auction site and marketplace. 
She said our service can only consider complaints against eBay Commerce as a separate 
business that provides payment services. She was satisfied eBay Commerce had acted 
fairly and in line with its payments terms of use. 
Mr M disagreed with our investigators outcome. He said one of the main issues was that 
eBay denied him the right to appeal against its decision to refund a buyer who fraudulently 
used products hed sent and returned them empty. So, his complaint has been passed to me 
to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided not to uphold Mr Ms complaint. Ill explain why.
Id like to reassure Mr M that I have considered all of his points. Ive focused my comments 
on what I think is relevant. If I havent commented on any specific point, its because I dont 
believe it has affected what I think is the right outcome.
The rules that apply to this service say that we can only consider complaints about 
businesses that are authorised by the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA) to carry out certain 
activities, which include regulated activities and payment services. These rules are 
contained in the FCA Handbook (available online) and are known as DISP. The relevant 
section here is DISP 2.3.1R.
eBay as an online marketplace and auction site isnt a regulated financial business, so we 
cant consider complaints about it. But we can consider complaints about certain other eBay 
companies where they are regulated. Here that means we can consider part of Mr Ms 
complaint against eBay Commerce UK Ltd, where it relates to an activity that it is regulated 
for  this activity being a specific type of payment service.
eBay has provided a screenshot to show that Mr M signed up to its managed payments 
service in December 2022. Weve shared this screenshot with Mr M who has commented 
that it shows he opened the account in 2017. Mr M says this is when he would have 
accepted eBays terms. 
However, as explained eBay Commerce is a different company to eBay as marketplace.    
Mr M may have opened his account with eBay as a marketplace in 2017. But Im satisfied 
from what Ive seen that Mr M joined eBay Commerces managed payments service in 
December 2022. And when he did so, he would have agreed to eBay Commerces payments 
terms of use. So, Ive considered if eBay has acted fairly and in line with these terms. 
Holds placed on funds
eBays payments terms of use say it may place restrictions on access to a sellers funds 
when deemed necessary. It says: A hold may be placed if we have reason to believe there 
is an increased risk associated with the provision of our Payment Services or with a certain 
Managed Payment transaction, for example if we cannot verify your identity or if your buyer 
files a dispute. There is a link to the holds help page for more detail on the hold types and 
examples.
I appreciate it was frustrating for Mr M to have a restriction placed on his account. I can see 
he provided the documents eBay asked for almost straight away. However, eBay says it 
wasnt able to remove the restriction because of some unresolved buyer disputes. And I can 
see eBay told Mr M that the buyers concerns needed to be addressed before the selling 
restriction could be removed. eBay later informed Mr M that it had suspended his account 
because of concerns about its security. Having reviewed the information eBay has provided, 
Im satisfied that its actions were reasonable and in line with its terms of use. 
Buyer disputes
I understand Mr M is unhappy about the decision to refund a buyer for several transactions 
through eBays money back guarantee policy. Mr M says the buyers claims were fraudulent 
and he hasnt been given the opportunity to appeal. However, eBays money back guarantee 
is a service offered by eBay UK as a marketplace, rather than eBay Commerce. This means 
that I cant consider the fairness of this decision, or the concerns Mr M has raised about not 
being able to appeal against it.
However, I can consider the actions of eBay Commerce in providing the payment service to 
Mr M. eBays payments terms of use sets out what happens if a buyer successfully files a 
claim under the eBay Money Back Guarantee. It says the eBay company offering the eBay 
Buyer Protection Program (eMBG Service Provider) will reimburse the buyer the amount 
owed on the sellers behalf. And the seller is required to reimburse the eMBG Service 
Provider for any such amounts. 
In agreeing to eBays payment terms of use, Mr M gave it authority to collect owed 
amounts by various means including recouping from his linked financial account. So, I dont think it was unfair for eBay to have debited funds from Mr Ms bank account when there 
wasnt sufficient money in his eBay account to cover refunds to the buyers.
Account balance
Our investigator explained to Mr M that she was satisfied there was a negative balance of 
£229.48 on his eBay account, according to the most recent information eBay has provided. 
Mr M hasnt disputed what our investigator has said about this. So, I dont think its 
necessary for me to comment further.
I know my answer will be disappointing for Mr M. But, as explained, Im unable to consider 
all of the issues hes raised. Im satisfied that eBay Commerce has acted fairly and in line 
with its terms of use. So, I havent found reason to uphold his complaint.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, I dont uphold Mr Ms complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 22 June 2023.
 
Anne Muscroft
Ombudsman