DRN-1150646
The complaint
Mr D complains that Lifetime Protection Services Ltd (trading as Bon Accord Life) made an 
error when selling him an income protection policy.  
What happened
Mr D bought an income protection policy through Bon Accord Life (Bon Accord). During 
the application process, Mr D told Bon Accord he was a stock controller. But Bon Accord told 
the proposed insurer that Mr D was a warehouse administrator, and a policy went on to be 
set up for him with a premium of around £15 per month and a deferred period of four weeks. 
Mr D claimed on the policy when he took time off work due to an eye problem. But the 
insurer became aware of the occupation error, and said they'd have offered a different policy 
had they known what Mr D's actual occupation was. The insurer gave Mr D a number of 
options to choose from, one of which included a full refund of premiums which Mr D agreed 
to. 
Mr D complained, and Bon Accord acknowledged they'd provided the wrong occupation and 
needed to put him back into the position he would have been had they not done so. 
However, Bon Accord said they didn't think Mr Ds claim would have been successful under 
the alternative policy because it had a 13-week deferred period, and he'd only been off work 
for 12 weeks. They also said that had Mr D chosen not to take out the alternative policy, he 
was already back in the position he would have been following the insurer's refund.
Mr D still remained unhappy about what had happened. So he bought his complaint to this 
service. 
Our investigator agreed that Bon Accord had provided the wrong occupation, but they 
thought Mr D had already been put in the position he should have been by way of the 
refunded premiums. Our investigator thought about what Mr D might have done differently 
had it not been for Bon Accords mistake. But they didn't think Mr D would have taken out 
the alternative policy, because it was more expensive and offered less cover than Mr D said 
he needed at the time.
Mr D disagreed. He said he could have afforded to pay more or could have sought cover 
elsewhere, and provided an alternative quote to support his position. 
Our investigator said Mr D had told Bon Accord how much he wanted to spend on the policy 
and what he wanted it to provide at the time of the sale. They also said any claim under the 
quoted policy would be subject to Mr D's medical history being considered, and Mr Ds 
previous insurer had noted he appeared to have had a long medical history in relation to his 
eyes which hadn't been disclosed. So our investigator thought cover for claims relating to 
Mr Ds eyes would have likely been excluded in any event. 
But as Mr W still remained unhappy, the matter was passed to me to decide. 
What Ive decided  and whyIve considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Having done so, I wont be upholding this 
complaint and will explain why.
Bon Accord have accepted they made a mistake when reporting Mr Ds occupation. That 
mistake is of course disappointing, and I can see Mr D is extremely frustrated about it.
Had Mr Ds occupation been accurately reported, he would have still been offered a policy 
by the insurer. But as I understand it, that policy would have offered a 13-week deferred 
period and would have cost around £27 a month. Mr D had already told Bon Accord he 
wanted a four-week deferred period and could only afford to pay £15 a month. So, based on 
what Mr D had said he'd needed, I think its unlikely he would have chosen this alternative 
policy given the conditions that applied.
Mr D now says that he could have afforded to pay more a month. But even if I accepted that 
he would have gone on to take out the alternative policy, I dont think his claim would have 
been covered. I say that because Mr D appears to have taken 12 weeks off work, but the 
alternative policy had a 13-week deferred period attached to it. So I don't think he would 
have satisfied the policys deferment requirements.
I know Mr D's also said he would have sought cover elsewhere. And I accept the quote he's 
provided offers a monthly premium and deferred period more aligned to what hed told Bon 
Accord he needed. But I can also see the quote is subject to medical review. And Ive not 
seen anything alongside the quote to demonstrate the policy would have provided cover for 
conditions relating to Mr Ds eyes, given his apparent medical history. So the quote in 
itself isn't enough to persuade me this policy would have met Mr D's needs and also covered 
the claim he'd have gone on to make.
Having said the above, I accept theres been a loss of expectation in this case and I 
understand Mr D is frustrated about whats happened. But the available evidence hasn't 
persuaded me that there would have been a different outcome for Mr C's claim but for Bon 
Accord's error. Nor that he would have secured a policy that provided not only the cost and 
benefit he was after, but that would have covered claims relating to his eyes given his 
apparent medical history. So for that reason, I'm not asking Bon Accord to do anything more.
Mr D has now had his premiums returned. So I'm satisfied he's been put back into the 
position he would have been had Bon Accord not sold him a policy, and for those reasons I 
won't be upholding his complaint.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.   
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision before 14 June 2020.
Jade Alexander
Ombudsman