DRN-4489416
The complaint
Mrs M and Mr M complain about West Bay Insurance Plcs (West Bay) decision to increase 
the price of their car insurance policy. 
Mr M is the main policyholder, with Mrs M being a named driver. So, for ease of reference, I 
will refer to any actions taken, or comments made, by either Mrs M or Mr M as Mr M 
throughout the decision. 
What happened
Mr M took out a policy with West Bay after agreeing the price quoted. He says all claims and 
convictions were disclosed at the time. Mr M says West Bay then carried out validation 
checks and noted some differences between the claims information he disclosed and what 
was showing on the Claims and Underwriting Exchange (CUE) database. He says West 
Bay then made some amendments to his policy based on the information showing on the 
CUE database which led to an increase in the premium. Mr M says he felt compelled to take 
out the policy as he needed cover, but he complained as he felt it was unfair West Bay 
asked for an additional premium when hed already disclosed all claims  which were also 
non-fault. 
West Bay responded and explained, when a policy is taken out over the telephone or online, 
they complete full validation checks to ensure all information is accurate. They said, when 
they compared the information provided by Mr M with what was showing on the CUE 
database, they identified some differences. They said these differences were discussed with 
Mr M and, after making the changes to the policy in line with this, the premium increased. 
West Bay said the price had correctly increased due to the changes made. 
Our investigator looked into things for Mrs M and Mr M. He thought West Bay hadnt treated 
Mrs M and Mr M unfairly in increasing the premium. Mrs M and Mr M disagreed so the 
matter has come to me for a decision.    
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided not to uphold the complaint. I understand Mrs M and Mr M will 
be disappointed by this but Ill explain why I have made this decision. 
The role of this service when looking at complaints about insurance pricing isnt to tell a 
business what they should charge or to determine a price for the insurance they offer. This is 
a commercial judgement and for them to decide. But we can look to see whether we agree a 
consumer has been treated fairly  so is there anything which demonstrates theyve been 
treated differently or less favourably. If we think someone has been treated unfairly, we can 
set out what we think is right to address this unfairness.
I can see Mr M applied for a policy with West Bay and, having paid the quoted price of 
£3,384.48, he took out the policy. West Bay then carried out validation checks and identified 
some information didnt match the information held on the CUE database. Mr M then 
provided the relevant information to show the incidents hed disclosed were non-fault  and 
supported his claims disclosure when applying for the policy. Despite this, West Bay applied 
an additional premium of £783.16. I understand Mr M feels this is unfair given that West Bay 
had given him a price based on his disclosure that the incidents were non-fault yet, despite 
this, they increased the premium after the incidents were proven to be non-fault. 
West Bay have provided information which shows they sent Mr M a welcome letter to say 
theyre using various databases to validate the information he has provided. This includes a 
Statement of Fact which shows three claims listed, two against Mr M and one against Mrs M 
 all three are listed as non-fault. West Bay then carried out checks against the CUE 
database. Theyve provided this information, and this shows the claims information provided 
by Mr M when applying for the policy didnt match the claims information on the database. In 
particular, the CUE database shows all three claims against Mr Ms name, two of these 
claims showing as settled, and one claim showing as open/outstanding.  
Ive listened to a call recording where Mr M then discusses the claims with West Bay and he 
explains he doesnt understand why the April 2022 claim hasnt yet been settled but all 
claims are non-fault. They then discuss an incident in December 2019 which had been 
disclosed against Mrs M when taking out the policy. Mr M explains this was treated as 
notification only and should be against his name as he was the driver. In relation to the two 
claims showing as settled, Mr M obtained confirmation from his previous insurers that these 
were settled as notification only. The information provided by West Bay shows the 
information on the policy was then amended to show all three incidents against Mr M and the 
incident in April 2022 was now showing as open. The policy was then re-rated and led to an 
additional premium.  
I do acknowledge Mr Ms concern about West Bay giving him a policy after hed paid the 
price agreed - and after hed fully disclosed all claims - but then charging him an additional 
premium even after it was proved all claims were non-fault. Its clear from the information 
provided there were discrepancies between the information provided by Mr M when taking 
out the policy and the information showing on the CUE database. Its not unusual or 
uncommon for insurers or brokers to carry out verification checks and theyll do this to 
ensure the information they have available from a range of databases validates the 
information a customer has provided. If its later found that some information doesnt match, 
then its not unreasonable for an insurer to rate the policy again based on the amended and 
accurate information.     
Turning now to the actual price increase, West Bay have provided me with confidential 
business sensitive information to explain how Mr Ms price increase was calculated. Im 
afraid I cant share this with him because its commercially sensitive, but Ive checked it 
carefully. And, Im satisfied the price he has been quoted has been calculated correctly and 
fairly and Ive seen no evidence that other West Bay customers in Mr Ms position will have 
been charged a lower premium. 
As mentioned above, I cant provide specific detail about West Bays risk model, but I can 
see the rating factors and loadings applied to the original information provided by Mr M and 
compared this to the loadings applied after the claims information was amended. This shows 
an additional loading has been applied based on there being three recorded incidents 
against Mr M and one of these being open. And the information also shows how this has 
impacted the price. So, taking into account this information, I cant say West Bay have made 
a mistake in their calculation or otherwise treated Mr M unfairly in re-rating the policy to take 
into account the amended details. I acknowledge Mr M has set out the circumstances of the incident which occurred in April 
2022, and he also explained to West Bay his previous insurer is of the view its non-fault. 
But, at the point West Bay re-rated Mr Ms policy this claim was still open  and its not 
unreasonable for them to rate the policy based on the risk information available at the time. I 
acknowledge Mr M says the claim was later settled as non-fault, but that wasnt the case 
when West Bay carried out their risk re-rating in order to offer Mr M a price. 
I understand Mr M questions how a non-fault incident which has been treated as notification 
only, with no claim being made, can impact the price. I acknowledge Mr M may feel this is 
unfair, and I acknowledge two of the three incidents showing on his policy at the time he 
received the increased price, were confirmed as notification only. But I think its important to 
mention here, its for a business to decide what risks theyre prepared to cover and how 
much weight to attach to those risks - different insurers will apply different factors. Thats not 
to say an insurer offering a higher premium has made an error compared to an insurer 
offering a cheaper premium  but rather, it reflects the different approach theyve decided to 
take to risk. This also applies to rating factors, and if an insurer decides to apply a rating 
factor to a non-fault notification incident, it doesnt mean theyve acted unfairly. 
I understand why Mr M has complained, and I hope he feels reassured that Ive checked the 
pricing information from West Bay. But I cant say theyve made a mistake or treated Mr M 
unfairly. I wish to reassure Mr M Ive read and considered everything he has sent in, but if I 
havent mentioned a particular point or piece of evidence, it isnt because I havent seen it or 
thought about it. Its just that I dont feel I need to reference it to explain my decision. This 
isnt intended as a discourtesy and is a reflection of the informal nature of our service.
My final decision
For the reasons I have given, it is my final decision that the complaint is not upheld. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs M and Mr M to 
accept or reject my decision before 29 December 2023.
 
Paviter Dhaddy
Ombudsman