DRN-3148858
The complaint
Mrs B has complained about the charges that Barclays Bank UK PLC (Barclays) applied to 
her account. 
What happened
Mrs B complained to Barclays about the charges applied to her account.  She is also 
unhappy about the service she received when she contacted it to discuss the charges and 
sought an explanation about a £3 refund credited to her account.
Barclays agreed the service provided to Mrs B when she visited one of its branches wasnt 
as it should have been due to technical difficulties. It apologised for this and also offered Mrs 
B a £30 goodwill payment. Barclays say all fees and charges were applied correctly in line 
with the terms and conditions of the account.
Following Mrs B bringing her complaint to this service Barclays made an offer to refund all 
charges applied to her account since January 2014 which amounted to £1,612.61. It would 
then remove Mrs Bs overdraft facility. 
Mrs B didnt want to accept this offer as she thinks the fees charged over the years were 
excessive and asked for an ombudsmans decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having carefully considered everything, I think that what Barclays has already agreed to
do to put things right for Mrs B is fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of this
complaint. Ill explain why I think this is the case. 
Ive seen that Mrs B has in some of her correspondence referred to the proportionality of the 
charges applied to her account. But before I go any further, I want to be clear in saying that I 
havent considered whether the various amounts Barclays charged over the years were fair 
and reasonable, or proportionate in comparison to the costs of the service provided. 
Ultimately, how much a bank charges for services, what services it provides and to who is a 
commercial decision. And it isnt something for me to get involved with.
That said, while Im not looking at Barclayss various charging structures or processes per 
se, it wont have acted fairly and reasonably towards Mrs B if it applied any interest, fees and 
charges to Mrs Bs account in circumstances where it was aware, or it ought fairly and 
reasonably to have been aware Mrs B was experiencing financial difficulty. And where this is 
the case, Id expect Barclays to put Mrs B in the position shed be in now if she hadnt paid 
any further interest and charges on that credit. 
This means Id normally expect a lender to refund the interest and charges added to any 
credit from the point the lender ought to have realised it was unsustainable.
I can see from Mrs Bs statements that Mrs B hadnt maintained a credit balance for an 
extended period of time which suggests she mayve been suffering from financial difficulties. 
But a conclusion about this point doesnt matter because Barclays have already made an 
offer in-line with what Id expect if Id found it had done something wrong. 
And Barclays has already apologised for the service Mrs B received over the phone and in 
branch as well as offering a £30 goodwill payment.
So bearing all this in mind, Im satisfied that what Barclays has already agreed to do to put 
things right for Mrs B is fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of this case and Im not 
requiring it to do anything more. As this is the case, its up to Mrs B to decide whether she 
wishes to accept Barclayss offer.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, Im satisfied that what Barclays Bank UK PLC has already 
agreed to do to put things right for Mrs B is fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this 
case. So Im not requiring it to do anything more.  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs B to accept or 
reject my decision before 31 December 2021.
 
Caroline Davies
Ombudsman