DRN-2393733
The complaint
Mr M complains that American Express Services Europe Limited (AESEL) (Amex) provided 
misleading information about whether he qualified for a companion voucher. 
What happened
Mr M opened a Premium British Airways American Express card on 23 August 2019. The 
account terms said that if Mr M spent £10,000 within the first year he would receive a 
companion voucher. The terms also said that only one companion voucher could be earned 
each year. 
In January 2020 Amex sent Mr M his companion voucher. On 13 January 2020 Mr M 
changed his account type to the standard British Airways American Express card. The 
criteria for earning a companion voucher for the new card included a £20,000 minimum 
spend. 
Mr M says that when he logged into his online account facility he saw information that 
showed his ongoing spending was going up and that he would qualify for another companion 
voucher. 
In June 2020 Mr M contacted Amex to request another companion voucher after reaching a 
total spend of £20,000. But Amex said Mr M had already received a companion voucher and 
that card holders only qualify for one each year. 
Mr M complained and Amex offered him 20,000 Avios points to resolve the matter. Mr M 
went on to refer his case to our service and it was passed to an investigator. The investigator 
thought Amex had dealt with Mr Ms complaint fairly and didnt ask it to do anything else. 
Mr M asked to appeal and said Amex promoted an offer that was misleading. As Mr M didnt 
accept the investigators view, his complaint has been passed to me to make a decision. 
 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I think all parties broadly agree that the terms and conditions of the British Airways credit 
cards Mr M has held only allow a card holder to receive one companion voucher each year. 
In this case, Mr Ms companion voucher was sent in January 2020 after he met the qualifying 
£10,000 spend limit for the premium version of the card. 
Mr M says that after he switched his account type to the standard version of Amexs card his 
online account gave information that said he could earn another companion voucher. Mr M 
has pointed out that his total spend was tracked by Amexs online system which said that 
once he hit £20,000 another companion voucher would be issued. 
Amex has advised that whilst Mr Ms account spending would have been tracked, the 
information he saw wasnt a promotion. Amex has also pointed out that Mr M would have 
seen additional information about the qualifying criteria (that said only one companion 
voucher could be earned in a year) when he checked his online account. 
Amex has sent copies of the statements it issued to Mr M each month. The information Ive 
seen says Mr M could earn a reward flight By spending £20,000 on your Card before your 
card anniversary date. But that message is specifically qualified to say terms and conditions 
apply and that only one companion voucher can be earned per card membership year. 
I think Amex made the nature of the offer sufficiently clear to Mr M. Whilst I agree the online 
and statement information did keep track of his spending in terms of qualifying for a 
companion voucher, it also said only one could be earned each year. 
Im sorry to disappoint Mr M but I havent found that Amex misled him. And Im satisfied 
Amex has correctly applied the terms. As I havent found Amex made a mistake or treated 
Mr M unfairly, Im not telling it to take any further action. 
My final decision
My decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 19 February 2021.
 
Marco Manente
Ombudsman