DRN-3380682
The complaint
Mrs D has complained after Bank of Ireland (UK) Plc were unable to locate an account or 
any funds that she previously held in it. 
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again 
here. The facts are not in dispute, so Ill focus on giving the reasons for my decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the conclusions reached by the investigator for these reasons:
I can appreciate why Mrs D feels frustrated Bank of Ireland can find no record of her 
historic account, but Im satisfied they have done enough in trying to find any record and I 
dont consider they have done anything wrong here.
Bank of Ireland cant find any record of this account. Financial businesses aren't 
required to keep a record indefinitely. So, we often find that information about an historic 
account can be quite limited. Where a business cant locate an account, we expect them to 
demonstrate they have carried out all the necessary searches. I accept Bank of Ireland have 
sufficiently demonstrated this to me, including providing evidence of their searches. 
In situations such as this, I have to base my decision on what I think is most likely. 
There is no evidence to suggest the account still has a balance or remains open and I think it 
is most likely that it was closed and any remaining balance was withdrawn. 
Mrs D also told the investigator she was unhappy that her local branch had closed 
and that she had written to ask about this, without any response. However, we havent been 
provided with any evidence of these letters. As the Investigator explained, the branch was 
closed in 2007. There are time limits to what complaints we can look at. As this occurred 
more than six years, and I think you were aware of the closure more than three years ago, 
this isnt something we can consider. 
Mrs D has said that she sent letters to Bank of Ireland which werent responded to. 
However, there is no further evidence of these letters and so there isnt enough for me to say 
that Bank of Ireland did anything wrong. 
For these reasons, although I understand Mrs Ds frustration, I do not uphold this complaint. 
My final decision
Mr final decision, is that I dont uphold this complaint about Bank of Ireland (UK) Plc. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs D to accept or 
reject my decision before 20 July 2022.
 
Yoni Smith
Ombudsman