DRN-3426304
The complaint
Mrs B is unhappy that Great Lakes Insurance SE penalised her due to a delay in getting 
cardiologist treatment for her pet.
What happened
Mrs B took her pet to the vets in August 2021. She was told by a different vet that further 
investigation was needed due to a heart murmur. Mrs B wasnt aware of any problem. And 
her own vet confirmed she hadnt been aware either. 
Mrs Bs pet was referred to a cardiologist but the one associated with her vet had moved. So 
there were delays in arranging the scan and it took place nearly a month after diagnosis. 
Great Lakes then recorded everything as separate claims. And because the scan took place 
after her policy renewal Mrs B has had to pay two excesses and a 20% co-insurance 
contribution.
Mrs B feels she was penalised for the cardiologist leaving the practise. If the scan had taken 
place sooner shed have only had to pay one excess. So shed like her second excess and 
co-insurance contribution refunding.
Great Lakes said Mrs B had registered a claim for treatment thatd taken place across two 
different policy years. The remaining policy excess had been deducted from the treatment 
thatd taken place in the previous policy year. And the treatment thatd taken place in the 
current policy year had been subject to a deduction of £99 due to that years policy excess. 
Great Lakes said that meant any new claim in the current year wouldnt be subject to further 
excess deduction until the policy renewed again. 
Mrs B wasnt satisfied with Great Lakes response. So she contacted our service and our 
investigator looked into the matter. Our investigator looked at whether Fairmead had acted 
fairly in applying two excesses and the co-insurance deduction. And she felt it was standard 
practise for the treatment limit and excess to start again each time the policy renewed. 
The policy wording issued to Mrs B at renewal confirmed the excess was £99 per year plus 
20% of the claim. So there would be a new excess for any treatment for the same condition 
that ran into the next policy year.
Our investigator recognised that Mrs B felt penalised. But it wasnt Great Lakes fault that the 
scan couldnt be done at the usual practise  any more than it was Mrs Bs fault. So our 
investigator didnt think Great Lakes had been unreasonable in deducting both excesses and 
the co-insurance share. And she wouldnt be asking it to do any more.
Mrs B didnt agree with our investigator. She agreed it was clear the excesses were per 
policy year. But she still thought it should be clear in the policy wording that the excess and 
co-insurance clause were taken from the treatment date and not the date of diagnosis. Mrs B 
felt she was misinformed by Great Lakes. So shes asked for an ombudsmans final 
decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I can see Mrs B has been very upset by how her claim was handled. She doesnt think Great 
Lakes acted fairly when it considered her claim for vet treatment as separate claims 
spanning different policy years. 
Mrs B accepts that the excess and co-insurance clause are shown on the policy schedule. 
But she says Great Lakes hasnt been able to show her where its stated that the claim 
should be taken from the date of treatment rather than when it was diagnosed. So she feels 
it should all be treated as one claim.
Ive looked at the policy documentation for Mrs Bs pet insurance policy. But to be able to 
say Great Lakes has treated Mrs B unfairly or done something wrong, Id need to see that 
itd failed to follow the terms and conditions of the policy. And Im afraid I dont think that was 
the case here.
Mrs Bs pet insurance policy is a yearly-limit (lifetime) insurance policy. It provides cover if 
her pet needs medical treatment up to a total of £15,000 each year. The policy explains 
when you renew the policy, the limit is reset so there is a new £15,000 to use again if 
needed. This is the case even if you made claims the year before. This means that valid 
claims can continue across years as long as the limit is not reached. 
The policy documentation explains that the excess is £99 per year +20% of claims. And the 
insurance product information document says if your pet requires ongoing treatment, you 
must have a policy with us to keep receiving claims payments. If you choose to cancel your 
policy or not renew it, any claims payments will stop.
So I think the policy makes it clear there is a reset every year at renewal. The annual limit is 
reset to £15,000. And the excess is reset to £99 plus 20% of any claims. And if the pet 
needed to receive ongoing treatment  as was the case for Mrs Bs pet  they would need to 
keep their policy with Great Lakes for it to continue to pay each claim as it arose. 
It was unfortunate that the treatments took place over the policy renewal date. But if Mrs B 
hadnt renewed her policy, Great Lakes wouldve been entitled to decline any claim for 
treatment that took place after the renewal date. She wouldnt have had a policy in place to 
cover the treatment. 
Of course if the ongoing treatment had been very expensive (more than the £15,000 annual 
limit) then Mrs B wouldve benefitted from the renewal reset. Shed have been able to claim 
up to £15,000 for the treatments in the previous policy year. And she would then have a new 
£15,000 limit for treatments in the current policy year. 
Based on what Ive seen I dont think Great Lakes acted unfairly or unreasonably in 
deducting the policy excess and co-insurance percentage from the claims that related to 
treatment in the new policy year. The excess and maximum claim limit had reset at renewal.
I realise the situation wouldnt have occurred if the cardiologist hadnt left the vets practise 
and caused a delay in treatment. Thats clearly outside of Mrs Bs control. But its also 
something I cant hold Great Lakes responsible for. 
I know Mrs B will be disappointed with this outcome and I understand her frustration.But I cant say Great Lakes acted unfairly or outside of the terms and conditions of the pet 
insurance policy when it deducted the policy excess and co-insurance share from the cost of 
the treatments in separate policy years. And I wont be asking it to do anything more.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs B to accept or 
reject my decision before 31 May 2022.
 
Andrew Mason
Ombudsman