DRN-4076446
The complaint
A limited company, which Ill refer to as S complains Allianz Insurance Plc unfairly declined a 
claim it made on a commercial buildings policy.
What happened
The details of the complaint are well known to both parties, so I will only provide a summary 
here and will concentrate on providing my reasons for my decision. 
In brief, a property owned by S suffered a water leak. Allianz investigated and declined the 
claim as it believed the source of the water was ground water which was specifically 
excluded under the policy. It also queried the source could also be from work undertaken to 
repair a previous leak. Again, it said this would be excluded under the poor workmanship 
clause.
Our investigator looked at the complaint and thought it should be upheld. She said Allianz 
had not been able to provide evidence the water was ground water or that the cause was 
poor workmanship. Allianz disagreed and asked for the complaint to be reviewed by an 
ombudsman. 
The complaint has been passed to me to decide.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the conclusions reached by the investigator for the following 
reasons:
The policy is an all risks policy. S had proved a valid claim under the policy as there 
has been an escape of water.  As Allianz wishes to decline the claim, it is for it to 
show an exclusion operates. 
Although there are notes within the claims file of the water board attending. This is 
noted that it confirmed there is no leak at street level. S says that no one from the 
water board entered the property so questions how a water sample could have been 
taken. 
Allianz has not been able to provide a copy of the sampling results or has the water 
board subsequently confirmed its attendance at the property. 
A contractor instructed by S records in its report that the water appears clear, and 
they suggest that the leak is a mains water leak. 
Based on the fact Allianz cannot prove that the water, more likely than not, came 
from a ground water source, Im not persuaded it can safely rely on this exclusion to 
decline the claim. 
Allianz has also suggested that an exclusion for poor workmanship may be effective, 
however it wasnt able to source the leak. So again here, I dont think it has 
demonstrated the exclusion can be applied. 
The leak was later found to be coming from a mains water pipe in the wall. S had this 
repaired and submitted the invoice to Allianz with pictures. Allianz has suggested that 
by repairing the leak, S prejudiced its position, and it didnt have the opportunity to 
assess this. 
I dont think it was unreasonable for S to arrange for the leak to be repaired once 
found. The policy covers an escape of water and Allianz hasnt been able to show an 
exclusion applies, as such I think it should meet the claim. 
Ive considered Allianzs concerns about the invoice being altered; however, this was 
done as the original invoice didnt contain enough information for Allianz. So, I see 
nothing untoward here. While Allianz may think its suspicious it cant obtain more 
information from the individual that found the leak, I think a sufficient explanation has 
been given for this. 
For the reasons above, I uphold this complaint. 
Putting things right
Allianz should pay S the amount it cost it to repair the leak based on the invoices that have 
been provided. It should add interest at 8% simple per annum from the date S paid the 
invoices to the date of settlement. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold Ss complaint against Allianz Insurance Plc. I direct it to 
settle the complaint as I have set out in the section above. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask S to accept or 
reject my decision before 17 December 2023.
 
Alison Gore
Ombudsman