The complaint
Mr T is unhappy with the cancellation fee charged by Your Money Management Ltd. 
What happened
Mr T instructed Money Management to represent him in making payment protection 
insurance (PPI) claims in February 2019. The terms and conditions explained if the 
agreement was cancelled after 14 days Money Management would charge Reasonable 
Expenses in dealing with any claim(s). The definition of Reasonable Expenses further 
explained an initial assessment fee for each Claim of £30 inclusive of VAT, letter to Client of 
£18 inclusive of VAT. Any other work undertaken will be charged at a rate of £30 inclusive of 
VAT per hour.
Money Management began work on claims against lender H and lender HS. 
In March lender H contacted Mr T asking whether he wanted claims management company 
(CMC) F to represent him in making his PPI claim. On 29 March Money Management
contacted Mr T asking which CMC he wanted to represent him in this claim. Mr T was sent
an email and text message saying that the agreement would be cancelled if Mr T didnt
respond in the next 7 days. Mr T said he would contact lender H and confirm Money
Management were representing him. It was agreed he would update Money Management
once this was done.
On 8 April Money Management sent Mr T a cancellation invoice for £202 for the two claims it 
had started work on. Mr T complained to Money Management about this invoice saying the 
amount was excessive. The final response letter dated 13 June explained as a gesture of 
goodwill, and in an effort to resolve this matter amicably, I am prepared, on a without 
prejudice basis, to reduce our fee by half (£101). I therefore request payment of our fee at 
the reduced figure of £101 within the next 28 days. Should payment not be received within 
the above timescale, I reserve the right to withdraw my settlement proposal and seek full 
recovery of our Fee.
Mr T paid Money Management the cancellation invoice for £202 in September, and referred 
his complaint to this service. The investigator found that Money Management had acted 
unfairly by charging Mr T their full invoice, after offering a discount in their final response 
letter. 
The investigator recommended Money Management refund Mr T the difference between the 
amount he was offered in the final response letter and the amount he actually paid, and also 
pay Mr T 8% statutory interest on this amount for the time he was without the money. Money 
Management rejected these findings saying that the final response made it clear that the 
offer to settle at the reduced amount of £101 only applied if payment was made within 28 
DRN-1986236days of the final response letter. As the complaint couldnt be resolved, it was passed to me 
for decision.
I issued my provisional decision on 2 June 2020 saying that Money Management acted fairly 
in charging the cancellation fee of £202. Because of this, they didnt need to honour the 
gesture of goodwill made in their final response letter. Mr T provided additional comments, 
which Ive addressed in my final decision. The findings below are largely repeated from my 
provisional decision, with the addition of my response to Mr Ts additional comments. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr T says the fee of £202 is excessive for cancellation of one claim. When Mr T received the 
cancellation invoice for £202 he questioned the amount with Money Management by email 
on 16 April 2019. He received a response in 18 April explaining that the fee charged 
represents the amount of work we have conducted in pursuing your on-going claims to date. 
The email went on to include the breakdown of fees applied as explained in the terms and 
conditions. In response to this email Mr T replied the same day saying I understand the 
break down in fees as I have them in letter form also. 
Mr T has told this service that he understood Money Management had charged £202 for the 
cancellation of one claim with lender H. Although I dont doubt what Mr T has told me is true 
to the very best of his knowledge, the evidence I have seen doesnt support this. 
Money Management have provided claim notes, and a letter of authority, for two claims with 
different lenders. Ive also seen that the email explaining the breakdown in the cancellation 
fee charged referred to on-going claims. So I dont think it would be fair to say that Money 
Management didnt make it clear whether the cancellation fee applied to more than one 
claim.
As I have seen evidence of Money Management setting up two claims for Mr T, and 
informing him that the cancellation fee applied to on-going claims, I think its reasonable that 
they charge their cancellation fee for two claims. 
Mr T says he never received a copy of the final response letter of 13 June. He says if he had 
done, he wouldve paid the reduced fee of £101. The address on this letter matches the 
address provided by Mr T for this service. On balance, I think its more likely than not that 
this letter was sent to Mr Ts correct address. Because of this I dont think it would be fair to 
hold Money Management responsible for Mr T not receiving it. 
The investigator found that Money Management should honour their offer to reduce the 
cancellation fee, as explained in their final response letter. I have reviewed this offer. In 
doing so I agree that this offer was time-limited. It was subject to Mr T accepting within the 
28 days specified. 
I have found that Money Management acted fairly in charging the cancellation fee of £202. 
Had I found that theyd done something wrong, it wouldve been fair to consider the offer 
made in the final response and whether its a fair resolution for the complaint. But as Ive 
found the service provided was reasonable, I dont think it would be fair to ask Money 
Management to honour an offer made as a gesture of goodwill.  
My final decisionFor the reasons provided my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Your Money Management Ltd have acted fairly in charging their cancellation fee for the two 
cancelled claims. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr T to accept or 
reject my decision before 4 August 2020.
Neeta Karelia
Ombudsman