DRN-4061878
The complaint
Ms T is unhappy that Tesco Personal Finance PLC, trading as Tesco Bank, didnt give her
Tesco Clubcard points she felt she was eligible for from a Tesco promotion.
What happened
Ms T is unhappy that Tesco Personal Finance PLC, trading as Tesco Bank, didnt give her
Tesco Clubcard points she felt she was eligible for from a Tesco promotion. Ms T
complained to Tesco Bank because she felt she hadnt been allocated the full amount
of 3,250 Tesco Clubcard points she felt she was eligible for pertaining to a promotion being
run by Tesco Bank at that time. Tesco Bank explained to Ms T that she needed to contact
Tesco Clubcard, a separate Tesco department whose systems Tesco Bank staff couldnt
access. Ms T wasnt happy about being passed between different Tesco departments,
especially as Tesco Clubcard referred her back to Tesco Bank. So, she raised a complaint.
Tesco Bank looked at Ms Ts complaint. They confirmed the service Ms T had experienced
when she first called Tesco Bank hadnt been of the standard she should reasonably have
expected to receive.
Tesco Bank also acknowledged Ms Ts frustration at being passed between different Tesco
departments, and they apologised to Ms T for this and explained that 3,000 points had been
allocated to her Clubcard account already, and that the remaining 250 points that she felt
she was eligible for would be allocated to her account shortly. Finally, Tesco also made an
additional payment of £25 to Ms T for the upset and inconvenience shed experienced.
Following this, Ms T contacted Tesco Bank and explained shed only received 2,000 points
to date, and not the 3,000 Tesco Bank had declared. Tesco Bank apologised for the mistake
and confirmed the missing 1,000 points would be allocated to Ms Ts Clubcard account on
the next quarterly statement. Tesco Bank also advised that theyd pay a further £10 to Ms T
for her ongoing trouble. Ms T wasnt satisfied with Tesco Banks response, especially as the
1,250 points she was waiting for werent allocated to her Clubcard account as promised, so
she referred her complaint to this service.
One of our investigators looked at this complaint. They felt Ms T had received poor service
from Tesco Bank for which she should reasonably be compensated, and so they said that
Tesco Bank should pay £100 to Ms T, in addition to any compensation already paid to her,
as well as ensure the further 1,250 Clubcard points theyd promised Ms T would be allocated
to her account. Tesco Bank didnt accept the view of this complaint put forwards by our
investigator, and so the matter was escalated to an ombudsman for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I issued a provisional decision on this complaint on 2 February 2023 as follows:
When Ms T first contacted Tesco Bank about the non-receipt of the Clubcard points,
Tesco Bank explained to Ms T that she would need to contact Tescos Clubcard
department directly as they were responsible for the allocation of Clubcard points to
individual accounts.
But Ms T was calling about Clubcard points she felt she should have received
resulting from a promotional offer run by Tesco Bank, whereby Clubcard account
holders were rewarded with Clubcard points for spending on their Tesco Bank credit
card account. So, I can understand why Ms T believed she could have contacted
Tesco Bank about that promotion.
Indeed, in their correspondence with this service, Tesco Bank have confirmed that
Ms T should have been able to resolve this matter directly with them, rather than
being referred to Tescos separate Clubcard department. And Ms T has explained
that when she did call Tescos Clubcard department, she was referred by them back
to Tesco Bank.
Tesco Bank have also said that while Ms T was eligible to receive the 3,000 points in
regard to the Tesco Bank credit card spend she made, she wasnt eligible to receive
the 250 points in regard to the promotion for downloading Tesco Banks mobile
banking app. However, in their response to Ms Ts complaint, issued 18 July 2022,
Tesco Bank advised:
Due to the poor customer journey and the time you spent on the phone, I'm
upholding your complaint. By way of apology, I'm allocating the 250 TC points
to your account which will reflect on your next quarterly statement and an
additional £25.00 account credit
Tesco Bank also confirmed to Ms T at this time that 3,000 Clubcard points had
already been allocated to her. But Ms T disputed this, and said shed only received
2,000 points. Tesco responded to this the following day, on 19 July 2022, and
confirmed Ms T would also receive a further 1,000 points accordingly. As such, Im
satisfied Tesco Bank did agreed to credit Ms Ts Clubcard account with the full 1,250
points she was seeking as of 19 July 2022.
Ms Ts Clubcard statements show that in early July 2022 her account was credited
with 2,000 points as she maintains. But the statements then show that on 21 July
2022, her account was credited with a further 3,000 points. As such, Im satisfied that
Ms T has in fact received more than the total amount of 3,250 points she was
seeking, having received a total of 5,000 points. And as such, I wont be provisionally
instructing Tesco Bank to arrange the crediting of any further Clubcard points to Ms
Ts account.
But I do feel Ms T was inconvenienced by her experience with Tesco Bank, including
by being unnecessarily passed between different Tesco departments, which Ms T
had to call herself at her own cost. As such, Ill be provisionally upholding this
complaint in Ms Ts favour on that basis and instructing Tesco Bank to make a
payment of £75 to her, which I feel provides fair compensation to Ms T for the trouble
and upset shes experienced here and for having to make the calls at her own
expense that she did.
In arriving at this compensation amount Ive considered the impact of these events
on Ms T as well as the general framework by which this service considers
compensation amounts, details of which can be found on this services website.
Finally, Ms T has also stated to this service that she has yet to receive the additional£10 compensation from Tesco Bank promised to her on 19 July 2022. If this is the
case, then Tesco Bank must still pay this promised £10 to Ms T in addition to the £75
instructed above.
In response to my provisional decision, Ms T explained that the further 3,000 points I 
referred to above related to three £10 Tesco vouchers which were due to expire, and which
Tesco agreed to convert into points, and that, as such, these further 3,000 points was
separate and unrelated to the points she complains here that she hasnt received.
Tesco subsequently confirmed that Ms T was correct. And they also acknowledged that they 
should credit Ms T with a further 1,250 points.
As such, I issued an amended provisional decision on 15 March 2023 which included the 
following:
My position on this complaint has now changed, and my amended provision
decision is now that I uphold this complaint in Ms Ts favour and that Tesco must 
credit Ms T with a further 1,250 Clubcard points.
Tesco must also make a payment of £75 to Ms T, which I remain satisfied provides 
fair compensation to Ms T for the trouble and upset that shed incurred here.
Finally, Ms T has also stated to this service that she has yet to receive the additional 
£10 compensation from Tesco Bank promised to her on 19 July 2022. If this is the 
case, then Tesco Bank must still pay this promised £10 to Ms T in addition to the £75 
instructed above.
Ms T responded to my amended provisional decision and, while she was happy with the 
Clubcard points that Tesco would now be instructed to provide to her, questioned whether a 
higher amount of compensation for the upset and inconvenience shed incurred should be 
awarded  beyond the £75 I had provisionally instructed. 
I can appreciate Ms Ts concerns here. But I continue to feel that £75 is a fair amount of 
compensation for the trouble and upset that shes incurred in this instance, and so I wont be 
instructing any further amount in this final decision. 
Tesco also responded to my amended provisional decision and confirmed that they were 
happy to accept it. 
As such, I see no reason not to issue a final decision upholding this complaint in Ms Ts 
favour on the basis explained above. And I therefore confirm that I do uphold this complaint 
on that basis accordingly.
Putting things right
Tesco must credit Ms T with a further 1,250 Clubcard points.
Tesco must also make a payment of £75 to Ms T as compensation for the trouble and upset 
shes incurred here.
Finally, Ms T has also stated to this service that she has yet to receive the additional £10 
compensation from Tesco Bank promised to her on 19 July 2022. If this is the case, then 
Tesco Bank must still pay this promised £10 to Ms T in addition to the £75 instructed above.My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint against Tesco Personal Finance PLC, trading 
as Tesco Bank, on the basis explained above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms T to accept or 
reject my decision before 2 May 2023.
 
Paul Cooper
Ombudsman