DRN-2969036
The complaint
Cs complaint, in summary, is that Barclays Bank Plc failed to prevent a fraud perpetrated on 
C by one of the banks customers. In particular, C believes that when the payment was 
received into the beneficiarys account, Barclays ought to have verified the account name 
with the name of the intended payee as per the SWIFT instruction. Had it done so, the fraud 
would have come to light and the financial loss to C could have been prevented.
What happened
The details of what had happened are known to both parties and so I wont repeat them at 
length here. 
Briefly, in April 2019, fraudsters intercepted an existing email thread between C and its 
supplier and altered the payment details on the suppliers invoice. This resulted in a payment 
of about £18,000 into a different account with Barclays instead of the intended payees 
account. The fraud came to light when few weeks later the genuine supplier contacted C for 
non-receipt of the payment.
The supplier then contacted Barclays but unfortunately by that time there was hardly 
anything left in the beneficiarys account. 
C says that Barclays should have flagged the incoming payment as suspicious. It also says 
that Barclays was negligent in allowing the recipient to open an account for fraudulent 
purposes. Barclays says that the account the funds were credited to, was a direct result of 
the remitting banks actions and Barclays would not have power to change the details. The 
payment went into the account as directed by the remitting bank. Barclays took action as 
soon as it was advised of the fraud but by that time no funds remained in the account.
One of our investigators reviewed the complaint and concluded that the complaint could not 
be upheld. In summary they said:
The relevant account was opened few years before the disputed transaction, and there 
wasnt anything at the time to indicate to Barclays that the account would be used for 
fraudulent purpose much later. 
Subsequent to opening of the account, it was being used regularly and there didnt 
appear to be anything unusual.
When Cs payment was received into the account, it was the case that the money was 
being moved out swiftly through multiple transactions. So, itd be reasonable to expect 
that Barclays flagged the transactions and investigated further.
Barclays did place a block on the first outgoing payment and contacted their customer 
(the beneficiary) to confirm the account activity. The customer obliged Barclays by going 
through the security checks over the phone. They then visited the branch and provided 
the required identification and confirmed that it was they who were making the payment 
and that it was genuine. It is unclear whether on those occasions, Barclays asked about 
the incoming payment. However given that the account holder was confident enough to 
visit the branch to persuade Barclays in relation to the outgoing payment, it was more 
likely that they would have explained away the incoming payment too if Barclays had 
queried it.  
Overall, the investigator concluded that Barclays did what it reasonably could in the 
circumstances and therefore they were unable to recommend that the bank take any further 
action.
C did not agree. It said: 
The account name should have been verified by Barclays before the credit was accepted 
into the account. 
If the account name was checked and if it matched the name of the genuine supplier, 
then something had gone wrong when the account was opened by fraudster as there 
couldnt be two corporate entities with the same name. This means the fraudster must 
have provided some forged documents when the account was opened, and Barclays 
failed to check this.
It appears that Barclays may have interacted with its customer after the bank was put on 
notice of the fraud. If so, it is not clear what action Barclays took when it contacted its 
customer.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the conclusions reached by the investigator essentially for the 
same reasons.
I am sorry to hear that C has been an innocent victim of a callous scam. From their 
perspective I can see why they feel that Barclays should reimburse them for their loss. 
However, an account found to have received funds which were made as a result of 
authorised push payment fraud doesnt automatically entitle the payer (victim) to a refund 
nor does it indisputably mean that the recipient bank failed reasonably to prevent the loss.
In this instance, the account was opened a couple of years prior to the fraud. I havent seen 
anything to suggest that Barclays could reasonably have foreseen when the account was 
opened that it would later be used to receive fraudulent credit. 
One of Cs concerns is whether the name of the account matched that of the genuine 
suppliers and if so, C queries how that could have happened. I can confirm that the account 
name wasnt the same as the name of Cs supplier. 
C also says that if the name of the recipient was different to that of the intended payee, then 
Barclays failed to notice and act on the mismatch. Had it done so, the fraud would have 
come to light straightaway, thereby preventing the loss to C. 
Whilst the payment instruction may have included the name of the intended payee, the 
unique identifier was IBAN. So, the payment would be received into the account so long as 
the IBAN was correct, which was the case here. The Payment Systems Regulator who are the regulator for the payment systems industry in 
the UK, have last year introduced a system called Confirmation of Payee (CoP). This 
provides for the checking - by the payers bank - of the recipients name against the intended 
payee in certain circumstances. However, the CoP was not in place at the time this 
transaction happened, and in any case, it doesnt apply to international transfers such as 
this.
Soon after the payment was received into the account, the recipient attempted to withdraw 
the funds. At that time, Barclays placed a block on the first outgoing payment and queried 
that with its customer. The customer visited the branch and was able to provide all the 
required identification and confirmed that the payment was genuine. It is not exactly clear 
what was discussed at the time but as noted by the investigator, the account holder was 
prepared to engage fully with their bank. So, it seems more likely that they would have 
answered away any question by the bank concerning the incoming payment. Further, the 
payment was from abroad. So, I am not sure what more Barclays could have done in this 
instance other than question their customer. And on an established account built on an 
established relationship, it doesnt appear that there is enough to reasonably expect the 
bank to conclude that their customer was acting dishonestly. It is also important to note that 
at that point Barclays wasnt yet notified of the scam and so it had no inkling of what had 
happened.
Ultimately, the bank needed to strike a balance between questioning transactions to confirm 
they are legitimate and allowing its customers to transact business. In this instance, given 
the circumstances, I am not persuaded that Barclays ought to have done more. 
And finally, upon notification of the scam, a receiving bank is expected to take action 
immediately to prevent any further loss of funds. Here, by the time Barclays were notified of 
the scam their customer had already removed the money from their account. So, there 
wasnt much Barclays could do to prevent Cs loss  though I can see that the bank did 
immediately place a block on the account and following its investigation, it went on to close 
the account.
In summary, I am sorry to have to disappoint C. But I can only make an award against the 
bank if I consider that it had done something wrong which led to Cs loss. From what Ive 
seen, I cant fairly conclude that there was an error or omission by Barclays which resulted in 
Cs loss. As such I cant fairly or reasonably ask it to refund Cs loss.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, my final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask C to accept or 
reject my decision before 8 January 2022.
 
Raj Varadarajan
Ombudsman