DRN-3198378
The complaint
Mrs C complained that Loans 2 Go Limited lent to her irresponsibly and provided her with a 
loan that was unaffordable.
What happened
Loans 2 Go provided a loan to Mrs C as follows: 
Date taken Amount Term Monthly 
repaymentTotal 
repayable 
amountLoan status
11/08/2017 £450 18 
months£101.95 £1,835.10 Settled/closed
February 2019 
Through her representative, Mrs C told us that Loans 2 Go failed to carry out effective 
affordability checks before it provided the loan and had it done so, it would not have lent to 
her. 
In its final response letter Loans 2 Go didnt agree it had done anything wrong and didnt 
uphold the complaint. It offered a payment of £150 to settle the complaint as a gesture of 
goodwill. Mrs C didnt feel this went far enough to put things right and so she brought her 
complaint to us.
One of our adjudicators looked into the complaint. He didnt think Loans 2 Go had seen 
enough information for him to say it should have declined Mrs Cs loan application. But he 
said that it hadnt done checks that were proportionate or borrower-focused and he didnt 
think Loans 2 Go would have made the same lending decision if it had carried out 
proportionate checks before it provided Mrs C with the loan.  
Loans 2 Go didnt agree with the adjudicators assessment. It mainly said that it didnt think 
that the results of its credit report were sufficient evidence to suggest that further checks 
were necessary or that Mrs Cs previous money problems were a reason to reject her loan 
application. It told us its checks were proportionate and no evidence was seen suggesting 
the loan wasnt sustainable. 
The complaint came to me to decide. I issued a provisional decision. 
What I said in my provisional decision
Here are some of the main things I said. 
Before agreeing to lend, lenders must work out if a borrower can afford the loan repayments 
alongside other reasonable expenses the borrower also has to pay. 
This should include more than just checking that the loan payments look affordable on a 
strict pounds and pence calculation. And its important to keep in mind that when working 
out if a loan looks likely to be affordable a lender must take a borrower focussed 
approach and think carefully about the impact of the lending on the customer. The lending 
decision shouldnt just be about the business risk to the lender of not getting its money 
back.
A lender must take reasonable steps to satisfy itself that the borrower can sustainably repay 
the loan  in other words, without needing to borrow elsewhere. 
The rules dont say what a lender should look at before agreeing to lend. But reasonable and 
proportionate checks should be carried out. For example, when thinking about what a 
borrower has left to spend on a new loan after paying other expenses, as well as taking into 
account the loan amount, the cost of the repayments and how long the loan is for, a 
proportionate check might mean a lender should also find out the borrowers credit history 
and/or take further steps to verify the borrowers overall financial situation.  
If reasonable and proportionate checks werent carried out, I need to consider if a loan 
wouldve been approved if the checks had been done. If proportionate checks were done 
and a loan looked affordable, a lender still needed to think about whether there was any 
other reason why it would be irresponsible or unfair to lend. For example, if the lender 
shouldve realised that the loan was likely to lead to more money problems for a borrower 
who is already struggling with debt that cant be repaid in a sustainable way. 
In light of this, I think that a reasonable and proportionate check ought generally to 
have been more thorough:
the lower a customers income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
make any repayments to credit from a lower level of income)
the higher the amount due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more 
difficult to meet higher repayments from a particular level of income)
the longer the period of time a borrower will be indebted (reflecting the fact 
that the total cost of the credit is likely to be greater and the customer is required to 
make repayments for an extended period).
Ive carefully considered all of the arguments, evidence and information provided in this 
context and what this all means for Mrs Cs complaint.
Loans 2 Go asked Mrs C about her monthly income and took steps to verify this by looking 
at paperwork she supplied and some recent pay slip information. It also asked Mrs C about 
what she was spending each month and did its own credit checks to find out how much she 
was paying to service existing debt and gain an understanding of her credit history. 
Loans 2 Go verified that Mrs Cs average income was approximately £1,389 monthly. After 
looking at the credit report information it gathered, Loans 2 Go allowed for a total monthly 
expenditure figure of around £864. It said it had added a buffer of £70 on top of Mrs Cs 
verified expenditure to account for fluctuations in her monthly income or outgoings. Relying 
on this information, Loans 2 Go said that the contractual loan repayment for this loan would 
still have been affordable. 
It isnt unusual for applicants for this type of high cost loan to have a credit history showing 
other borrowing or an impaired credit record  and these things wouldnt necessarily be 
reasons to prompt a responsible lender to decline a loan application. 
But I dont think Loans 2 Go thought carefully enough about the reasons why Mrs C said she 
wanted to borrow this loan and what the credit checks revealed about Mrs Cs financial 
situation. Mrs C told Loans 2 Go that she wanted the loan to pay rent. I think Loans 2 Go 
ought to have realised that it was unlikely that Mrs C would need to borrow rent money if shed had the amount of disposable income Loans 2 Go seems to have relied on. I think this 
was a clear warning sign that the affordability calculations it had worked out might not be 
dependable and shouldnt be relied on. And Loans 2 Go should have realised that providing 
an expensive high cost credit loan to a person who wasnt able to afford essential living 
costs wasnt likely to be a borrower focussed way to assist with money problems.
And I think its fair to say that its own credit checks painted a picture of someone already in 
serious financial difficulty. 
I say this because:  
Mrs C had an active county court judgement from April 2015 
she was paying other debt through a debt collection agency  this account was 
showing payment problems dating back a couple of years and although the 
current status was shown as unknown the last recorded details from 17 months 
earlier showed the account was in default 
whilst the credit checks Loans 2 Go acquired showed that Mrs C had fulfilled the 
repayment requirements on a home credit account in April, May and June 2017, 
her payment record up to that point reflected some financial difficulties over the 
previous 2 years and there was no more up to date information shown
Loans 2 Go was able to see that Mrs C had a record of payment problems on 
some closed accounts. 
I think Loans 2 Go should have been concerned to see that its credit checks showed that 
Mrs C wasnt making any inroads into her historic debt and seeking to borrow elsewhere. All 
this leads me to conclude that what Mrs C had told Loans 2 Go about her income and 
expenditure looked to be significantly at odds with what Loans 2 Go saw on its own credit 
checks and there were clear indications that Mrs C hadnt yet resolved her money problems. 
So thinking about all the information Loans 2 Go had gathered, I dont think it was able to be 
satisfied on the information it had in front of it that its loan would be sustainably affordable for 
Mrs C. 
I think Loans 2 Go shouldve realised that it looked like Mrs C was already struggling to 
manage her credit repayments effectively. 
And I dont think Loans 2 Go was safely able to say that its lending wouldnt simply add to 
Mrs Cs overall -and already problematic -indebtedness. So I think Loans 2 Go shouldnt 
have provided the loan.     
To sum up, as things stand I dont think Loans 2 Go shouldve agreed to provide the loan 
given the information it had in front of it. At the very least, it needed to do more in-depth 
checks before it could be in a position to be able to make a fair decision to provide this loan. 
It didnt do this and I cant fairly say that its lending decision was fair and reasonable in these 
circumstances. 
So, for all these reasons, I am planning on upholding Mrs Cs complaint that she should not 
have been given the loan. 
I think what I've said about Mrs Cs financial situation is borne out by the fact that she 
appears to have run into problems with the loan repayments almost from the start  which, to 
my mind, was reasonably foreseeable given the information Loans 2 Go had gathered. As Mrs C has been further indebted with expensive lending that she shouldnt have been 
provided with, Im satisfied that she has lost out as a result of what Loans 2 Go did wrong. 
So, I think Loans 2 Go needs to put things right.
I hope that setting out my reasons will help explain the approach taken and I invite Loans 2 
Go to reconsider the view it has taken.
What the parties said in response to my provisional decision 
Mrs C agrees with what I said on my provisional decision. 
I have heard nothing further from Loans 2 Go and the deadline for responses has now 
passed so I think its reasonable for me to proceed with my review of this complaint. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our approach to unaffordable/irresponsible lending complaints on our 
website and Ive kept this in mind while deciding this complaint.
Having done so, and as no further comments have been received in response to my 
provisional decision that change what I think about this case, I still think its fair to uphold this 
complaint for the reasons I explained in my provisional decision. 
Putting things right
I think it is fair and reasonable for Mrs C to repay the capital amounts that she borrowed, 
because she had the benefit of that lending. 
But she has paid extra for lending that should not have been provided to her. 
In line with this Services approach, Mrs C shouldnt repay more than the capital amount she 
borrowed. 
As the loan account is settled, Loans 2 Go should do the following:
add up the total amount of money Mrs C received as a result of having been given 
the loan. The repayments Mrs C made should be deducted from this amount.
If this results in Mrs C having paid more than she received, then any overpayments 
should be refunded along with 8% simple interest* (calculated from the date the 
overpayments were made until the date of settlement). 
remove any negative information recorded on Mrs Cs credit file regarding the loans.
*HM Revenue & Customs requires Loans 2 Go to deduct tax from this interest. Loans 2 Go 
should give Mrs C a certificate showing how much tax has been deducted if she asks for 
one.
My final decisionI uphold this complaint and direct Loans 2 Go Limited to take the steps I've set out above to 
put things right for Mrs C. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs C to accept or 
reject my decision before 3 January 2022.
 
Susan Webb
Ombudsman