DRN-3004898
The complaint
Mr M complains that UK Credit Limited lent to him irresponsibly without doing sufficient 
affordability checks to assess whether he could reasonably afford the loan. He also 
complained that interest charges werent thoroughly explained and he told us he didnt 
realise how much the loan would cost.
What happened
Mr M was given a single loan by UK Credit. Mr M told UK Credit that he would use the 
loan to help with additional costs he had incurred following a house move and a new 
baby. 
The main loan details were as follows:
Date 
of 
LoanLoan Amount Loan 
Term 
(months)Monthly 
RepaymentTotal 
amount 
repayable  Loan status
30/4/2018 £8,000 36 £357.60 £12,873.60 Outstanding 
When Mr M complained to UK Credit it didnt uphold the complaint so Mr M brought his 
complaint to us. One of our investigators looked into what happened and she felt that this 
was a complaint we should uphold. 
UK Credit disagreed with our investigators view. It mainly said its credit checks showed 
that substantial payments were being made towards a recent default, Mr M had said a 
county court judgement had already been repaid although this wasnt yet reflected on the 
credit file and that the loan had looked affordable on the figures it gathered. It said the root 
cause of his recent financial difficulty was change in his home and family circumstances 
but there was no reason to think he wouldnt be able to continue working as normal and 
generate surplus income of more than £1,000 each month. 
UK Credit also provided a more recent credit report and said that based on the evidence 
available, in the absence of bank statements, there didnt seem to be any worsening of his 
financial situation as a result of taking its loan out.
As this complaint hasnt been resolved it now comes to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our approach to unaffordable/irresponsible lending complaints on our website 
and Ive kept this in mind while deciding Mr Ms complaint. Im sorry UK Credit feels our 
investigator didnt properly consider its response to her view or explain things as well as she 
couldve done. Id like to reassure UK Credit that Ive looked at the complaint afresh  and 
Ive independently reached the same conclusions our investigator. I hope that setting out my 
reasons will help explain how Ive reached my decision and assist UK Credit to develop its 
own approach to irresponsible/unaffordable lending complaints. 
There are some general principles I will keep in mind and questions I need to think about 
when deciding whether to uphold Mr Ms complaint. Before agreeing to lend, lenders must 
work out if a borrower can afford the loan repayments alongside other reasonable expenses 
the borrower also has to pay. 
This should include more than just checking that the loan payments look affordable on a 
strict pounds and pence calculation. And its important to keep in mind that when working out 
if a loan looks likely to be affordable a lender must take a borrower focussed approach and 
think about the impact of the lending on the customer. The lending decision shouldnt just be 
about the business risk to the lender of not getting its money back. A lender must take 
reasonable steps to satisfy itself that the borrower can sustainably repay the loan  in other 
words, without needing to borrow elsewhere.
The rules dont say what a lender should look at before agreeing to lend. But reasonable and 
proportionate checks should be carried out. For example, when thinking about what a 
borrower has left to spend on a new loan after paying other expenses, as well as taking into 
account the loan amount, the cost of the repayments and how long the loan is for, a 
proportionate check might mean a lender should also find out the borrowers credit history 
and/or take further steps to verify the borrowers overall financial situation.  
I've kept all these things in mind when thinking about Mr Ms complaint. 
UK Credit gathered some information from Mr M before it agreed the loan. It asked him for 
details of his income and verified this by doing an online check. UK Credit also did a credit 
check and during a phone call it asked Mr M about his normal monthly spending. 
Mr Ms average monthly income was recorded as £4,500. He gave UK Credit an estimate of 
his living costs based on a percentage of his earnings  UK Credit worked this out at around 
£803 per month. 
After looking at its credit checks, UK Credit worked out that Mr M was paying around £824 to 
other creditors so he should still have more than £1,000 surplus cash left after paying for its 
loan. UK Credit felt that this showed the monthly repayment on this loan shouldve been 
affordable for him and this led UK Credit to conclude that it was fair to lend to him. 
Our investigator didnt think UK Credit did a proportionate check before agreeing to lend but 
she said in any event, the lending decision was unfair based on the information UK Credit 
had in front of it.
Ive thought carefully about everything UK Credit has said, including its response to our 
investigators view. 
Ive noted that UK Credit thought its checks were fair and reasonable. But, I dont think 
I need to say anything more about whether the checks done were proportionate as this 
doesnt affect the outcome of this complaint. 
Like our investigator, the main reason why I think its fair and reasonable to uphold this 
complaint is because I think UK Credits checks showed clear warning signs that Mr M was 
experiencing financial difficulty. And so I dont think UK Credit made a fair lending decision on this occasion when it agreed to provide this loan to Mr M based on the information it had 
in front of it. 
It isnt unusual for applicants for this type of high cost loan to have a credit history showing 
other borrowing or an impaired credit record  and these things wouldnt necessarily be 
reasons to prompt a responsible lender to decline a loan application. 
But UK Credit could see that Mr M had a substantial amount owing on an account that had 
defaulted just 4 months earlier. And whilst he had reduced the default balance during that 
period by almost £7,000 this still left an outstanding default balance of more than £47,500. 
UK Credit also saw that Mr M had a relatively recent county court judgement with a balance 
of nearly £7,000 outstanding. It disregarded information relating to another county court 
judgement when he said it had been repaid. But I think it ought to have been concerned that 
this was for an unpaid utility bill  generally a clear sign that the household finances had 
been severely over-stretched. 
Despite the early signs of some positive steps towards slowly improving his financial 
situation, given this amount of overall indebtedness and his track record of serious money 
problems going back some years, I dont think UK Credit thought carefully enough about 
what this information revealed about the likely reality of Mr Ms overall financial 
circumstances. 
UK Credit shouldve realised that the information it had gathered suggesting that Mr M had 
around £1,000 spare cash each month was significantly at odds with what its credit checks 
showed. I this shouldve alerted UK Credit to the risk that it couldnt safely rely on what Mr M 
had told it about how he spent his money or his estimated outgoings as, to my mind, he had 
unexplained levels of problematic debt. 
Despite what Mr M told UK Credit about why hed had money problems, I think the bigger 
picture showed all the hallmarks of a person still in serious financial difficulty. I can see why 
UK Credit was encouraged by the fact that Mr M had made a start on reducing his default 
balance. 
But this wasnt significant in the overall context of Mr Ms debt  and I think its reasonable to 
think that if Mr M had really had any spare cash he wouldve made more meaningful inroads 
into clearing more of this debt before it had become so problematic. And I dont think it was 
ever satisfactorily explained why he needed such a large loan from UK Credit as the 
additional costs Mr M described could, at least in part, have been absorbed by the surplus 
income UK Credit thought he ought to have.  
This bears out my concern that the disposable income figure UK Credit worked on wasnt, in 
reality, dependable. And thinking about all the information UK Credit had gathered, I dont 
think it was able to be satisfied on what it had in front of it that it could safely conclude that 
its loan would be sustainably affordable for Mr M, especially bearing in mind that hed need 
to spend around a quarter of his take home pay just on servicing debt. 
Whilst UK Credit said it doesnt consider this a significant proportion, I think that UK Credit 
shouldve recognised that having to make this level of debt repayment meant there was a 
real risk that he would be unable to repay its loan in a sustainable way over the loan term - 
bearing in mind also that his costs would be likely to keep on increasing given what hed told 
UK Credit about his family circumstances. 
In coming to my decision, I've taken into account what UK Credit said about its more recent 
credit report showing some improvement in Mr Ms overall financial situation. But I havent 
seen enough to make me think its loan wasnt detrimental overall to Mr M. Some of the debt shown on the credit checks UK Credit saw during the loan application no longer appears on 
the more recent report  and I can see he repaid his other county court judgement. 
But he also took out another large loan (£10,000) with a different lender around 18 months 
after taking this loan which bears out my concern that Mr Ms financial situation wasnt 
sustainable over the loan term - as I think was reasonably foreseeable. 
This new credit report shows him paying more per month towards his credit commitments. 
Given that his monthly repayment on this expensive loan makes up around 28% of his total 
credit spend each month, and he is tied in to a 36 month term, I think its fair for me to say I 
havent seen enough to make me think the loan UK Credit provided hasnt been detrimental 
to Mr M overall. 
So, I am planning on upholding Mr Ms complaint that he should not have been given the 
loan.
Our investigator didnt recommend that UK Credit should pay any additional redress. Mr M 
hasnt commented on that but Ive thought about what Mr M has said about the high cost of 
the loan. I think there was a large amount of interest payable on the loan and I can 
appreciate that Mr M might now feel this was unfair. 
I've carefully listened to the call recording when the loan was set up. UK Credit explained the 
overall cost of the loan and the monthly repayments  which Mr M confirmed were affordable 
for him. 
The loan documents set out the terms and the amounts of interest payable and it showed 
the full cost of the loan over the term. Mr M had to actively engage in the loan application 
process before the lending was agreed.  
Taking everything into account, I think Mr M was aware he was taking a high cost loan on 
terms he seemed happy to agree to at the time. So I cant fairly say that the high cost of this 
credit is a reason for me to award any additional redress. 
But I dont think UK Credit should have agreed to provide the loan to Mr M. And as he has 
been further indebted with expensive lending that he shouldnt have been provided with, Im 
satisfied that he has lost out as a result of what UK Credit did wrong. 
So, I think UK Credit needs to put things right.
Putting things right
I think it is fair and reasonable for Mr M to repay the capital amount that he borrowed, 
because he had the benefit of that lending. 
But he has been charged extra for lending that should not have been provided to him. In line 
with this Services approach, Mr M shouldnt repay more than the capital amount he 
borrowed. 
UK Credit should do the following:
add up the total amount of money Mr M received as a result of having been given the 
loan. The repayments Mr M made should be deducted from this amount.
If this results in Mr M having paid more than he received, then any overpayments 
should be refunded along with 8% simple interest* (calculated from the date the overpayments were made until the date of settlement). 
If any capital balance remains outstanding, then UK Credit should attempt to arrange 
an affordable/suitable payment plan with Mr M.
Whilst its fair that Mr Ms credit file is an accurate reflection of his financial history, 
its unfair that he should be disadvantaged by any adverse information recorded 
about a loan that was unfairly provided. So UK Credit should remove any negative 
information recorded on Mr Ms credit file regarding the loan.
*HM Revenue & Customs requires UK Credit to deduct tax from this interest. UK Credit 
should give Mr M a certificate showing how much tax has been deducted if he asks for one.
My final decision
Im upholding Mr Ms complaint and UK Credit Limited should take the steps set out above to 
put things right.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 23 March 2022.
 
Susan Webb
Ombudsman