DRN-3843421
The complaint
Mr B complains that Bank of Scotland plc trading as Halifax (Halifax) wont reimburse the 
money he lost in a scam.
What happened
Mr B received a lump sum pension payment. He was watching a morning television 
programme and a celebrity discussed the benefits of investing in Bitcoin. Later, Mr B did 
some research and found a company Ill refer to in this decision as D. He approached D and 
was advised that if he invested £250,000, he could have a gold account that allowed access 
to less volatile markets and his funds were guaranteed. He decided to go ahead. 
As Mr B was an inexperienced investor and wasnt confident to complete trades, he allowed 
D remote access to his computer. Initially D helped Mr B to set up an account with a 
cryptocurrency exchange Ill refer to as C. Mr B then made payments from his Halifax 
account to C. A representative of D then moved his funds from C to trade. Mr B had access 
to an online portal that allowed him to monitor his investment.
Mr B made the following payments from his Halifax account to his own account with C:
Date Amount
15/09/20 £15,000
15/09/20 £2,000
24/09/20 £15,000
24/09/20 £10,000
25/09/20 £15,000
25/09/20 £10,000
29/09/20 £10,000
29/09/20 £15,000
30/09/20 £15,000
30/09/20 £10,000
15/10/20 £10,000
15/10/20 £15,000
21/10/20 £15,000
21/10/20 £10,000
22/10/20 £15,000
22/10/20 £10,000
23/10/20 £15,000
23/10/20 £10,000
26/10/20 £5,000
12/11/20 £25,000
TOTAL £247,000
Mr B transferred the final £3,000 from an account with another bank. 
D told Mr B that it was easy to withdraw funds and credited his account with £997.36 on 14 
October 2020. 
Halifax blocked a payment on 15 October 2020 and had a conversation with Mr B. Halifax 
noted the payment had been flagged on its system as there was a higher than normal risk of 
fraud or a scam. It asked Mr B who he was paying, the reason for the payment, whether hed 
paid C before, whether he had, completed all the checks to check everything is genuine 
with the company, whether hed received a return, who made the first contact, whether he 
had any concerns about his dealings with C and whether C was FCA regulated. Halifax then 
released the payment.  
Mr B says that his investment reached £750,000 and he tried to withdraw his funds. At this 
stage Mr B was advised of a fee of £43,000 to remove his profits and realised he was the 
victim of a scam. Mr B contacted Halifax to raise a scam claim in March 2021.
Halifax told Mr B that the CRM Code doesnt apply as he made the transfers to an account in 
his own name with C and so Mr B should contact C directly. But Halifax credited Mr Bs 
account with £200 to reflect the poor service he received when he notified it of the scam. Mr 
B later appointed a representative and Halifax issued a further final response letter in which 
it said Mr B didnt complete sufficient checks before making the payments and that it had 
done what it could to recover Mr Bs funds. Unhappy with this response, Mr B brought a 
complaint to this service. 
Our investigation so far
The investigator who considered Mr Bs complaint recommended that it be upheld in part. 
She said this because she felt that Halifax should have intervened when Mr B made the 
fourth payment request for £10,000 on 24 September as the payment was out of character. 
Had Halifax discussed the payment, the investigator thought the scam would have been 
uncovered and further payments prevented (including the final payment from Mr Bs account 
with another bank). The investigator didnt feel that a deduction should be made as it was a 
sophisticated scam, Mr B checked reviews, D had a professional looking website and Mr B 
received a return.
Mr B agreed with the investigators view. Halifax agreed to refund 50% of the amount 
recommended by the investigator. It accepted that from the payment identified by the 
investigator it could have done more to prevent the scam. But Halifax said that Mr B should 
be responsible for the remaining 50% of his loss because:
- It wasnt clear why Mr B thought D was FCA registered and had he checked this hed 
have found that D had never been regulated.
- Mr B says he checked a recognised review site, but its widely known that scammers 
write fake reviews. If Mr B rechecked reviews when Halifax blocked a payment, hed 
have seen warnings about D.
- The rate of return offered was too good to be true and should have been a red flag to 
Mr B. In the space of around three months Mr B believed his investment had tripled. 
- Halifax referred to an advert Mr B provided to it and which it says was clearly fake. 
This advert showed the name of a newspaper at the top, but this was misspelt and 
the photograph on the advert was from a breakfast television show unrelated to the newspaper. Halifax say it was clear the advert wasnt legitimate, and this should have 
led Mr B to take more care before investing so much. 
- Mr B allowed the scammers remote access to his computer. No reputable company 
would ask to do this. Mr B should also have questioned why D needed access to his 
account with B and why funds were immediately removed from his account with B.  
The complaint has been passed to me to consider. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The Contingent Reimbursement Model Code (the CRM Code) doesnt apply in this case 
because Mr B made payments from his Halifax account to an account in his own name. The 
CRM Code doesnt apply in these circumstances. 
Mr B authorised the scam payments from his Halifax account. So, although he didnt intend 
the money to go to the scammers, under the Payment Services Regulations 2017 and the 
terms and conditions of his account, Mr B is presumed liable for his loss in the first instance. 
However, taking into account the law, regulatory rules and guidance, relevant codes of 
practice and good industry practice, there are circumstances where it might be appropriate 
for a bank to take additional steps or make additional checks before processing a payment in 
order to help protect its customer from the possibility of financial harm from fraud. An 
example of this would be if a payment instruction is sufficiently unusual or uncharacteristic 
for the usual use of the account. In such circumstances Id expect Halifax to intervene and 
ask more questions about the intended transaction before processing it. Id also expect 
Halifax to provide suitable warnings about common scams to help its customer make an 
informed decision about whether they want to continue with the payment. 
Ive carefully considered Mr Bs bank statements and can see that in the 12 months before 
the scam Mr B withdrew £128,000 after a similar sum had been deposited. Then in August 
2020 Mr B transferred £76,000 to another account in his name, again after receiving a 
similar sum. So large sums of money were moved through the account. Given this, I dont 
think the first few payments to C ought reasonably to have caused Halifax any concern.
By the time Mr B made the fourth payment request though, hed transferred £32,000 to C. 
He was making the second transfer in a day which took Mr B to the maximum daily 
withdrawal limit of £25,000. The payments to C matched a known scam pattern and I think 
Halifax ought reasonably to have intervened and asked Mr B questions about the fourth 
payment request.  
Im not persuaded that the fact the payments were going to Mr Bs own account and so 
appeared to be going somewhere safe and within his control should have satisfied Halifax 
that he wasnt at risk of harm. This is because by January 2019, banks had, or ought to have 
had, a good enough understanding of how these scams work  including that a customer 
often moves money to an account in their own name before moving it on again to the 
scammer - to have been able to identify the risk of harm from fraud.
Ive thought about what would have happened if Halifax had intervened and asked 
proportionate questions when Mr B made the fourth payment request. I see no reason why 
Mr B wouldnt have told the truth, as he did when Halifax later blocked a payment. I think 
Halifax should have asked Mr B questions around how he found out about the investment, 
what he understood about the investment and the return, why he was paying C and what he 
understood about FCA regulation. 
If Halifax had done so I think its more likely than not the scam would have come to light and 
Mr Bs loss been avoided. I say this because Mr B believed the investment was celebrity endorsed. Whilst Mr B wasnt aware that a celebrity endorsed investment is very likely to be 
a scam, Halifax should have been. I also think it likely Mr B would have explained that he 
hadnt invested before and had allowed remote access, which would have been another red 
flag to Halifax. And whilst Mr B had been told that D was FCA regulated, he knew nothing 
about FCA regulation or how to check the register. 
I accept that Halifax later called Mr B about a subsequent transaction and the scam wasnt 
uncovered. I think this was because Halifaxs questions didnt go far enough though. For 
example, the agent didnt ask Mr B how he found out about the investment or discuss the 
checks Mr B had completed. 
Halifax has accepted that it didnt do enough to protect Mr B when he made the payments to 
C, and this is why it has agreed to refund 50% of the fourth payment and all subsequent 
payments (including the final payment from an account with another bank). So Ive gone on 
to consider whether a 50% deduction is fair in this case. 
Should Mr B bear some responsibility for his loss?
Ive thought carefully about whether Mr B should share responsibility for his loss. On 
balance, I dont think he should. I say this because:
- Mr B was an inexperienced investor and didnt know what kind of checks he needed 
to complete to protect himself from cruel scammers. He completed the checks he 
thought were appropriate by looking at Ds website (which has now been taken 
down), that appeared genuine and professional, and checking reviews on a well-
known and trusted site. I dont agree with Halifax that Mr B acted unreasonably in 
relying on such reviews on the basis that some reviews might be fake. The review 
site Mr B used is widely used and as an inexperienced investor I consider Mr B acted 
reasonably in trusting it. 
- Mr B was told he needed to invest £250,000 to be a gold member which would mean 
he was given access to less volatile markets. To an inexperienced investor, this 
seems plausible. 
- Mr B was able to log into a sophisticated online portal. The portal showed deposits, 
withdrawal requests, transaction history and had a trading area that allowed Mr B to 
see how his investment was performing. He could also post messages. The portal 
looked legitimate and made Mr B think he was dealing with a genuine company. 
- Over the course of the two months Mr B made payments the scammer built a rapport 
with him which gave Mr B confidence to continue to make payments. He was emailed 
regularly and had telephone conversations with traders who sounded professional 
and knowledgeable. 
- After Mr B had made some payments, he was able to withdraw profits of nearly 
£1,000. This gave Mr B reassurance that he was investing in a genuine scheme. I 
appreciate this is a cruel trick played by scammers to entice a victim to part with 
further funds, but Mr B wasnt aware of this. 
Halifax has stated that it isnt clear why Mr B thought D was FCA regulated and had he 
checked hed have seen this wasnt the case. Mr B has explained the scammers told him D 
was regulated by the FCA and with no knowledge of how to check this he accepted what he 
was told. 
Halifax has also said that Mr B should have been concerned that funds were immediately 
removed from his account with C, but I dont agree. Mr B knew that his funds would be 
moved from his account with C to trade and this is what happened. He could then see how 
his investment was performing on the portal. Mr B says he provided the advert Halifax has referred to for context, but it wasnt the advert 
that induced him to invest  it was the celebrity endorsement. So the comments Halifax has 
made about the advert being a clear fake arent relevant here. 
I appreciate that with the benefit of hindsight Mr B could have done more but this doesnt 
mean Halifax can fairly apply an exclusion to reimbursement. 
Did Halifax do what it could to recover Mr Bs funds?
In this case Mr Bs funds went to a genuine cryptocurrency exchange and were rapidly 
moved out of his account. In the circumstances, I dont consider there was any prospect of 
Halifax recovering Mr Bs funds. 
Distress and inconvenience
Ive also considered whether Halifax should pay Mr B compensation to recognise the 
distress and inconvenience hes experienced as a result of its actions. I appreciate that the 
scammers are the ones responsible for the majority of the upset Mr B has suffered but I 
believe Halifax has unnecessarily added to it. Mr Bs representative has explained that the 
loss of such a substantial amount of money has made Mr B feel anxious and depressed 
about the future and needing to seek help in respect of his mental health. Mr B has 
experienced sleep deprivation which has impacted other areas of his life. He has also been 
unable to bring a complaint to this service himself and so appointed a representative. Halifax 
has already paid Mr B £200 and I think this is a fair amount of compensation so am not 
awarding any more
Interest
The majority of the funds Mr B used in the scam were transferred in from a savings account 
which had recently received large credits (around £124,000 in October 2019 and around 
£76,000 in August 2020). Mr B has explained that these were pension funds and that were it 
not for the scam hed have invested the funds through his bank. But Mr B hadnt researched 
any products and says he doesnt know how hed have invested his funds. So I dont think 
its fair to say Mr Bs funds would have remained in his savings account were it not for the 
scam but at the same time cant determine how Mr B would have invested them. In the 
circumstances, I consider it fair to award interest at 8% simple per year from the date of loss 
to the date of settlement. 
I consider it more likely than not the £3,000 Mr B transferred from a current account at 
another bank would have remained where it was and been used for everyday spending were 
it not for the scam. So, Mr B should also receive interest on this amount at the rate of 8% 
simple per year from the date of loss to the date of settlement. Mr B may need to provide 
Halifax with evidence of this rate. 
My final decision
I uphold this complaint and require Bank of Scotland plc trading as Halifax to:
- Refund £214,002.64 (£215,000 less £997.36 profit returned to Mr B);
- Pay interest on the above amount at the rate of 8% simple per year from the date of 
each payment to the date of settlement; 
- Refund the £3,000 Mr B paid from his account with another bank;
- Pay interest on the £3,000 above at the rate of 8% simple per year from the date of 
loss to the date of settlement.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 10 April 2023.
 
Jay Hadfield
Ombudsman