DRN-2764270
The complaint
Mrs N complains that Aviva Life & Pensions UK Limited failed to act on her expression of 
wish request.
What happened
Mrs N provided Aviva with details of the person she wanted her pension benefits paid to in 
the event of her death. She didnt hear anything from Aviva so she phoned to check it had 
received her letter.
Aviva said it had received the letter, but that Mrs N would need to complete an expression of 
wish form to confirm the beneficiary details. Aviva recognised that it shouldve sent the form 
without the prompt from Mrs N, and paid £50 by way of an apology.
Mrs N wasnt happy with Avivas response. She said that if shed died before Aviva actioned 
her request, her estate couldve been caught up in lengthy and expensive litigation. She said 
Avivas payment didnt properly reflect the worry and stress it had caused. Mrs N referred the 
matter to this service.
Our investigator didnt recommend the complaint should be upheld. He was satisfied that if 
anything had happened to Mrs N, Aviva wouldve investigated the matter before making any 
payment of the pension benefits. As there hadnt been any direct loss to Mrs N or her estate, 
the investigator considered the £50 payment was appropriate in the circumstances.
Mrs N didnt agree with the investigators conclusions. She said Avivas payment didnt 
adequately reflect the gravity of the situation. Mrs N said the expression of wish determined 
where the benefits would be paid, and so there was a real risk to her estate while the 
beneficiary details werent properly recorded. Mrs N asked for her complaint to be reviewed 
by an ombudsman.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive thought very carefully about everything Mrs N has said in connection with Avivas 
handling of her expression of wishes. I can understand her concern that if her request wasnt 
properly recorded before she died, the benefits wouldnt have been paid in line with her 
wishes.
But Im mindful that Mrs Ns request was an expression of her wishes. I realise she 
considers Aviva is obliged to pay to her named beneficiary, but Im not persuaded thats the 
case. I note that at the top of the expression of wish form it says:
You can tell us who youd like to receive the lump sum payment on your death although 
this wont be binding on us.
Similar wording also appears in the Important notes section of the form.
My understanding is that when a policy holder dies, Aviva carries out enquiries to work out 
where the death benefits should be paid. This will include taking account of the details 
included in an expression of wish form, but the form isnt binding on the business.
So even if Aviva had correctly processed Mrs Ns expression of wish form, I cant safely say 
that the pension benefits wouldve definitely been paid in line with her wishes. 
Conversely, not having the expression of wish form in place wouldnt necessarily mean the 
benefits couldnt be paid in line with Mrs Ns wishes  once Aviva had carried out appropriate 
investigations and enquiries after her death. Aviva had received Mrs Ns letter, and I think its 
likely this wouldve been recorded on her file. Even though it wasnt a formal expression of 
wish form, the letter included details of Mrs Ns chosen beneficiary. I think its likely Aviva 
wouldve taken this into account when it was looking into things after her death. 
I realise Mrs N considers Aviva should change its practices so that it provides the correct 
forms to customers, without the need for customer prompting. But it is beyond the remit of 
this service to tell Aviva how to operate its business on that kind of policyholder-wide level.
We can only consider errors made in connection with individual customers, and the impact of 
the error on that customer. In this case Aviva shouldve provided the form to Mrs N, and its 
unfortunate that this only happened after shed contacted the business. But Im also mindful 
that these events took place during the relatively early stages of the global pandemic, and 
that Aviva was likely to have been adapting to different working practices. 
Once the problem was identified, Im satisfied that Aviva acted promptly to provide Mrs N 
with the relevant form. Im also satisfied that the payment it made was appropriate in the 
circumstances. So I wont be asking Aviva to do anything else.
Im confident, however, that Aviva will have taken note of the distress and worry caused here 
by failing to action Mrs Ns letter without needing to be chased, and would try to ensure that 
this doesnt happen to other customers.
My final decision
On a fair and reasonable assessment of what has happened here, my decision is that I do 
not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs N to accept or 
reject my decision before 9 August 2021.
 
Caroline Stirling
Ombudsman