DRN-3851008
The complaint
Mr and Mrs L complain that theyve lost out after Connells Limited provided them with poor 
advice when they were applying for a new mortgage. 
What happened
Mr and Mrs L approached Connells to help them source a new mortgage. Ahead of this, they 
needed to repay a Help To Buy (HTB) loan on their old property and Connells gave advice 
on how this would work. They were told the repayment amount would be calculated at 20% 
of the RICS valuation for their home. This meant they believed theyd need to pay £55,000.
This advice was wrong and the repayment amount was based on the sale value of their 
home and not the RICS valuation. As the sale value was higher than the valuation, the 
amount they needed to repay increased. Mr and Mrs L dont think its fair to pay this.
Mr and Mrs L say they were given a new advisor because of the wrong information and the 
change in advisor resulted in a delay in them securing a mortgage offer for their new home. 
They say theyve lost out as a result as interest rates increased during this delay and theyre 
now paying more for their mortgage than they would otherwise have paid had the error not 
occurred.
Connells looked at Mr and Mrs Ls complaint and said it was sorry for the wrong information 
about the HTB loan repayment Mr and Mrs L needed to make. It offered £150 to apologies 
for the distress and inconvenience this caused. But it didnt agree Mr and Mrs L had lost out 
financially as a result or that this impacted what was available on their new property.
Our investigator looked at Mr and Mrs Ls complaint. She didnt think Connells needed to do 
anything else as she felt the offer made was fair. 
Mr and Mrs L explained they didnt have an offer accepted on a new property until 12 July 
2022 which was after Connells had changed the advisor. Prior to having an offer accepted, 
Mr and Mrs L wouldnt have been able to make an application for a property to obtain a full 
mortgage offer. So despite having an indication on what they might be able to borrow with 
agreements in principle (AIP) provided before, it wasnt until they had a property they wanted 
to buy that a full application could be made and an offer generated. So our investigator 
couldnt agree Connells caused a delay in Mr and Mrs L getting a mortgage offer. Until they 
had a property they wanted to buy, a full application couldnt be made. She didnt think it was 
fair to ask it to pay the extra amount Mr and Mrs L had to pay to redeem their HTB loan or 
the increased monthly costs they say they are paying for their mortgage now.
Mr and Mrs L didnt agree so the complaint has been passed to me for decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive decided not to uphold this complaint for much the same reasons as our investigator. I 
know Mr and Mrs L will be disappointed, but Ill explain why Ive reached this decision.
There is two issues to determine here, whether Connells acted fairly in response to the 
wrong information about the previous HTB loan and the cost of repaying this. And whether it 
caused a delay which stopped Mr and Mrs L obtaining a mortgage offer sooner.
It isnt disputed that the wrong information was given by the first advisor Mr and Mrs L spoke 
with. Mr and Mrs L feel it would be fair to ask Connells to pay the difference in what they had 
to pay to redeem their HTB loan above what the advisor said would be needed, but I dont 
think it is fair to expect this. There was a loss of expectation when Mr and Mrs L realised the 
amount of capital theyd retain from the sale of the home was less than first thought and this 
was because of how the HTB loan repayment worked. But Connells wasnt responsible for 
arranging the repayment of the loan and this was calculated in line with the terms of the HTB 
scheme which Mr and Mrs L entered into in 2018 when they bought their house. 
I think Mr and Mrs L ought to have been aware of the conditions of the HTB scheme. Though 
it is understandable why they might ask questions about how this works when speaking with 
a mortgage advisor and the advice should have been correct. But the advice didnt mean the 
amount they needed to pay was wrong. 
Connells have offered £150.00 to apologies for its error and the distress and inconvenience 
caused and I feel this is fair when taking everything into consideration.
Mr and Mrs L were provided with a new mortgage advisor after they were given the incorrect 
advice about the HTB loan. They feel this caused a delay which ultimately meant the interest 
rate they were able to obtain on their mortgage increased.
Our investigator set out the normal steps that are taken when buying a house with a 
mortgage. I wont repeat these here as Mr and Mrs L have been provided with this 
information, but the key step is having a property in line that you want to purchase before 
being able to make an application. This is because the mortgage application is specific to 
borrowing on the property being purchased, anything before this such as an AIP can only be 
an illustration of what is available at the time if a full application was to be made that day.
Mr and Mrs L didnt have their offer accepted on their new home until 12 July 2022, this 
means the earliest they could have made a full application for the mortgage was that same 
day. Mr and Mrs L were given a new advisor on 6 July 2022, so before a property was found. 
With this in mind, I cant agree the change resulted in a delay in the mortgage application 
being made or an offer being secured.  And it follows that I cant agree Mr and Mrs L have 
lost out because of the change of advisor.
Overall, I think the previous offer made by Connells to put right this complaint is fair. If Mr 
and Mrs L wish to accept this, it will need to contact Connells Limited directly and ask for 
payment if it has not already made payment.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained above, I dont uphold Mr and Mrs Ls complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs L and Mr L to 
accept or reject my decision before 16 March 2023.
 
Thomas BrissendenOmbudsman