DRN-4219578
The complaint
Mr S as one of the joint account holders complains that Lloyds Bank PLC allowed the other 
joint account holder (his son) to withdraw money from their account.
What happened
Mr S says he added his son whom I will call Mr S1 to his account as a joint account holder. 
He says his son has learning difficulties and is vulnerable. Mr S says he reported his son as 
being missing on 15 November 2022 and says he was told by the Police that he tried to 
withdraw money from the joint account. He says he asked Lloyds to block the account and 
was told by it that it had been blocked. Mr S says on 15 November 2022 he tried to transfer 
money from the account but could not do so but later that day discovered his son had 
managed to withdraw £9,000. He would like the money refunded and compensation for what 
took place and questions why he couldnt withdraw the money, but his son could.
Lloyds says it did have concerns about Mr Ss son and called the Police to its branch. It says 
the Police said the withdrawal could take place and so authorised it. Lloyds accepts it gave 
Mr S incorrect information about the account being blocked but says if it had given correct 
information then it unlikely Mr S would have agreed to the whole account being blocked as 
regular payments would have stopped. Lloyds has offered £100 compensation for the 
incorrect information.
Mr S brought the complaint to us, and our investigator didnt uphold it. The investigator 
thought this was a joint account and both account holders entitled to withdraw money. The 
investigator thought the compensation offer appropriate and thought Lloyds had correctly 
carried out further checks on the withdrawal by calling the Police.
Mr S doesnt accept that view.
I asked both sides for further information. Lloyds says it did have concerns about Mr Ss son 
but took advice from the Police and its fraud department.
My provisional decision
I issued a provisional decision on this complaint and said that I intended to uphold it and 
came to the initial view that Lloyds did not deal appropriately with the events of November 
2022.
I looked carefully at Lloyds records to establish what it knew about Mr Ss son before 15 
November 2022. I could see that on 14 November 2022 Mr S1 attended a Lloyds branch and 
tried to withdraw £10,000. That attempt was unsuccessful, and I saw that Lloyds invoked its 
protocol and that the Police were called. I was satisfied that it was clear to Lloyds on 14 
November 2022 that there were significant concerns about Mr S1 that resulted in what I 
thought was the relatively unusual step of calling the Police.
I could also see from Lloyds records that on 14 November Mr S called it about his son and 
told it he was missing, vulnerable and that the account should be blocked. I said there was 
no dispute here that Lloyds told Mr S that the account would be blocked, which is what I 
thought Mr S clearly wanted and what Lloyds ought to have done in those circumstances.
Mr S1 attended a Lloyds branch on 15 November 2022 and accepted he had lied about the 
attempt to withdraw money on 14 November 2022, the day before. I said there can be no 
doubt Lloyds had sufficient concerns about Mr S1 that it called both the Police and its fraud 
department. I could see that Lloyds recorded that Mr S1 is vulnerable and fallen in with the 
wrong crowd but the Police had no concerns about his safety and so the withdrawal for 
£9,000 was authorised. I appreciated Lloyds said there is no point calling the Police if it 
ignores its advice. But I was satisfied that Lloyds owes a duty of care in these circumstances 
and it is the expert on these matters not the Police. I thought the Police role is to establish if 
there is a possible criminal offence, but Lloyds has a far wider duty.
I was satisfied that Lloyds ought to have had sufficient concerns about the events of 14 
November 2022 and ought to have blocked the account as it told Mr S it would. I thought the 
events of 15 November 2022 ought to have reinforced those concerns that Mr S1 was 
vulnerable and possibly being taken advantage of.
I appreciated that Lloyds said it did give Mr S incorrect information about blocking the 
account but that it unlikely he would have agreed to that, as scheduled payments were due 
out of the account. But I disagreed and was satisfied Mr S did agree to the account being 
blocked on 14 November 2022 and that he only disagreed with that course of action when 
the money had been withdrawn when it was too late. I also thought it likely that Mr S retained 
concerns about the account even after he was told it had been blocked and that he tried to 
unsuccessfully transfer money to protect the account but was unable to do so. So, I was 
satisfied that Lloyds acted unfairly by doing so and approved a withdrawal from someone it 
had real concerns about but refused Mr Ss request to transfer money to try and avoid what 
did take place.
I had no doubt Mr S was caused distress and inconvenience in calling Lloyds about what 
took place and in attending its branch. I didnt think a joint account was suitable for Mr S in 
these circumstances but also thought Lloyds could have advised him about that when it 
became aware of the concerns on 14 November 2022. I was satisfied that Mr S had lost a 
significant amount of money and would have been caused a significant level of distress. 
I accepted the account was joint and so each party was entitled in normal circumstances to 
withdraw what they wished. I also accepted that one joint account holder has had the initial 
benefit of the £9,000. But my provisional view was that Lloyds ought to have had sufficient 
concerns about Mr S1 when he attended a branch on 15 November 2022 and blocked the 
withdrawal. In any event I made clear that it ought to have blocked the account as it said it 
would on 14 November 2022. So, my provisional view was that Lloyds should refund the 
account with the £9,000. I said that no doubt Mr S will also consider if a joint account is 
suitable in the circumstances. I didnt think additional compensation was required as Lloyds 
had paid or offered £100 and that the main part of the complaint is about the return of the 
£9,000.
I hoped both sides would provide further information about the missing £9,000. I could see 
there was a possibility that the money was handed over to other persons. I had not seen any 
evidence that Mr S1 benefited from the money and thought it likely, as I made clear, that he 
was the victim of his own vulnerability.
Mr S accepts my view and says his son handed the money over to a group of males.Lloyds also agrees with my provisional view and sensibly suggests Mr S reviews the 
appropriateness of a joint account. It also suggests the money be paid into one of Mr Ss 
own accounts rather than a joint account or an account he holds elsewhere
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so I have come to the same overall view that I reached in my provisional 
decision and for the same reasons.
I hope Mr S agrees that the compensation be paid into single account and that he reviews 
his decision to have a joint account in these circumstances.
Putting things right
Lloyds should pay Mr S the compensation its agreed to do.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint and order Lloyds Bank PLC to pay Mr S 
£9,000 compensation.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S and Mr S to 
accept or reject my decision before 2 August 2023.
 
David Singh
Ombudsman