DRN-2955479
The complaint
Mr and Mrs S complain about the way Lloyds Bank General Insurance Limited handled a 
claim under a home insurance policy.  
What happened
The background to the complaint is known to the parties. In summary, there was a fire at Mr 
and Mr S home which caused damage. Although restricted to a relatively small area of the 
home it nonetheless left it uninhabitable. They raised three complaints with Lloyds that are 
the subject of this decision and Lloyds issued final responses on each. 
The main issues raised concern delays, poor communication, lack of updates, alternative 
accommodation, replacement kitchen units and matters attended to relating to sink, boiler 
and radiator.
Lloyds accepted many aspects of poor service, progress and communication and across the 
three complaints paid a total of £1,400 compensation for distress and inconvenience 
(complaint 1 - £600; complaint 2 - £550; complaint 3 - £250).
One of our investigators didnt think Lloyds had fairly reflected the impact in the third 
complaint of Mr and Mrs S having to resolve issues themselves. So, the investigator 
recommended Lloyds pay an additional £100, which it agreed to. Mr and Mrs S disagreed 
and asked for an ombudsman to review the matter.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The issue for me to determine is what compensation is fair and reasonable in all the 
circumstances. Like the investigator Ive reviewed matters up to Lloyds final response letter 
of 28 January 2021. 
Mr and Mrs S claim took around four months to deal with from the initial notification to 
moving back into the property. Its not in dispute that things didnt go too well in terms of how 
Lloyds handled the claim. Delays and poor communication had the biggest impact and 
clearly caused Mr and Mrs S distress and inconvenience. 
Mr and Mrs S could expect a claim of the nature theyd made to cause much upset  it was 
distressing to have had a fire and then move a family with children into alternative 
accommodation. But equally, Lloyds is the expert in dealing with such matters and so Mr and 
Mrs S could rightly expect the claim to be dealt with promptly and fairly. Alternative 
accommodation provided by Lloyds wasnt suitable for small children and poor 
communication about a myriad of issues compounded the distress and inconvenience 
already being experienced. 
Mr S told Lloyds that he felt as if he was the one project managing the repairs, and from the 
information Ive seen I can appreciate why he said that. He had to chase responses and 
action when Lloyds should have had this in hand. Instead Mr S had to rely on others to 
provide assistance, for example when the property wasnt ready to be re-occupied. 
Putting things right
Im satisfied the compensation paid for the first two complaints amounting to £1,150 is fair 
and reasonable in all the circumstances. It reflects the impact of delays and poor 
communication exacerbating the distress and inconvenience already being suffered by Mr 
and Mrs S because of their fire claim. On the third complaint Im satisfied Lloyds acceptance 
of the additional £100 recommended by the investigator reaches an outcome thats fair and 
reasonable too. Lloyds had already paid £250 and the additional amount more appropriately 
reflects the impact on Mr and Mrs S having to attend to unresolved issues like a leak and 
other matters using a different contractor.   
My final decision
I uphold this complaint and require Lloyds Bank General Insurance Limited to pay Mr and 
Mrs S £100 for distress and inconvenience.   
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S and Mrs S to 
accept or reject my decision before 28 September 2021.
 
Sean Hamilton
Ombudsman